Report No. 1091a-YAR                                                                      t            GU
Appraisal of a Livestock Credit and Processing
Project Yemen Arab Republic
September 27, 1976
Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAILNTS
USS 1          = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.5
YR1 1          = US$ 0.2222 = Bukshas 40
YR1s 1,000       US$ 222.22
YRls 1,000,000 = US$ 222,222.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)          =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)     =  1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)     =  0.98 long ton
1 centimeter (cm)        =  0.39 inch
1 meter (m)              =  1.09 yard
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)           =  2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)      = 10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)    0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)              =  0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB                  = Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF                  = Agricultural Credit Fund
AUD                  = Animal Health Division
CB                   = Central Bank
CGC                  - Cotton General Company
CPO                    Central Planning Organization
IDA                  = International Development Association
LDB                  = Livestock Development Board
LDC                  = Livestock Development Corporation
LRID                 = Livestock Range Improvement Division
MCH                  = Maternity-Child Health
MSMD                   Municipality Slaughterhouse and Markets Department
ODM                  = Overseas Development Ministry
PU                   = Project Implementation Unit
SURDEP               - Southern Uplands Development Project
SURDU                = Southern Uplands Development Unit
TDA                  = TiXama Development Authority
TDP                  = Tihama Development Project
VDA                  = Village Development Association
WHO                  - World Health Organization
YAR                  - Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD                 - Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAIN TEXT
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .      .............................     i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION              ..1.................. 
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR             ..                                2
A. General.                                                         2
B. The Livestock Sub-Sector.                                        3
C. Agricultural Credit.                                             6
III. FUTURE TRENDS..                                                       7
A.   Production, Consumption and Imports.                           7
IV. THE PROJECT..                                                          7
A. Objectives ..                                                    7
B. Detailed Features             ..                                 9
C. Implementation Schedule    .                 .14
D. Cost Estimates    ..14
E.   Financing ............. .....................                 16
F. Procurement   ..17
G. Disbursements    ..18
H. Environmental Impact                   ..                       18
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .18
A.   Project Organization ...............................          18
B.   Project Management .................................          20
C.   Credit Arrangements    ................................       21
D.   Project Accounts and Audit .........................          25
E.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation            .      .         25
F. Retroactive Financing    ..25
G. Risk  . .26
This document has a etricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in thit perfoteae |
of their official duties. Its contents mAy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorlation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                         Page No.
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................      27
A.   Incremental Production and Markets ............O...      27
B.   Financial Results ...... ...........................    28
C.   Economic  Benefits  ................    ................  .  28
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................     29
ANNEXES
1. The Agricultural Sector
2. Livestock Production, Consumption and Trade
3. Agricultural and Agroindustrial Credit Banking System
4. Project Organization and Operating Procedures
5. Livestock Development Corporation
6. Municipal Slaughterhouse and Retail Markets
7. Supervised Credit
8. Animal Health
9. Livestock and Range Improvement
10. Staff Recruitment & Consultant Service - Duties and Responsibilities
11. Project Implementation Schedule
12. ACF Cash Flow, Summary Project Cost, and Financial Results
13. IDA Disbursement Schedule
14. Economic Rate of Return
15. Project Monitoring and Evaluation



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project that is the first initegrated live-
stock development program in Yemen Arab Republic. The project is designed to
initiate a long-term program to improve livestock development and production
from a subsistence base for which the infrastructural services such as animal
health, extension, marketing and credit are practically non-existent. As a
source of food, draft power, raw material (wool, skins) and reserve capital,
livestock form a key component of the farming system and rural economy.
Through demonstration and the introduction of modern production and marketing
techniques by Government and investment in livestock related industries, the
private sector which includes the target group would be stimulated to assume
major responsibility for the future development of livestock resources.
Through the erection of simple, efficient and hygenic livestock slaughtering
and meat marketing facilities public health standards would be improved.
Livestock carrying capacities would be improved in range areas through com-
bined pasture improvement, controlled grazing practices and the introduction
of browse trees and shrubs and commercial timber species. Social and rural
development benefits to producer families would be realized through increased
incomes, improved animal health and production services and improved nutri-
tional and living standards. Finally, investments in livestock and range
improvement would ensure long-term development in livestock production.
ii.       The project would provide for (a) the formation of a national Live-
stock Development Corporation (LDC) which would be set up as a semi-autonomous
Government owned commercial enterprise. LDC would establish eight 50-cow
dairy farms, a livestock fattening-dairy production farm, five milk collec-
tion colonies and a poultry-feed mill complex; (b) the development of three
urban slaughterhouses and 154 municipal retail market stalls to be operated
by the Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities. So as to increase foreign
exchange earnings exportable hides and skins improvement would be included as
well as meat inspection services; (c) support of animal health services of the
Directorate of Animal Health of the Ministry of Agriculture with disease con-
trol and diagnostic services, veterinary field stations, and quarantine facil-
ities at Hodeidah; (d) supervised credit to about 900 traditional sector,
small holder livestock and poultry owners, landowners and irrigated fodder
crop producers through the ACF. Additionally, about 84 retail butchers would
receive credit for an urban retail meat market improvement program; (e) estab-
lishment of a livestock and range improvement center in the Intermontane
Plains area. A village range development component whereby 1,250 hectares of
suitable land would be improved for grazing and planted to provide limited
quantities of building materials and fuel. All components under the project
would be supported by technical services inputs, training grants, technical



- ii -
studies and the provision of financing for expatriate technical staff neces-
sary to implement the project. The project would also receive significant
institutional support from UNDP/FAO technical assistance projects. The on-
going United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) program in animal
health services and in livestock and range improvement would be expanded and
coordinated with the requirements of the project and UNDP/FAO would supply
training facilities for local project technicians and staff.
iii.      The project would be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit
(PU) which-would be responsible to a Livestock Development Board (LDB). The
LDB would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and composed of represen-
tatives from involved Ministries and Government institutions. In addition
to LDC, a Municipalities Slaughterhouse and Markets Division (MSMD), an
Animal Health Division (AHD), and a Livestock and Range Improvement Division
(LIRD), would be set up under the PU to implement their respective project
components. The Supervised Credit Component would be implemented by the
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) in cooperation with the PU.
iv.       The total project cost would be US$32.1 million (YRls 144.6 million)
of which 53% or US$17.0 million (YRls 76.5 million) would be foreign exchange.
The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million would finance 16% of the total proj-
ect cost. The Kuwait Fund and the Netherlands would contribute US$11.6 mil-
lion and US$7.5 million respectively toward the project cost. ODM would pro-
vide the equivalent of US$2.4 million in bilateral aid financing. The Gov-
ernment would provide about US$4.6 million and the remainder of US$1.1 mil-
lion equivalent would be financed by subborrowers.
v.        The Government would be the borrower.  It would channel the IDA
credit, the Kuwait Fund loan and the Netherlands bilateral aid through ACF.
ACF would on-lend part of the proceeds (US$9.0 million) for subloans to (a)
LDC for investments in dairy and poultry production, milk collection, market-
ing, livestock finishing and feed processing. (b) Village Development Author-
ities for investments in range improvement and (c) to traditional sector sub-
borrowers for on-farm investments in livestock and poultry production. The
interest rate charged to the subborrowers would be at 9%. ACF would also be
the administrative channel for Government equity grants for the above sub-
projects and for the grant to MSMD for investments in slaughterhouses and
retail meat markets.
vi.       Vehicles, equipment, facilities and services financed by the Nether-
lands, the Kuwait Fund and ODM bilateral aid would be procured in accordance
with their respective guidelines. Procurement under the supervised credit
component and financed by the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands and IDA would be
procured locally through existing commercial channels over the six year proj-
ect implementation period. Consultant services required for implementing the
project and financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund would be provided by an inter-
national firm selected on a competitive basis.



- iii -
vii.      The project would provide substantial benefits to parl:icipating
livestock producers all of whom are in the target group and the national eco-
nomv.  It would lead to decreased animal mortality, improved management prac-
ticcs  and increased rural income due to the availability of credit for ex-
panded livestock production. Substantial incremental production of livestock
products would result from the project: 26,000 tons of milk, 4,000 tons of
meat, and 1,000 tons of eggs per year by 1985. This would be equivalent to
20% of projected deficits of these items by 1985, thus contributing to for-
eign exchange savings. The overall economic rate of return for the Project
is projected at 27%; in addition, there are substantial non-quantifiable be-
nefits including improvements to public health through hygenic Livestock
slaughtering and meat marketing facilities, the training of 460 Yemenis in
diverse skills, and through the building of institutions which would make a
positive contribution to economic progress of the YAR beyond this project.
Further long-term progress in dairy production, meat and poultry production,
range improvement, animal health, municipal livestock slaughtering and meat
marketing, as well as agricultural credit, would be achieved the creation and
strengthening of institutions and programs under this project.
viii.     With the assurances listed in Chapter VII, the project would be suit-
able for an IDA credit of US$5.0 million to the Government of YAR on standard
IDA terms.






APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic has requested the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) to help finance a livestock credit and
processing project aimed at increasing the supply of meat, poultry, animal
feeds, dairy products and breeding livestock both on small producer and
larger scale Government-owned enterprises. Additional objectiLves include a
national animal health program, long-term range improvement for livestock
feeding, improvement in foreign exchange earnings through reduced imports of
livestock products and increased earning from hides and skins export, and
improved sanitary conditions for slaughtering and marketing oi- livestock pro-
ducts in the major urban communities.
1.02      The total project cost would be US$32.1 million (YRIs 144.6 mil-
lion) of which IDA would finance US$5 million (YRls 22.5 milllon). The proj-
ect would be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PU) which would
be responsible to the Livestock Development Board (LDB) and a:Lso by the
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF). The LDB would be established under the
Ministry of Agriculture. A Livestock Development Corporation (LDC), a Muni-
cipality Slaughterhouse and Markets Division (MSMD), an Anima:L Health Divi-
sion (AHD) and a Livestock Range Improvement Division (LRID) iwould be estab-
lished under the PU for implementing and operating their respective com-
ponents of the proposed project. The LDC would be a semi-autonomous Govern-
ment commercial enterprise while the other units would, after project imple-
mentation, become part of the ministries.
1.03      The proposed project would represent the fourth IDA credit for agri-
culture and agroindustries in YAR. Previous projects were thes Tihama Develop-
ment Project (TDP) Credit No. 376-YAR, the Southern Uplands Ruiral Development
Project (SURDEP) Credit No. 545-YAR and a Grain Storage and Processing Project,
Credit No. 636-YAR.
1.04      The Government of YAR, in 1974, requested the Kuwailt Fund for Arab
Economic Development to finance a project identification and preparation re-
port of a national livestock development program. The projecit was prepared
with Kuwait Fund financing in early 1975 by C. H. Chisholm and Associates
(C.I.) Ltd. The project was concurrently appraised in November 1975 by the
Kuwait Fund and IDA, the IDA team consisting of Messrs Schertz and Hing (IDA)
and Ashworth (Consultant). Mr. Nickel (IDA) also assisted in the preparation
of the report.



- 2 -
II. The Agricultural Sector
A. General 1/
2.01      Agriculture contributes about 70% to GDP, nearly 90% to the value
of exports, and employs over 80% of the labor force. Cotton, coffee, hides
and skins, and cotton seed are major agricultural exports. In 1974, cotton
and cotton seed accounted for 60% and coffee for 10% of total export value.
Food imports, nearly half of which were cereals, accounted for about 50% of
the total import value.
2.02      YAR, with an area of approximately 20 million ha, has a population
of about 6.5 million and a resident population of 5.2 million. A substantial
number of Yemenis work in neighboring countries. The population is growing
at an estimated annual rate of 2.4% despite high mortality. Only 1.5 million
ha of the total area are regularly cultivated; however, during the 1974-75
cropping season an additional 2.0 million ha of marginal land was brought in-
to production as a result of sufficient preplanting rainfall. Most of the
cropped area is classified as rainfed, with only 230,000 ha (15%) being under
some form of supplementary irrigation from wells, perennial springs or per-
iodic wadi floods. Climatic conditions vary widely, and because of variable
mountainous topography microclimatic differences are locally important. Rain-
fall is erratic, and annual variations influence crop production by affecting
not only per hectare yields but also utilization of rainfed and marginal crop-
lands. On the basis of rainfall, altitude, and crop-livestock pattern, five
main agricultural zones can be identified in the country; (a) the Coastal
Belt of the Tihama; (b) the Western Slopes; (c) the Midlands; (d) the High-
lands; and (e) the Eastern Slopes. Available data on land use, agricultural
production prices and production value are given in Annex 1.
2.03      Land Tenure and Taxes.  The land tenure system in YAR is tradition-
based and complex. The great proportion of total agricultural land (about
80%) remains under the control of large individual owners who generally lease
their land under sharecropping arrangements. State and religious institu-
tions directly own 2-3% and 15 to 20% of the land respectively which are
usually farmed by tenants. The tenant is expected to supply required family
and bullock labor input and the landlord the full cost of hired labor. Pro-
cedures for further cost and income division between landowners and tenants
differ widely and the form of tenancy agreement varies with soil fertility,
the availability of water and the nature of the crop. In most cases, material
input costs, taxes, and net production are divided between the tenant and land-
owner in fixed proportion, with the tenant's share ranging from 25% of well-
irrigated to 50% on rainfed land. These arrangements, in most cases, appear
equitable. 2/ Agricultural production is subject to a 10% tax (Zakat) based
1/   For further discussion of YAR's economy see current Economic Position
and Prospects of the Yemen Arab Republic, IBRD Report No. 840-YAR.
2/   See Annex 1 for details.



-3-
on gross value of output. Livestock activities are generally assessed accord-
ing to the number of animals owned, and crop production on well--irrigated land
is taxed on a reduced rate of 5%. There is no special statutory provisions for
taxation of poultry, milk, or wool, and therefore these items are assessed ac-
cording to the general 10% rate. 1/ Commercial firms whether semi-autonomous
Government enterprises or private are taxed progressively up to 25% on net in-
come after deducting depreciation.
2.04      Although to date no long-run development plan has been prepared,
the Government's major objectives for the agricultural sector are: (a) an
annual increase in agricultural production of not less than 6%, and the dev-
elopment of the necessary agricultural storage, processing and marketing
facilities; (b) achievement of long run self-sufficiency in basic - food-
stuffs particularly cereal crops, oils, vegetables and livestock products;
(c) improvement of the trade balance through the increase of exports espe-
cially cotton, hides and skins, fresh and canned fish, vegetables and fresh
fruits; (d) improvement of the dietary standard of the population; and (e)
provision of credit and supporting extension, marketing and input distribu-
tional infrastructure for agricultural producers, especially the smaller farm-
ers. Beginnings have been made in establishing an extension service and a
credit mechanism under on-going regional development projects, but in spite of
these and other development initiatives, it appears that the first three objec-
tives appear to be based on assumptions which are too optimatic. The target
growth rate for agricultural production as well as self-sufficiency in cereals
are considered unrealistic targets for the foreseeable future. Although the
importance of the agricultural sector is recognized, YAR's capacity to imple-
ment successful programs is hampered by (1) inexperience in systematic program-
ming, (2) lack of institutional infrastructure, and (3) a weak resource base
offering limited opportunities for growth. In an attempt to modernize the
sector and increase productivity Government is concentrating its efforts on
overcoming institutional weaknesses and improving the supply of all basic
agricultural inputs (farm equipment, fertilizers, seeds, extension service).
B. The Livestock Sub-Sector
2.05      Livestock contributes significantly to the resources of the rural
economy, which in 1973 produced 66% of domestic income . In the financial
year 1972/73, livestock products, principally hides and skins, accounted for
19% of total export value. In 1973, YAR imported livestock and meat products
(YRls 0.7 million) and dairy products and eggs (YRls 10 million).
2.06      The estimated livestock population of 12 million sheep and goats,
900,000 cattle, 600,000 donkeys and 100,000 camels is concentrated in the
cultivated areas of the country with the following approximate distribution:
1/   See Annex 1 for details.



-4-
Cattle          Sheep and Goats
Tihama                                 500,000            4,000,000
Southern Uplands                       200,000            2,400,000
Central Highlands and
Intermontane Plain                   150,000            4,000,000
Eastern Slopes                          50,000             1,600,000
2.07      Livestock forms an integral part of the farming system.  Since
farmers produce mainly for subsistence, the plow oxen is first in importance
and the milk cows are second. Typically, a family owns two oxen and one
milk cow. In addition, a farmer may own sheep and/or goats which are often
grazed with neighbor's stock on common lands. He may also own a small flock
of chickens. Livestock represent work power, a source of family food, a re-
servoir of cash capital and the means to obtain needed items through barter
or cash transactions. The output from these animals consists of culled cat-
tle, sheep and goats as needed, sour milk and butterfat, and some chickens
and eggs, wool and hair, and hides and skins.
2.08      Livestock productivity is low.  Contributory constraints include
inadequate disease control, frequent prolonged drought and overstocking on
small communal grazing areas, inadequate supplies of quality fodder crops
due to competition for cereal and food crops and inadequate supplies of ir-
rigation water, lack of trained extension services, lack of organized credit
facilities and the problems faced by the tenant farmer in providing adequate
and acceptable guarantees for loans. With these constraints annual offtake
of cattle is estimated at 9% and milk yields at 200 litres per lactation.
Offtake of sheep and goats including unrecorded domestic slaughterings, is
estimated at 35%, and the milk yields at 17 litres per lactation. This off-
take of cattle and small stock and milk yields are comparable to other coun-
tries in the Middle East and Africa that have similar constraints on product-
ivity. On the other hand, livestock offtake and milk yields range to 300%
higher in countries of the region which have reduced such constraints.
2.09      Livestock Marketing.  Marketing in YAR is poorly developed.  Animals
are sold in primary markets, and outlying villages often make up a small herd
for sale at the nearest market, sometimes two or three days trek away. Cattle
traders are the main buyers although trade is done with butchers on their own
account. Livestock sales are made through independent bargaining between sel-
lers and buyers. Road transport is used extensively to move animals to
larger urban markets. The markets are administered by Government officials
and a tax is levied on transactions of 2-1/2% of the sale price. No sales
records are kept, nor are receipts used. There are no weighing facilities,
bargins are struck on basis of estimated weights and no premium is paid for
quality.
2.10      Meat and Poultry Marketing.  Most locally produced meat, poultry
and dairy products are sold in traditional urban and village markets. Fa-
cilities are primitive and very unsanitary with minimal storage capacity.



- 5 -
Products are sold daily with little or no carry over. Meat is sold in a
package which includes offal without being weighed. Poultry are sold live
at uniform prices with little premium for weight. The retail trade in im-
ported frozen meat, poultry, fish and dairy products is conducted entirely
by a small but growing number of urban retail markets in the main towns.
Sales of livestock tend to peak at certain times of the year, and are in-
fluenced by availability of cash, state of the pastures, timing of tax pay-
ments, market prices for livestock and crops and important religious feasts.
Farmers also use livestock, dairy products and poultry for bartering for
needed items which are locally produced.
2.11      When compared to international prices livestock, dairy products and
poultry farm gate prices are high in YAR; for example beef prices are 30%,
lamb 50% and poultry 100% higher. Government does not control prices on
livestock and livestock products nor are retail and wholesale meat and dairy
product prices fixed. Live cattle, small stock, and poultry market prices
approximate prices of beef, mutton or goat, eggs and milk are YRls 14 per kg,
18 per kg, 6 per doz., and 2 per liter respectively. However, these prices
vary considerably throughout the country.
2.12      Consumption.  By using available export and import data (1973), esti-
mated livestock, and poultry population and productivity levels which indi-
cate a production of 33,000 tons of red meat, 7,000 tons of poultry meat,
6,000 tons of eggs and 140,000 tons of milk equivalent of dairy products,
the implied annual per capita consumption is 7 kg of red meat and poultry
and 23 kg of milk equivalent in dairy products. Cereal consumption in 1973,
was equivalent to a per capita consumption of 292 kg per annum. Approxi-
mately 75% of average caloric and 72% of protein intake is derived from the
consumption of cereal-based food items.
2.13      Livestock Diseases.  Endemic diseases are widespread and are a major
constraint in the development of livestock productivity. Foot and mouth dis-
ease, camel pox, sheep pox, and caprine pleuropneumonia are widespread and
major causes of mortality, reduced milk yields and sub-optimal work perform-
ance. Similarly, internal parasites such as liver fluke, sheep nostril fly,
and the sarcoptic sheep scale are major problems. Rinderpest and Newcastle
disease periodically devastate the ruminant and poultry population, respec-
tively.
2.14      Livestock Health Services.  Services available to tb,e farmer are
supplied principally by the small veterinary unit set up in 1972 by the
Ministry of Agriculture with ODM technical assistance and support. The unit
consists of a central diagnostic laboratory and a field team. The immediate
objectives were to investigate the animal diseases affecting livestock pro-
duction and to establish a national health service. The field service team
has met with favorable producer response and demand for its services is
greater than can be provided with existing staff and facilities.



- 6 -
C. Agricultural Credit
2.15      Background.  Institutional credit to agriculture in YAR has been
limited to seasonal credit for cotton growing. Farmers primarily depend on
their own resources, remittances from relatives from abroad and other non-
institutional sources such as friends and traders for investments in agricul-
ture. The Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) finances agri-
cultural production through loans to the Cotton General Corporation (CGC)
which on-lends to farmers at no interest rate for the purchase of seasonal
inputs against the security of their cotton crops. YBRD holds 30% of the
share capital of CGC which has exclusive cotton ginning rights. Cotton market-
ing finance is provided by a Government assembled consortium of private banks.
Parliament in 1975 passed a law establishing a wholly state-owned Agricultural
Credit Bank (ACB) under the Ministry of Agriculture which began operations on
July 1, 1976 with a paid in capitalization of YRls 20 million, and of an
authorized capital of YRls 100 million to be subscribed by 1980. Government
is considering merging the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) with ACB and has re-
quested IDA to assist in this effort.
2.16      Agricultural Credit Fund.  In order to provide a mechanism for the
credit component of the Tihama Development Project (TDP), Government estab-
lished a small credit unit (ACF) within the Central Bank (CB). ACF has since
been selected as the financing channel for the Southern Uplands Rural Develop-
ment Project (SURDEP).  Under both the projects short-, medium- and long-term
loans are to be provided to farmers for purchase of agricultural inputs and
capital investments. ACF has established its head office in Sana'a with
branch offices at Wadi Zabid and Wadi Mawr; for the SURDEP, offices at Taiz
and Ibb will be established.
2.17      ACF is headed by a Manager (expatriate), stationed at the Sana'a
head office, who is responsible for the formulation of policy for board ap-
proval and for its implementation. He also formulates procedures for ACF's
operations and has undertaken training and supervision of local staff. The
branch offices would be managed by an expatriate who would be responsible for
training Yemeni loan officers in loan appraisal and other operational duties.
Thus far, ACF has been understaffed and in need of more transport facilities
for loan officers so as to reach subborrowers for loan inquiries as well as
for supervision and collection of loans. ACF credit activities began in 1975
with the approval of a modest number of subloans under the TDP. With the
credit effectiveness of the SURDEP in January 1976, increased lending activity
is expected in 1976.



- 7 -
III. FUTURE TRENDS
A. Livestock Production, Consumption and Imports
3.01      Production.  The present total land area under cereals of between
1.3 and 1.9 million ha depending upon rainfall, will at best remain unchanged.
Livestock, poultry and dairy production, under normal rainfall conditions,
are expected to average an annual growth rate of 1.0% and to reach about 11
thousand tons of beef, 28 thousand tons of mutton and goat meat, 9 thousand
tons of poultry and 160 thousand tons of dairy products by 1990 (Annex 2,
Table 5).
3.02      Consumption.  The most important factors affecting future demand for
livestock products in YAR will be population growth and rising incomes. At
present population is growing at an estimated average rate of 2.4%; this is
expected to rise to 3% per annum by 1990. The expected GDP growth for the
period 1976-1990 is between 4% and 5%. The calculation of demand for live-
stock products is shown in Annex 2, Table 5. The Table takes into account
these figures for population and GDP growth as well as assumed income elastic-
ity for livestock products estimated at 1.0. The resultant demand projections
indicate a deficit of 4,600 tons of beef in 1980 rising to 30,000 tons in 1990.
Mutton and goat meat show a substantial deficit of 41,900 tons by 1990. Im-
ports of beef are increasing and would be substantial if present demand trends
continue. Deficits of eggs, poultry and dairy products are projected to con-
tinue and are expected to rise to 11,650, 11,250 and 237,550 tons respectively
by 1990.
3.03      Imports.  The value of animal products in current terms over the
last several years represented only a minor portion of total imports into YAR.
However, while total imports almost tripled in nominal terms over the 1969-
1973 period, imports of animal products displayed even higher growth from half
million YRls in 1969 to 14.7 million YRls in 1973. Dairy products and eggs
dominated the livestock commodity import category with 2,858 tons in 1973.
Projected supply deficits in livestock commodities by 1990 woulcL result in
significant increases in imports.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project is designed to form the initial phase of a long-term
program to expand livestock development in YAR and to improve and strengthen
the fragile base upon which it now depends. Through demonstrat:ion and the
introduction of modern production and marketing techniques by Government and
investment in livestock related industries, the private sector would be sti-
mulated to assume major responsibility for the future development of livestock



resources. Parallel with this, about 400 individual livestock producers and
500 private poultry farmers would be assisted with long-term credits. Public
health standards would be improved by the project, particularly through the
erection of simple efficient and hygenic livestock slaughtering and meat mar-
keting facilities. Carrying capacities would be improved in range areas
through combined pasture improvement, controlled grazing practices and the
introduction of browse trees and shrubs and commercial timber species. Social
and rural development benefits would be extended to about 1,000 producer fami-
lies, all in the target group, and 10 villages through increased income, im-
proved animal health and production services, and improved nutritional and
living standards. Finally, investments in livestock and range improvement
would ensure long-term development in livestock production.
4.02      The project would include:
(a) the formation of a national Livestock Development Corporation
(LDC) which would be set up as a semi-autonomous Government
owned commercial enterprise. LDC would establish eight -
50 cow dairy farms, a livestock fattening-dairy production
farm, five milk collection colonies and a poultry feed mill
complex.
(b) the development of three urban slaughterhouses and 154
municipal retail market stalls to be operated under the PU
by MSMD. Hides and skins improvement to increase foreign
exchange earnings would be included as well as meat inspec-
tion services.
(c) support of animal health services of the Directorate of
Animal Health of the Ministry of Agriculture with disease
control and diagnostic services, veterinary field stations,
and quarantine facilities at Hodeidah.
(d) granting of supervised credit to about 900 traditional
sector landowners, small holder livestock and poultry
owners and irrigated fodder crop producers through the
ACF. Additionally, about 84 retail butchers would receive
credit for an urban retail meat market improvement program.
(e) establishment of a livestock and range improvement center
in the Intermontane plain area. A village range development
subproject whereby 1,250 hectares of suitable land would be
improved for grazing and planted to provide limited quanti-
ties of building materials and fuel.
4.03      In addition, all components under the project would be supported
by technical services inputs, training, technical studies and the provision
of financing for expatriate technical staff necessary to implement the proj-
ect. The project would also receive significant institutional support from



UNDP/FAO technical assistance projects. The on-going ODM programs in animal
health services and in livestock and range improvement would be expanded and
coordinated with the requirements of the project and UNDP/FAO would supply
training facilities for local project technicians and staff.
4.04      The Project Implementation Unit (PU) would have the responsibility
for establishing the varius operational divisions and managing the proposed
project. The PU would be responsible to the Livestock Developmnent Board
(LDB) consisting of the Minister of Agriculture as Chairman, representatives
from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Municipalities and the Central Plan-
ning Organization and the General Manager of ACF, the Project Manager and
Co-Manage. LDC would be a legal entity formed and capitalized by Government
to undertake commercial activities in dairy and poultry production, marketing,
milk collection, livestock finishing and feed processing. MSM]D would be set
up under the PU to implement and to operate the slaughterhouses and retail
markets in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. The supervised credit component would
be implemented by ACF in cooperation with the PU. ACF would aLso be the lend-
ing channel for all subloans and the administrative channel for Government
grants and equity for subprojects.
B. Detailed Features
Livestock Development Corporation
4.05      LDC would consist of three production divisions:  Dairy, Livestock
Finishing and Poultry-Feed Processing.
(a) Dairy. The dairy division would comprise eight 50-cow
commercial dairy units located in the Sana'a, Ibb, and Taiz
regions and five associated milk colonies. A consultant
study would assure the suitability of the selected or
proposed sites for irrigation, the crop production pro-
posed and the availability of acceptable water. Invest-
ments would include tube-wells with a water distribution
system, land leveling and preparation, farm machinery,
light trucks, buildings, stockhandling facilities, port-
able 2-cow vacuum milkers either electric or motor operated
and about 500 disease free guaranteed in-calf, commercial
grade Friesian cows and 10 registered pedigree bulls. In-
cluded would be provisions establishing five milk coLlection
colonies each to be located within proximity to one of the
divisional dairy farms, individual participating farmers and
urban markets.
(b) Livestock Finishing Farm. A 250 ha irrigated livestock
finishing farm including a 50-cow commercial dairy farm
would be located in the Tihama where, primarily, forage
would be fed to livestock for fattening. Included in the
subproject are provisions for access roads, land levelling



- 10 -
and preparation, irrigation system, buildings, stockhandl-
ing facilities, farm machinery, vehicles, silage bunkers
and about 3,600 ewes, 70 rams, 60 dairy cows and 2 registered
bulls. A consultant study would assure the suitability of the
site selected for livestock production, irrigation, the crop
production proposed and the availability of acceptable water.
(c) Poultry-Feed Processing. A poultry feed mill complex would
be constructed in the Taiz area to produce about 125,000
broilers annually and to supply pullets for the establish-
ment of about 500 flocks of 50 birds each to individual
farmers. A small feed mill with an annual capacity of
3,000 tons on a single shift basis would be constructed to
provide poultry and livestock feed. Included would be pro-
visions for access roads, land preparation, fencing, civil
works, equipment and machinery, installation, engineering
fees, vehicles and working capital.
4.06      LDC would be a semi-autonomous Government enterprise with an equity
base equivalent to approximately 40% of the total investment. Government
would provide the equity from the loans. Its charter would enable it to
undertake the proposed investment program, to acquire land for its facilities
to operate on a commercial basis, and to make contractural arrangements for
materials, equipment, civil works, supplies and services. Assurances were
obtained that land would be made available for this component.
Slaughterhouse and Retail Markets Component
4.07      The MSMD would be established under the PU for constructing and op-
erating three urban slaughterhouses and 154 retail markets in Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeidah. This component would consist of:
(a) after project implementation, Year 6 of the project, the
responsibility for operation of MSMD would be transferred
from the PU to the Ministry of Public Works and Municipal-
ities which has the overall responsibility for the super-
vision of all slaughtering facilities and retail meat
markets in the country.
(b)  construction of new slaughter facilities in Taiz and
Hodeidah and the completion of the abattoir in Sana'a
which was initiated under an UNDP/Government agreement but,
due to the lack of funds, has not been finished. The
abattoirs would be simple, closed structures complete with
on-the-rail dressing system, hot water, hide shed, and a
layout to permit efficient slaughter of livestock while
meeting the religious rituals of the community. Included
would be provisions for a delivery vehicle at each slaughter-
house to provide delivery service to convey carcasses and
offal to the retail markets.



- 11-
(c) construction of 154 retail meat market stalls appropriately
distributed in the three urban centers. The retail markets
would be simple enclosed structures with interior-suri-aces
finished with easy cleaning non-absorbent materials. Each
stall would be aproximately 9m2 and would have a surfaced
and drained courtyard. Water and electricity would be
provided.
(d)  implementation of a hides and skins improvement program in
the urban slaughterhouses to reduce losses due to poor
flaying and salting methods.
(e) training of local butchers in livestock slaughtering and
skinning techniques by MSMD divisional staff.
(f) overseas training of eight trainee meat inspectors who would
receive six months supplementary tuition in a Middle ELast
or East African country with conditions similar to those of
YAR. Three suitable trainees would be sent to a Midd:Le
East or East African country for three months training in
abattoir management, plant operation and hygiene.
Animal Health Component
4.08      A small veterinary service entered upon a diagnostic 'Laboratory in
Sana'a has been set up under a bilateral aid agreement with ODM. This unit
would be used as a nucleus for the greatly expanded animal heallh program
under the project. Under a new agreement, the ODM Veterinary Project is to
be substantially expanded and would provide a portion of the staffing and ex-
penditures included in this project.
4.09      During implementation, financing would be included for construction
facilities and for staffing required by the Director of Animal Health to es-
tablish a small but comprehensive field staff, backed by adequate diagnostic
facilities and veterinary investigation staff. A small headquarters exists
and both the Director of Animal Health and the project manager (ODM) have
been appointed and would continue in their respective positions in the AHD.
They would supervise the construction and equipping of regional centers and
the enlarged diagnostic laboratory and be responsible for organizing both
in-country and overseas training of veterinarians and veterinary assistants.
Diagnostic laboratory facilities in Sana'a would be enlarged and an animal
clinic, stores and garage built. Three regional veterinary centers would be
established in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. Also a quarantine station would be
built in Hodeidah.
Livestock and Range Improvement Component
4.10      As part of the UK bilateral aid to YAR, a comprehensive survey which
includes ground water studies is being made to identify priority avenues for



- 12-
agricultural development and recommend suitable programs for implementation.
In conjunction with the ODM Montane Plains program, an Agricultural Improve-
ment Station with a Range Improvement Center would be established near Damar.
Furthermore as part of the range improvement studies, 10 pilot Village Devel-
opment Associations (VDA) would be established. Work would be carried out on
methods of improving livestock production from rainfed land including range
improvement component which would examine forage crops, draft power husbandry
and means for improving communal grazing areas. Investment would include
buildings, vehicles, equipment, on-farm development and livestock. In addi-
tion to ODM expatriate staff who would cover a wider range of disciplines,
the project would include 2 specialists in the fields of livestock production
and range improvement.
Supervised Credit
4.11      Traditional Sector.  The component is aimed at the development of
livestock production through the provision of producer credits supported by
extension services. The supervised credit program would assist small sheep,
goat and dairy farmers to finance investments to increase production and also
would introduce small scale commercial poultry production in the traditional
sector. Since livestock production cannot be treated in isolation in a sub-
sistence agriculture, the credit program would finance an integrated on-farm
development package as outlined in Annex 7, para 4. The component would pro-
vide for subloans to landowners for on-farm infrastructure investments and to
their tenants for investments to increase livestock production, and it would
also encourage formation of small producers' groups or associations who would
otherwise not qualify for credit.
4.12      About 900 subloans would be made under this component.
(a)  24 loans to landowners for the provision of wells, irriga-
tion works and stock-holding facilities,
(b)  375 loans to tenants to increase forage production and build
up livestock production,
(c)  A total of about 500 loans to small holder poultry farmers
for 50 bird flocks.
Projections for the development of each type of production unit are based on
the models in Annex 7. Included in the component would be supervisory and
technical services to support the development program.
4.13      Under the component funds would be made available to finance inputs
and machinery for the production of forage crops, livestock, tube- and dug-
wells, small scale irrigation works, simple stockhandling facilities, poultry
housing, buildings, and the introduction of better herd and flock management
practices.



- 13 -
4.14      Meat Market Improvements.  To improve the standards of hygiene
within the retail markets proposed in the project, subloans under the super-
vised credit component would also be made available to about 84 butchers for
purchase of hand tools and equipment including small commercial refrigerators.
The renting of stalls in the new markets would be conditional upon the main-
tenance of improved meat handling techniques and hygiene standards by the
butcher-vendors.
Project Staffing and Training Program
4.15      YAR has only a limited availability of technical and specialized
management competence to implement and operate the proposed facilities. In
addition to establishing PU, LDC, AHD, LRID and MSMD, the project would pro-
vide for a major institution effort in expanding and strengthening ACF in co-
ordination with the Grain Storage and Processing Project. Included would be
financing for the following technical services, staffing services and train-
ing required for project implementation, monitoring and evaluation:
(a) Project Unit Manager;
(b) Financial Assistant;
(c) LDC staffed with an experienced Manager, a Dairy Division
Manager, a Poultry Feed Mill Division Manager, a Livestock
Finishing Division Manager, a Master Mechanic and an Irriga-
tion Crop Manager;
(d) AHD staffed with a Manager and 12 technical specialists by ODM.
One additional senior Veterinarian would be provided for from
other project sources;
(e) LRID staffed with an experienced Livestock Production special-
ist and a Range Improvement Expert;
(f) MSMD staffed with a Manager and Hides and Skins Specialist;
(g) ACF staffed with a General Manager effective Year 3 of the
project 1/, a Livestock Credit Officer, a Farm Management Ex-
tension Officer and an Accountant-Financial Controller to
assist in building the institution;
(h) overseas training, including 12 one to two year fellowships
in post-graduate studies for senior managerial and technical
staff, 45 three to six-month training courses for meat in-
spectors, veterinary assistance, animal husbandry specialists,
credit officers and LDC staff; undergraduate training for 10
veterinarians and animal husbandry officers; and,
1/   General Manager would be provided to year 3 under the TDP.



- 14 -
(h) the financing of two studies which include reviewing site
characteristics, tenure status of selected sites and the
possible effects of relocation of tenants.
(i)  Livestock Finishing Farm Site and the Wadi Surdud
Farm Study. The study would investigate the Tihama
region for selection of the most suitable site for
locating the Livestock Finishing Farm. A farm de-
velopment plan including technical assistance and a
farm management program would be prepared under the
Wadi Surdud Farm Study to continue to operate the farm
after the technical assistance being provided by the
USSR is completed.
(ii)  a site study to locate the most suitable sites for the
eight 50-cow dairy farms being financed by the project
would be the basis of subproject approval.
4.16      With the exception of ODM experts, the senior veterinarian and the
ACF General Manager the expatriate experts listed in (a)-(g) above are ex-
pected to be provided through a single contract with a specialized management
firm. During the negotiations, assurances were obtained that the project
features as described in paras 4.05 through 4.15 would be undertaken.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.17      Project implementation would begin in 1977 (see Annex 11, Table 1)
and would require about six years. Appointment of key project staff, site
acquisition, retaining the services of a management firm to furnish expatriate
staff and the establishment of LDB are key steps which would be essential for
expeditious project implementation and early action has been proposed for each.
D. Cost Estimates
4.18      The total project cost is estimated at US$32.1 million (YRls 144.6
million) of which the foreign exchange component is 53% or US$17.0 million
(YRls 76.5 million). The foreign exchange cost includes the cost of imported
equipment and materials, expatriate personnel required or the construction and
installations of project facilities, expatriate consultants, training abroad,
and the foreign exchange component of materials used in civil works constuction.
Detailed cost estimates are presented in Anenxes 4 through 9.
4.19      Cost estimates are based on end 1975 prices.  A 10% physical contin-
gency is allowed on the feed mill and 5% is included for the other project com-
ponents. An average price contingency of 69% of total project cost including
physical contingencies has been allowed for expected price inflation and are
summarized as follows:



- 15 -
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Local   F.E.   Total    Local   F.E.   Total   F.E.
Category                    ------YRls '000-----            US$ '000           %
LDC Investments
Dairy Farms                2,432   6,208   8,640       540   1,380   1,920   72
Milk Colonies                 635     415   1,050      141       92     233   39
Livestock Finishing Farm  3,479   3,037   6,516        773      675   1,448   47
Poultry Feed-Mill Unit       867   2,270   3,137       193      504     697   72
Slaughterhouses and
Markets                   2,950   5,281   8,231       656   1,174   1,829   64
Supervised Credit           4,777   7.392  12,169   1,062   1,643   2,704   61
Village Development
Association                 320      230      550      71       5F1    122   42
Technical Assistance
Expatriate Staff           3,802  11,413  15,215       845   2.536   3.381   75
Animal Health              7,418   3,230  10,648   1,648        718   2,367   30
Livestock and Range
Improvement               1,328      919   2.247      295     204      499   41
ACF (Organizational
Costs)                      360   2,425   2,785        80      539     619   87
Project Implementation
Unit                      1,594      726   2,320      354      161     516   31
Site Selection Studies       900   1,350   2,250       200     300      500   60
Subtotal              30,862  44,896  75,758   6,858   9,977  16,835   59
Contingency Allowances
Physical (5.0%)            1,583   2,207   3,790       352      490     842   58
Price (69%) /1            32,873  19,556  52,429   7,305   4,346  11,651   37
Subtotal              65,318  66,659 131,977  14,515  14,813  29,328   51
ODM Animal Health              753   9,870  10,623      167   2,193   2,361   93
Medium Term Credit /2       2,000             2,000     444              444
68,071  76,529 144,600  15,127  17,006  32,133   53
/1   The basis for price contingencies for total project cost is shown in
Annex 12:
/2   Loan to ACF for onlending to subborrowers for interest during construc-
tion and seasonal credit.



- 16 -
E. Financing
4.20      The financing plan for the project is shown below:
Nether-
lands         ODM Bi-              Subbor-
Kuwait  Bilater-       lateral  Govern-  rower Con-
Fund   al Aid   IDA    Aid       ment    tribution   Total
------------------------ YRIs   '000
LDC
Dairy Farms         14,632      --      --      --       --        --      14,632
Milk Colonies          933      --      --      --     1,355       --       2,288
Livestock
Finishing Farm    8,566      --       --      --     1,025       --       9,591
Poultry Feed-
Mill Unit            --    4,551      --      --       --        --       4,551
Slaughterhouses &
Markets              --   12,416      --      --       --        --      12,416
Supervised Credit    2,683  11,446   5,119    --          --      4,812    24,060
Village Development
Association          --    1,286      --      --       --        --       1,286
Technical Assistance
Expatriate
Staff /1           7,961     --   17,381    --         --        --     25,342
Animal Health        4,871      --      --  10,623   17,165        --      32,659
Livestock and
Range Improve-
ment                 --    4,051      --      --       --        --       4,051
ACF (Organiza-
tional Costs)      3,340     --       --     --        981       --      4,321
Project Implemen-
atin Unit /2       4,622     --       --     --        --        --      4,622
Site Selection
Studies            2,781     --       --     --        --        --      2,781
Medium-Term Credit   2,000       --      --      --        --       --       2,000
Total YRls '000    52,389  33,750  22,500 10,623   20,526    4,812   144,600
Total US$ '000      11,642   7,500   5,000  2,360    4,561    1,069    32,133
Percentage of
Project Total
Cost                  36       23      16       7       15         3         100
/1   Kuwait fund would finance local costs and IDA would finance Foreign Ex-
change costs.
/2   For infrastructure.



- 17 -
The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million would be made to the Government on
standard IDA terms and would finance the foreign exchange portion of the
project expatriate staff and 27% of the supervised credit component subloans
made by ACF. The Kuwait Fund loan would be extended to the Government on
terms similar to the IDA credit; it would finance (a) the total investment
cost of the LDC dairy farms component and PU, (b) the investment costs of
the milk colonies component, (c) the investment costs of the livestock
finishing farm component, (d) the total costs of the site selection studies,
(e) the foreign exchange costs of the Animal Health component, (f) the for-
eign exchange part of the ACF organizational investment costs, (g) the local
costs of the expatriate expert staff, (h) the medium-term loan to ACF for
onlending to subborrowers for interest costs during construction and seasonal
credit, and (i) 14% of the supervised credit component subloans made by ACF.
The Netherlands bilateral aid would be extended to the Govermnent on terms
similar to IDA credit; it would finance, (a) the investment costs of the LDC
Poultry-Feed Mill, the LRID, VDA, and MSMD components, and (b) 59% of the
supervised credit component subloans made by ACF. The ODM bi:Lateral aid
would finance a portion of the animal health component and would be a grant
to Government. Government would finance the working capital requirements for
the milk colonies and livestock finishing components and the :Local costs of
the Animal Health component and the ACF organizational investment costs.
It would also finance any cost overruns which may occur. Agreement was ob-
tained during negotiations on these arrangements. The signing of agreements
between the Government and the following would be conditions of effectiveness
of the IDA credit: (a) Kuwait Fund for a total of US$11.6 million, (b)
Netherlands Bilateral Aid for a total of US$7.5 million, and (c) ODM for a
grant equivalent to US$2.4 million.
F. Procurement
4.21      MSMD, LDC, LRID and AHD Components.  Vehicles, equ4pment, facil-
ities and services financed by the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands and ODM bi-
lateral aid would be procured in accordance with their respect:ive guidelines.
4.22      Consultants and Supervised Credit.  To provide the t:echnical ex-
perts required for implementing the project, who would be financed by IDA
and the Kuwait Fund, Government invited proposals from several, management con-
sultant firms. After evaluating the proposals and with the concurrence of IDA
and the Kuwait Fund, Government is negotiating a contract with the selected
firm. Purchases of goods and materials under the supervised credit component
by the traditional sector subborrowers would be numerous, small off-the-shelf
type items (which could not be bulked for bidding purposes) procured over the
six-year implementation period of the project. These items would be purchased
by the investors under the ACF's supervision directly from local commercial
channels. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the procurement
procedures contained in this paragraph would be followed.



- 18 -
G. Disbursements
4.23      The IDA credit would be disbursed over six years.  Disbursements
would be made for 100% of the foreign exchange cost of expatriate staff serv-
ice and 27% of the ACF subloans for supervised credit. Disbursements for ACF
subloans for supervised credit would be made against certificates of expendi-
tures. Supporting documents and contracts for these subloans would be re-
tained by ACF and would be available for review by IDA during supervision.
Assurances-to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
H. Environmental Impact
4.24      The project would have a favorable environmental impact by improv-
ing sanitation and hygiene in slaughtering activities and in retail markets.
The project is not expected to have significant adverse environmental impact
on the country.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
5.01      There is no present institution in YAR with the capability to im-
plement the project. A PU would be established to organize and manage the
project during implementation. The PU would have an internationally re-
cruited, experienced staff and headed by a Project Manager and a senior
Yemeni co-manager, who would be a agricultural graduate. The PU would be
responsible to LDB for the execution of the project. LDB would be estab-
lished under the Ministry of Agriculture by decree of the Council of Min-
isters. Overall responsibility for project coordination and policies would
be vested in the LDB. It would consist of the Minister of Agriculture, as
Chairman, a representatives of the Central Planning Organization, the Minis-
try of Finance, the Ministry of Municipalites and the General Manager of ACF,
the Project Manager and Project Co-Manager. The Board would establish devel-
opment objectives and guidelines and serve as the coordinating body for mat-
ters involving cooperation between various Government departments, institu-
tions and bilateral aid organizations.
5.02      The LDC would be established under the PU and would be a semi-
autonomous Government-owned enterprise established to own and to operate on
a sound commercial basis about eight 50-cow dairy farms, five milk collec-
tion colonies and a poultry-feed mill complex. Government drafted the LDC



- 19 -
charter prior to negotiations and Government's approval of LDC's charter satis-
factory to IDA would be a condition of making the proposed credit effective.
5.03      MSMD would be established under the PU for constructing and operat-
ing the slaughterhouses and retail markets in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah dur-
ing project implementation. After project implementation, Year 6 of the proj-
ect, the responsibility for MSMD would be transferred from the PU to the Min-
istry of Municipalities. MSMD would continue to be responsible for the opera-
tion of these slaughterhouses and retail markets, and the regulation of all
other similar facilities within the country. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from Government that:
(a) regulations acceptable to IDA would be established to cover
the slaughterhouse and market regulatory criteria outlined
below. These regulations would take effect when the facil-
ities constructed under the project become operational.
(i) no slaughter would be authorized within Sana'a, Taiz
and Hodeidah except at the Government slaughterhouses;
(ii) the Ministry of Municipalities would take steps to
enforce meat inspection at the slaughterhouses;
(iii)  the retail markets being constructed under the project
would be licensed and maintained in a sanitary manner;
(b) slaughterhouse operating procedures outlined below would be
carried out.
(i) slaughter, delivery and retail market fees would be
charged to make the facilities financially self-
supporting;
(ii) animals would be slaughtered by MSMD employees and car-
casses and offal would be delivered by the slaughter-
house to retail markets; and
(iii)  MSMD would charge sufficient fees for their services
to operate on a sound financial basis the slaughter-
houses and retail meat markets.
5.04      The AHD would consolidate and expand the administrative and field
experience of the UK technical assistance (ODM) and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's Directorate of Animal Health in the subproject. ODM would provide the



- 20 -
expatriate manager and the majority of the expatriate technical staff for im-
plementing the animal health program. The LRID would in conjunction with ODM
Montane Plains and Wadi Rima Program establish an Agricultural Improvement
Station with a Range Improvement component near Damar in the central Montane
Plains.
5.05      ACF would be expanded by adding regional branch offices and support-
ing staff to provide credit on a country-wide basis for implementing all com-
ponents of the project. ACF would be responsible, in cooperation with the PU
for implementing the supervised credit component of the project to the tradi-
tional sector subborrowers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the project organization outlined in paras 5.01 to 5.05 would be estab-
lished.
B. Project Management
5.06      The Project Unit Manager would be responsible for organizing the
PU, the operating divisions and would assist these divisions in the prepara-
tion of subprojects, in the procurement of goods and services and in subproj-
ect implementation; advise on the selection of staff and terms and conditions
of employment; ensure that expenditures comply with the terms and conditions
of the credit documentation; introduce accounting and auditing controls with-
in the units; assist with the selection of staff for overseas training and to
coordinate internal training programs provided under the project. The Pro-
ject Manager would initiate and supervise studies for the dairy farm sites,
livestock finishing farm site, and Wadi Surdud farm. The Project Manager
would approve all loan applications for LDC, LRID, and VDA investments prior
to submission to ACF assuring that each subproject meet the criteria of the
project. The Project Manager in cooperation with the Division Managers would
formulate operating and administrative procedures for approval by the LDB.
The PU head office and LDC would be located in Sana'a while LRID would be
housed in Damar. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
5.07      Technical Assistance and Training.  A major risk for the success-
ful implementation of the project is the severe shortage of experienced and
competent staff in YAR. To overcome this constraint, comprehensive technical
assistance and training programs have been incorporated into the project. The
project divisions would be staffed with 29 expatriate management and technical
specialists, for periods ranging from two to five year (see Annex 10, Table
1). These experts would be responsible for both project implementation and
for training of their local counterparts, who will take over management and
technical responsibilities when the expatriates complete their assignments.
The recruitment experience under the Southern Uplands projects indicates that
such experts and local counterparts are available. Government has agreed to
initiate early recruitment of expatriate experts and would through interna-
tional advertising engage an experienced agricultural management firm which



- 21 -
would supply all the experts as a team. The consulting firm would assume res-
ponsibility for selection, replacement and compensation in concurrence with
the Government, IDA and the Kuwait Fund. The terms of reference for each ex-
patriate position are provided in Annex 10. Local counterparit staff who are
expected to take over operational and managerial responsibilities after the
project's implementation period would undertake comprehensive training before
they assume their positions. The training would include specialized foreign
training for key personnel, undergraduate and graduate education for vete-
rinarians, and in-house training. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the selection of a management firm for implementat:ion of the proj-
ect acceptable to IDA and the Kuwait Fund and on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA and the Kuwait Fund would be a condition of credit effective-
ness. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that local staff as
described above would be appointed within six months of the credit effective-
ness. Assurances were obtained that the various training programs satisfac-
tory to IDA would be implemented.
C. Credit Arrangements
5.08      ACF Organization.  ACF, which was established under the TDP, would
be the lending channel for all subloans extended under the project. In addi-
tion, ACF would be the administrative channel for Government contribution to
LDC equity; for the Government grant to the MSMD component; anLd finally for
Government contribution to PU, AHD, LRID and ACF. ACF would appoint a senior
livestock credit officer, a farm management extension officer and an account-
ant financial controller in its head office and open two new offices, one
branch office in Sana'a 1/ and one field office in Hodeidah and expand its
Taiz/Ibb offices. Local counterparts would be assigned to expatriate ex-
perts; the new and expanded offices would be appropriately staffed with local
personnel. The branch manager in Sana'a would be responsible for organizing
the Sana'a branch office while the Hodeidah field office would fall under the
responsibility of the Wadi Zabid field manager. Since the services of the
expatriate ACF manager is being financed through the project year 2 under the
TDP, this project would finance his services during the last four years of
project implementation.
5.09      Credit Arrangements.  Of the LDC investment costs, 40% would be fi-
nanced by direct Government equity contribution and 60% by a loan. Govern-
ment would contribute 40% of the VDA's investment costs and ACF would make
loans for the remaining 60%. Of the supervised credit investment costs for
the traditional sector, subborrower contribution would be 20% and the remain-
ing 80% would be by a loan of ACF. For the credit portion of t'he above invest-
ments, the Government would on-lend part of the proceeds of thie IDA, Kuwait
1/   Would be physically located in ACF's central office to handle the Proj-
ect as well as the Grain Storage and Processing Project Credit No. 636-
YAR.



- 22 -
Fund, and Netherlands loans to ACF (US$9.0 million) at an interest rate of
4.0% per annum. ACF would maintain a spread of 5.0% which would be suffi-
cient to cover its administrative costs (average 3.2% of loans outstanding),
to make provision for losses (1.2%) of credit repayments on average during
the lifetime of the project) and to allow ACF to accumulate a reasonable
amount of equity (0.6%). In addition, ACF would also be the administrative
channel for the Government contribution to LDC equity (US$2.8 million) and
for the Government grant contribution to the PU (US$16.7 million). ACF would
not charge any commission or fees on the equity or grant portions that would
be administratively channelled through it by the Government.
5.10      Lending Procedures.  For the LDC subprojects managers assisted by
the LDC manager and staff and supervised by the PU would prepare subloan ap-
plications including detailed investment costs, projected income and cash
flow statements and economic analysis and submit them to ACF. For the
slaughterhouse and retail markets components, the MSMD supervised by the PU
would prepare grant applications supported with a similar documentation as
indicated for LDC subloans and submit them to ACF. For the village range
improvement component, the LRID supervised by the PU would prepare and submit
loan and grant applications to ACF. For the above components, ACF would re-
view subloan applications and evaluate the financial viability of the invest-
ment proposal. For the livestock finishing farm, the first two dairy farms
and milk colonies, the poultry-feed mill unit and the first slaughterhouse
ACF would, after its review, forward the subloan applications to the Kuwait
Fund and the Netherlands for approval, with appropriate recommendations. In
view of their staffing constraints IDA has explored with the Kuwait Fund and
the Netherlands the possibility of concurrently reviewing and commenting on
these documents but in any case IDA would receive an information copy.
5.11      For the traditional sector credit component, ACF extension agents
from branch offices would advise farmers in livestock and poultry development
and would encourage them to use the credit facilities of the project. These
agents would assist potential subborrowers in preparing loan applications for
submission to branch offices which would evaluate the creditworthiness of the
applicants' financial liability of the investment proposal and farm of se-
curity and the availability of the investor's own contribution which would be
at least 20% of the investment cost.
5.12      Investment Categories.  ACF would make loans to LDC for eight dairy
farms, a livestock finishing farm, five milk colonies and a poultry-feed mill
unit totalling US$4.1 million (YRls 18.6 million) (see Annex 5), and to VDAs
for ten village range improvement centers totalling US$0.2 million (YRls 0.8
million) (see Annex 9). ACF loans for supervised credit to farmers, land-
pwners and butchers for on-farm investments in livestock and poultry produc-
tion and for butcher tools and equipment would total US$4.3 million (YRls
19.2 million) (see Annex 7) (Annex 6).
5.13      Terms of Loans.  Of LDC's investments, the Gvernment's equity con-
tribution would be 40% of the investment cost. Government would also grant



- 23 -
40% of the investment costs for the Village range improvement component. The
minimum contribution of the traditional sector subborrowers would be 20% of
the investment cost. Maturities would not exceed the life of the assets fi-
nanced.
Grace   Repayment   Total
-----------Years---------
LDC
Livestock Finishing Farm                          5          5         10
Dairy Farms                                       4          7         11
Milk Colonies                                     5          4          9
Poultry-Feedmill Unit                             4         8          12
Village Development                                  6          5          11
Supervised Credit
Landowner                                         2         4           6
Tenant Farmer                                     3         4           7
Smallhold Poultry Farms                           1         6           7
Butchers                                          1          1          2
5.14      Interest Rates.  Commercial interest rates in YAR range from 11%
for medium and long-term investment credits to 13%-14% for short-term credits.
A preferential rate of 9.5% is charged by YBRD to the General Cotton Company
which on-lends to farmers at no interest. Interest rates charged under the
TDA and SURDEP are 8% for medium and long-term loans and 9% for short-term
loans. Interest rates charged under the Grain Storage and Processing Project
for silo, warehouses and commercial and private bakeries are 9% p.a. Given
an estimated inflation rate of more than 25% in 1974/75, the real interest
rate would be negative with prevailing nominal rates. ACF's on-lending rate
to all subborrowers under the project would be 9% per annum. IDA would under-
take discussions with Government during the Project implementation to seek
adjustment in this rate according to changes in the interest rates for medium
and long-term credits in YAR. The Government's interest rate to ACF would be
4.0% per annum (para 5.09), ACF would earn a spread of 5.0% per annum to cover
its costs, to make provisions for losses and to allow for an average annual
increase of about US$116,000 to its equity capital. If ACF's on-lending rate
were to change, the Government's rate charged to ACF would be adjusted accord-
ingly to maintain a 5.0% spread for ACF. The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk for all on-lending from external financial sources.
5.15      Loan Security.  According to ACF's present lending procedures,
short-term loans up to YRLs 5,000 are provided against guarantee of two per-
sons. Short-term loans in excess of the above amount and all medium and



- 24 -
long-term loans would require land security. The loans to LDC as a Govern-
ment enterprise and VDA would be secured by a Government guarantee. Loans to
landowners would require land and/or other property security. Land would be
acceptable as security up to 80% and other property up to 60% of the current
market value. Loans to butchers for tools and equipment would be made only to
those properly licensed to operate in a municipality retail market and would
be secured by a joint guarantee of two creditworthy persons. Loans to tenant
farmers would be secured by one of the following alternatives: (a) for short
term loans of up to YRls 5,000 a joint guarantee of two creditworthy persons
or a guarantee by the landowner, (b) for longer term loans, the landowners
guarantee or land security or a joint and several guarantee by a group of ten-
ants or livestock security which would involve some form of permanent animal
identification such as branding, earmarking or ear tagging with the number or
mark registered with ACF. Since this is not a common practice, extension
agents would need to fully explain the purpose of such identification and the
legal implications of having their livestock used as security for loans.
5.16      Supervision and Recovery of Loans.  Loans would be supervised by
ACF staff who would periodically visit LDC and VDA installations. Financial
statements would be obtained annually from the above subborrowers. Loans for
traditional sector would be supervised by ACF Branch office extension officers
equipped with motorcycles and depending on farm size and location would ser-
vice about 40 loans. Emphasis would be on field work with each beneficiary
visited at least once every 30 days during the first year of development. Ex-
tension officers would be directly responsible for on-farm loans supervision
and collection of debt service. They would adopt a cooperative and planning
approach rather than a coercive approach to loan recovery. As part of the
whole enterprise approach to farm extension the agents would have a knowledge
of farm finances and be in a position to assist subborrowers to plan and im-
prove financial management.
5.17      The resources required for financing ACF's loans proposed under the
Project would amount to YRls 18.6 million for the LDC investments, YRls 0.8
million for village pasture development and YRls 19.2 million for supervised
credit to traditional sector. The Government would make these funds avail-
able as two loans to ACF, one for 6 years and one for 20 years, at an interest
rate of 4.0% per annum. In addition, credit would be extended by ACF to LDC
for financing interest during implementation and seasonal credit totalling
YRls 2.0 million. The projected cash flow for ACF operations under the Proj-
ect including the inflow and outflow of project funds for which ACF has only
administrative responsibility is provided in Annex 12 Table 1.
5.18      ACF's Accounts and Audit.  ACF accounting has been handled by CB's
accounting department, with accounts kept separately from CB's own accounts.
As ACF's operations would increase substantially under this and the Grain
Storage and Processing Project, it would be necessary for ACF to build up



- 25 -
and handle its own accounts. An accounting and financial control expert
would be appointed not later than mid-1977 for a period of four years to as-
sist ACF in establishing and operating a modern accounting and financial con-
trol system. Until ACF's accounting system becomes operational CB's account-
ing department would continue to handle ACF's accounts. Under the project,
ACF accounts would also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports and financial statements would be submitted to IDA not later
than four months after the close of each fiscal year.
5.19      The items discussed in paras 5.08 through 5.18 would be included
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ACF and would be
satisfactory to IDA. The operation and delivery of the Subsicliary Loan Agree-
ment would be a condition for making the Credit effective.
D. Project Accounts and Audit
5.20      LDC, VDA and MSMD would keep records consistent with sound account-
ing practices and adequate to reflect their operations and financial condi-
tions. PU and the remaining divisions would establish and maintain accounts
for project expenditures. These accounts would be audited anrnually by the
Government's Central Organization for Audit and Control, which is responsible
for auditing public and para public entities. Audit reports and financial
statements would be submitted to IDA not later than four months after close of
each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
E. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.21      PU would prepare quarterly progress reports, to be sent to IDA with-
in three months of the close of each quarter. Assurances to this effect would
be obtained during negotiations. The PU would be responsible for evaluating
the benefits realized under the project. Information would be collected on
each component which would be consolidated into an annual report reflecting
the increased livestock production, improved income of participating rural
subborrowers, training courses completed, number of livestock treated, and
other benefits arising to the farmers response to the project. The program
for monitoring and evaluation are detailed in Annex 15. Assurances were
obtained to this effect during negotiations.
F. Retroactive Financing
5.22      To start the project's implementation expeditiously and to avoid
delays, Government has initiated action to recruit the management consult-
ant firm prior to the date of the proposed credit. Therefore, retroactive fi-
nancing for such expenditures is recommended up to an amount of US$150,000.



- 26 -
G. Risk
5.23      Since this is the first integrated livestock development project in
YAR and because of the small and underdeveloped base, on which it is initiated
it involves a higher than normal degree of risk and uncertainty. Project
risks stem from the country's low level of development, particularly institu-
tional weakness's, shortage of trained manpower, lack of experience in project
implementation and operation, widespread disease problems, and the almost com-
plete absence of people familiar with modern animal production techniques.
These risks have been fully considered in the design of the project. As des-
cribed in paras 4.15 and 5.07 a comprehensive technical assistance and train-
ing program combined with a six year implementation period and careful inter-
related phasing (see Annex 10, table 1, and Annex II, table 1), would adequa-
tely provide for institution building and strengthening. Furthermore, before
a fully Yemeni managed operation comes into effect, initial expatriate manage-
ment and training of local counterpart staff would be followed by a period of
local management assisted by expert advisers. Whilst the Project includes an
unusually high number of components the integration of these would serve to
minimize production risks. Disease control, animal production, extension,
credit, marketing, research, and agroindustry development, present an inte-
grated package of mutually beneficial components. Apart from organization
and management complexities, production risks arise from the uncertain avail-
ability of suitable and adequate irrigation water for the LDC farm sites, and
disease control. The proposed consultant studies would minimize the farm
site problems whilst the comprehensive Animal Health Control component (see
Annex 8) would reduce disease risks to an acceptable level. In addition, the
integration of the efforts of several concurrent bilateral livestock develop-
ment programs will increase the prospects for overall progress.
5.24      Because of prevalent animal diseases, the need for balanced feed and
husbandry and management factors, poultry, and to a lesser extent dairying,
can be regarded as high risk areas. Project design incorporates a scale of
operation which combined with components such as feed supply, disease control,
and supervised credit, not only reduces risk to an acceptable level, but
spreads it over a relatively large number of beneficiaries. On-farm benefi-
ciary risks are minimized by provision for an overall integrated development
package involving irrigation, improved seeds, fertilizer, pest control, super-
vised credit, disease control and product marketing (see Annex 5, para 15).
Furthermore, the traditional sector dairy development will build on the high-
ly developed skill which Yemeni farmers display in the care of their draft
animals. In addition climatic conditions in the highland areas are well
suited to the introduction of improved breeds of both poultry and cattle.
The present demand for livestock products in YAR is very strong and is ex-
pected to increase substantially. The needs of and the skills of the rural
poor are substantial. In considering the importance of agriculture and
livestock in the economy, the risks involved in the project are worth taking.



- 27 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.  Incremental Production and Markets
6.01      As YAR's first integrated livestock development program, the Proj-
ect is expected to result in substantial and diverse benefits to the Yemen
economy. The initiation of programs in dairying, poultry production, and
livestock finishing from a small or non-existent base are bound to have a
significant effect on the future of the livestock sector. Similarly, the
initiation of hygenic livestock slaughtering and meat marketing would mark a
profound change from existing practices. Expansion of the embryonic animal
health service is fundamental to the future of the livestock sector, most
notably to protect draft animals which provide the motive power for Yemen
agriculture. It is expected that the forestry-range component--a new program
for the Yemen--would have beneficial long-term effects and be capable of great
expansion in the future.
6.02      Incremental annual production at full development resulting from
the Project is projected as follows:
Milk           4,725 tons, plus 21,300 tons per year of increased
production attributable to the animal health com-
ponent of the Project in Year 9.
Meat           650 tons, plus 6,200 tons per year of increased
production attributable to the animal health com-
ponent of the Project in Year 9.
Grain          1,300 tons of grain.
Poultry        3,000 tons of poultry feed
Feed
Egg            180 tons of eggs per year plus about 820 tons per
year of increased production attributable to the
animal health component in Project Year 9.
6.03      Since the country is a food deficit area, most of the projects in-
cremental output would substitute for food imports. Based on projections in
Annex 2, Table 5, the Project would make up 20% of the tonnage of the expected
deficit in animal products in 1985:
Without Project   Incremental
Deficit-1985      Production           %
Beef                       13,600 tons       1,650 tons          12
Mutton & Goat              20,900            4,000               19
Poultry Meat                5,950            1,250               21
Eggs                       5,450             1,000               18
Dairy Products           121,250            26,000               21



- 28 -
B. Financial Results
6.04      The subloans under the Project are to be made on the basis of loan
applications with the demonstrable ability to repay. Projected financial
rates of return for the components are as follows:
(a) Livestock Development Corporation combined
results (including headquarters costs)                    12%
50-Cow Dairies Component                                  12%
Milk Colonies Component                                   23%
Livestock Finishing Component                             13%
Poultry-Feed Component                                    13%
(b)  Municipality Slaughterhouse and Market Department         16%
(c) Supervised Credit
Landowner                                              30%
Tenant Farm                                            25%
Smallholder Poultry                                    27%
Butcher Shop Improvement                               53%
(d)  Village Development Associations                          10%
C. Economic Benefits
6.05      The Project has a calculated overall economic rate of return of 27%.
Additional, non-quantifiable, benefits would accrue to the YAR from this na-
tional livestock development program including:
(a) Improvement to public health through upgraded conditions of
slaughtering and vending meat.
(b) The training of a substantial number of Yemenis in diverse
skills, including management and administrative, animal hus-
bandry, and veterinary technology.
(c) The introduction of new enterprises and methods on a pilot
basis which can be expected to provide a framework for future
expansion. These include dairy farming, livestock finishing,
smallholder commercial poultry, and timber management.
(d) Building institutions which will contribute to the country's
progress beyond the present Project.



- 29 -
6.06      Institutional Building.  The Project will substantially strengthen
the Agricultural Credit Fund, will help build the Animal Health Division, and
will create the Livestock Development Corporation, as well as the Livestock
and Range Improvement Division. This institution building, will have favor-
able, but non-quantifiable effects for the future of the Yemen economy in in-
creased capacity to implement expanded activities in livestock development
and related activities.
6.07      Employment and training benefits from the project include 458 jobs
for Yemeni nationals together with extensive training in diverse skills.
Considerable import substitution effects would be realized. By Project year
5, milk production attributable to the project, would be equivalent to US$7
million per year. Similarly, the value of meat produced attributable to the
Project by year 5 would be equivalent to US$8 million per year. In addition,
export earnings from improved hides and skins are projected to increase by
US$0.22 million by Project year 5.
6.08      Economic Rates of Return by Component.  The overall rate of return
to the Project is 27%.  The animal health program has a very high return, as
might be expected from the initiation of effective measures where little has
been done in the past. The public health effects of the new abattoirs and
food markets have not been possible to quantify and setting their entire
costs against the quantifiable benefits arising from improved hides and skins
income results in a very low economic return. However, the slaughterhouse
and retail markets component is financially viable, as shown in Annex 6. The
Animal health program and the public health aspects of the new abattoirs and
meat markets are directly related, and in the same way, the animal health pro-
gram underpins all aspects of the Project. Sensitivity analysis was performed
for the whole project, and by component, as shown in Table 1, Annex 14. The
rate of return does not fall below 22% for the project.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government:
(a) that the financing plan as described in para 4.20 would be
followed (para 4.21);
(b) that the PU which would be responsible to the LDB would be
established to implement the project (para 5.01);
(c)  that LDC would be organized as a semi-autonomous Government
enterprise and would continue to operate beyond the implemen-
tation period of the project and that its charter and organ-
ization would be changed only with IDA's concurrence (para
5.02);



- 30 -
(d) that the slaughtering, inspection and licensing regulations
as described in para 5.03 would be established and enforced
(para 5.03);
(e) that MSMD, AHD, LRID and ACF would be organized for imple-
menting the project as outlined in paras 5.03 to 5.05
(para 5.05);
(f) that the PU would be responsible for overall management of
the Project, including organization, procurement, implementa-
tion, staff selection, control of expenditures, training,
site studies, loan applications to ACF, and division proce-
dures (para 5.06);
(g) that the expatriate experts acceptable to IDA and the Kuwait
Fund and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and the
Kuwait Fund and local staff as described in para 5.07 be ap-
pointed within six months of the credit effectiveness and
that the training programs satisfactory to IDA be implemented
(para 5.07);
7.02      Signing of a loan agreement between Government and the Kuwait Fund
for an amount of about US$11.6 million (para 4.20); conclusion of a bilateral
aid agreement between Government and the Netherlands for an amount of about
US$7.5 million (para 4.20); conclusion of a bilateral aid agreement between
Government and ODM for an amount of about US$2.4 million equivalent (para
4.20); the Government's approval of LDC's charter satisfactory to IDA (para
5.02); the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Government and the ACF (para 5.19); and the appointment of a management firm
to supply qualified expatriate staff for project implementation and the ap-
pointment of the Yemeni Co-manager would be conditions for making the pro-
posed credit effective.
7.03      With the indicated assurances, the project would be suitable for
a credit of US$5.0 million, equivalent, on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
The Agricultural Sector
The Resource Base and Nature of Farming
1.        Agriculture represents the major sector within the Yemen Arab
Republic economy, accounting for approximately 66 percent to the country's
GDP and employing 80-90 percent of the resident Yemeni population (See
Table 1). Although the agricultural sector is predominantly subsistence-
based, it provides over 90 percent of national export earnings from such com-
modities as cotton, coffee, cotton seeds, hides and skins.
2.        The land area in Yemen totals approximately 20 million ha, of which
only about 2 million ha are classified cultivable. At the present time 1.5
million ha are actually cultivated with 2.0 million ha kept fallow to be
brought into production given sufficient rainfall. Most of the cropped area
is rainfed with only 230,000 ha being under some form of supplementary irriga-
tion system. In addition, there are 14 million ha of rocky, desertic, and
rangeland areas, 1.6 million ha of bush cover, and about 2.6 million ha of
wasteland (See Tables 2 and 3).
3.        Climatic conditions vary widely, and micro-climatic differences are
locally important because of variable mountainous topography. Patterns of
rainfall and temperature are to a large extent determined by the relief.
Rainfall is erratic, and annual variations profoundly influence crop produc-
tion by affecting not only per hectare yields but also utilization of rainfed
as well as marginal cropland. Normally the major rains occur in July, August,
and September with minor rains in March, April and May. Reportedly 1/ a forty-
year climatic cycle is in existence, containing 20 years of high rainfall fol-
lowed by 20 years of relatively sparse precipitation. The 1974-75 season has
been pegged as the start of the former. Surface water resources are not
abundant, and the extent of underground supplies remains an unknown factor.
Preliminary results from test borings have pointed to the possibility of
significant underground water resources in the Tihama plain as well as in the
Wadi areas of the Highland Plains. A decline in the water table has been
observed within the last several years with replenishment of aquifers possible
only with considerable levels of precipitation. Winds likewise are an impor-
tant constraint on agricultural production, particularly in the Tihama and
the Intermontane Plain Regions. Soil characteristics vary widely, from ex-
cellent to poor, with salinity and alkalinity occurring in certain areas.
1/   Citations are made of data collected by an Italian aeronautics con-
sultant team which noted annual rainfall in Sana'a of 300 nmm in 1973
versus 600 mm in 1953.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.        The principal cereal crops are sorghum, millet, barley, and wheat
with approximately 80-85 percent of crop acreage allocated to these produc-
tion activities. Wide variations in climate, topography, and soils howe-er
permit the cultivation of a considerable range of crops including coffee, to-
bacco, cotton, pulses, grapes, deciduous fruits, citrus, bananas, oilseeds,
potatoes, maize, alfalfa and qat (Cata edulis) (See Table 4). Livestock
assumes an important role in Yemeni agriculture by being the main source of
farm work power, contributing to foreign exchange earnings through exports of
hides and skins, and providing meat and milk for domestic consumption. For-
estry in the accepted sense of the word does not exist; however, moderately
large areas are covered by woody vegetation (shrubs) providing fuel and minor
construction materials, and accomplishing some soil and water conservation.
Deforestation over the last several decades has beco}e a serious problem
arising because of large consumptive demand for home cooking requirements,
especially of family bread, with no compensatory program to replace dyminish-
ing stands.
5.        Yemeni farmers are considered industrious, and the elaborate ter-
racing in the Highland and Midland regions remain as substantiation of this
observation. Participation by women and children in agricultural activities
is considerable especially in weeding, harvesting, threshing, and herding
activities and, they even were observed in plowing cooperations. In many
cases women are left to tend to agricultural matters during the lengthy
periods of absence of spouses engaged in non-agricultural employment in YAR
urban centers or in other nearby Middle Eastern States. Family labor remains
the main source of manpower in farm operations to be supplemented by hired
workers usually only in peak harvesting periods.
6.        Farming systems vary regionally according to climate, soil charac-
teristics, and water availability. The level of technology adopted remains
essentially traditional in nature, with utilization of modern production in-
puts such as chemical fertilizers,improved varieties, and pesticides at
present negligible, utilization of these modern inputs in the main circum-
scribed to those areas having guaranteed water supplies either through high
annual rainfall or supplementary irrigation systems. Soil nutrient reple-
nishment and supplementation remains in most cases limited to manure applica-
tion which in part accounts for the maintenance of relatively high fertility
levels in terraced areas over many centuries of continuous cultivation.
Research and extension services are presently minimal except for the limited
efforts financed with foreign assistance.
Agro-Ecological Zones
7.        The country can be divided into five major agricultural areas ac-
cording to their resource bases, agricultural outputs, and developmment po-
tentialities. These are:
(a) the Tihama,
(b) the Western slopes,
(c) the Midlands,
(d) the Highlands, and
(e) the Eastern slopes.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        The Tihama (total land area--20,000 km2) consists of two arid and
semi-arid belts, the coastal plain and the foothills, and exterLds from the
southern border to the Saudi Arabian border in the north and approximately
30-60 km inland from the Red Sea. The main towns are Hodeidah (the princi-
pal harbor), Zabid, Beit-el-Fakeeh, Mokha, Al-Marawi'ah and Salif. The
climate is hot and humid with annual rainfall varying between 50 mm and 300
mm. Rainfed and irrigated farming are practiced in this zone. Sorghum,
millet, sesame, maize, and dates are produced almost entirely for subsis-
tence, and cotton, tobacco, vegetables and fruits as cash crops. The total
cultivated area, both rainfed and irrigated, varies from year t:o year, de-
pending on rainfall and surface water availability. Rough estimates have been
made that currently up to 600,000 ha could be planted under marginally rainfed
conditions, 70,000 ha under spate irrigation, and 25,000 ha under supplemental
irrigation from ground and perennial water sources. Livestock production is
important especially for the large portion of the Tihama population engaged
in such activities. Eight major wadies (intermittent streams) cross the Tihama.
In these areas there is a significant potentiality for surface and groundwater
development where soils are favorable. The Tihama thus remains the major area
for further land development in Yemen, with 200,000 ha currently estimated as
potentially irrigable with further development of underground wiater resources.
Livestock production in Tihama is based mainly upon crop residues which are cut,
removed from the field and hand-fed to animals rather than grazed. Although
prolonged overgrazing and shifting agriculture have largely destroyed the
natural grassland resources, the zone carries between 50 and 60 percent of the
cattle and about 35 percent of the nation's sheep and goat hercl, and it offers
the best livestock development potential in the country.
9.        The Western Slopes (total land area -- 35,000 km2) includes the area
between the Tihama and the Midlands and Highlands. Although population esti-
mates remain less than reliable, the upper reaches are known to be densely
populated. Climatic conditions, primarily rainfall and temperature, vary with
the altitude. All the cultivable land on the slopes is terraced, and irriga-
tion occurs in gorges along the wadi banks. The main crops are sorghum, mil-
let, coffee, alfalfa, bananas and papayas. The livestock popu].ation is not
known, but there is considerable evidence of overgrazing. There is virtually
no scope for expansion of agricultural land in this region; however production
might be boosted by utilization of pesticides, improved crop varieties, as
well as increased labor-management input in land preparation, seeding, weeding,
and optional crop rotation planning.
10.       The Midlands (total land area -- 20,000 km2) extends practically
from the southern border to the town of Qadah and covers the Taiz Governorate
and adjacent areas. It is the second most populous area of the country (about
900,000 people), and also the second largest in agricultural output. Alti-
tudes vary from 800 m to 2,000 m above sea level, with annual rainfall ranging
between 450 mm and 500 mm. Climate, soils, and water resources are suitable
for produciton of cereals, pulses, potatoes, fruits, vegetables, fodder and
coffee but as in the Western Slopes zone, there exists minimal potentiality
in the Midlands to stimulate higher agricultural production through further cul-
tivable land extensity. There does exist, however, some scope for reforesta-
tion, a project presently being investigated by UNDP.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       The Highlands (total land area -- 35,000 km2) can be divided ecolo-
gically into two sub-areas, the Central Highlands and the Intermontane Plains.
The differentiation between these two areas is primarily with reference to
climate and topography, and therefore agricultural production. Animal produc-
tion is based on crop residues and the poor quality and largely depleted
natural pastures of the elevated land adjoining cropping areas. Despite the
harsh conditions, the farmers maintain considerable numbers of livestock, and
the zone is estimated to carry 350,000 cattle and 6,400,000 sheep (39% and 53%
of the national herd and flock respectively). Development potential lies in
intensive small stock and dairy production, and local forestry/grazing schemes
could have a marked effect on range carrying capacities.
(a) The Central Highlands comprise most of the Ibb Governorate,
with a population of approximately 800,000. Altitudes vary
from 1,500 m to 2,000 m. Annual rainfall is within the 600-
800 mm range, and soils are considered relatively fertile.
Supplementary water resources are at present mostly restricted
to limited groundwater and springs; there are, however, a few
wadis where surface irrigation is practiced on a small-scale.
Most of the cultivable area is terraced. Main crops in the
region are sorghum, wheat and barley, and of lesser coverage,
millet, alfalfa, maize, potatoes, pulses, and some fruits and
vegetables.
(b) The Intermontane Plains extend from Yerim to the northern
border and encompass the governorates of Radaa, Sana'a and
Saada. The urban population is concentrated in Yerim, Damar,
Sana' a and Saada; the rural areas are relatively sparsely
populated. This region is characterized by a series of
flat plains surrounded by mountains, or closed watershed
basins. Altitudes vary from 2,000 to 3,000 m, and rainfall,
averaging 200 mm to 500 mm, is relatively erratic. Tempe-
ratures and humidity are usually relatively low. Ground-
water resources are present but costly to tap thereby
restricting the scope for extensive small-scale irrigation
from wells and springs. Most of the soils are considered
marginal or poor, and the area is devoid of much natural vege-
tation. The major crops grown are sorghum, wheat, barley,
millet, qat, grapes, fruits and vegetables. Livestock acti-
vities, mainly sheep and goats, are an important source of
income.
12.       The Eastern Slopes (total land area -- 80,000 km2) is the largest
zone in size but poorest in agricultural resources. The slopes cover the
areas between the Intermontane Plains and the Saudi Arabian border to the
east. Climatic conditions are not favorable for agricultural production
since annual temperatures are high and rainfall is only about 100 mm to 200
mm. Soils generally are poor, however, there are a few valleys where irrigated
agriculture is practiced predominantly on a subsistence basis. Despite
existing remnants of thousand-year-old irrigation schemes, the possibilities
for significant agricultural development in this region seem extremely limited.
Because of the limited vegetation, crop production, and related rainfall in
the area, animal populations remain relatively limited.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Land Tenure System
13.       The land tenure system in YAR remains very tradition--based and com-
plex. The great proportion of total cultivated land area remains under the
control of large individual owners who generally lease part of their land
out under sharecropping arrangements. The State and religious institutions
directly own 2-3 and 15% of the cultivable land respectively which also
are usually farmed by tenants. Procedures for cost and income division be-
tween landowners and tenants differ widely and appear a function of the par-
ticular crop cultivated as well as the availability and method of supple-
mentary irrigation. In general, the tenant receives between 1/4 - 1/3 of
production from irrigated land, and 1/3 - 1/2 of that from rainfed hectarage.
Although holdings range between 0.25 and 10.0 hectares, size seems to vary
with region and degree of non-rainfed culture; in areas where cultivation
remains rainfed-based and extensive in nature such as in the Tihama, Highlands,
and on the Eastern Slopes, holdings generally fall in the upper portion of
the range. If cultivation of owned hectarage remains beyond the managerial
and operational scope of available family labor, the excessive land is
usually leased under sharecropping arrangements. Even though most annual
tenure contracts are verbally established, officials report few cases of
termination of these pacts.
Taxation of Agricultural Production
14.       Agricultural production is subject to a 10% tax (zakat) based on
the gross value of output. Livestock activities are generally assessed ac-
cording to number of animals owned, and crop production on well-irrigated
land is taxed at a reduced rate of 5%. Although the zakat might be col-
lected in either kind or cash, an increasing quantity has been obtained
in the latter form over the last five years, reflecting a preference of
local development boards to obtain financial revenue in cash form. Farmers'
attitudes toward cash vs. kind payment appear mixed. Those wit:h limited
personally owned storage facilities and/or who are unsure aboul: prices
for any marketable surpluses seem to prefer kind payment. Those having dif-
ficult access to Ministry of Finance zakat depository points and/or who might
need personal family stock replenishment, opt for cash payment. The effective-
ness of zakat collection is a function of the dependability and administrative
efficiency of local and regional Ministry of Finance representatives charged
with its collection and management. At the village level the :Local amin, a
government representative and resident of the community fully familiar with
each farmer's productive performance, each year evaluates the respective farm-
er's livestock and/or crop, assesses the amount of tax, and oversees movement
of kind portion to designated depositories and collection of a:Lternative tax
in cash. Concerning the latter, a committee established by the local governor
determines the unit price at which the commodity is valued for tax purposes.
15.       Livestock activities are taxed proportionately to the number of
animals owned by each respective farmer. There is no special statutory provi-
sions for taxation of poultry, milk, or wool, and therefore these items are
assessed according to the general 10% rate. However, animals are taxed under
livestock-specific zakat assessment in the following manner:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(a) Camels. One sheep (ewe) for every five camels up to 25.
For larger herds, the tax is increased proportionately,
and for a herd of 120, two three-year-old animals and
one ewe sheep are payable.
(b) Sheep and goats. For flocks of less than 40 no tax is
payable. Thereafter the rate is one sheep or goat for
flocks of up to 120 and two for flocks of 120 to 200,
with an increase of one ewe for each additional hundred
head.
(c) Cattle. No tax is payable on herds of less than 30. For
30 to 40 animals the tax is one yearling; thereafter it is
one two-year-old for every 40 animals in the herd.
Agricultural Credit
16.       A general agricultural institution has started only recently in
Yemen. Early attempts to establish such an institutional network failed
principally from lack of capital and trained manpower. Agricultural credit
from institutional sources has in previous years been limited to short-term
funding for cotton production by the General Cotton Corporation (GCC). The
GCC, financed by the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development, provides
interest-free loans to cotton producers for seed, fertilizer, and tool acquisi-
tion against the security of their cotton crops.
17.       The Government authorized the creation of a small credit unit, The
Agricultural Credit Fund, under a subsidiary arrangement with the Central
Bank. The ACF, presently maintaining offices in Sana'a, Wadi Mawr and Wadi
Zabid, acts as the sole dispensing agent for the credit component of the
Tihama Development Project scheduled to cover investments in machinery and
tubewell units, short-term production loans as well as credit to agribusi-
ness firms for the installation of processing and marketing facilities.
Similarly, ACF has been chosen the credit channel for the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project providing short-term loans for material inputs
(mostly fertilizers), and medium- and long-term loans for investment in
on-farm development, and on a limited scale, for creation of nurseries and
orchards, coffee culture expansion, and construciton of packaging and handling
facilities. ACF, presently in a formative phase, has dispersed a few short-
term loans mainly for the purchase of oil for irrigation pumps and some
medium-term loans for on-farm well sinking and tractors acquisition, all
totalling YRls 410,380 as of October, 1975.
18.       The Parliament has recently passed a law establishing a wholly
stateowned Yemen Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB). Authorized capital of ACB is
YRls 100 million, of which YRls 20 million were subscribed early in 1976.
ACB is expected to start its lending operations from the second half of 1976.
The establishment of the Bank would not, however, restrict the operation of



ANNEX 1
Page 7
ACF which, according to a cabinet decision, would continue to be the lending
agency for IDA projects. If the ACB is able to start up effective lending
operations, consideration to merge ACF with ACB would be made in consultation
with IDA toward the long-term goal of maintaining an effective, nationwide
agricultural credit institution.
19.       The extent to which the inflow of remittances from family members
employed in urban centers or abroad acts as a dampening agent on the demand
for agricultural credit remains an unknown and unexamined factor. However,
at present those farmers requiring credit must generally rely on private
sources for funding. Since most farmers are relatively poor, it is quite
probable that many depend on credit from relatives, neighbors, merchants,
or landowners. Although the terms of loans dispensed by private parties
remain essentially unknown, interest rates are though to vary considerably
according to the source of the credit and to be mitigated to some extent
by religio-cultural stigma attached to usury.
Development Planning
20.       To date no long-run development strategy has been formulated for
Yemen. In 1973/74 a first attempt at development planning was made with
the release of a three-year program that stressed (1) increasing national
income at an annual rate of at least 6%, (2) a substantial rise in the living
standard of the population, and (3) expansion of social services to all areas
of the country. The emphasis given to agricultural developmen,t is reflected
by the allocation to the agricultural sector of YRls 138.1 million, 15% of
the total YRls 935.6 million budgeted for the three-year program. As original-
ly proposed, 19% was to be financed from Government sources, 6% from local
private savings, and 75% from foreign aid.
21.       The following were cited as basic aims in the YAR agricultural
development strategy:
(a) A net increase in real agricultural income of not less than
6% in order to achieve a resource surplus subsequently to
finance development activities in other sectors;
(b) Achievement of self-sufficiency in the basic foodstuffs with
particular emphasis given to cereal crops, oils, vegetables
and livestock production;
(c) Rectification of the trade balance through the increase and
improvement of products for export especially cotton., coffee,
hides and skins, fresh and canned fish, vegetables and fresh
fruits;
(d) Improvement of the dietary standard of the population;
(e) Provision of credit and supporting extension, marketing, and
input distributional infrastructure for agricultural producers,
especially the smaller farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
22.       While the Government recognizes the importance of the agricultural
sector in the economy, it has not been able to generate a clearly established
implementational scheme to translate aims into well-defined action programs and
detailed investment projects. Much of these difficulties seem to stem from:
(a) the lack of systematic long-term programming and the Govern-
ment's just recent introduction to short- and medium-term goal
determination;
(b) the lack of infrastructural instruments through which effective
proposals could be transformed into action;
(c) weak governmental institutions to a large extent dependent upon
foreign technical assistance and capital; and perhaps most
importantly,
(d) a resource base placing serious constraints upon growth pos-
sibilities.
23.       During this formative period the Government appears to be em-
phasizing:
(a) development of the Tihama as a long-term grain and cash crop
production center;
(b) the Midlands and Highlands development as a short-term cereal
expansion program;
(c) establishment of national agricultural research, extension and
credit institutions to stimulate crop production for domestic
as well as export markets; and
(d) increased focus on livestock production activities such as
poultry, dairy, sheep, and beef feedlot enterprises.
Prospects for Future Grain Production
24.       Because of the limited availabilities of grazing resources and
seasonality of precipitation in YAR, farmers engaged in livestock activities
are forced to rely heavily on cereal crop byproducts such as leaves and
stalks for fodder purposes. Often farmers strip the leaves from sorghum
plants prior to the harvest thereby resulting in an unmeasured, but noticable
decline in grain yields. Because of the heavy utilization of such materials
in livestock production, future expansion of livestock activities is there-
fore dependent upon the prospects for cereal production in the years to come.
25.       Utilization of marginal land, and therefore extent of rainfed
cereal cultures, are strickly a function of rainfaill. Pre-planting precipi-
tion levels determined the amount of area sown in a given year, and extent
and distribution of rain during the growing season affect the eventual yields
as well as quality of byproducts allocated to livestock. The great bulk of
cultivable land in YAR remains rainfed in nature, and therefore the associated



ANNEX 1
Page 9
risks of grain production on such area are not without their spillover effects
into livestock production. The Tihama region, presently supporting 50-60% of
the country's cattle population and approximately 35% of the sheep and goat
herd, is viewed as a major region for potential livestock development. How-
ever, at the same time because of relatively sparse rainfall in this zone,
area devoted to cereal cultures, predominantly drought - resistant sorghum
and pearl millet, is extremely sensitive to variability in precipitation.
Reflecting the sensitivity in the Tihama, sorghum-millet areas was reduced
over the&1970/71-1973/74 period by 28.5% to be increased the following season
from .88 to 1.95 million ha. Even in the relatively productive, high rainfall
areas of Taiz and Ibb, few opportunities of hectarage expansion exist for
cultivation of cereals and other crops as witnessed by the intricate system
of terracing covering all usable space.
26.       Grain crops are considered by the Yemeni farmer necessary for sub-
sistence -- to satisfy his family's consumptive needs throughout the year, to
insure adequate fodder for livestock, and through on-farm storage to provide
some insurance during poor rainfall seasons. It is therefore plausible that
if innovations in cereal technology do permit considerable boosts in per ha.
yields, the farmer could derive his subsistence from a smaller area than prev-
iously and thereupon substitute cash crops for these low-income cereal activi-
ties. High demand for livestock products will no doubt make production of
fodder crops a logical candidate for released land. However (1) the relative
profitability of livestock production alternatives versus cash crops such as
vegetables, fruits oilseeds and qat (in highland areas) and (2) the effect of
movement out of cereal production on national livestock production remain
unclear and unstudied.
27.       Farmers in several highland wadi areas north of Sana'a (Dhar, Al
Gara'a, and Dala'a) have already made the transition to specializaiton in qat
production and rely on market purchases for domestic cereal needs. In the
Ibb-Taiz region, terraced land having access to supplementary irrigation was
deemed suitable for cash crop alternatives such as qat, fruit, grapes, onions,
potatoes, and other vegetables; non-irrigated areas could be planted with
coffee or qat in lieu of cereals. Qat, in addition to its prof'itability, is
adaptable to a wide range of highland climatic environments--coldness, dry-
ness, or wetness--and can be harvested year-round starting one year after
planting. However, in many cases where farmers had access to well irriga-
tion facilities, alfalfa is planted not only to provide fodder for owned
animals but also to act as an important year round cash generator. Farmers
questioned expressed interest in allocating land to crop alternatives such as
vegetables and qat for family requirements and market sales if at some future
date family cereal needs could be met from reduced planting wit:h better varie-
ties and improved management.
28.       Because of high costs of well irrigation, farmers will probably be
forced to make crop substitutions. An economic analysis of the various crop
activity alternatives for the respective spate, well, and mixed irrigation
areas in Wadi Zabid confirm this assertion. Although total hectarage under the
irrigation scheme would increase by 14.34 percent from 22,800 t:o 26,070 ha
through the rehabilitation of the diversion structures, further expansion of



ANNEX 1
Page 10
spate irrigation area, and installation of additional well facilities, total
area devoted to cereals would decline by 11.12 percent from 17,400 ha under
present allocation to 15,465 ha even though maize, deemed profitable on well
and mixed (spate and well) irrigated land, would increase from 1,500 to 3,650
ha. Because of high construction and operating costs of well facilities as well
as increased utilization of certified seed, fertilizers, and insecticides,
production of millets and sorghum, displaying low potential profitability,
would be relegated to spate irrigated and rainfed land, while maize, vegetables,
and oilseeds (sesame, sunflower, and groundnut) would take precedence on irri-
gated land. The following is a summary of the budgeted averages for each crop
alternative:
Production Costs and
Taxes/hectare (YRls)       Cotton  Sorghum  Millet  Maize  Oilseed  Vegetables
Present                   831.7   543.1    504.8   725.7   465.9    2,499.4
Future with Project/i  1,917.4   907.7    839.9 1,671.5 1,360.6    4,705.0
Net Iricome/hectare (YRls)
Present                   268.3   556.9    245.2   474.3   534.1    6,500.6
Future with Project       282.6   842.3    460.1 1,328.5 1,039.4   11,295.0
/1   Wadi Zabid project, Tihama region.
29.       Given its importance in foreign exchange generation through export
earnings, the Government might in the future deem it advantageous to support
the cotton price to stimulate production thereby increasing competition with
cereals for available land especially in spate-irrigated areas potentially
altering the relative profitability of livestock-related production activi-
ties, e.g. alfalfa cultivation. Additionally, adoption of better performing
varieties of cereals, an understandable goal in a grain-based economy with
limited scope of cereal growth through extensive measures, might prove com-
petitive, rather than complementary with livestock production. Newer varie-
ties of sorghum, millet, maize and other cereals being introduced from
external sources and developed internally through crosses of exotic and
indigenous strain often display a reduced stalk-grain and leaf-grain ratios
than observed in more traditional varieties thereby reducing the potential
fodder offtake per plant. Although land might be released for livestock--
supportive crop cultures (as well as for other cash crops), with the adoption
of high yielding varieties now proposed, the production of cereal--based
fodder would decline even more rapidly. However at the same time, limited
fodder from new varieties and the importance of livestock in the small farm
enterprise could limit demand for the shorter strains. The micro as well as
macro implications require additional study.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Economic Activity by Sector
(In million YRls)
1969      1970      1971       1972       1973
Agriculture                       1592.0    1710.0   2054.0    2245.2    2276.0
Industry                            51.1       67.0      85.6      100.5      129.0
Construction                        65.6       74.2      86.4      112.5      145.0
Trade                              286.5      307.3    349.2       505.9      589.0
Government                          54.7       67.4      90.9      171.6      256.0
Transport and  Communication        51.0       54.4      69.7       81.1       87.0
Finance                              8.1       18.4      20.0       29.9       49.0
Housing                             81.2       86.7      98.3      102.5      112.0
Services                            24.4       31.1      40.9       51.6       62.0
TOTAL                             2214.6    2416.5   2895.0    3399.8    3709.0
Source: The National Accounts of Y.A.R. 1969-1973.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural Land Use by Governorate, 1974-5
(1,000 hectares)
Cultivated    Marginal        Forest
Governorate   Total Area      Area         Area  1/    and Shrubs       Other
SANA'A         8,000          400          600             100          6,900
HODEIDAH       3,500          235          500             450           2,315
TAIZ           1,200          250          100             500             350
IBB            1,300          300           50             400            550
HAJJA          1,700          130          250              50           1,270
SAADA          1,800           60          200              -            1,540
DAMAR          1,000          100          200             100             600
BEIDA          1,500           40          100              -           1,360
TOTAL         20,000        1,515        2,000           1,600         14,885
1/  Land cultivation in high rainfall years
Source:  YAR Central Planning Organization Statistics Department,
Statistical Yearbook, 1974 - 1975, Sana'a, 1975, P. 55.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Cultivated Land by Source of Irrigation, 1974-5
(1,000 hectares)
Governorate            Cultivated                 Source of Irrigation
land         Rainfed    Flood    Perennial    Wells
SANA'A                    400             375        -           20           5
HODEIDAH                  235             105       100           5          25
TAIZ                      250             221        10         iL8           1
IBB                       300             279        -          20            1
HAJJA                     130             115        10          5            1
SAADA                      60              60        -           -           -
DAMAR                     100              92        -           5            3
BEIDA                      4o              38        -           -            2
TOTAL                   1,515           1,285      120         '73           37
Source: YAR Central Planning Organization Statistics Department,
Statistics Yearbook, 1974-1975, Sana'a, P. 54.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock Production, Consumption and Trade
Domestic Livestock Production
1.        The estimated livestock population of twelve million sheep and
goats, 900,000 cattle, 600,000 donkeys 100,000 camels is concentrated on the
small farms of the cultivated areas where yet forms an integral part of the
farming system. There is also a fluctuating national poultry population
of upwards of three million village chickens. The importance of the national
herd lies not only in its value as a food supply but also in the fact that
crop production depends almost exclusively on animal traction for cultivation.
In the absence of a net of agricultural feeder roads, camels and donkeys pro-
vided an effective form of transport in the rural areas. The majority of
cattle are located in the Tihama, whereas sheep and goats are more evenly
distributed. Regional stock numbers 1/ are estimated as follows:
Cattle         Sheep/Goats
Tihama                              500,000          4,000,000
Southern Uplands                    200,000          2,400,000
Central Highlands and
Intermontane Plains                150,000         4,000,000
Eastern Slopes                       50,000          1,600,000
Total                               900,000         12,0002000
2.        Because of its key role in agriculture, livestock contributes signi-
ficantly to the resources of the rural population, which in 1973 produced 66%
of domestic income. In the fiscal year, 1972/73, livestock-related products,
principally hides and skins, accounted for 19% of total exports. With simple
improvements in flaying techniques, handling and grading, the value of hides
and skins could be considerably increased.
1/   Since no livestock census has been taken in YAR, National livestock herd
and flock numbers estimate is based on five potential sources, town
slaughter figures, sales of hides, vaccination figures, survey informa-
tion and tax collection records, which give widely divergent estimates.
Source Project Preparation Report, C. M. Chisholm & Associates.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        Cattle.  The indigenous cattle of the country are meclium-sized,
thoracic humped zebu with docile temperament and excellent working ability.
They are well adapted to cope with the high temperatures and humidities found
in the Tihama and mountain zones and the common practice of selecting a
superior bull annually for use with all cows in one or more villages maintains
this adaptability. Almost all cattle belong to settled farmers (nomadism is
restricted to a small number of bedouins in the east), although seasonal
movement to market or in search of additional grazing do occur. For the
small terraced holdings, cattle provide the only feasible traction of culti-
vation; the farmer is thus careful with his stock, and practicularly with
his work bulls and oxen.
4.        Cows are kept to provide milk, which is consumed on the farm or may
be made into cheese and sold at local markets. Age at first calving is as
old as three years; calving intervals are long and average millc production
estimated at less than two litres a day. Because of limitations in the feed
supply, mortality in young animals is high and those that surv:Lve are fre-
quently sold immature and in unfinished condition. These, together with
aged work bulls or oxen, comprise the majority of the herd offtake, which
is estimated at 9% of total numbers.
5.        The main source of feed is sorghum or millet crop residues low in
both protein and energy; they are hand-fed with lucerne of other green crops.
This is supplemented, where possible, with grazing of natural pastures,
browse species or standing crop residues. During droughts, trees such as
Ziziphus spina-christi (carrob) and Acacia spp. are pollared and the branches
fed to stock.
6.        Inadequate control of animal diseases is a severe conistraint on the
development of the livestock subsector. As recently as 1972, rinderpest
caused large losses of cattle, particularly in the Tihama. Foot and mouth
disease, straptothricosis and other skin diseases, malnutrition and repro-
ductive disease, ticks and tick-borne diseases and internal parasites are
widespread and cause large economic losses from lowered productivity as well
as from death. In 1972, under the terms of a bilateral aid agreement with UK
technical assistance (ODM), a small veterinary field team was established
to investigate animal disease in YAR, to operate a diagnostic service in
Sana'a, to conduct vaccination and curative treatment campaignis in most of
the important livestock production areas of the country.
7.        Sheep.  There is a wide regional variety of sheep breeds with
sharply differing physical and color characteristics. In the Tihama, a
major producing area, most sheep are of one type: small to medium in size,
hornless, with rudimentary ears and little wool. In the northeast, they
show similarities to the Saudi Arabian Naji and Awasssi and, in fact, con-
siderable movement of sheep takes place between the two countries. With
such a widely-based genetic pool, sheep constitute a highly va:Luable re-
source with the potential to show increases in productivity in response to
selective breeding programs.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        As in the case with cattle, most sheep are owned by settled farmers.
Often grazed in mixed flocks with goats, they utilize barren or rocky hill-
sides not accessible to cattle, or stubble fields of poor quality. Farmers
prefer to graze their animals on a communal or village basis, and few own
large flocks. Zakat records indicate that fewer than 15% of sheep and goats
are owned in flocks of more than 40.
9.        Mating is uncontrolled and takes place throughout the year.  Given
good seasonal conditions, ewes may lamb twice a year. Twining is common.
With nutritional and veterinary assistance, therefore, the potential repro-
ductive rate of the flock is high. Ewes' milk is manufactured into a fer-
mented and sweetened product for use with the chewing of qat; lamb growth
suffers accordingly. Average daily yield is less than 1/4 litre.
10.       Annual offtake is estimated at 35% of flock numbers less than 5% of
which is channelled through the abattoirs in the four main towns of Taiz,
Hodeida, Ibb and Sana'a. The balance is accounted for by village slaughter-
ings or slaughterings in homes during the religious festivals. Farmers do
not retain sheep to an old age; most slaughterings are of lambs or hoggets.
11.       Of the diseases of economic importance which affect sheep, pox is
the most widespread and severe. Foot and mouth disease, sheep scab (particu-
larly in the east), sheep mange and various other skin conditions caused by
mites, lice and keds abound. Liverfluke causes serious productivity losses
in poorly drained regions of the highlands; blood and intestinal parasites
are also common.
12.       Goats.  Usually grazed with sheep, but efficiently utilizing refuse
and rough forage on which sheep and cattle will not thrive, goats are the
most productive of all livestock. They, too, exhibit variety in color, con-
formation and hair characteristics. Production parameters are similar to
sheep although kidding rates are slightly higher. Diseases affect goats as
for sheep, with the addition of contagious pleuropneumonia, which is wide-
spread and causes serious losses.
13.       Camels and Donkeys.  Even though the road system of YAR has been
developed greatly in recent years, these species continue to be used for
transporting goods. Many parts of the country are inaccessible to motor
transport but can be reached by camel or donkey, which are also cheap to
purchase and maintain. In addition, they are used for drawing water from
wells, and in parts of the Tihama, they replace cattle for pulling culti-
vating implements. Cattle and sheep receive priority in feeding; camels
and particularly donkeys receive barely sufficient feed to maintain them-
selves and carry out their work. Camels are occasionally slaughtered for
consumption, but there is no recorded market for donkey meat. Little is
known of the incidence of diseases affecting camels and donkeys, but
Trypanosoma evansi and camel pox have been identified. Infections and ulcers
caused by ill-fitting saddles or harneses are common.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.       Poultry.  The local poultry are small, rarely exceeding 1 kilogram
liveweight, and of low productivity and potential. They are distributed
thr. aghout the country in flocks averaging less than 10 birds, although large
areas are periodically depopulated of poultry by Newcastle disease. Grain
feeding is rarely practiced; birds scavenge for food around the villages.
Poultry meat fetches a price comparable with other meats and farners normally
produce birds and eggs for cash rather than for home consumption. Traders
collect eggs in the rural areas for sale in the large towns, but delays in
transport lead to a large percentage of spoilages. Chickens are sold at local
markets, exhibiting a degree of price uniformity throughout the country.
15.       Livestock Marketing.  Farmers in the Yemen are mainly subsistence
grain farmers. Of the livestock they own, first in importance are plow oxen,
second are milk cows. Typically, a family will own two oxen and one milk cow.
In addition a farmer may own sheep or goats, which are often put with neigh-
bor's stock to graze commmon lands. He may also own a small flock of chickens.
Livestock represent work power, a source of family food, a reservoir of cash
capital, and the means to obtain needed items through barter or cash transac-
tions. The output from these animals consists of culled cattle, sheep and
goats as needed, sour milk and butterfat, a few eggs, and some chickens. The
farmer will market this livestock, dairy, and poultry output in of three ways:
(a) by barter for needed items which are locally produced;
(b) by lending to neighbors, who will reciprocate at a later
date; and
(c) by selling for cash.
In general, he will retain for his family's own consumption only sour milk,
and an occasional goat, sheep, or chicken-meat is often reserved for feast
days. Butterfat, eggs, and meat have to be sold to get needed cash. Such
transactions take place either in the village, or at a nearby local market.
16.       Livestock marketing in YAR is poorly developed.  Animals are sold
in primary markets and outlying villages often make up a small herd for sale
at the nearest market, sometimes two or three days' trek away. Cattle traders
are the main buyers although trade is done with butchers on their own account.
Road transport is used extensively to move animals to the larger urban markets.
The markets are administered by Government Qfficials and a tax is levied on
transactions at 2-1/2% of the sale price. No sales records are kept, nor are
receipts used. There are no weighing facilities, bargains are struck on the
basis of estimated weights and no premium is paid for quality. It is esti-
mated that in addition to the sales tax, other direct charges in droving and
herding costs amount to no more than an additional 2-1/2% of the sales price.
Livestock prices fluctuate with seasonal supply. Sales of livestock tend to
peak at certain times of the year, and are influenced by availability of cash
(especially after harvest receipts), state of the pastures--a function of
rainfall--timing of tax payments, market prices for livestock and crops and
important religious feasts.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       Constraints to Livestock Production.  The major constraints to in-
creasing levels of livestock productivity are summarized below:
(a) Lack of adequate animal disease control and prevention
services. Endemic diseases such as foot and mouth disease,
camel pox, sheep pox, and caprine pleuropneumonia are
widespread throughout YAR and are major causes of mortality,
reduced milk yields, and sub-optimal work performance. Simi-
larly, internal parasites such as the liver flukes, the sheep
nostril fly, and the sarcoptic sheep scale are major problems.
Severe outbreaks of Newcastle disease likewise have in the past
wiped out the poultry population in many areas of the country.
(b) Inadequate natural grazing for most of the year, and severe
overstocking of small communal grazing areas. UNDP officials
report significant regeneration and reappearance of indigenous
grasses in Southern Upland areas selected for range management
experimentation, competition for land for livestock as well as
crop activities makes sound management procedures difficult to
implement.
(c) Inadequate supplies of good quality fodder crops due to competi-
tion from grain and food crops and inadequate supplies of irri-
gation water.
(d) Lack of trained livestock extension personnel and services.
(e) Underdeveloped marketing facilities which do not provide the
farmer with sufficient price incentives to supply finished
animals.
(f) Lack of organized credit facilities and the problems faced
by the tenant farmer in providing adequate and acceptable
guarantees for a loan without the security of a long-term
lease on his land.
(g) Absence of improved and adapted breeds for specialized
dairy or wool production.
(h) Inadequate, irregular, and expensive supplies of fertilizers
and other farm inputs.
Prospects of Growth in Domestic Livestock Production
18.       Records and estimates compiled by the Ministry of Agriculture indi-
cate a decline in cattle, sheep and goat number during the five year drought
period which ended in 1975. Figures from the Ministry of Municipalities in-
dicate a decline in recorded cattle slaughtering and a fluctuating but mod-
erate increase in sheep and goat slaughtering over the same period. Data re-
trieval systems which would establish the major determinants of supply, i.e.
present herd and flock sizes, coefficients of production, price and income
elasticities of supply have only recently been introduced in YAR and no in-
formation on these factors is yet available. However, long term trends, under



ANNEX 2
Page 6
more normal rainfall conditions, traditional herds would increase in the
production of beef, mutton, goat and poultry meat, eggs and daLry products at
about 1% per annum (Table 4).
Consumption of Livestock Products
19.       The staple food group in the Yemeni diet is cereals with approxi-
mately 75 percent of average caloric and 72 percent of protein intake derived
from the consumption of cereal-based food items according to FAQ Food Balance
Sheets for Yemen, 1964-66 (see Table 1). The same source, based on production
and population data, reported per capita cereal consumption averaged 414.1 g
per day during the same period. In an independent 1972 village-level study,
Bornstein 1/ discovered daily direct per capita cereal consumption averaging
400 g.  The principal form in which cereals are consumed is wholegrain native
flat breads, with cereal-based porridges, gruels, and puddings also eaten.
Bread however is the principal basis of all meals and may represent the sole
food consmed at a meal.
20.       Although data concerning consumption patterns of livestock commodi-
ties remain limited, available information suggests that (1) consumption of
animal products per capita except for milk, is minimal, (2) such products are
expensive, and (3) livestock commodities are considered "normaL" goods with
relatively high income elasticities, (4) consumptive patterns vary interregion-
ally and change with urbanization. According to the rather dated FAQ Food
Balance Survey, (1964-66) consumption of animal products (inclusive of fish)
accounted for only 7 percent of average total per capita caloric intake and
17 percent of protein ingestation. These figures appear relatively low in
comparison with those for cereals given above.
21.       Regional Consumption Patterns.  Bornstein gives more recent depth
and insights into Yemeni consumption patterns, especially from interregional,
and urban vs. rural bases:
(a)  Mountainous areas.  Milk represents a small but reguLar seg-
ment of the diet in these regions, but is rarely consumed in
whole form. Milk is usually allowed to sour in a preparation
goard after which time the buttermilk is consumed directly or
utilized in traditional dishes, and the butterfat is commonly
marketed in response to high prices.  Although demand for
sheep's milk remains high, unlike in other areas of 'ZAR, that
for camel's milk remains high. The only common cheese in this
region is a white solid cheese prepared from goat's milk. Meat
is considered a luxury item eaten on the average once per
month, and often consumed only during religious celebrations.
All parts of the animal are utilized inclusive of alL internal
1/   A. Bornstein, Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ES14:MISC/74/14,
FAQ, Rome, 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
organs (except the lungs). Chickens are produced as an income-
generator and for family consumption on special occasions. Eggs
are enjoyed in food preparation but are usually sold for cash
or reserved for hatching purposes.
(b) The Tihama Zone. In the coastal areas of the Tihama, almost all
foods, except for fish, must be acquired from outside their com-
munities. Some villagers maintain small herds of sheep and
goats from which they acquire some internally generated milk
and meat supplies, however in the main, transactions are made
with semi-nomadic sheep and camel herdess for milk products.
Residents of the Tihama are averse to consuming beef, and be-
cause of high costs, reserve meat consumption for religious
holidays. In the more productive wadi areas of the Tihama,
production and subsequent consumption is relatively higher
than along the coast. The relatively lower per capita con-
sumption of livestock products in the Tihama is offset by
a major compensatory dietary factor--a higher intake of
fish from nearby sources.
(c) Urban Areas. Although some urban residents maintain link-
ages with rural sectors from which foodstuffs are funnelled,
or raise a kitchen garden or family cow partially to satisfy
family needs, the majority are wage-earners dependent pre-
dominantly on urban markets for consumption requirements.
Traditional food habits in such areas are undergoing modifi-
cation with (1) the relatively greater, non-seasonal avail-
ability of meats and other food items made possible through
more accessible supplies from internal sources with improved
transportation facilities and from supplementation of domes-
tic production with imported commodities; and (2) the intro-
duction of new foods such as wheat, rice, powdered milk, and
tinned foods from abroad. Data for urban-rural comparison of
consumptive patterns are particularly limited. Bornstein, in
a survey of lower-middle class immigrant families in Sana'a
and of residents of the village located in the highland
plateau near Yarim, attempted to examine possible differ-
ences (See Table 2). Although no quantitative information
was supplied, and reliance was made strictly on frequency re-
ports, the greatest point of diet variation was in the fre-
quency of meat consumption. Almost half of the Sana'a families
reported preparing meat every day while only 5% of respondents
in Arb did the same. Egg consumption appeared low in both the
urban and rural survey locations. Fruit consumption was con-
sidered abnormally high because of the seasonal availability
of grape supplies.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
22.       Population Growth.  The most important factor affecting future de-
mand for livestock products in Yemen will be population growth. According to
the 1975 nationwide census, the resident population totalled 5.2 million of
which only 0.35 million, or 6.7%, were located in governorate capitals. The
most densely populated areas are in the rainfed highlands, particularly the
Ibb/Taiz region where densities are probably twice the national average of
about 30 persons per square km. In desert and semi-arid areas of the Eastern
Zone and in the Tihama, the population remains relatively sparse. At the
time of population enumeration, an estimated 1.2 million persons were living
outside the country most of whom were males of working age holding employment
in nearby Gulf States, particularly Saudi Arabia.
23.       The population growth rate in Yemen presently estimated at 2.4% per
annum would be expected to begin to rise given the establishment of mortality-
depressing social amenities. For consumption project purposes, it has been
assumed that the population will continue to grow at 2.4%, 1976-1978; there-
after the rate is estimated to increase to 3.0% by 1990. It is likewise as-
sumed that the population in the major urban centers of Sana'a, Taiz, and
Hodeidah totalling 293,544 according to the preliminary results of the popu-
lation census, will continue to grow at 7% through 1978 and thereafter will
increase at a higher rate to either percent by 1990. The increase reflects
projected initial concentration and efficient application of social amenities
in urban areas as well as a continued rural-urban migration. On the other
hand, smaller towns and rural areas are expected to grow at 2% until 1978
after which the rate would rise to 2.45% by 1990. The slower growth in the
latter rate suggests the existence of a migratory dampening factor as well
as a slower establishment of social infrastructure potentially resulting in
continuation of high mortality rates. Population in the three urban centers
composed approximately 6% of the total resident population in 1975 and with
the higher rate of growth assumed to continue and even to rise, would repre-
sent 12% of the projected total of 7.75 million by 1990.
24.       Income Effect.  No study of the income elasticity of demand for any
commodity has been published in YAR. Available figures which might allow an
estimate of elasticity are either too incomplete or cover too short a time
period to be useful. For instance, although real prices of meat, fish and
eggs fell in Sana'a during 1973 and 1974 1/, consumption of meat also appears
to have fallen. FAO 2/ estimates in similar countries indicate income quan-
tity elasticities of demand for meat and fish ranging approximately between
0.4 and 1.0, and for eggs and milk ranging between 0.3 and 1.6. In most cases,
food elasticities are lower in the urban sector for basic local food crops and
higher for improved or processed foods. An uniform figure of 1.0 has been em-
ployed below for consumption projection purposes.
1/   CPO unpublished statistics.
2/   FAO, Income  Elasticities of Demand for Agricultural Products, Rome,
1972.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Imports and Export of Fish and Livestock Products
25.       The value of animal products 1/ in current terms has ,over the last
several years represented only a minor portion of total imports into Yemen.
However, while total imports almost tripled in nominal terms over the 1969-
1973 period from 149.035 to 563.891 million YRls, imports of animal products
displayed even higher growth from 0.516 million YRls in 1969 to 14.678 million
displayed even higher growth from 0.516 million YRls in 1969 to 14.678 million
YRls in 1973. Correspondingly, animals, livestock products and fish as a per-
centage of the value of imports total grew from 0.35% in 1969 to 2.60% in 1973
(see Tables 3 and 4). In tonnage terms, imported fish and livestock products
have made up a small part of current supplies. Beef, fish, poultry meat, eggs,
and dairy product imports, as percentages of these current supplies represented
only 1.27, 2.29, 0.47, 0.02, and 2.02% respectively. No mutton and goat meat
is currently being imported into YAR indicating present sufficiency of domestic
supplies in terms of market demand, though not of nutritional needs. In abso-
lute quantities, processed dairy products dominated the livestock commodity
import category with 2,828 tons in 1973, while edible fish--an import as well
as an export items--was second in volume with 137 tons.
26.       Hides and skins are a major source of export income and rank only be-
hind cotton and coffee in income generation; in 1970 earnings in current prices
from hides and skins export totalled 1.2 million YRls, a sum increasing to 5.5
million YRls by 1973 but declining to 3.9 million YRls in 1974 (current prices).
In percentage terms, the commodities represented 7.58 and 15.2%, and 6.4% of
total merchandise export value in 1970, 1973, and 1974 respectively. Although
tonnage of hides and skins exported has stabilized recently at approximately
1,800 tons per year, it is felt that volume and value could be boosted in the
future by the introduction of improved flaying and handling techniques, as part
of a simple hides and skins improvement scheme.
Present and Future Supply (Demand) of Livestock Products
27.       It is assumed that present available supply (production in Yemen plus
net imports) is in balance with market demand. By using available export and
import data (1973), estimated production for the various commodities, as well as
consumption estimates in part derived from CPO urban survey information, the
following table was constructed for 1973 (in tons):
1/   Boneless meat, edible fish, whole eggs and dairy products.  Calculated
from figures published in Central Bank of Yemen, Foreign Trade Statistics,
1972 and 1973.  See para. 30.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Available Supply (Demand)
Domestic /1                                Large /2  Small /3
Item                Production  Imports  Exports       Total    Town    Town/Rural
Beef                   9,300        120        0       9,420   4,890         4,430
Mutton &
goat meat           24,200          0        0      24,200   1,444        22,756
Fish /4                6,300        137      444       5,993      636        5,357
Poultry                7,200         34        0        7,234     105        7,129
Eggs                   5,500          1        0       5,501      813        4,688
Dairy prod-
ucts /5            137,400      2,838        0     140,238   3,992       136,246
/L   Production estimates obtained from survey data, slaughter estimates, dis-
cussions with farmers, and zakat records.
/2   Consumption figures for Sana'a (pop. 100,000) were estimated by the CPO
in 1973. Hodeidah and Taiz have an estimated combined population of
200,000 and consumption patterns are assumed to be similar to Sana a's.
The beef, mutton and goat meat figures however have been adjusted with
regard to recorded slaughters in the three towns.
/3   By difference between total and large town demand.
/4   By means of new investment enabling exploitation of the increased marine
resources recently identified by UNDP, total fish productlon is expected
to increase to 28,500 tons landed weight (or perhaps much higher) within
a 5 to 10 year period. Assuming at worst that this is achieved within
15 years, an annual compound rate of increase of 6.2% is implied.
/5   Domestic production is in terms of whole milk; imports comprise manufac-
tured products.
28.       In Table 5 projections of domestic production, demancl and resultant
surpluses (deficits) to 1990 have been made in conformity with assumptions
stated therein. The magnitude of the projected deficits clearly displays the
degree of inability of domestic production under traditional patterns to satisfy
future demand for meat and other livestock products of a population considered
on the verge of now rapid growth and increasing urbanization, as well as display-
ing strong preference for such goods. Potential excess demand quantities are
projected to represent an increasing percentage of quantities clemanded (see
Table 3). In 1990, for example, amounts demanded over domestic production will
represent 74% for beef, 60% for mutton and goat meat, 16% for edible fish, 58%
for poultry meat, 64% for eggs, and 60% for dairy products. Provided that for-
eign exchange is available, some of these deficits could be erased by increased
imports of food products. However, foreign exchange for such product acquisi-
tion from foreign suppliers could quite likely prove in short supply given
projected huge excess demand for cereals, the staple food, in years to come
(see IBRD, An Appraisal of a Grain Storage and Processing Project, Yemen Arab
Republic).



ANNEX 2
Page 11
29.       Considerable pressure could likely be placed on livestock product
prices by the existence of such inadequacy in local production possibly re-
sulting in some substitution of fish, vegetables, and fruit for potentially
increasingly costly livestock items. However, further research into the
magnitude of price elasticities and cross-price elasticities of supply and
demand for various food commodities would be required for further assessment.
It does appear clear, however, that such deficits expected in the future would
not only suggest potentially profitable enterprises for progressive farmers em-
ploying improved livestock technology in diversified operations, but also pro-
vide technical and social justification for specialized projects capturing econ-
omies of scale aimed at increasing livestock production.
30.       A small number of cattle and camels are recorded as exports to Saudi
Arabia annually. The only significant export intended for human consumption,
however, is fish. Fish exports totalled 2,687 tons in 1972 and fell to 444
tons in 1973. The fall in exports is partly accounted for by the scaling down
of operations of the United Fisheries Company of Kuwait which ceased operation
in Yemen altogether in July 1974.



Annex 2
Table 1
Appraisal of a Livestock Credit and Processing Project
Yemen Arab Republic
Supplies of certain foods available for consumption, their calorie
and protein, content, and percentage contribution to tctal celories
and proteins:Yemen Arab Republic
Year 1964-1966 average;per capitaiconsumption 5FAO Food Balance Sheetq 1964-66)
Food Group             Grams per  Calories per  Percent of    Proteins  Percent of
_________        day           day        calories from per day   proteins from
Cereals                  414.1       1419            75%           !,J1.2      72%
Vegetables and fruits   78.8          103             5%             1.2         2%
Roots, pulses and
seeds                  49.0         87             5%            5.0         9%
Sugar products            15.3         60             -%             - 
Animal products          170.7        155             7%           10.1        17%
Fats and oils             11.3         85             5%             -          -
Total                               1909            100%           .57.8      100%
Source: A. Bornstein, Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ESN: MISCC./i4/4,
FAO, Rome, 1974, p. 22.



APPRAISAL OF
-:VESTOC& CwREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
F'reuency of consumption of certain food items among immigrant households
i   dTa, an        T~fad among rural families ln a Highland vTilage 17 7T
(Tow survey conducted in October 1971 - Vf2lage  urvey in September 1971)
FOOD ITEM - FREQUENCY OF CONSUMPTION IN PERCENT
Frequency                    Fish (fresh)                 Fresh.    .                    Fresh
Consumption      Meat        and tinned)    Eggs         veg  bles        Beans         fr it
Sanra?  Arb   Sana.a, Arb*  Samna Ar Arb                         Sbanara Arb
Every day           45       5     0              2      0     85      2      15    11         33    -
4/6 times/week      20       7     2             13      4     15    48        13    41        28   12
1/3 times/week    .28       47     8             18      3     -      40       43    34        30   20
less than once       5      26    10             43      5     -      10       10    14         5   28
a week
less than once       2      13    18             16    47      -      -         2     -         2   22
a month
never                0       2    62              8    41      -      -        17     -         2   22
Total              10oo    TOJW                      -6  -7- looJo   5ioq - 1005%o 1O0,o     l3 3f 100% 100
*Not available
Total number        40     65    40                 - 5T    40            65  -iT-- -6-5--     40   65
of families
Source: A. Bornstein, Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ESN: MISC/74/14, FAO, Rome, 1974, p. 28.
&13
(DX



APpRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
T*ports end Exports, 1969 to 1973
(million YBhls
- ----------------------------- TImports ----------------_--           -        --------------------------- Exports -------------------------
1969          1970           1971           1972           1973                1969           1970            1971           1972           1973
Live animals and meat products       .093          .017           .073           .475           .768                  -               -            .002           .733           .692
Dairy products and eggs              .300         1.740          1.548          5.441          9.963                  -             .003           .024           .013           .032
Fish                                .123           .458           .530           .917          3.947                .oo6         - .123            .023           .229           .54o
Other Foods                       55.6i3         92.885         67.757        170.219        256.724               1.773          8.548           4.900          5.623          8.410
Leather/hides and.skins              .015          .020           .046           .138           .499               4.017          1.195           2.039          3.262          5.472
Other                             92.891         72.292        1o4.445        198.014        291.990               5.161          5.890         14.583          10.213         20.862
Total                            149.035         6                            375.204        563891               10.957         15.759         21.571          20.073         36.008
Source: Adapted from CPO Statistical Yearbook, 1973.
H 0



ANNEX 2
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Composition of Recorded Exports
(In millions of current YRls)
1969      1970       1971       1972      1973       1974
Coffee              7.8       8.1        4.6        5.3        6.0       5.9
Qat                 2.1       4.3        2.8        1.0        0.7        --
Cotton              0.4         --       8.0        7.2       17.8      36.8
Hides and Skins    4.0         1.2       2.0        3.3        5.5        3.9
Rock Salt           1.4        1.5       2.4        0.6        --        --
Others              2.3        0.7       1.8        2.7        6.0      14.2
Total        18.0       15.8       21.6       20.1      36.0       60.8
Source: Central Bank of Yemen



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Supply and Demand Projecti6ns for Animal Products, 1975-1990
(in tons)
-175 ---9-- -------                    --
Domestic      Supply       Domestic        Demand         Surplus     Domestic            Surplus   Domestic               Surplus
Production   (Demand)    Production         Demand        (Deficit)   Production  Demand  (Deficit) Production   D emnd   (Deficit)
Beef                            9,300        9,420         9,800          14,450        (4,650)     10,300      23,900   (13,600)  io,800       40,800   (30,000)
Mutton and Goat Meat           24,200       24,200        25,400          32,800        (7,400)     26,700      47,600   (20,900)   28,100      70,000   (41,900)
Fish                            6,300        5,993         8,500           8,300           200      11,500      12,200    (700)     15,500      18,400    e2,900)
Poultry                         7,200        7,234         7,600           9,750        (2,350)      8,ooo      13,950   (5,950)     8,500      20,150   (11,650)
Eggs                            5,500        5,501         5,800           7,700         (1,900)     6,050      11,500   (5,450)     6,350      17,600   (11,250)
Dairy Products                137,400      140,238       144,400         190,000        (45,600)    151,800    273,050  (121,250)  159,600     397,150  (237,550)
Current supply and demand are assumed to be in equilibrium.  Per capita consumption figures for Sana'a were estimated by the CPO in 1973.
The populations of Taiz and Hodeidah were assumed to have consumption patterns similar to that of Sana'a. Beef, mutton, and goat meat
estimates however have been adjusted in conformity with recorded slaughters in the three cities.
/ Production estimates obtained from survey data, slaughter estimates, zakat records, and discussions with farmers. Production of
livestock products assumed to increase at an annual rate of 1 percent. Production of fish assumed to increase at an annual
rate of 6.2 percent.
P/ February 1975, Resident Population: 5,237,893
Source: YAR Housing Population Census, February 1975
Assumptions: 1976-78 Population growth rate 2.4%, thereafter rate increases linearly to 3.0% in 1990.
Urban (Sana'a, Taiz, Hodeidah) Population: 321,049 (February, 1975)
Small Town/Rural Population:  4,916,844 (February, 1975)
Assumptions: Urban Population: 1976-78 population growth rate 7 percent , thereafter rate increases linearly to 8 percent in 1990.
Small Town/Rural Population: 1976-78 population growth rate 2 percent, thereafter rate increases linearly to 2.45 percent in 1990.
Income elasticity of demand utilized: 1.00 percent (for all goods)
Assumptions: GDP Growth: 1976-1980, total agricultural growth 3.0%, industry and trade 6%; 1981-1990, total agricultural growth 3.0%, industry and trade
8% result: real GDP growth: 1976-80, 4.0%; 1981-1990, 5.0%.
2/ Assumptions:  Current (1975) cattle population:  900,000; annual offtake:  9 percent; average liveweight:  275 kg; red meat, red offals, and viscera:
42 percent of liveweight
2/ Assumptions:  Current (1975) sheep and goat flock 12 million; annual offtake:  35 percent; average liveweight: 16 kg; red meat, red offals, and viscera:
36 percent of liveweight
/ Assumptions:  Current (1975) catch:  11,500 tons landed weight (Source: UNDP Fisheries Project, Hodeidah); edible meat:  55 percent of landed weight
7/ Assumptions:  Current (1975) national flock: 3.3 million birds of which 90 percent hens and 10 percent cocks; each hen raises 6 chickens averaging 0.4 kg
of meat per year net of replacements.
p/ Assamptions: Village hen lays 50 eggs per year averaging 1.3 oz without shell
2/ Assumptions:  Cows: 30 percent of the national herd are lantating cows averaging one litre per day for human consumption; lactation:  120 days
Sheep and Goats:  50 percent of flock are lactating females averaging 0.25 litres per day for human consumption; lactation:  70 days.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural and Agroindustrial Credit
Banking System
Background
1.        The practice of modern banking in YAR dates back to 1962 when the
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) was established by Gov-
ernment with a majority state shareholding. Besides performing commercial
banking functions, it implemented Government monetary and development poli-
cies until the formation of the Central Bank of Yemen (CB) in 1971. Five com-
mercial banks, four foreign and YBRD, now operate in Yemen. The foreign banks
are the Habib Bank, the British Bank of the Middle East, the United Bank and
the Arab Bank. There are no specialized institutions for financing of agri-
cultural and industrial sectors.
2.        The Banking Law of 1972, administered by CB, regulates all banking
operations in YAR. It provides for licensing and supervision of banks, stipu-
lates capital, reserve and liquidity requirements, and prescribes accounting
and auditing procedures.
The Central Bank of Yemen
3.        The CB was established in September 1971 with an authorized capital
of YR 10 million. IMF experts assisted the Government in its establishment
and helped in organizing its various departments. CB's main functions include
regulation of banking and credit in the country and acting as banker to the
Government. Credit supply by banks is regulated through two major instruments,
namely statutory reserve requirements and rediscounting of credit papers. The
reserve requirement is seasonally adjusted in line with demand for credit and
is generally reduced during the cotton financing season to allow larger flow
of credit. The CB also rediscounts commercial papers with a maturity not ex-
ceeding six months from the date of discount and is also authorized to redis-
count agricultural and industrial credit instruments with a maturity of not
more than 9 months. In addition to the above facilities, CB provides loans
to the Cotton General Company (public sector organization), under a consortium
arrangement with commercial banks, for production and marketing of cotton.
Table 1 gives its balance sheets for the years 1971 to 1975.
4.        CB's management is vested in a Board of Directors consisting of a
Governor who is the Board's Chairman, a Deputy-Governor, a representative each
from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, and three other di-
rectors nominated by the Minister of Finance. Both the Governor and the
Deputy-Governor are appointed by the President of the Republic for an initial



ANNEX 3
Page 2
period of four years and are eligible for reappointment. The Governor is
the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for implementation of the
policies determined by the Board. The CB has six departments including a Bank-
ing Control Department recently established to regulate and supervise the op-
eration of banks. Its Head Office is in Sana'a and it has two branch offices,
at Hodeidah and Taiz.
5.        CB periodically fixes interest rates on deposits and loans for guid-
ance of banks. The current minimum rates fixed are 5% on savings and 6%-9% on
fixed deposits for 3 to 12 montrhs. The minimum lending rates are 12% on com-
mercial loans and 14% on personal loans.
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
6.        YBRD is the largest commercial bank in YAR.  Its share capital is
YRls 10 million of which 51% is held by the Government and the rest by the
public. Nearly half of its resources are derived from deposits which amounted
to YRls 156 million at the end of 1974. YBRD extends short-term loans and ad-
vances mainly for internal and foreign trade and for industrial activities to
private and public sector enterprises. It grants substantial credit facilities
to the Cotton General Company every year for procurement and export of cotton
and also provides assistance for import of farm machinery, fertilizers and other
agricultural inputs. A few loans are also granted to farmers for purchase of
farming equipmnt and for development of groundwater. Its loans and advances in-
creased from YRls 52 million in 1969 to YRls 212 million in 1974. In fulfillment
of its developmental role, YBRD has contributed YRls 16 million to the share
capital of eleven public sector companies and is also involved in their
management.
7.        The Bank is managed by a Board of eleven directors, six of whom in-
cluding the Chairman, are Government representatives. The remnaining directors
are elected by the private shareholders. The Bank's Head Office and principal
business office are in Sana'a and it has eleven branches and agencies through-
out the country.
8.        YBRD was selected in 1973 as the credit channel for the Industrial
Estate Project (Credit 465-YAR).
Foreign Banks
9.        The four foreign banks handle about 30% of YAR's banking business.
They finance the the commercial sector, mainly foreign trade, and are per-
mitted to accept deposits from the public. They have six branches in three
major towns - Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Agricultural Credit
Background
10.       Institutional credit to agriculture in YAR is practically limited to
the cotton crop at present. Farmers principally depend on their own resources,
remittances from relatives from abroad (mainly Saudi Arabia) and other non-
institutional sources such as friends and traders, for investment in agriculture.
11.       Prior to the establishment of Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), two
attempts were made to establish a national institutional credit source for the
agricultural sector. A proposal was mooted in 1969 to set up an agricultural
credit department within YBRD for providing production loans to farmers, but
it did not materialize due to lack of resources and trained manpower. In 1971
the National Parliament enacted a law creating an Agricultural Bank. This bank
could not be established due to more or less similar reasons. Parliament in
1975 passed a new law establishing a wholly state-owned Agricultural Credit
Bank (ACB) under the Ministry of Agriculture which began operations on July 1,
1976 with a paid in capitalization of YRls 20 million, and of an authorized
capital of YRls 100 million to be subscribed by 1980. Government is con-
sidering merging the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) with ACB and has requested
IDA to assist in this effort.
The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF)
12.       It was decided under the Tihama Development Project (TDP) to estab-
lish an Agricultural Credit Fund within the CB to finance the project benefi-
ciaries. The ACF has since been selected also as the financing channel for
the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDEP) 1/. Under both the
projects, short, medium and long-term, loans would be provided to farmers for
purchase of agricultural inputs and for capital investments.
13.       According to organizational arrangements worked out for ACF under
TDP, it will be headed by a Manager (expatriate) who will recommend to the CB's
Board of Directors, policies to be followed by the ACF and, after their approval,
would be responsible for their implementation. He would also formulate detailed
procedures for ACF's operations and would undertake training and supervision of
local staff, both at headquarters and at the field offices. The Manager was
appointed February 1975. The TDP area would be served by two offices, one at
Wadi Zabid and the other at Wadi Mawr. For the SURDEP area, there would be
two more offices at Taiz and Ibb. The offices in each project area would be
under the charge of an expatriate Field Manager who would be responsible to
the Manager.
1/   Credit 545-YAR.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
14.       The first field office at Wadi Zabid was opened in April 1975 and
lending operations have since started. Table 2 of this Annex shows ACF's finan-
cial position as of October 31, 1975. Size and scope of 1975 credit activities
(through October) are still modest, but the growth trend is encouraging (see
Table 3). Short-term loans mainly for purchase of oil for irrigation pumps and
fertilizers, and medium-term loans for on-farm development and farm machinery
aggregating YRls 410,000 have been disbursed so far. Good progress has been
made in establishing the operational procedures and systems. T'he expatriate
Credit Officer assigned to the Wadi Zabid Field Office has trained two Yemeni
loan officers in loan appraisal and other operational duties. However, ACF
still faces problems of recruiting Yemeni counterparts and proper support of
the CB. The expatriate Manager in Sana'a is still without a qualified counter-
part and the CB's lack of interest is reflected in the assignment of inade-
quately qualified and poorly motivated counterparts to head office positions.
ACF also needs additional transport facilities (e.g. motorcycles) for loan in-
quiries as well as for periodic supervision and collection of loans. Under
the project, ACF's resources would increase substantially, which would de-
crease ACF's dependence on the CB. It would also be staffed and receive addi-
tional technical assistance for carrying out properly its responsibilities
under the project (see para 18 below).
Security
15.       According to ACF's present lending procedures, short-term loans up
to YRls 5,000 are provided against guarantee of two persons. Short-term loans
in excess of the above amount and all medium and long-term loans would require
land security. The loans to LDC as a Government enterprise would be secured
by a Government guarantee. Loans to landowners would require land and/or
other property security. Land would be acceptable as security up to 80% and
other property up to 60% of the current market value. Loans to butchers for
tools and equipment would be made only to those properly licensed to operate
in a municipality retail market and would be secured by a joint guarantee of
two creditworthy persons. Loans to tenant farmers would be secured by one
of the following alternatives (a) for short-term loans of up to YRls 5,000
a joint guarantee of two creditworthy persons or a guarantee by the land-
owner, (b) for longer term loans, the landowners guarantee or land security
or a joint and several guarantee by a group of tenants or livestock security
which would involve some form of permanent animal identification such as
branding, earmarking or ear tagging with the number or mark registered with
ACF. Since this is not a common practice, extension agents would need to
fully explain the purpose of such identification and the legal implications
of having their livestock used as security for loans.
Supervision and Recovery of Loans
16.       Loans would be supervised by ACF staff who would periodically visit
LDC and VDA installations. Financial statements would be obtained annually
from the above subborrowers. Loans for traditional sector would be super-
vised by ACF Branch office extension officers equipped with motorcycles and
depending on farm size and location would service about 40 loans. Emphasis
would be on field work with each beneficiary visited at least once every 30
days during the first year of development. Extension officers would be



ANNEX 3
Page 5
assist in on-farm loans supervision and collection of debt service. He would
adopt a cooperative and planning approach rather than a coercive approach to
loan recovery. As part of the whole enterprise approach to farm extension he
would have a knowledge of finance and be in a position to assist subborrowers
to plan financial management.
ACF Organization and Staffing
17.       The Organizational expansion and additional staffing of ACF dis-
cussed here is based on the requirements of this and the proposed Grain Storage
Project. The two projects would operate largely in the Sana'a, Hodeidah and
Taiz areas. ACF's field office at Taiz proposed under the Southern Uplands
Project would become operational by the time the project would mature for im-
plementation. An expansion of the Taiz field office and two additional field
offices, one at Sana'a and the other at Hodeidah, would be necessary to service
the two projects. ACF's organization chart showing the required additions is
provided in Annex 3, Chart 1.
ACF Staffing
18.       ACF is not, at present, able to undertake financing of agroindustrial
and livestock activities. A major institution building effort is required to
prepare ACF's Head Office, as well as the field offices, for the increased
volume and variety of lending operations. Table 1 of this Annex shows in detail
the staffing and additional offices and equipment that would be required under
these two projects. In summary the project would provide for:
(a) Head Office, Sana'a. The extension of ACF's General Manager
for three additional years after the termination of his term
under the Tihama Development Project. One industrial credit
officer and one livestock credit officer would establish
lending procedures for, and supervise, the agroindustrial and
livestock loans. One accountant/financial controller would
set up ACF's accounting and financial control system. A farm
management extension officer would supervise the farm credit
extension operations. All four additional staff would be
expatriates and work under the overall supervision and
guidance of ACF's Manager. Apart from their operational
responsibilities, the expatriates' main function would be
the selection and training of local counterparts. Each ex-
patriate would have a Yemeni counterpart. In addition, the
ACF head office would be staffed with a legal adviser.  The
Yemeni staff would undertake operational and management re-
sponsibilities during the project's implementation.
(b)  Branch Office, Sana'a.  To handle the increased lending opera-
tions in the Sana'a area, a local branch office would be es-
tablished in Sana'a. It would be staffed by a branch manager,



ANNEX 3
Page 6
an agricultural credit officer and an industrial credit officer
as well as five extension officers.  All staff would be locally
recruited: it would work under the guidance and supervision
of ACF's head office manager and staff.
(c) Field Office, Hodeidah. A field office would be established
in Hodeidah. It would be staffed with a senior credit officer
and an extension officer, both locally recruited, and it would
operate under the supervision of the (already appointed) Wadi
Zabid Field Manager.
(d) Expansion Taiz/Ibb Office. ACF's field office at Taiz and
Ibb would receive one additional credit officer and three
extension officers, all Yemeni staff.
ACF's additional staff requirements would thus be four expatriate experts,
and eight Yemeni credit officers, one Yemeni legal advisor and. ten livestock
extension officers. The head office, branch and field offices would be
provided with the necessary general supporting staff, equipment, vehicles
and other facilities. (For details see Table 4 of this Annex).
Training
19.       Apart from on-the-job training to be conducted largely by the ex-
patriate experts, the projects would provide for six two-year graduate courses
on banking and financing, with emphasis on agricultural and agroindustrial
financing. They would also provide for five six-month courses with practical
training at agricultural credit institutions, preferably in Arabic speaking
countries. The Government has been asked to initiate the recruitment process
for training candidates and ACF staffing. It would prepare a list of suit-
able candidates for the actual training to be started as soon as possible.
Resources of ACF
20.       The originally decided funding of ACF for medium- and long-term
credits under the Tihama Development Project was to consist of: (a) US$0.665
million lent to ACF by Government; and (b) US$2 million from the proceeds of
the IDA credit. The funds for short-term production credit were to be ob-
tained by ACF from Government by special agreement, from loans and rediscount
facilities, and other sources. The Government loan under (a) was to be made
at an interest rate of 4% per annum for 15 years, including five years of grace;
the same conditions were to be applied for the on-lent proceeds of the IDA
credit. However, it was agreed that if ACF should become an independent
agricultural credit institution, the Government loan would be transformed
into equity.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
21.       The initial resources as described in para 28 above were comple-
mented under the SURDEP by (a) US$1,500,000 (YRls 6,750,000) from the proceeds
of the IDA/other sources credit for financing of short-term agricultural in-
put loans and by (b) US$1,100,000 (YRls 4,950,000) from the proceeds of the
same credit for financing of medium- and long-term loans. The former amount
will be a governmental grant in case ACF becomes an independent institution.
The latter amount will be passed on by Government to ACF as a loan at an
interest of 1% per annum for a term of 15 years including five years of grace.
A 3% interest rate differential will be credited by ACF to a special reserve
fund account to cover losses of ACF arising from drought conditions which may
reasonably be expected to depress borrowers' repayment capacities over the
life of the project.
22.       The resources required for financing ACF's loans proposed under the
Livestock Credit and Processing Project would amount to YRls 18.6 million for
the LDC investments, YRls 0.8 million for village pasture development and
YRls 19.2 million for supervised credit to traditional sector. The Government
would make these funds available as a loan to ACF at an interest rate of 4.0%
per annum. In addition, medium-term credit for financing interest during im-
plementation and seasonal credit would amount to YRls 2.0 million. ACF would
repay the medium-term loan to Government not later than project year six. The
projected cash flow for ACF operations under the Livestock Credit and Process-
ing Project including the inflow and outflow of project funds for which ACF
has only administrative responsibility is provided in Annex 12 Table 1.
Accounts and Audit
23.       ACF accounting has been handled by CB's accounting department, with
accounts kept separately from CB's own accounts. As ACF's operations would
increase substantially under this and the proposed Grain Storage and Process-
ing Project, it would be necessary for ACF to build up and handle its own
accounts. An accounting and financial control expert would be appointed not
later than mid-1977 for a period of four years to assist ACF in establishing
and operating a modern accounting and financial control system. Until ACF's
accounting system becomes operational CB's accounting department would con-
tinue to handle ACF's accounts. Under the project, ACF accounts would also be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audit reports and finan-
cial statements would be submitted to IDA not later than four months after the
close of each fiscal year. LDC and MSMD would keep records consistent with
sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect its operations and finan-
cial conditions. PU, AHD, LRID would also establish and maintain accounts for
project expenditures.



TabJo I
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOaK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB RXEPUBLIC
Central Bank of Yemen
Cooparative Balance Sheets as At June 30
Year
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
-------------Y. 1s million--------------
Assets
Foreign Assets
Gold, Silver, foreign notes        2.9      1.4     0.3      0.6       1.1
SDR                                5X4    11.6    11.6    11.6        11.i6
Convertible currencies            20.3   129.8   164.8   219.4       653.o
Foreign securities                 -        -     104.7   155.5      156.6
Other foreign exchange            6       361.6    2?22   2B6,2      252.8
Subtotal                      3 5        .6O.1
Cash
Cash in Hand                         1.8    17.9    14.3   28.0          -
Advances and Loans
Treasury Bill                    135.0   135.0   138;7   143.2       136.3
Claims on public enterprises       -       0.4      2.1     8.6       21.9
Claims on commercial banks         9.4    14.0    13.2    13.6        55.5
Other                              0                7.4    11.4       27.6
Subtotal                   144.7                 t       =,. 16J1.    I 2 Ilt 
Fixed Assets (after depreciation)   0.8       1.4     1.6      1.2        L
Total                                 676.3   780.9   89        1.32b.0
Liabilities
Currency Issued                    238.1   321.7   429.0  t749.0       804.0
Current Liabilities
Government                 .      11.2    44.8    12.7    59.h       252.3
Commercial banks                   -        3.9    14.3    14.7        9.1
Other                              0.2      6.5     7       15.0      64.5
Subtotal                        7.2    34.3   9.32$.
Foreign Liabilities                  -        7.8    58.8    11.8        1.1
Equity                               -.0    2U7    3Q _-G               2
Profit Allocated to Government        1.3                     1 216-1
Allocation of SDRs                           A:11.6    11.6 T0          11.6
Exchange, Revaluation Account       280.7   256.    215.2   t77.7      171.7
Total                           2.8                     879..0
Source: Central Bank of Yemen



ANNEX 3
Table 2
APPRIATSALL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural Credit Fund
Financial Position as of October 31, 1975
Amount                                   Amount
IS '000                                  YRis o000
Liabilities                              Assets
Government Loan             1,041        Cash in banks                1,650
Kuwait Fund Loan              872        Loans to farmers               410
Government Contribution                  Administrative and Capital
(budget)                    250          Expenses                     119
Interest and Service
Charges                      16
Total:                 2,179             Total:                 2,179
Source: Agricultural Credit Fund



AlNNTEX 3
ILPPlRATOATISL OF                        Table 3
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN A1?AB REPUBLIC
Ar,ricultural Credit Fund
Loan In2rovals and Disbursements L
May - October 1975
lonth          Number of   Total                  Purpose
Borrowers   Amount M4'achinerv   On-Farm W3v.   Seasonal
----------------- YRls---_-_-_-_-_-__
May, 1975          6       120,050    72,000       32,000          16,050
June, 1975        34       151,65o        -        21,000        130,650
July, 1975        16       76,640         -        15j600         6i,o14o
August, 1975       2         8,000        -            -           8,ooo
September, 1975   4        20,000        -          5,000         15,000
October, 1975    36        136,095          _-                   136,095
Total       2_8              5   7200         73600         366,835
.osan Djsburserments
MlonLh              Total                         Purpose
rdsbursed         Machinery   On-Farm IDev.   Seasonal
-                          Y______- --    Rs-
May, 1975          16,550                 -         8),00          8,550
June, 1975        126,105             148,000      13,250         614,855
July, 1975         53,1495               -         24,850         28,645
August, 1975       86,565                 -        18,500         68,065
September, 1975   31,2140                 -         4,250         26,990
October, 1975      96,425                -                        92,925
'Total      410,380              48,000       7200350       290,030
L   All under the Tihama Development Project.



APPRAISAL F
LIVEST rK 0RED0T AAMI! PR-7FSSIN  PPF.7Q"
YEMEN ARAB REPU5BLIC
A,ri-utotarl Credit Fond
Project Related C- t?
YEAT
1                            2             ------ ---_ _  
ljnit      F reign                    Foreign                    Foreign                    Foreign                    Freign                     F r,gn       t                    F -reig                F reid
andin:        ULsia       Cost       Elcohan-ge     T  t        Eaa..e         Tol         Keha             tai       Eanhan         Total       E-haga         Total    Ex     a    heDe Total   LEchang             e Tonal  Lac_hEch t
A.  In-eeteent
Head Office - St
Vehicles - h whehl drive             Projcct        anit         44           40            44          40            44            --            --         --             --            --            --          --           --        8            8C         RP        90
Service Cr                Projest        sait        23            11            46          --            --            --            --         --             --            --            --          --           --        5           41         14         9C
Furnittre and Office Eqoipeent    Prajeot            act         30           27            30          --            --             --           --          --            --            --            --          --           --        3            27         09 g0
Brnanh Office - Sloo-
Yehi,les- 4  he e    driv6            ProJect       anit         h4          4h             44          --            --             --           --          --            __            --            --          _-           --        4            4h        4i        93
-tioo-oie                 Frol)ject      anIt          3           -             --          i6            iS1                          -         -               -            --                         --                    2           16          ia        90
Foraittre  _rd Office Eqs1Ip-t        ProJect        aet         24           22            24          -6 -                                                                                                                               2 --                    24 qo
Field Office - Holeid,h
Vehicle                               Praje-t         Dit        23           21            23          --            _-             __           __          __            __            __            -_          __           -_        2            21        20           C
Mntor_y;le                            Project       sit           3            2             3          -_            __             --           __          __            __            __            __           __          __        1             2           0       3C
Furaitore aad -ffice Eqoipeent    Prj-ect            set         15           i4            15          I- __                        __           -_          __            __            __            __          __           -_        1            i1         15        9;
Bran-h Yffi-ce T'o/Tjb
V0hit1e- - MIoor-ylea                 Pro,ect       onit          3           --            --          11            12             --           --          --            --            --            --          --           --        I            11         12         9;
BrNittore and  ffice Eqoipnent    Proje-t           set           5             4            5          --            :-             --           --          --            --            --            --           --          --         1            4                    9 30
SoAetoral                                                                     011           6717         87            617       E     -           --          --            --            --            --           -           --62                  0 278      76
B.  Rec-rerat Tepen-ee
Staff - F satrlati
Head DifiTs
G-eeral Manager                       Project       M. Year   270             --            --          --            --            203          270        200            270           203           270         203          270      268           812       1080         7S
Lice_tock Credit Offtecl              Project       M. Y-en    250           188           250         188           250           188           250        188            250            __     --           --                 --      248           752       1000         70
Indo-t,al Credit Officer              Project       M. Year   2S0            i88           050         188           250           188           250        188            750            --            --           --          --      248           752       1000         7S
Pare Management
-         .teneis . Officer          Prl,ject      M. Year   250             --            --         188           250           188           250        188            250           188           250           --          --      248           752       1000         7'
A-eoatant - Fi-aacial
Controller                           Project       M. Year   250            188           250         188           250           188           250         188           250           188           290           --          --      310           940       1250         7S
Staffing - 1ocal
Bead Office
tireetosk Credit Officer             ACF            M. Year    24             --            24          --            24             --           24          --            4h            --            2h                       24      144            --        144         --
Itdnetrial Credit Officer            ACF            M. Year    24              __           24 oh                     24             __24 _h                                 24           __            24           -_          24      ilo                      144 i_
Faee Management Bateasi-e Officer   ACF                M. Year    24             --           --           __           2h             --            24         --             oh           --            oh           -.-          2h i22                 --       iPO         --
Aeaaantaaot Fianning Controller         ACF            M. Year    24             --           24           --            o4            --            24         --             24            --           2h           --           24      144            --        i44        --
Legat OffMer                            ACF           M. Y-er    oh24                          4 oh                     24             __            24         _-24                         __       .   24           __24                 i44            --        144        __
Becorde Clerk                           ACF           M. Year    10              --           10            _           10             --            10         --             10           __            10           --           10      6t            --          60        __
Genera Clerk                            ACF           M. Ye-    10                                         __ 10  -- 10                -- 10                                                 -- 10                     -- 10        i        t             --         60 6-
S-eeetary Tylpit                        ACF           M. Year       6            --            6                        10                           1-                        10                         10                        1                      --         66        --
Driver                                  ACF            M. Year      6            __           18           --           24             __            24         __24 oh                                    24          --           24      138            __        138
Me.seager                               ACF            M. Year      4            __4 h                                    8 0                         8                                                                __ 8          8       44            __         44 
Per Diem  A  - Local                    ACF            p. day      40  yBl.1 --               16                                                      8                        it                         it           --           16       96            -_         96        -_
- Foreign                 Pr-ject        p. day      70  iBLs.   25              25          25            25             32           32 J2                     32            32            32           32          32       __           178        178        lCO
Hahintal                                           589 _62 if 77                                                                      3225  9  150 9 87   1502  160-                                   1002          235          502                   1
I     i Allo   100 didys/aecass credit and extenrioa offieera And eoeter-P-rte, 50 dayn/aenam  acroantant and ca-aterpari snd iegel officer.
Tahoe satna oooa ifr boah tho  UiVEBToCK CREDIT AND PROC43SING and GRAIN STORA00E ANDPH          C FOc',ibNi Pla iL3O.
Febroary 1976



APPRAISAL OF
l;CYR3TOGi 0 0  A C    PR6Fn         PROJECT
YFAIEt3 ARIU esFrIeta
AA-U-1itrc   4it FF-d
FPo-eot Reated Co.ts
2~~~~~~~~~~21
Unit         Fore-i                    F-rig                        F-e                      Foreign                     Fireip                    Forelin                           Forn IoortAo%
Fg              oIS        Sco          BoAnn         Tt          Rio     e  iota.               e       F __-Y 1b  0 ~taa   n           ta.        lh-           Tota1         _ha__      Total    total       lttl                 4F ht =n
0.  Retortet Fopenees 1oct0.)
-rlc    - 3--                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                                      4
Raiaar                                ACF            M  Year       o4             --           21            --          2it            --          24i          --           24t            --           24.          --          244       1444         --         1444-l
CredotOloer                           ACF           REa?          18             --            36           __           36             __          16           __           36             __           36           --          33        216         --          216      __
TorMtai ol b   omer                   ACE  M. lO            r      oR            __            --             _                                      O _8 3     _0                                                                          060           _          60
Se          Tretaro T,91,e            ACU            M     r Y.     6                           6                         6                          6                         6                           6                        6         36         --           3t       _
Osaiteonso                  ~~~~~AC?       MCtar          4                           4-           4-Ii                                     4           --6i                                                              4-         Fit        --Fi 
Fee                                   Ar?           P..C          40  tl         -             4            _             6 36                      3           _ 3            6                         36                       36          C4         -            13,
Fpield Offi,e - Iodleldio
oct10? OredotlOffieer                Acy            i3 leor       i8             _-           18            --          18              --          18          --            18             __           a            --         ld         108         --         1Q8      __
Efteo t fOffi-et                      ACF            M. Ye        le             --            18            --         1i              __          18           __           18              -           108          __          18        108         --          106      _-
Cltet                                                 M. Y-e    1i               _             10            __          10              _          18           __           10             -_           13           _           it                    __           6d       -
Raotettatrir  YRt                     AOCF           eYeu          6             ,_             6           __            F             ,_           6           --            6                                                   6          6                       36
ne_sane                               RO             iCnr           A            --             A            --At-                                               --             I            --6--                                  I         240        --           L.
MeXeenser                   ACF~~~~~M       M,:Yur        4             _              4           __            4            __                                                                                                     24 __
C=ud Ci A07                                         MYrr            6            --             4           --            A             --           4,          --            A             --            A           __0A0 4                2           _           z 4
?eriiettL                             ACF           rho. D        i, t 40        --             4           --            6 4_ Yu.  6                6                         6                           6                        6         34         __           34      -_
lta=ooo - '1aanllho
Rft,=eoeG onlree                      ACF            loOser       16             --            --           --           54,            --          5L5          __           54             __          54            __          54        270         __         2'0       __
C           faEtofPtner               AtF           M:Y-r         18             --            16           -            18             __          18           --           18             -18          8            --         18         i08         --         108       __
Cen                                     F            d     r      00             -- M.  -- 10                                                       1                                                    I-  1         --          10         60         --           4o 
FAr9ik5 2                             00P P           050         4  Yila        -- 4P                      __           24             __          2L           __           24             __          24            __          24        104         --         124       __
Op-d .tI- R                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 .-PI
Ontoi                                 ACP           8loPrt        35             --            35           --           35            --           35          --            35             --          35            --         35        210          --          go0     __
tOtintaSee                 ~~~~~~ACE          -                         -            10             -          1               -          15           -             5- 15                                    --         15         rC          --60
otrioepotpeoeee                       ACP              --          --            --            11            --          10             -           1 llo        --           10             --          00            --                     961       --           60      --
oeole]j                               ACE              --         --             --            21            -_                                     -30                       3              --          30            --          30       i1           --         171       __
ttaatiteoenoe/A            ~~~AC?             -           -             -             6            --          0               -            0          --            A--                         i- 11                              63          --63                -
Mn i=ti    Ffio        Le             ACP                                        30            33           43           48            4y3          l            A3           48             413         44            43        4A8         23         2S          _3 
Font                                  Alt            C3Prtea      30             8- 80 9- 30                                            -           30           --           30             --          30            __         30         180         --         081       __
Otfi=- Fanedsd                        ACF              ---                                      6             __--       12            --                                                                                         10          66                      68 
oEti   Onaea                           026                                                                  -            16                                                                                                         8         i
0oAlo1e3~~~~~~              lOFM                                                      6            --          21                                                                                                        21        no                      100      -
aiot-l-e  L               A            O                                                        5                         6                          66                                                                            6                      35                  -
Hepi1rsrAnant                                                     -              --ACF        17            __          23                          2                         23                         23                                 13  
Rant il-ooitth                        AC             4T            -             --- 16                                  i6                         16                        16                                                                         __ 91 36
ttiioiee                            Sr                __.        __             -_             4           --            5            -             5                                                                                                               1 _
tOflee oooornzeo                      AOF                                                      2            __3                                                                                                                               7 7 _  
AOF      10                         I                         13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 1
lelolle L3                            ACF?             -                                       8            --                         __-
nain=te=Ao =e6                        AGF                                        __ -           3           --            3             --           3                                                                                        :6                     18       -- _     
hrr=eht TatiChib
C'tillties   ACF      3 PaGrAn                                  12                        3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   12                         12                         12                       13         72                      72      -
Eaoo                        ~~~~          ~~~~~~C?  3F-oe  -            -            02            -            2             -                                                                                          0          3
OtAitlenAor                                            --         -               -             6           --            C             -                                                                                                    26                       .6      -
cOfo                                   CF              __         __                           3 -- 5- --                                           5 --~ 5 .-                                                                     5         28                      00 23   __
lehclte /7                            80F              __         __             __           __            --           7             --            7                                                    7 7
Maint-inalne i ... A      C            __              __          ,,             ,_           ,_            --           1             -_                                                                                          1          __                             1-_19 _e_
3etOooFenot 5                         AC               --         --             --5          -3            --                                                                                            4 --                     it5       20                               --3h
0.InIS oruto  Aretta
Bcree.Ofoor L                           Foeldo         retot        30             --            __           3           30            60           60          6 660 3S                                 30            --          --       --          180          to      .o
6-sYool, C-orge,/ F6oCeot                            A-o                  --                                i1 15o5                                 15 45  -3 45                                         --            -- 33830                                       ' 5C     0
iOranll ontirapDOy   si3 7                  _ 7 ,                   1O3Don
ACP   hIlton 3r                      itloloot       AD9't 307                                               45   30                    60           0 1543                                               30  ly0   10   1180 244  580
-                                          __          __         5            75              7        l8             Lit33       1281         10 t0                       10           138                                  56 37  16  45                    -
to         -                                         __          __            223   2       671135                   11L .3                                  142          51480--                     --             --         -- 187                P1            1
ACF       _-           _,            16           3 4            2          478             23         478           22          47-r            45          955           45         39        3484        ;7k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a2  22-  12
T t L                                                         7grs          Z           XZ          232              5 368       < 1          -          C71 052                    C333           3215       _380'                 633 2,      3603r
r Otai= - 9toraiMe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  _6   3 
RootOrol OoOttoonOoo' 5*  ""'30        tk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        125            35         180        '"75           ]~~~~~~~~~                '35             "36       "'83         311       ,53~~12    ~ T5  IN  C0
?ro,Jao'. OoaLe      --             "           --          11~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~95  1512   120         1705           0533        1981         057          1968           1060        1338           nOt7        300       200        6070        ,5op    
OFF  Coet - PrJel _                                                              m           600            AT         956             45         9263              9m5 2,6                             95_  _5                  30 6        A4 -55a                         -
nl-  t- P- Fodo:t-                                                               552          735           807        3108           tar5        1281         1030         01007           0060        0378           260        31        1368        0859        123.       -
rPr010t'i-  - PoJrct                                  __                        223          267           133         167            IL6         019          160           168           --                                               148         Ant         so        -
AToF                                                                             1_2                                    47                         4138          I2          671             45         967            1,1       30        36017        170-
/2    R ct l: ye 1 150  for Pnh12110*                                                        2333           526 1200 Vok
4  77 X rAlrehse pr_ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                               8
OtoLot - A   jeotl                                    '- -r193                               28r3          193          263           097          263         197          2,63 L21                                                                    iAl r10'
Ero100o   - Fooj-l                                                              PP-- 22      267           133         167            215         216          0410          4t                          --'                                16          6: 
AC                                                    --           -'            5            313            i           ,2             22         678           2j          AS-                         -.                       -         :665o                    70
-Forpth totrseo1 aennae ror,        r /Loto toier  gaol e roltolt rAlei- lotielerl tar 0.3,eroeee 0., go                        e Ilre    .0/1     o     loi,         .e3n
75 -o p,erna 3-
3      alaeoloeet5oe    tn  3 yet   e,  A,-or   aisoleet afte  10der
O3    2                              J0ral    tr.  ooe.   o  Llo--kri  oc1nr.dtrl C-ant,  - -tr, sod Fa-  Mnigeet Sniteeln Ott.na, ad3 Brant  magr- dlero   oood- ti Oec ,tiri     and toitn-
;72    6-ooto-otta001               . o   .an.n - aae  en-no-otn-Ooo -e ot-ole,  itnott  ine    a    toigale.
r_    Prooret ootroootOoo to  ror3 tounOnno scobol Ylao  Fr  tralttOo   or teo7ent etarT   ORei68e eaentedtt   Leotorr An5d all Cntotione  notat  aid IrYestipAnt
Febotosrr 0501






APPRAISAL OF
-1VFI:STO(K CREDITA)1'NI) AN  PROCESSING I'(0.11JT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Organization of Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF)
(i)Vl IINolt
t:ENIIIAI HlANK
MANAGEH
AC F-
FIELD MANAGERFIL)MN4E
TIHAMA
I           ~I                   ,I.
FIELD OFFICE       FIELD OFFICE      FIELD OFFICE        FIELD OFFICE       FIELD OFFICE       FIELD OFFICE
WADI ZABID         WADI MAWR         HODEIDAH  1/        TAIZ               IBB                SANA'A    1
New offices to be established under tho project.                                            World Bank-15544
rtX






ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Project Organization and Operating Procedures
Project Organization
1.        There is no present institution in YAR with the capability to imple-
ment the project. A Livestock Development Board (LDB) would be established,
by the signing of the proposed credit, under the Ministry of Agriculture for
this purpose. Estimated costs are shown in Table 1. The LDB would consist of
the Ministry of Agriculture as Chairman, a representative of the Central Plan-
ning Office, the Mlinistry of Finance, the Ministry of Municipalities and, the
General Manager of ACF, the Project Manager and Project Co-Manager. For the
administration and management of the project during implementation, a Project
Unit (PU) responsible to LDB would be established. Government has, at IDA's
suggestion, contracted with a management firm, Hendrikson Associates, to sup-
plv Project management personnel.
2.        The PU's responsibilities wqould be:
(a)  to establish the LDC, the Municipality Slaughterhouse and
M1arkets Division (MSMD), the Animal Health Division (AHD)
andl the Livestock and Range Improvement Division (LRID);
(b) to implement in cooperation with the above entities, dairv
farm, livestock finishing farm, milk collection colony,
poultry and feed mill, slaughterhouse, retail mrket, animal
health and livestock and range improvement components;
(c)  to implement in cooperation with ACF the supervised credit
component for the traditional sector credit for on-farm
livestock development and for retail butclRer credit;
(d) to initiate and supervise the dairy farm site, livestock
finishing farm site and Wadi Surdud farn  studies;
(e) to coordinate the internal and external training programs
provided under the project for Yemeni staff; and
(f) to coordinate the employment of expatriate technical staff
for the various components.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The LDC would be a semi-autonomous Government-owned enterprise es-
tablished to own and to operate on a sound commercial basis about eight
50-cow dairy farms, a 250 ha livestock finishing and dairy farm, five milk
collection colonies and a poultry-feedmill complex. Government has been asked
prior to negotiations to draft the LDC charter and Government's approval of
LDC's charter satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of making the proposed
credit effective. Government has initiated recruitment action to employ the
expatriate team to implement and manage the LDC project component.
4.        MSMD would be established for implementing and operating slaughter-
houses and retail markets in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. After project year 6,
MSMD would be transferred from the PU to the direct control of the Ministry of
Municipalities and would be responsible for the operation of all slaughter-
house and retail markets within the country.  Government ass&rances were
obtained that the following requirements would be enforced:
(i) no slaughter would be authorized within Sana'a, Taiz, and
Hodeidah except at Government slaughterhouses;
(ii) the Ministry of Municipalities would take steps to enforce
meat inspection at the slaughterhouses;
(iii) the retail markets being constructed under the project
would be licensed and maintained in a sanitary manner;
(iv) slaughter, delivery and retail market feeds would be
charged to make the facilities financially self-supporting;
(v) animals would be slaughtered by MSMD employees and carcasses
and offal would be delivered by the slaughterhouses to
retail markets; and
(vi) MSMD would charge sufficient fees for their services to
operate on a sound financial basis the slaughterhouse and
retail markets and all its revenue shall be transferred
back to Government.
5.        The AHD would consolidate and expand the administrative and field
experience of the U.K. technical assistance (ODM) and the Ministry of
Agriculture's Directorate of Animal Health in the subproject. ODM would
provide the expatriate manager and the majority of the expatriate technical
staff for implementing the program.
6.        ACF would be expanded by adding regional branch offices and sup-
porting staff to provide credit on a country-wide basis for implementing
all components of the project. ACF would be responsible, in coordination with
the PU for implementing the supervised credit component of the project to the
traditional sector subborrowers.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Project Management
7.        The LDB would decide on all policy issues, major investments and
operational matters, and approve key personnel decisions. Detailed Board pro-
cedures would be drafted and be approved within 45 days of the signing of the
proposed credit. These would include the following:
(a) the Project Manager would act as the convenor of the Board
and he would initiate the meetings in consultation with the
approval of the Chairman;
(b) a decision of the Board could be obtained by circulating
working papers. Decisions taken in a Board meeting or by
circulation could be acted upon before the minutes are
confirmed formally in the next meeting;
(c)  the Board would delegate adequate financial and admiristrative
authority to the Project Manager and the divisional heads
so that meetings of the Board would be necessary only for
major policy and essential operational issues;
(d) the Board would approve all major appointments such ELs consul-
tants, all expatriate personnel, and all senior Yemeni per-
sonnel. Authority for appointments to junior posts would be
delegated to the Project Manager and the divisional heads
as appropriate;
(e)  all major tenders for construction, supplies and services
would be subject to the approval of the Board. However,
relatively minor supplies and services would be the re-
sponsibility of the Project Manager and the division heads.
8.        The Project Manager would have the overall operational responsibility
for the proposed project implementation and management. Four operational
divisions, MSMD, LDC, AHD and LRID would be in charge of the individual proj-
ect components. The financial assistant with the PU would assist in devel-
oping accounting and financial controls within the divisions. A project im-
plementation organization chart is provided (Chart 1). The Project Manager
in cooperation with the Division Managers would formulate operating, accounting
and auditing procedures for approval by the LDB. The PU head office and the
divisional offices would be located in Sana'a except the LRID which would be
housed in Damar.
9.        In view of the severe shortage of experienced technical staff in YAR,
the project implementation units would be staffed with 29 expatriate management
and technical experts, for periods ranging from two to five years (see Annex 10,
Table 1). These experts would be responsible for both project implementation and
for training of their local counterparts, who would take over inanagement and
technical responsibilities when the expatriates complete their assignments.
Further details on expatriate duties are provided in Annex 10.



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AID PROCESSING PROJECT
YEx;N ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock Levelopment Board
Project Unit Costs
YEAR
1                    2                                           4                     56
Unit    Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign               Foreign              Foreign                         F-reign                 F.E.
Units    Cost   EBchansge   Total    Exchange   Total   Ekchange   Total    Exchonge   Total    Exchange   Total    Exchange   Total   Local    Eachange    Tstal    Percent
--------------------------------------------------------------   YR ls      '000  ---------------------------------------------------------    ------------  ---------- --
A. Investment Items
Building                       100l 2      0.7        42         70         --         --         -_        -_                                                                        B2           42          70        6o
Ve'.icles
4-Whecl drive                esob        t4        80         88         -_        __         --         --         8o         88                                                   16        16o         176        90
Motor oyolen                 eac          4                              --         --         -         -                                                                                                           9022 
Seroice oar                   an         24i      2S          A                                                     22        (2)                                                               4           6
Dffice equipment                 __         --        27         30         __         _-        __         __         _                                                                          27           30
B. Recurrent EIpenses
Per diem - Expatriates    200 days          80        --                               16 --                                      16 ---                i6         --          --      61         --           64       --
Per diem -Locol             500 days        50        __         25                    25                    5 25                  5         -_         25         --         25      150         __         10         --
Fuel and oil A                    _k5      0.2        17         24         17         24         17        24          17        24         17         24         17          24      42         102         144        70
Office supplies                  --         --        10         20         10         20         10         20         10         20        10         20         10          20      6o          6o         120        50
Utility  -ertices                --         --        13         22         13         22         13        22         13         22         13         22         13         22       54         78         132        6C
Maintenance                      --         --        10         PU         10         20         10         20         10         20         10         20         10         20       6o         60         120        9O
C. Training  /2                        -_         --        __        47         45         51         45         51         45         51         --         __         --         --       65        135         200        6o
1S. Stffing
Expatri oten
Projeot Manager         man year        270       203        270       203        270        203        270        203        270        203        270         --         --      335      1,015       1,350         75
Financial Ansistant                     225       169        225        169       225        169        225        169        225         --         --         --          --     224        676          9C0        75
LDC Manager                             245       184        245        184       245        184        245        184        245        184        245          --        --      305        920       1,225         75
Dairy'Division Manager                  225       169        225        169       225        169        225        169        225        169        225         -_          -_     280         845       1,125        75
_] (o-soaer                              30 30                0         --         30         --         30         --         30         --         30         --         30      I80                    180-        _
Financial Asoistant                      24        __         24         __         24         __        24          __ 24                --          24                     L     144                     144        __
Telar   o-  na.n7e                       24         4         24          4         24          4        24          4         24                    24          -2 2 4            144          --         114        --
Accountant                               18        -_         18         --         18                   _8                     18         --         18         --         18      108         __         108        --
Clerk                                    10        --         20         --         20                   PO-  2      --        20                               0--         ao     120          --         120        --
Secret-ry                                 7                              -21         1 21                 1 21                  1 21                 51         --          21      126         --         126        --
Dri,ers                                   6        --         30         --         30         -_         30         --         30         --         30         --         30      180         __         180        __
Minr staff                                4        --          8        -            8                              _8         Q 8         -                      -          8       48         __          48        --
Subtotal                                      953      1,534        820      1,318        820      1,318        929      t,438        606      1,026         50        286    2742       4,178       6.920         --
Physico] Co-tingencies (5%)                                48.         77         i          66        41         66         46         72                    51           3         14     137        209          346
Total                                       lIlt      1,611        861      1            86i  1 ,384           975      1,510        636      1,077         93        300   2,879       4,387        7.266 ;      60
a  20,000 lks annually per vehicle.
O2 ne year overs-a training for 3 senior Yemeni in livestock/agricultural on-going program.
Sic. month aupplementary training far 3 Yemeni in live-tock/agricultural on-going program.
Training in livestock/agricultural production in YAR 12 extennion agents.
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Project Irnplementation Organization
|  MINISTRY      l
AGFRICULTURE
MINISTRY                                                                                                                                               CENTRAL
OF                                                                                                                                                     BANK
MUNICIPALITIES
.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK.l
BOARD                                                     ANIMAL HEALTH
Ul                                                                                                                                          U
|                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~PIROJECT              FINANCIAL                              
MANAGER                          ASSISTANT 
TOCK  l                        ~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK AND   l      I      _lACF  
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                                      DVLPETRANGE                                                                  ANIMAL                  SUPRIE
DEPARTMENT                                       CORPRTO                                           DEVELOPMENT                 HEALTH                    CREOIT
I                                                                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DAIRY         _       POULTRY AND    ll         LIVESTOCK     l
DIVISION                  FEED                    FINISHING
DIVISION      ll          DIVISION    l
CENTERS OFi
DEVELOPMENTE
I                                                           i
SANAA   MARKET   l  DAIRY                             l                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANIMAL HUSBANDRY  CNE                  EL  N  UP 
SLAUGHERHOUS  II4-50 COW                      ATD RAnE                                                                HEDQARER                 LIVESTOCK
SAN    I   MSLAUGHTERHOUSE          DREY                                               iMPROVEMENT               RANGE                    A REGIONAL CENTER      SUPCHERVISEANDS
|   |                        |                        |  ~~~~~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~FINISHING                                                            l
HODEIDAH|    ~MARKET              FA|                                                                       VILG RANGEDSOE            DIARANOTINE              LIVETOCHE LON
DEVELOPMENT                      C                                                                     IMPROVEMWN
AND RANGE   HEADDUARTERS             ~~LIVESTOCK
SAA   SLAUGHTERHOUSE          DAIRY                          -R~,IMPROVEMENT CETR                                                REGIONAL CENTER           WELLS AND PUMPS
TAZ   MARKET               FARM                                                                     VILGIANELANOTCBTCELON
MILK COLONY                                                              IMPROVEMNTLCENTE
4-55 COW  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ FAi 20HARGONLCETR                                                                     LIV ESTOCK
HODEIDAH  SLAUGHTERHOUSE                        INCLUDESONE                                      QUARANTINE               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WELLS AND PUMPS
MARKET                                                           j   S DAIRY                                           STATION                   EUTCHER LOANS
COW UNIT
W.Nd B..k-15632



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock Development Corporation
1.        Organization.  Under the proposed project, a Livestock Development
Corporation would be established by decree as a legal semi-autonomous Govern-
ment enterprise to operate a commercially Driented business with the objective
of increasing domestic production of meat, poultry and dairy produce in YAR.
The LDC would comprise three divisions:
(a) Dairy Production Division. This division would provide milk
for urban markets through eight 50-cow commercial dairy herds,
and five associated milk colonies.
(b)  Poultry and Feed Division.  This division would have a broiler
production unit to serve Taiz, a hatchery to produce its own
chicks as well as to supply stock to smallholders in the
region, and a feed mill with the potential to supply the
country's poultry industry as well as other livestock.
(c) Livestock Finishing Division. This division would fatten
livestock on an irrigated fodder and feedlot farm in the
Tihama.
These divisions would not only increase production of dairy and meat products,
but would serve as pilot models for future expansion.
2.        The LDC Manager, who would be an expatriate for the first five
years, would report to the Project Manager. A Yemeni Co-Manager would be
trained to take over LDC management after five years. Each of the three
divisions would have an expatriate manager, and a Yemeni co-manager. The
consolidated cash flow for the three divisions is shown in Table 1, Appen-
dix 4.
Dairy Production Division
3.        Background.  Except for two small commercial operations, one each
in Taiz and Hodeidah, and a Government-owned dairy barn close to Sana'a, there
is no dairy production serving the major urban markets in Yemen. Milk is pro-
duced in varying quantities from sheep, goats, camels and the local zebu cows.
Milk surplus to family requirements is either made into cheese or ghee, or
exchanged with neighbors on a reciprocal basis. Very little fresh milk is
marketed. Increasing urbanization, and changing social customs such as
feeding babies from bottles, together with increased spending power of urban
dwellers, is combined to create a steadily increasing off-farm demand for
imported milk powders and milk products.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Objectives.  Within LDC, the Dairy Production Division would estab-
lish eight 50-cow commercial type dairy units, five near Sana"a, three at Taiz
,d one at Ibb.  A similar sized unit would be incorporated into the Livestock
Finishing Division farm to be established near Hodeidah. In addition dairy
production would be encouraged amongst subsistence farmers in areas close to
the proposed dairy farms. It is planned to establish five mi:Lk colonies,
each with about 200 imported, improved cows, with in each case, one of the
commercial farms acting as the focal point for milk collection, extension
and demonstration, bull services, and at a later date supplying small num-
bers of improved cows and bulls. The proposed farms would begin to improve
the supply of milk to urban markets thereby contributing, albeit in a small
way, to improving nutrition standards and reducing demand for imported milk
products. Furthermore, they would serve as an important training ground
for Yemen farmers and technicians and lay the foundation for expanded pro-
duction in a second phase project. Because there is no experience with com-
mercial dairy farming in Yemen, and because of constraints caused by the
availability of suitable land and the supply of adequate water for irrigation
in the upland regions, the size of each farm would be confined to about 30 ha
supporting 50 improved cows and all replacements. Should larger areas of
suitable land become available then herd sizes could be increased up to about
100 head or even more.
5.        Site Selection.  Before final selection of each site a consultant
report (provided for in project costs) would be required on t]ne suitability
of the land for irrigation and the crop production proposed, and on the avail-
ability of suitable water. Furthermore, Government assurances would be sought
on the actual availability of the land and in the event of some or all of it
being occupied, that tenants would be paid fair compensation. The consultant
report would also cover such aspects as milk marketing and distribution and
any environmental factors likely to be affected.
6.        Project Phasing and Development.  One farm would be established in
Project Year 1 and two in Year 2. Three further farms would be commenced in
Year 3 and two more in Year 4. The Hodeidah dairy component would start in
Year 1. Development of the milk colonies would be commenced in each of Years
2, 3 and 4. Irrigation requirements are based on about 20-25 ha being irrigated
from one tube well and the balance of 5-10 ha from spate or flood irrigation.
The tube-well channel distribution system, land levelling and preparation, and
about 10 ha lucerne sowing would be completed during Year 1. During Year 2,
the total area would be sown to crops or lucerne. Total investment in each
farm, including 5% physical contingency, is shown in Table 3. Investments
include land levelling, roads and irrigation, building and stockhandling
facilities, machinery plant and vehicles and livestock. Because there is
considered to be no economic advantage, either short or long term in importing
very high priced pedigree cows, cost estimates provide for disease free,
guaranteed in-calf, commercial grade Friesian cows, but registered pedigree
bulls.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        Forage Production and Farm Management.  Each farm would be fully
mechanized. Operating costs may be reduced by direct grazing of lucerne and
forage sorghum but as the required management skills are completely absent
in YAR, and are more difficult to efficiently implement, initially feed would
all be on a feed-lot basis. Animals would be housed in simple, cheaply con-
structed barns with partly open walls providing maximum air and sunlight pene-
tration. Adequate shade would be provided along with necessary feeding throughs
and watering facilities. Cows would be tied for milking which would be done by
portable 2-cow vacuum plants either electrically or motor operated. Sophis-
ticated and equally expensive milking machinery and plant is not considered
to be justified in this first phase dairy development project. Similarly,
artificial insemination would not be introduced at this stage.
8.        Forage production would be based on a six year rotation growing
improved varieties of maize and forage sorghum, with a winter catch crop of
green barley between, followed by four years of lucerne. About 5 ha of
lucerne, maize, sorghum and barley would be sown every year. Some 5 ha of
maize would be conserved as silage, stored in cheaply constructed open trench
silos covered with plastic. In Year 4 total utilizable forage dry matter
(DM) production would be about 392 tons or about 13 tons DM per ha. An addi-
tional 11 tons DM of feed grain (9.5) and calf concentrate would be purchased
in each. In Year 1 a surplus of about 40 tons would be carried forward as a
permanent revolving forage reserve.
9.        Total animal units including 50 milk cows are estimated to reach
90 in Year 5 and 97 in Year 8. During the first four years whilst replacement
numbers are building up, surplus forage except for the permanent reserve, would
be used to finish up to 50 feeder cattle on the same basis as with the livestock
finishing farm. In addition to a 25% technical contingency allowed in the an-
nual forage requirement (4,725 kg DM) for each milk cow and 10% for all other
cattle, the feeder cattle allow a safety value during the establishment years.
Should, for various unforeseen reasons, expected forage production not be
achieved, they would not be purchased but the milking herd projections would
remain unaffected. Animal forage requirements for all livestock are based
on balanced rations with adequate energy and protein concentration so as to
allow the projected milk and growth rate projections to be safely achieved.
Milking cow rations would include an average of 50-60 gms of grains per cow
daily. The emphasis would be on keeping grain production to a minimum.
Calving would be on all year round basis and heifers would calve for the
first time at three years. During the post-development phase, growth rates
are expected to allow calving at 2-1/2 or even two years, thereby increasing
the percentage of productive animals, and total farm milk production.
10.       Production.  Annual milk production per cow would average about
3,600 litres from Year 5 onward, rising from an initial level (adjusted for
first year calving) of 2,000 litres. After allowing for calf consumption of
about 10,500 litres, total annual sales from each farm.would average about
170,000 litres from Year 5. Except for a fmew culls aIl calves would be reared



ANNEX 5
Page 4
for replacement or sale. First sales of one-year old surplus bulls would be
available in Year 3, and surplus in-calf three year heifers in Year 5. From
Year 9 total annual sales would amount to about 36 head of wlhich some 24 would
be available for farmers. Annual meat production of all saleable cattle would
average about five tons. When the eight farms are in full production in Year
9, total annual milk sales would amount to about 1,360,000, plus an additional
150,000 litres from the dairy component of the livestock finishing farm. A
further 1,615, 000 litres per annum would be marketed from the five associated
milk colonies. Total annual project marketed milk from Year 9 onward would
be about 3,125,000 litres.
11.       Milk Marketing.  Because the volume of milk from each farm does not
justify special treatment facilities, nor at this stage would any economic
advantage be derived from such expense, milk would be sold untreated direct
to the public. This is now the practice at the Government Farm in Sana'a.
Milk would be available twice daily at selected points and be sold direct
from the truck or farm. In the event of the farms being sited some dis-
tance from an urban center, an allowance has been made for cooling and
transportation facilities and costs. Milk would be marketed in towns at
YRls 2 per litre, the current average price in the larger urban centers of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah.
12.       Management and Labor.  As modern dairy management and production
skills are virtually unknown in YAR an expatriate Dairy Division Manager
located in the Project Headquarters Unit, would be responsib]le for the
development and initial management of the eight farms. An important func-
tion of the Divisional Manager would be to ensure the practical training of
Yemen farm managers and herdsmen so that adequate staff woulcl be available
for the farms to be developed in subsequent years. For this reason in order
to facilitate closer supervision and training, the first farms would be
developed near Sana'a. Each farm would have a resident manager and senior
herdsman, and 11 supporting staff including a mechanic, records clerk, and
two tractor drivers. The Divisional Manager would coordinate with the Live-
stock Finishing Division Manager and ACF extension staff in the establishment
of the proposed milk colonies, and would be responsible for the overall super-
vision of the milk collection and marketing aspects of the colonies.
13.       Animal Health Control.  Apart from the imported cattle and the
feeder animals purchased during the first four years, the farms would be self-
contained. All livestock would be vaccinated against rinderpest, anthrax,
foot and mouth disease, clostridial diseases, and females against brucel-
loisis. Full allowance has been made for regular control of both internal
and external parasites and all animals would have daily access to a compre-
hensive mineral mixture. Facilities for cool storage of drugs and medicines
would be provided. Animal health control would be exercised by the Senior
Herdsman under the supervision of the Regional Veterinarian.
14.       Investment and Financing.  Of the total investment, 40% would be
contributed as equity and the balance would be financed by a long term loan
from ACF. During the first three years additional medium term loans would



ANNEX 5
Page 5
be required to cover interest during construction. These would be repaid
before the long term loan repayment which would be spread over seven years,
commencing in Year 5 as shown in Appendix 1, Table 2. The financial rate of
return is estimated to be about 12%.
15.       Milk Production Colonies.  The future development of Yemen agri-
culture and livestock depends largely on the private or traditional sector.
The milk colonies would represent the first attempt to implement integrated
development with an important milk production component. These are described
in para. 4, and in greater detail in Annex 7. They would therefore be of
considerable importance in setting the pattern for farmer acceptance of new
technology and in achieving a considerable production increase. LDC and ACF
would attach high priority to their successful establishment of milk collec-
tion centers and marketing of milk produced by the proposed milk colonies. It
would also coordinate with ACF extension person nel in selecting suitable
areas and farmers, arranging for the supply and distribution of imported cows
and providing technical back-up to farmers.
16.       The selection of each colony area would depend on its proximity
to one of the divisional farms and suitable urban markets. Furthermore the
farms and farmers would have to meet the requirements necessary for imple-
mentation of the proposed development. Development of each colony would
be phased over 3 years with 20, 60 and 20 farmers starting in each consecu-
tive year.  On-farm development would take about 4 years to achieve full
production in each case. The marketing operation of the colonies would be
under the direction of the divisional manager. Each colony would be managed
by a supervisor and supporting staff, equipped with a small conveniently lo-
cated collection center consisting of an office and milk receiving room in-
cluding where necessary milk cooling facilities. In some cases the LDC farm
may be the center.
17.       The Milk Collection Center (MCC) for each colony would operate every-
day. If necessary, out-station collection points would be established. The
milk truck would act as receiving station in these cases. Farmers would bring
milk to the centers twice daily. It would be measured, tested for water con-
tent, and the farmer paid in cash. Total production records from each farm
would be kept by the milk center. The price paid to farmers would be below
that obtained by the LDC in the urban market thus allowing the cost of trans-
portation and marketing to be recovered. In addition the MCC would act as an
ordering center for farmers' input supplies, veterinary and bull services.
Input supply requirements would be passed on to ACF extension personnel,
veterinary needs to the region veterinary center, and bull service needs to
the farm manager. If cows requiring service could not be walked to the
divisional farm, bulls would be transported to an agreed point in a small
trailer.
18.       Projected income, cash flow and investments are shown in Annex 5,
Appendix 1, Tables 6, 7 and 8. Details of on-farm investments costs, develop-
ment program, income, and projected cash flow are shown in Annex 7, Appendix 1,
Tables 1 to 7.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Livestock Finishing Division
19.       Objective.  Although livestock are an integral part of the YAR farm-
ing industry, the sub-sector is characterized by the absence of any finishing
operations.  As a consequence a high percentage of the total annual offtake
are slaughtered when in comparatively poor condition and in many cases are
well below potential liveweight. The Livestock Finishing Division of LDC
would begin to tackle this problem by the establishment and operation of a
250 ha irrigated fodder farm in the coastal Tihama, where the availability of
suitable land and water is reasonably assured. A small 50-cow dairy unit
would be included in the farm operation.
20.       Operations.  Irregular rainfall and recurrent droughts make it
necessary to produce assured supplies of suitable forage through irrigated
crop production. The irrigated fodder production proposed calls for an in-
tensive mechanized system since it is unlikely that sufficient labor would
be found to operate the farm on a labor intensive basis. The feedlot opera-
tion would establish a regular market for unfinished animals, sheep, goats,
and cattle of varying ages, produce a regular supply of meat of standard
quality irrespective of the season and assist in providing rural employment
opportunities. Furthermore, the proposed project would bring virtually waste
land into production and by feeding unfinished animals for a short intensive
period immediately prior to slaughter contribute to increasing national meat
supplies. A small amount of milk would be marketed and a start made towards
examining the possibilities for larger scale dairy production in the Tihama
region.
21.       Irrigation.  Apart from a coastal sand belt, soils of the Tihama
are for the most part free draining alluvial and colluvial sandy silts. They
are in general very alkaline with pH readings varying between 7.0 and 8.4.
A large (unmeasured) underground aquifer is said to exist. Existing wells,
of which there are an increasing number, vary between 22 - 90m in depth.
Water is of varying quality decreasing in salinity as distance from the coast
increases. The alternative sites proposed for the farm would have access to
some spate of seasonal flood water but basic irrigation would be provided from
10 tube wells using a concrete or stone lined channel distribution system.
Each well is estimated to yield 18 litre/second which after taking account of
local weather conditions, and crop water requirements together with a 75% ef-
ficiency allowance, would irrigate about 20 hectares. Complete cost of each
well (70m depth) including drilling, casing, pump, motor, house, control dis-
charge valve and installation is shown in Table 3. Final farm site selections
would be based on the findings and recommendations of a consultant study, pro-
posed as part of the Project.
22.       Project Development.  On completion of the irrigation System in year
one, the productive area of 250 ha would be progressively sown to forage crops
until full utilization in the second half of year three. Investrnent costs in-
clude roads and land preparation, tubewells and channelling, buiLdings and
stock handling facilities, machinery and vehicles, and livestock. Full facili-
ties for machinery repair and spare parts has been made. Because of the inten-
sity of the proposed operations, further substitution of capital intensive
machinery and labor would not be practicable.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
23.       Forage Production.  Forage production projections are based on a
proposed rotation growing three consecutive crops of improved varieties of
maize and forage sorghum followed by the winter legume berseem (trifolium
alexandrinum). Two hundred percent cropping intensity would be achieved from
year 4. Trials wuld be conducted to find the most suitable tropical pasture
legume both for direct forage and interplanting with maize and sorghum and
would include dolichus lablab and lucerne. Whilst there appear to be no tech-
nical or climatic constraints apart from adequate water, which would prevent
achievement of the proposed crop production, care has been taken to ensure
adequate provision in the cost estimates for full chemical weed and pest con-
trol, and comparatively heavy levels of fertilizer application. Furthermore,
the levels of utilized dry matter production are considered conservative and
should be exceeded with little difficulty.
24.       Utilized annual forage production between 75 and 85% of gross pro-
duction) at full development in years 4 and, including maize and sorghum
silage, and green cure sorghum and berseem, would amount to about 4,400 tons
dry matter (DM) or 17.6 tons per productive hectare - 250 ha. An additional
65 tons DM of feed grain and cottonseed cake would be purchased and fed to
milking cows, young calves, and sheep. About half - 2,200 tons of the total
dry matter production would be conserved as silage stored in open trench silos.
In the first year of operation about 400 tons of the silage DM, or 10% of an-
nual requirements would be withheld from feeding. This would provide a per-
manent revolving feed reserve as an insurance against crop failure, water
shortage, mechanical breakdown, etc. Operating costs could be reduced by
direct grazing of berseem and sorghum by both sheep and cattle. Because of
possible management complications (cattle movement, ditch and soil damage,
grazing management skills), the projections have not allowed for this but
grazing would be included on a trial basis.
25.       Animal Production.  An essential prerequisite for a successful feed-
lot operation is an assured supply of feeder animals. Following a period of
prolonged drought there are signs (very high market prices, reported increased
imports of live animals from Somalia and Ethiopia) that annual offtake from
the national flock and herd may have significantly decreased. Accordingly it
is proposed to establish, as part of the forage farm, a breeding flock of
about 3,000 locally bred ewes. At full production these are expected to yield
about 4,500 weaned lambs each year. It is estimated that about 3,000 would be
sold prime at about 12 weeks of age while the balance after weaning would be
fed for about 100 days. Ewes would be purchased from the traditional markets
and would produce about four crops of lambs (2 each year) before being sold
for slaughter.
26.       Because of the local preference for sheep meat and because more
efficient conversion of forage to meat can be acieved, emphasis would be on
sheep meat production. In addition to sales of 3,000 prime lambs and 1,500
aged ewes, a total of about 13,700 feeder sheep would be sold each year.
Furthermore about 2,000 feeder cattle and about 30 cattle from the small
dairy operation would be sold. Flock and Herd projections are detailed in
Appendix 2, Table 4, and dairy cattle projections in Appendix 1, Table 4.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Cattle would be purchased at about 200 kg liveweight and after feeding for
120 days sold at about 288 kg a total liveweight gain of 88 kg or an average
of 0.73 kg daily. 1/ Dressing out percentage is expected to improve from 44
to 52 to provide an estimated carcass weight gain of 62 per beast. Feeder
sheep would be purchased at about 22 kg liveweight and after 100 days feeding
sold at 32 kg to show an average daily liveweight gain of 100 gms. Prime
lambs would be sold off mothers at weaning at about 15 kg liveweight, whilst
cull and aged ewes would average about 40 kg having been purchased at about 35
kg. At full production (year 5) total annual sales would amount to 21,200
sheep and 2,030 cattle, to provide an estimated 283 tons incremental meat
production.
27.       Because the consumer market in Yemen does not pay any premium for
quality meat and because of the necessity to use national grain production as
efficiently as possible, no feed grains would be fed to sheep or feeder cattle;
a minimal amount would be fed to dairy cows. The proposed rations would have
sufficient energy density and protein to ensure that the assumed growth rates
would be achieved. The emphasis would be on producting meat and not fat (there-
by maximizing meat production per unit of forage produced) so that feeder
sheep and cattle would be sold in 'forward' and not finished condition. Pro-
vision has been made for some cottonseed cake to be available to breeding
ewes and feeder sheep.
28.       Climatic conditions in the Tihama do not favor milk production from
temperate type dairy cows. Because of the need to increase milk supply in the
area and because of the potential in available land and water resources, a
small 50-cow dairy unit would be included in the proposed forage farm. Cross-
bred (exotic/zebu, friesian-jersey x sahiwal) cows would be introduced. Faci-
lities would not be elaborate and feeding would be on a feed-lot basis. The
milking ration would include about 4% (on ADM basis) of high energy locally
grown feed grains. Some proprietary concentrate ration (about 2.5 tons/annum)
would be fed to dairy replacement calves. At full production (year 5) annual
milk production per cow would average about 3,200 litres and after deductions
for calf consumption annual sales would total about 150,000 litres.
29.       Management and Labor.  An operation of the complexity proposed would
require organizational, managerial and technical skills not now available in
Yemen and foreign experts would be required to fill key posts duaring the
development phase and to give on the job training to local personnel. The
Divisional Manager would be responsible for the overall farm and feed-lot opera-
tion for the first two and half years. In year four he would hand over to an
on-farm trained Yemeni, but would remain as an expert adviser for a further
year. He would be supported by an internationally recruited master mechanic
and an irrigation and crop production specialist for 2 1/2 and ithree years
respectively. Each of these would be responsible for in-service training of
Yemenis. Yemeni technicians would assume full operational management in year
1/   Cattle are expected to show no gains during the first 10 days and to
average 0.8 kg LWC thereafter.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
five. Each would then have had at least one year as acting manager under the
appropriate specialist. Fully developed, the farm would employ a total staff
of about 74.
30.       Marketing and Livestock Procurement.  Under the general direction of
the Divisional Manager, a Yemeni marketing manager together with a senior as-
sistant, would be responsible for coordinating the regular supply of livestock.
Provision has been made for trucks and service vehicles for transportation to
the farm-but this could be supplemented with local carriers if required. An
average of about 340 sheeps and 40 cattles would be needed each week. Live-
stock would be purchased at local markets both in the Tihama and Upland areas.
If necessary, particularly in the initial stages of development some feeder
sheep could be imported from Ethiopia and Somalia at landed prices somewhat
below those currently prevailing in Yemen. Livestock would be sold on the
farm direct to butchers who would be likely to come from throughout the coun-
try. Disribution and slaughter would be coordinated with municipal authorities
operating licensed slaughterhouse facilities. Taking account of the current
apparent shortage of reasonably finished animals in the country, selling is not
likely to be a problem. Weekly sales would average about 400 sheeps and 40
cattles.
31.       Animal Health Control.  Animal Health control would be exercised
through an animal health assistant operating under the guidance and supervi-
sion (through the farm manager) of a fully qualified and experienced regional
veterinarian stationed in Hodeidah. All animals entering the farm would be
quarantined for 10 days and vaccinated against the most important known poten-
tial diseases (rinderpest, foot and mouth disease, anthrax, blackquarter, sheep
pox, caprine pleuro-pneumonia, contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia) and treated
for both internal and external parasites. Regular spraying against ticks and
lice would be undertaken. Full provision for animal health control including
free access to comprehensive mineral mixtures has been included in the cost
estimates.
32.       Credit and Cash Flow.  Of the total investment, 40% would be contri-
buted as equity and the balance would be financed by a long-term loan through
ACF. During the first four years medium-term loans would be required to fi-
nance operating deficits. This amount would be repaid before long-term loan
repayment commenced in Year 6 and loan repayment would be completed in Year 10.
Financial projections are shown in Appendix 2, Tables 1-5. The loan repayment
schedule has been designed to ensure that the division has adequate working
capital resources at all times. Financial rate of return would be about 12%.
Commercial Poultry and Feed Production
33.       Present Poultry Production.  There is at present no commercial poul-
try production in the country. Chickens are raised by villagers; they scavenge
for food, and produce about 30 eggs per year. Both eggs and meat are sold in
the markets for cash, and only small amounts are consumed by the producers
themselves. The market prices are about YRls 15 for live chickens (weighing



ANNEX 5
Page 10
between 1/2 kg and 1 kg), and YRls 6 for one dozen eggs. Urban demand is sup-
plemented by imported eggs priced at YRls 8 per dozen, and imported frozen
Lickens (up to 1-1/2 kg weight) priced at YRls 24.
34.       Potential.  The potential for commercial poultry production in the
YAR rests upon (a) supplementing imported poultry products with domestic pro-
duction, and (b) expanding the market by eventually lowering the price of
poultry products. It is desirable to increase the protein intake of the
population, and poultry production is an effective means of doing this be-
cause of the relatively favorable feed/meat conversion ratios of poultry
products, and the fact that eggs, sold singly, are affordable protein units
to persons who might not otherwise be able to afford meat products.
35.       Poultry Production to be Financed under the Project.  Bilateral aid
by the Dutch and the U.S. has been committed to developing the commercial poul-
try industry, specifically in the region of Sana'a. The Project would there-
fore plan to develop a poultry unit at Taiz, both to supply that city, and to
be the source of supply of young birds principally to the traditional sector'
in the Taiz area. The planned output of this unit at Taiz would be determined
by the estimated size of the market in the city, and - with respect to supply-
ing stock to the traditinal sector - by the reasonable time span estimated
for establishing flocks in that sector. These estimates are 125,000 broilers
per year to be sold live in Taiz, and the establishment of 500 flocks of 50 birds
each over a five year period in the traditional sector. The projected invest-
ment in such a unit is shown in Appendix 3, Table 4. On-farm investments are
shown in Annex 7, Appendix 2, Tables 1-4. This sum includes the cost of an
expatriate manager who would oversee construction and start up. As a result
of this project, annual production of 125,000 broilers, 4.3 million eggs, and
25,000 culled hens would be generated.
36.       Operations.  Initially, fertile eggs would be purchased to build the
flock, and thereafter a parent fLock would be built up. The birds would be of
a suitable dual purpose breed in\order to satisfy the requirements of both
urban markets and traditional secior producers. While Taiz has a relatively
temperate climate, heating would be provided for brooding, especially as the
January minimum temperature may be as low -100C. The operations would be
labor intensive rather than automated. In addition to the expatriate manager -
who would be employed for the first two years of operation, as well as one
year of construction and start up supervision (he would perform the same
functions for the feed mill); there would be a Yemeni Co-manager, two techni-
cians, and twenty workers. One of the most important operational functions
is disease control, and accepted practice will be adhered to in this respect.
37.       Feed Mill.  An integral part of this poultry unit at Taiz would be a
small feed mill. This mill - the first in the country - would supply the entire
industry, and it is desirable to locate the mill in this Southern part of the
country, near the center of grain sorghum (durra) production. The feed mill
would be a very simple operation, grinding feed grain and mixing with imported
pre-mix. The latter would -include soybean meal, alfalfa meal, minerals and
vitamins. This would avoid the necessity for complex on-site formulations,
which is uneconomic at the low annual volumes forecast for the first years of



ANNEX 5
Page 11
the Yemeni poultry industry. The projected ouput of this feed mill is corre-
lated to the expected needs of the Yemeni poultry industry, which are fore-
cast to rise from 1,400 to 3,000 tons per year over a six year period. The feed
mill capacity would be sufficient to produce the country requirements for dairy
cattle feed supplements.  The investment cost of this feed mill is shownA in
Appendix 3, Table 5. A 12 year loan would be required plus an equity contri-
bution of 40%, of total investment as shown in Appendix 3, Table 3.
38.       Financial Viability of Poultry & Feed Faciliy.  The viability of
the combined poultry and feed-mill unit is dependent upon the maintenance of
an appropriate ratio between feed costs and selling price of poultry products.
It would be important that local grain be purchased, at harvesting time, to
take advantage of lowest prevailing prices. This would be stored, as bagged
product, on the mill premises, or under certain circumstances, in adjacent
public warehousing. The projected rate of return for the poultry unit and
feed mill at Taiz is 13%. This is very sensitive to changes in operating
revenues and costs as is true of poultry operations elsewhere in the world.



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Dairy Production Division 50-Cow Dairy Farm
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
1              2               3              4               5                6                7              8              9              10          11-20
-----------------------------------------------k----------------------------- YRls'O -------------------------------------------------______________
Revenue
Milk /l                                                               __              195             306    .       331             341              339              339            339            339            339          .339
Cattle  2                                                                              28            110             Ila             112              64                                                             75
Subtotal                                                            _              223             U1W             15                              40,  9  E__                                  '1_                              1;
Operating Costs
Management and Labor                                                  22               98              98             98              98               98              -98             98             98             98            98
Animal Health                                                         --                2               3              3               3                3                3               3             3              3              3
Feed                                                                  --               14              11             11.             12               13               13             13             13             13            13
Crop Seeds                                                              3               5               3              3'-             3                3                3               3             3              3              3
Fertilizer                                                             3               16             15              15           e 15               15                15             15             15             15            15
Weed and'Pe't Control                                                 --                3               2              2               2                2                2               2             2              2              2
Tractor and Vehicle                                                    5               12              18             18           .18                 18               18             18             18             18            18
Repairs and Maintenance
Fences, Irrigation, Buildings 3% of cost                              --                9              11             11             .11  .            11               11             11             11             1             11
Machinery, Plant, Milking Machines and Vehicles 10% .                 --               18              23             23.             23               23               23              23            23             23             23
Pump Operating                                                              2               8    .         10             10              10               10               10              lo            10             10             10
Cattle Purchase                                                            --              19              60              54             36.              --                 --            __             __            __             __
Interest Short Term  .                                                     --               5               7               7             --
Subtotal                                                            25 i_55                                                        231                                              1                             *;             19
Ret Income                                                                 ( .                     1       5 Xa222                                        207              Z               215-           218-          218           ,218 
/1  YRls 2 per liter
Z2  Culls, surplus, and feeder cattle
February 1976



,-WPhACAL ,F
LIVESTCnc   BIEDEtr 421 PROCESSINT   PROJECT
YEM-EN ARAB REPUBLIC
M-.del:  Dairy Prod-ctia-  Division 5Q-Cow Dairy F-rm
B.  Projected Ca,sh Flow Sta.tement
Y FAR
1       2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9         1.0     15        12        13       ii        15        ii        17       i8        19        20
----------------_----------------------------------------------------------------YRlr           --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__
Cash IrSfl w
Revenue                                __      223       416      449       453       403      414       4i4      4i4       414    401        4 417     417       417      417       417       41a      417       417       4i7
l,n -Lsg Term                         336      314        30        -         -        __       __                  __       __       __       _         __        __        __                 _          _        __
Equity C etribhtio-  L                224      210        20        --       --        --        --       --        --       --       --        --       --        --        --        --       --        --        --       --
Lor  - Medium  term                    50                 --        --       --        -- -2-             --        --        --      --        -         -        --        --        --                __ _-                --
Subtotal                           ?W ;   776         T7 14                         0       Ihj        9                 1       17                 hl         7                 417                           17       417
Cash Outflow
Operating Expennse                     35       208      261       256      231       196       196      196       196      196      196       196      i96       196       196       l96      196       196       196       196
Ive-st-ent                            56o      524        so        --       40        94        17       40        __       _       224        22       17        40        __        94       40        __        17        __
Debt Service
I,tere-t - Lng Ter                   15        44       6o        61       61        55        47       39        31        21      11        --       --        --        --        --       --        --        --        --
.oan Repayment
-LarngTerm                 --        -- Te              --       74        80        88       96       1o4       114     124        --        --       __        __                           __                  __
-RMedium T^rm              __        __       79         _                  _        _                  __        __      __        _                  __        __                           __        _         __
Taxes                                  --        --       --        --       --        --        --       --        --        --      16        30        30       30        30        30        30       30        30        30
Isitatal           97~~~~~~~~~    776  917      79~~~~Tl7  707     7295      =0i      _71       731      771      s8'       79       243       27        220                 77       20        __        7
S.bt.t.l                           7310    -776      1b5        21 i              1           j;      3l        31        39                                                      3_G                          1+ -i   
Cash Flow                                    -        --        i6      132        47       (22)      o6        43       83        83    (164)      169       174      151       131        97       151       191      174       1
Depreciatian                           -  
Residual VluSe Livestck                __        __                                                                                                                                                                          226
Net Ca.h Fl-w Rate of Retarn              (595)    (509)       105      193       182      113       201       178      218       218      (29)    I16        174       151      191        97       151       191       174      417
/ Gaer.na-t equity -ontribution to LDC equal to 40,% af ir.e.tment costs
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate at Return:           12%
Se-sitivity teats
Investmen,t Caste     clO%a         lo%
Operating Rapensca      :          10 %
Revenue               -la%:         3 %
February 1976



APPRAISA1 OF
LIVEST PCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PRE)JECT
tWEN ARAB REPUBLIC
M del: Dairy Production Division 50-Cow Dairy Farm
D. Investments
YEAR
1                                2                            3
Unit        Foreign                          Foreign                       Foreign                       N-mber                         F-reign                       Foreign ERchange
Investment Items                                Unit          C st        Etchange          Total           Exohange       Total          Exchange        TDtal         Unit           I c-1           Exchange        Total           Percentage
----------------------_-----------------------------YRls '000----------                                                 ------------------Rls'000---------
Access Roads                                      km          53              4               32               _                                                        o.6             28                 4            32                 10
Land Leveling & Preparation                       ha           1.5                                                                                                     3 4S  --  --  --  --  30  40       5             45                 10
Irrigation
Drilled Well and Pump                        unit        80             48               80               --            --              --            --            1               32               48             8o.                60
Distribution System                          ha            1.3           4               39               --            --                             -0                           35                4             39                 10
Buildings
Houses                                       SC i2         o.6          29               48               29            48              _              __           2               38               58             96                 60
Farm Buildingn                              200 m2         0.35         17               35               18            35              --            --          200               35               35             70                 50
Stock Handling Facilities
Cattle Housing /%                            bead          o.4          10               A4                6            16              --             --        lOo                24              1i              4o                 4o
Spray Race                                   each         10             7               10               --            --              __            __                                              7             10                 70
Holding Yards and Crush                        --          4.5           1                5               --            --              --             --           1                2                3              5                 6o
Silage Buker/2                                     --          2.0            1               2               --             --             --             --           1                1                1              2                 50
MRchinery and Plant /3                             --          --          174              193               41             46             ---                                         24              215            239                  90
Vehicles
Light Truck ,                                ech          20            18               20                              --                                         1                2               18             20                 90
Livestock Lf
Bulln                                        head         12            --               --               2             24              -                           2                2               22             24                 go
Cows                                         head          6                                             297           33               4a             48          6s               38              340            378                 go
Subtotal                                                                 320              533              410                            75                                         3                tt           1,080
Physical Contingency 5%                                                     16               27               21             25              2              2          -                 15                 9      5    54
Tonal                                                                    _ _i                              W              7               7 560 __  _                                                 ol 3b                              72
I   Incl"des milking barn, valf shed and autsiie shade protection, simple design open builings, c-w  tied f-c milking
S Open pit tvpe capacity 150 tons about 215 m2
3   See Table  5   far detail of farm machinery
For milk delivery and general hauling
5   Imported registered pedigree bull and o  d ccseeracol c ws
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LTVESTO'E CRPEDIT ADD PFRCESSINiG PF ,JECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: I anry PrAycltion Division 50-'a# Disry tare L
E. Herd Froje-iion
END CF YEAR
1                L32                                4                   5                C                  7                 8                  9-20
Herd Composition
Bulls Breeding                                                             2                 2                 2                  3                 3                  3                                     3
Moturl Cws                                                --              50                 50               45                 50                50                 50                50                  50
Calves - 0-12 months                                      3- 41                              33                7                 34                38                 ?8                38                  38
Heifers - 1-2 years                                       --              --                19                15                 18                17                18                 18                  18
_2-3 years L                                     --              --                --               18                  i4               17                 i6                 17                 17
Bulls   1-2 years                                         --              --                  8                8                  8                 8                  8                 8                   8
-2-3 years                                         --              --                --                 1                  1                 1                                    11
Totel Herd                                           --              93                112              126                128               134               134                135                 135
Total Animal Units /_                                                52                 79               89                  91               92                 95                97                  97
Deaths
MatureCows                                                --               5                  6                3                   2                2                  2                 2                   2
Calves -0-12 months                                       --               8                  5                4                  2                                    3                 3                   3
Heifers-l-2yesrs                                          --              --                  1                1                  1                 1                  1                 1                   1
-2-3years                                        --              --                --                 1                  1                1                  1                  1                   1
Bulls                                                     --              --                  1                1                  1                 1                  1                 1                   1
Feeder Csttle                                             --               1                  2                2                  2                                   _-
Tota1 Desths                                          _              14                 15               11                   9                8                  8                  8                   8
Puh.asses /
Breeding Bulls                                            --               2                 --               --                  --               --                 --                --                  --
Cows Matore                                               --              55                  8               --                  -_               __                 __ _-                                 --
Feeder Cattle                                             --              16                 50               45                 30                                                                         --
Total Purchases                                       --              73                58               45                  30               --                 --                 --                 --
Calves Born Alive                                               --              52                40                43                 38                43                43                 43                  43
Sales /L
Cull Bulls                                                --              --                 --               --                  --                1                  1                  1                  1
CullCows                                                  --              --                  2                2                   2                2                  q                  5                   5
Cull Calves                                               --               3                  2                2                   2                2                  2                  2                  2
Cull Heifers                                                              --                 --               --                   1                1                  1                  1                  2
Surplus Bull Calves -I year                               --              --                 12                9                 ld                 8                  1                  1                 11
Surplas Heifers - 2-3 years                                                                  --               --                   7                8                  8                  7                  7
Surplus Bulls - 2-3 years                                 --              --                 --                7                                    7                  7                  7                  7
Feeder Cattle                                             --              15                 43               43                  20                                   - __             __
Total Sales                                           --              18                64               61                  57                29                31                 ?3                  35
Technical Co-effisients
Calving Rate L/                                           -               95                 8o               85                  85               85                 85                 85                 85
Mortality - Calves - 0-12 months %                        --              15                 12                8                   6                6                  6                  6                   6
-Adult Cattle%                                 __               8                 6                 5                  4                 4                  4                 4                   4
-lFeeder Cattle%                               --               4                 4                 4                  4                --                 --                --                  --
Culling Rate -Calves %                                        --               5                 5                 5                  5                 5                  5                 5                   5
-Heifers 2-3 ye-rs%                            --               5                 5                 5                  5                 5                  5                 5                   5
-Cows %                                        --              --                 4                 4                  4                 6                10                 12                  12
-Bulls %                                       --              --                --                --                 --                --                 --                20                  20
Ratio - Breedable Females
Breeding Buls /7                                                     25:1              25:1              25:1               25:1              25:1              25:1               25:1                25:1
Carrying Capaoity - P0/ho                                 __              --                 2.0              2.0                 2.5              3.0                3.0                3.0                 3.0
1 30 ha. well irrigation, stall feeding sad ilnging, calving all year round; forage lucerne and horghum plan purchased concentrates
Heifers mated so as to first calve at shoot 36 months
3 1 Animal Unit (AU) = 1 beast feer 12 mantha of age. Calves are not included
L Prchssed for delivery about June of year 2 when first forage production would commence
1 Calls are sold for slaughter, surplus are sold to farmers
Percentage of total mature csws which astually calve during the year, 85% cslving rate is equivalent to about 14 month calving interval.  Assume all purchased cows are guaranteed is calf
7 N-. of females to be mated include mature cows plus 2 year heifers; bulls coul d be used for milk colony cow service
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model Dairy Production Division 50-Cow Dairy Farm
F. Farm Machinery Schedule
YEAR
Farm Machinery Schei'ile (YRls '000)                                           1                   2                Total
Unit C^~st       No.    Cost        No.    Cost         YRls' 000
Form Machinerv                                                                                                           -
Lractors - 65.h.p.                                       47.0            2      94.0               34 0
Disc Plough                                               3.3            1        3.3      --       --             3.3
Tandem Disc                                               5.4            1        5.4           --                 5.4
Tine Harrow                                               5.0            1        5.0      --       --             5.0
Leveller                                                  7.0            1        7.0      --       --             7.0
Seed Drill                                               15.0            1      15.0       --       --            15.0
Fertilizer Spreader                                       2.0           --        --        1      2.0             2.0
Spray Outfit                                              1.8           --        --        1      1.8             1.8
Fine Chop Forage Harvester                               20.0           --        --        1    20.0             20.0
Front End Loader                                          7.0           --        --        1      7.0             7.0
Self-unloading Trailer                                    5.0           --        --        1      5.0             5.0
Farm Trailer                                              2.6            1        2.6      --       --             2.6
Hammer-Mill and Mixer                                     3.6           -_        __        1      3.6             3.6
Milking Machines                                          9.5            2       19.0       --      --            19.0
Spare Parts (lo%)                                                                15.0      --      4.0            19.0
Subtotal                                  4177                                                                209.7
Tools and Sundry Plant
Miscellaneous, milk cans, coolers, tanks                 18.0           --       18.0       --                    18.0
Workshop Tools                                            9.0                     9 9.0                             9.0
Office Equipment                                          2.3           __        --       --      2.3             2.3
Veterinary Equipment                                      4.5           --        4.5       --      --             4.5
Subtotal                                                                      31.5              2 3            33.8
Total Farm Machinery and Plant                                                     197.8              45.7           243.5                           D Z
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUIBLIC
Model: Milk Production Colony-Milk Collection and Sales Distribution
A.  Projected Income Statement
YEAR
1              2               3               4               5                 6               7-20
------------------------------------------ YRls 000 ------------------------
Revenue
Milk Sales /A                                                           --              17              75              193             471              623              646
Subtotal                                                                              7               D              193             471                2               T
Operating Expenses
Milk Porchases /2                                                       --              13              56              145             354              467              485
Marnagement and Labor
Supervisor                                                               9              18             18                18              18               18               18
Clerk                                                                   --               3               6                6               6                6                6
Driver                                                                  --               3               6                6               6                6                6
Laborer                                                                                 --               4                4               4                4                 4
Guard                                                                                    5               5                5               5                5                5
Vehicle Operating /3                                                        --               4               6               10              10                10               10
Office                                                                      --                4              7                 8               8                8                8
Mai nt enanc e
Vehicle and Plant (lo%)                                                 ----                            --                5               5                 5                5
Buildings (3%)                                                          --              --               2                2               2                 2                2
Short Term Interest                                                     --               1               1                2               2               --               --
Subtotal                                                               9              51            111               211             120              531              X_9
Net Income                                                                   (9)           (34)            (36)              (18)             53               92               97
1   Selling price delivered 2.0 YRls per liter
2   Purchase price at farm gate 1.5 YRls per liter
3   0.2 YRls per km
February 1976
PI81



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Milk Production Colony - Milk Collection and Sales Distribution
B. Projected Cash Flow
YEAR
1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8      9    10    11   12-13  14   15-17  18        19-20
-__________________--------- YR1s 000 -------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                                   --    17    75   193   471   623   646   646   646   646   646   646   646   646   646           646
Long-term Loan A                          45    52    22    11    --    --
Equity Contribution /2                    30    35    14      7    -_           __    _       _    __      _     _    __      _      _       _
Medium-term Loan L3                        2     8    12    13    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Subtotal                              77   112   123  .224   47 1   623             -         ;      646   646   77 ;bz  
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                         9    51   111   211   420   531   549   549   549   549   549   549   549   549   549           549
Investment                                66    53    --    --    --    20    --    --    --    20    30    --    20    --    20            --
Debt Service: Interest                     2     6    lo    11    12    12       8      5     1    --    --    --    --    --    --          -
Principal                  --    -_    __    __    __    36    40    43        9    --    --    __    __                      __
Medium-term Loan Repayment                --    --    --    --    35    _-    __    __        _    __    __    __    _       _      __      __
Subtotal                              77   110   121   222   7 -   599   597   597   559   569   579    5    569   5           59 
Cash Flow                                      0      2     2     2      4    24    49    49    87    77    67    97    77    97    77          97
Cash Flow for Rate of Return                 (75)  (87)  (36)  (18)   51    72    97    97    97    77    67    97    77    97    77             97
/1 Interest Rate 11%
2  Government equity contribution to LDC equal to 40o of investment costs
Medium-term interest rate 11% p.a.
C   P-ojected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return            23%
Sensitivity Tests:
Investment Costs      +10% :        22%
Operating Expenses   +10% :          7%
Revenue               -10%           4%
February 1976                                                                                                                             CD x 



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBRLTC
M,d;l:  Milk P-rduction Colony - Milk Collection and Soles Distribution
D. Investments
YEAR
l                                2                            3 
Unit           Foreign                         Foreign                       Foreign                     Foreign                     Number of                          Foreign               Foreign Exchunge
Infeetement Itens         *                      Unit         Cut            EXchange       T tal            Exchange       Total          Exebhnge       Total        icebnge         I  t          Unite            L cal           Echange        Tat.     Fercentage
---__--   -    -___-------               -----------------              ------___--------T----- -YRI  s'OO -----------------------                     ---------------RletOQ---------
Light Tek                                        each         2I                 --            --                18          20                __           __            __            __              1                2               18          20           90
Milk c-si, co ler, s-ndry equip-ent               set         30                 --            --                27          I1                --           __            __            __              1                3               2'          30           9o
Office Eqoipment                                  set          3                  3             3                --          --                I- --                                    --             --               --                3                     100
BRilding
Office and Cll-ection Center                 30  2        0c4                6            12                _           __                __            __           __                             1               6                 6          12          50
Housing Loal                                 80 a2        C.6               29            48                _            __               __                                                        1              19                29          48          60
Sulbtotal                                                                     37            07                47           gO                                                                                         A0               07         113
Price Conntingncy 5%                                                             2              3                 2           3                                                                                          2                4           6
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                                              -                                0770                    0
Tnaoement,d                                                                     --              9                --          34_                            36                          18                              97                           97
Total                                                                         77            75                l7          07                -                          -                                            129               0           377
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF                                            ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT                               Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Livestock Finishing Division
A. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
1        2         3         4        5          6          7         8        9-20
------------------------------------- YRls '000 -------------------------------------
Revenue
Dairy - Milk /1                      --        175       275       298       307        305       305       305       305
- Cattle /2                    --          1        23       39        55         64         61        71        73
Beef Feeders /3                      --        720    3,600    3,600    3,600        3,600      3,600    3,600    3,600
Sheep feeders                        --        379    3,150    3,358    3,758        3,758      3,758    3,758    3,758
Prime Lambs                          --         78       294       336      360        360        360       360       360
Aged Ewes                            --        --         21       220      413        413        413       413       413
Rams                                 --        --          1         5         7          7          7        7         7
Subtotal                          --      1,353    7,364    7,856    8,500        8,507      8,504    8,514    8,516
Operation Expenses
Management and Labor                 --        376       494       524       542       542        542       542       542
Animal Health                        --         18        82        85        86         86        86        86        86
Feed                                            16        32        32        32        32         32        32        32
Crop Seed                            --         18        44        46       46         46         46        46        46
Fertilizer                           --         90       159       170      170        170        170       170       170
Weed and Pest Control                --          16       32        35        35         35         35       35        35
Tractor and vehicles                 --        284       321       328       328       328        328       328       328
Repairs and Maintenance /4
Physical Improvements 3% of cost --           65        82        82        82        82         82        82        82
Machinery & Plant 10% of cost    _            88       143       143      143        143        143       143       143
971    1,389    1,445    1,464        1,464      1,464    1,464    1,464
Livestock purchase /5                                   , 
Cattle                             --        600    2 760    2,520    2,450        2,450      2,450    2,450    2,450
Sheep Feeders                      --        323    2,400    2,400    2,400        2,400      2,400    2,400    2,400
twes                               --                            102      403        403        403       403       403
Rams                                _         _                   23        7          7          7         7         7
Subtotal                          --        923    5,160    5.045    5,260        5.260      5-260    5 260    5.260
Interest - short-term                5          20        34        34      --         --         --        - 
Subtotal                          5       1,914    6,583    6,524    6,724        6,724      6,724    6,724    6,724
Net Income                           (5)       56 1)     781    1,332    1,776       1,783      1,780    1.790    1,792
/1  Milk revenue taken from model 50-cow dairy farm - Annex 5, Appendix 1, Table 1, reduced
by 10% so as to allow for zebu crossbred cows and adverse climate influence.
/2  From model 50-cow dairy farm - Annex 5, Appendix 1, Table 1.
/3  Price assumptions per head YRls - beef feeders 1,800, sheep feeders 225, prime lamnbs 120,
aged ewes 275, rams 275; growth rate assumptions - cattle 0.7 kg/day, 120 days, sheep
0.1 kg/day 100 days.
/4  No change in first years of investment heavy trucks.
/5  Purchase price assumptions per head YRls - cattle 1200, sheep feeders 150, ewes 240, rams 300.
February 1976



APPRAISA1 O?
LIVESTOCK CREDI1 ArD PROCESSING PROJECT
EMrEN ARAs RRPr TE7IC
iodel, Li.veotonO lioiino Tiv ino,,
B. Frojected Casn Flow Etet-oent
YEAR
1         2          3                                                 - 5  6a   _    9        10          LL        12         13         14         15         16         17         1t         19         20
------ ------ ----- ------ ------ ----- -   ---- ------ ----- ----------R--- - -- Y R1 S     '000    -- - - --  - -  -- - -  - -- - - -  - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - --     - - - - --  - - - -
Cash Infl-w
Rerenue                                _       1.353      7,364      7,856     8.533      8.507      3,504      8.514      7,516     8,516      8,516      8,516      8,516      6,516      6,516       8,516      8,516      8.516       8,516      516
L.o.  - Long Term                    2,189    1,299         418        176        --         -_        --         -          .-         -_        --         __         __         __         -_         __         __         __         _ 
Equity Contribution L                1,459       866        280        123        _-        __         __         __         ._        __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __         __
Me Tluinleri Lowr.                     103       275        --         --         --        --         --         --         --        --         --         __         _          __         __         __         __         __         __         __
Fobtotal.                       1,750    3,793                 7 2        7                                pt,       70,16      2           3         050        55 5573                          0T5                  00          B-=        T
CatO Outflow
oporatiug tIFenomo                        5    1,914      6,563      6.595      6,724      .,724     o,724      6.724      6,724      5,7z4      6,T24     5.724      6,724      -5,724     6,724      6.724      6,724      6.724      6,724      6,724
E o`e4te,eot                         3,647    1.6iC4        .98        259        174      601         507        134        -           44       335        440        239        1C6        --         655        oOu        --         209        --
Debt Ser,lue
Interest - Lorg Ter.                  98      255        333        367        367       311        248        181        107         27        ---                   -         -_         __         __         -_         __         __         _
Loan Repomuent _  mng Ter           --        --         --         --         -         689        752        819        893        297        ---           _      _          __         __         __         __         _          __
- Medimo Term       --        _           _         378       633        *-         --         --         --        --         --         __         __         __         __         __         __         _                     -_
TaXes 2                                __        __         __         __         __         __        __         -.         __         261        31         31         iL                            7.69 31   9L  1         3 73
SRobiotal                       5730    5            7,610      7,636.7,928          0,335     573 7  7,96            7,724     7,353      7,920          7.05                                               7 .i7                            7,335
CTax Pow                                                       44.        51 02                 1                    686         9         463        5          0       1,272      13?        1 461         026      1 379     1,491       1.274     1 081
Debprcei~~~~~~~~~, 5                  373               ti7 n2                                                                                                          --   
Eapecoiniito             --                   52u                           7300304              733~~~~~     55         55         52-        52         524       .l 772      052        5454                             5R
ne6i8uub Goose or l stoeoolck          --        --         --         --         --         -_        --         -- --                 --         --                    _-          _         __         -_         __         __          _ -.81
Ret COsb Flov Fete 'r Retort            (3,652)  (2,185)        83        963      1,672      2, 22      1.273     1 666      1,792      1,487        596      1,041      1.02      13(5    10 48i           826     0,79        4491       1,272     4 291
(1  Govenrumunt equity -ntributiuu tu LD  eqoo, to 40%  of it.-ustent toots
2   Paymout otoets fEo- y-ers after foLL 9rodorttoo, progrn-6ive op to 20% of -t ino-ue
3.Frnni61tod Etooni  Rote o     f Return
TnvoSt-nt Cooto    *10%:           11% lBz
Ope-etiug  Rnpen...                  3%
Fetrssry 1976



APPRAISAL OF
,;VES.OCK CRED1i  AiJ2  PROCELSi,,G PROJECI
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Livestock Finishing Division A
D. Investment
YEAR
Unit             1                    2                      3                                 NuBmber
Unit        Cost   Foreign                 Foreign              Foreign               Fcreign               Units                 Foreign              Foreign Ex.
Exchange    Total    Exchange   Total    Exchange   Total    Exchange   Total                       Local    Exchange   Total    Percent
Investment Items                                              ---------------------------------- YRls 000 -----------------------------------                     ----------- yPls ----------------------
Access Roads                              Km          53.0        13        133         --         -_          __         __         --       --         2.5          120      13         133       10
Land Leveling and Preparation             ha          1.5         30        300          8         75          __         __        __        __         250          337      38         375       10
Irrigation
Drilled Well and Pump                 each          56        336        560         __         __         __         __         __        __          10         224      336         560       60
Pump House and Pump                   each          24        192        240         --         --         --         --         --        --          10          48      192         240       80
Irrigation System                     ha           1.3         20        195         --         __         __         __         __        __         150         175       20         195       10
Buildings
Houses                                     2
Expatriate                          150m2        0.7        189        315         --        --          --         --         --        --           3         126      189         315       60
Senior                              lOm2         O.6         72        120         _                                                                  2          48       72         120       60
Technician                           80m2        o.6         30         49         29        49          __         _          __        __           2          39       59          98       60
Labor                                4om         0.5         24         40         24        4o          _-         --         --        --           4          32       48          80       6o
Offices                                 5Dm2       o.6         18         30         --         __          __        __         __        __           1          12       18          30       60
Workshop and Garage                    300m        0.5         90        150         __         __          __        __         __        __            1         60       9o         150       60
Stores                                  60m        0.5         18         30         -_         __         __         __         __        __           1          12       18          30       60
Stock Handling Facilities
Cattle Housing Dairy /2               head         0.4         10         24          6         16         __         --         __        __         100          24       16          4o       40
Beef /2               head         0.3         36         9o         24        60          __         __         __        __         500          90       60         150       40
Sheep Housing /2                      head        0.04         16         80         32       160          32        160                           10,000         320       80         400       20
Spray Room                                          20         14         20         __         __         __         __         __        __           1           6       14          20       70
Handling Yards                                      20         10         20         __         __         __         -_         __        __           1           10      10          20       50
Livestock Watersupply                               18          9         18          9        18          --         --         --        --           2          18       18          36       50
Machinery and Plant /3
Installation                                        4         36         40                                                                                         4      36          40       go
Farm Machinery                                                747        830        364        404          --        --         __        __          __         123   1,111        1,234       90
Vehicles
4-Wheel drive                         each          44         40         44         --         --         --         --         4o        44           2            8      80          88       90
Service car                           each          24         --         --         22         24          --        --         --        --            1           2      22          24       90
Light Truck                           each          20         __         __         18         20          --        --         -_        _-            1           2      18          20       go
Heavy Truck                           each          55         --         --         99        110                                                       2          11      99         110       90
Silage Bunkers/4                          each         4.4         9         22          9         22          --         --         --       --           10          26      18           44      4O
Livestock
Breeding Ewes                         head        0.24         _-         __         -_        186          __       446         -_       240       3,6;5         872        __        872       __
Rams                                  head         0.3         --         --         --          9          -         11         --        --          66           20      --           20
Dairy cattle /5                                     --         --         --        319        354          43        48         --        --          _-           40     362         402       90
Subtotal                                                 1,959      3,350        9       1,547          75         t          7        3                     2809   2,037         5,846
Physical contingencies (5%)                                       98        168         48         77           4         33          2        14                     140      152         292
Subtotal                                                 2,057      3,518     1,011      1.624          79        693         42       298                   2.949   3.189        6,138        2
Incremental Working Capital /6                                    __        129         -_        541          -_         __         __        __                     670       --         670
Total                                                    2,057     3,647      1,011      2,              79       698         42       298                      T    3,8                      42
A  250 ha farm, 200 ha well irrigated with balance spate water with assistance fros wells.
2  Simple construction, cows tied for milking, concrete floor in milk shed and main feed areas, including feed troughs and shading.
ft  See Table 5 Appendix 2 for detail.
Open pit type capacity 300 tons per unit, about 700 kg silage per i3, 43Dm  per silo.
ft  See Model 50 cow dairy farm  Annex 5, Appendix 1, Table 2.
Year 1 - YRls 96,000 for management through construction and start-up and YRls 33,000 overhead expenses, Year 2 incremental costs.
February 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Tabl1e 4
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Livestock Finishing Division
E. Flock and Herd Projection
YEAR
A. Sheep                                1             2           3           4         5-20
Flock Composition Lj
Breeding Ewes - Mixed Age                      825        2,500        3,000       3,000
Breeding Rams - Mixed Age         --            30          100          120         120
Feeder Lambs                      --           400        2,000        3,200       3,200
Weaned Lambs                      --           250          760        1,400       1,500
Subtotal                       _          1,505        5.360        7,720       7,820
Lambs Weaned  2                     --           900        3,250        4,200       4,500
Purchases
Ewes /                            --           850        1,860        1,425       1,680
Rams                              --            31           35           75          24
Feeder sheep  4                   --         2,150       16,000       16,000      16,000
Subtotal                                  3 .3031     17,895       17,500      17,704
Deaths
Ewes                              --            25          110          125         180
Rams                              --             1            2            3           6
Feeder Sheep L5                   --            65          65           672         696
Subtotal                       --                        762                      882
Sales
Rams                              --            --            3           12          18
Prime Lambs                                    650        2,450        2,800       3,000
Feeder Sheep                      --         1,685       14,000       14,928      16,704
Aged Ewes                         --            --           --          500         900
Cull Ewes                         _             --           75          300         600
Subtotal                       =          2,335       16,528       18,540     21,222
Technical Co-efficients
Mortality %
Ewes                            --             3            5            6           6
Rams                                           3            5            5           5
Feeder Sheep                    --             3            4            4           4
Lambing Rate - Lambs %            --           120          130          140         150
weaned
Culling Rate - ewes %             --                         10           15          20
- rams %            --                         10           20          30
B. Feeder Cattle Projection
Opening Stock                     --            --           90          344         402
Purchases                         --           500        2,300        2,100       2,042
Total                          --           500        2,390        2,444      2,444
Deaths (2%)                       --            10           46           42          42
Sales                             --           400        2,000        2.000      2,000
Closing Stock                     --            90          344          402         402
1 Sheep on hand at end of each year.
/2 Of total lambs weaned assume about 2/3 rds sold prime off mothers of
12 weeks, balance fed for 100 day period.
/3  Mixed age breeding ewes
/4  Mixed sex
February 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
APPRAISAL OF                           Table 5
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Livestock Finishing Division
Investment Detail - Machinery and Plant
YEAR
Unit          1                   2                 Total
Cost   No.       Cost       No.       Cost        No.     Cost
-------------------------------YRls '000--
Farm Machinery
Tractors 65 hp         47      13        611        4         188         17      799
Disc Plough 3f           3      2          7                               2        7
Disc harrow             5       2         10       --          --          2       10
Tine harrow             5       2         10       --i         --          2       10
Leveller                 7      2         14       --          --          2       14
Seed drill             10       1         10      --          --           1       10
4 row maize planter   12        1         12      --          --           1       12
Fertilizer spreader    2       --         --        1           2          1        2
Spray outfit            2      --         --        2           4          1        4
Fine chop forage
harvester  20      --         --        2          40          2       40
Forage harvester       20      --         --        1         20           1       20
Front-end loader        7      -_         __        2          14         2        14
Silage loader & mixer          --         --        1         45           1       45
Self-unloading trailer 5       --         --        5         25          5        25
Farm trailer            3       2          5        3           7          5       13
Hammermill & mixer      5                           1           5          1        5
Ditcher                 4      --         --        1           4          1        4
Cattle scales           4      --         --        1           4          1        4
Fuel Reservoir
and pumps   20       1         20       --          --          1       20
Critical spare parts (10%)                70                   36                 106
Workshop Equipment
Electric welder,farm
tools, workshop
tools                35       1         35      --          --           1       35
Miscellaneous Equipment
including milk cans,
milk cooler, desks,
cabinets,typewriters,
sundry tools           25       1         25        1         --           1       25
Veterinary Equipment    10       --         --        1          10          1        10
Total                              829                  404                1,234
/1 Small differences in figures due to rounding.
February 1976



APPRATSAL (F
LIVESTOCK CREDI'T AND PROCESSINU PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Poultry Unit at Taiz
Al. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Capacity or UJnits         Unit Price         1          2         3        4         5         6-20
----YRls---        --------------------YRls'000 -------------------
Revenues
Broilers                                     125,000                  12 each          --       1,125    1,500    1,500    1,500          l,0O0
Chicks to traditional
sector l1                                    24,000                   4 each          --          12        29        48       72           96
Other L2                                                                               --          11        26        26        26          26
Subtotal                                                                           --      148    1,553    1,574    1,598            1,622
Operating Expenses
Feed                                                                 1,200/ton         --         656       726       '730      724         729
Vaccine                                                                  0.44/hd       --          58        60        62        67          70
Sundries L3                                                              0.50/hd         -         66        68        71        76          Bo
Fuel and lubrication                                                                   --          25        30        30        30          20
Management and adminis-
stration /4                                                                           --         255       255        30        30          ?O
Technicians                                         2               1200 mo.           --          29        29                  29          29
Labor                                              20                                  --         115       115       115       115         115
Repairs and maintenance  -5 --                                                                     83        83        83        83          83
Subtotal                                                                                   1,27    1 9    1,150    1,16
Net Income Before Taxes                                                                   --       (139)      184       424       434         446
_ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~
Ll  500 flocks of 50 birds will be established.
L2  Principally cracked and infertile eggs, and culled hens.
/3  Disinfectants, pesticides, etc.
/4  Includes cost of expatriate manager for 2 years.
L5 Building 5%, and equipment 10%.
Technical coefficients
Dual purpose chickens
Feed ratios:  2.13 kg/lkg meat                                                                                                          e
2.42 kg/l doz. eggs                                    
feed (kg)      mortality (%) 
chicks        o.6             3                                                                                                           W
broilers      3.5             3
pullets      11.4             7
layers       36.4            18
70 percent of eggs set produce chicks
Febr)iary 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Feed Mill
A2. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Unit Cost              1        2         3         4         5        6-15
YRls            -----  ---- YRls '000 --------------------~----
Revenues
Poultry Feed /1                         1,200/ton            --       1,680    2,160    2,400    3,000    3,600
Operating Expenses
Raw materials
Sorghum  2                             700/ton                       617       794       882    1,103    1,323
Pre-mix /3                           1,400/ton                       726       932    1,036    1,295    1,554
Management and Administration                                --           36        36       36        36        36
Labor                                                        --          60        60        60        60        60
Power /4                                  0.6/kwh            --           24       31        34        42        50
Repairs                                                      --          29        29        29        29        29
Interest /5                                                  --          51        67        74        93       111
Bags A                                     50/Ton            --          46        59        66        83        99
Vehicles - fuel and lubrication                              --           10        10       10        10        10
Subtotal                                                        1,599    2,018    2,227    2,751    3,282
Net Income before taxes                                                     81       142       173      249       318
,1  Average selling price (broiler feed at YRls 1,300/T , layer feed at YRls l,lOO/T.) based on
l>400 T in Year 2, risir.g to 3,000 T in Year 6.
L2 Typical formulations for broilers and layers are 60% grain, and 65% grain respectively.
/3  Average landed price broiler pre-mix 44% protein, layer pre-mix 38% protein.
/4  75,000 kwh at 2,500 T  output.
/5  Short term interest at 11% on raw materials inventory.
/6  20 bags to a ton; 2/3 ton       is bagged.
February 1976                                                                                                         o Dl
4l - >1
x.



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Poultry Unit and Feed Mill (Tais)
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
YEAR
1      2       3      4       5      6        7                    10        1      12       13       14-16        17      18-20
----------------- ------------------------------ YR1s '000 --------------------_---___--__________________________________-
Cash Inflow
Revenue
Poultry Unit                       --    1,148  1,553  1,574  1,598  1,622  1,622  1,622  1,622   1,622   1,622   1,622   1,622            1,622    1,622       1,622
Feed Mill                          --    1,680  2,160  2,400  3,000  3,600  3,600  3,600  3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600            3,600    3,600       3,600
Equity Contribution  /             1,422                                  --      --      --      --                                         --        --         --
Long Term Loan                     2,134   --
Short Term Loan  2                   118    306    460    610    670    850  1 000  1 000  1 000   1 0o0    1 000   1 000   1 000           1 000    1,000       1 000
Subtotal                                                            7 3,134  4 ,7 58  6,072    222  6   6                                         6,222
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses
Poultry Unit                       --    1,287  1,369  1,150  1,164  1,176  1,176  1,176  1,176   1,176   1,176   1,176   1,176            1,176    1,176       1,176
Feed Mill                          --    1,599  2,018  2,227  2,751  3,282  3,282  3,282  3,282   3,282   3,282   3,282   3,282            3,282    3,282       3,282
Interest-Short Term Loan 11%       --       13      47     47      47     25   --       --     --       --
Investments
Poultry Unit                      2,705   --                              60                                       60     500                            60
Feed Mill                           851--         --    --      --         70   --      --      --      --         70     150     --         -           70
Debt Service
Interest   11%                      118    235    235    235    235    218    200    179    156          131     103       72       37       --
Principal-long term                --      --      --     --      151    168    186    207    230        255     283      314      340       --
Principal-short term               --      --      460    810    894    850  1,000  1,000  1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000            1,000    1,000      1,000
Taxes                               --      --     --      --     --                                                        93      124        132       132        132
Subtotal           477   3,134                    6          5 2T72  5 9  5 MT   5 74T hMM    51Th   5,97,4   577   5,959                5,590    5,720      5,590
Cash Flow                              0       0       44    115      Z,    Za      378    jy8    R78        m       248    (Z6)    261           .2.      502        6R?
Depreciation                           --      190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190         190      190     190      190        190       190        1go
Cash Flow-Rate of Return            (3,556)   (71)   279    55o    636    609    764    764    764          764      634      21      640        632       502        632
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:         13%
Sensitivity tests
Investment Costs    +10%:         11%
Operating Expenses  +10%:        - 3%                              
Revenue              -10%:       - 8%                                                                                           D
,  Government equity contribution to LDC
equal to 40% of investment costs                                                                                                                                                     w
Includes medium term loan to cover start up costs, as well as seasonal credit loans paid
back in same year
February 1976



ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF                                         Appendix 3
Table 4
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Poultry Unit at Taiz
DI. Investments
YEAB.
1
Foreign.                  F.E.
Investment Items                       Unit        Unit Cost       Local       Exchange       Total      Percent
YRls       ------------YRls '000 -----------
Civil Works
Land preparation                    2 ha                          36             4           40          10
Access roads and plant yards                                      70            30          100          30
Fencing                         1,200 m.                           2             3            5          50
Buildings
Hatchery                       100 m2         700/m2           21            49           70          70
Brooder houses                 200 m2         700/m2           42            98          140          70
Broiler houses              2,000 m2          350/r2          280           420          700          60
Layer houses                   100 m2         350/m2           14            21           35          60
Office and amenities           100 m2         700/m2           28            42           70          60
Subtotal                                                   493           667        1,160          58
Equipment
Setters and hatchers                                              12           108          120          90
Cages                                                              2            18           20          90
Warm floor brooder cages                                          15           135          150          90
Feeding and watering troughs                                       2            18           20          90
Ventilation and heating equipment                                  9            81           90          90
Miscellaneous equipment                                            4            36           40          90
Incinerator                                                        1             9           10          90
Potable water supply                                              20            80          100          80
Power connection                                                   7            28           35          80
Boiler                                                             9            81           90          90
Subtotal                                                    81          594           675         88
Vehicles /1                                                           6            54           60          90
Other
Crating freight and insurance                                      6            58           64          90
Installation                                                      24            56           80          70
Engineering fees                   unit                           18            72           90          80
Subtotal                                                  48            186         234
Physical Contingencies                5%                             32            74          106          70
Incremental Working Capital
Management during construction
and start-up /2                                                 67           203          270          75
Initial purchase of fertile eggs                                  --           200          200         100
Subtotal                                                  67           403          470
Total                                                    727         1,978        2,705          73
/1 Three pick-up trucks
2 Includes support costs of YRls 45,000
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Feed Mill
D2. Investments
YEAR
1
Foreign                 F.E.
Capacity      Unit Cost       Local       Exchange       Total    Percent
Investment Items                                      YRls          -      -     -YRls '000 ---------
Civil Works
Land preparation                        1 ha                         18               2         20           10
Mill building /1                      600 m2        700/m2          168            252        420            60
Subtotal                                                        186             254        440
Equipment
Grinder                                5T/hr                          3             29          32           90
Mixer                                  2T                             2             16          18           90
Augers and blower spout                                               2              14         16           90
Dust collector                                                        1              11         12           90
Bulk bins and bagging scale                                           4             36          40           90
Power hook up                                                         3             32          35           90
Hand trucks                                                           0               5          5           90
Subtotal                                                          15            143        158
Vehicles  /2                                                            7              63         70           90
Other
Crating, freight & Insurance             10%                          1             11          12           90
Installation                             20%                          9             21          30           70
Engineering fee                          10%                         13             51          64           80
Subtotal                                                          23             83        106
Physical Contingencies                      10%                        23              54         77           70
Total                                                           254             597        851            70        (Dn
/1 Includes flat storage
/2 Truck and pick-up
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock Development Corporation
Consolidated Cash Flow
YEAR
1       2         3         4        5        6         7        6        9         10       11        12       13        i4        15       16        17       1$        19       20
----------------____-------------.-------------------------------------- ----------  YRls '000 __-_ _------------_--------------------------------  =----------------------------          --____
Cash Inflow
Revenue                           --     1,576    11,071   13,628   15,896   17,600   19,154   19,927   20,212   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280   20,280
Long-term Loan                  2,524    4,322      2,226    2,068      877       148      --        --       --        --       --        --       --
Equity /1                       1,683    2,882     1,487    1,382       585        96      --        --       --       --        --       --        --       --        --        --       --         _       __        __
Medium-term Loan  2               154      497        6io      670      85    iooo    1000    1,000    1,1000    I 0o1 10                          oo     1000     1000   1000    1000    1000    1000    1 000
Subtotal                      4,361    9,277    15,394    77 8               18,844   20,154   20,927   21,212            2     281 021 280                                          21,280   21,280   21,280 21   2 80  21,280   2128
Cash Outflow
Administrative Expenses /_        --        --        --       200      200       300      300       300      300      300       300      300       300       300      300       300      300       300      300       300
Operating Expenses                 40    2,201    10,093   11,457   12,564   13,635   14,737   15,240   15,428   15,464   15,464   15,464   15,464   15,464   15,464,  15,464   15,464   15,464   15,464   15,464
Investments                     4,207    6,654     3,661    3,328    i,448        885      982       58o      359      198    1,209    1,llo    1,692        754       195       943      750       492      554       ---
Repayment
Interest                      i14       422        716      909    1,042    1,089    1,095        996      887      769       64i      501       348      182       --        --       --        --       --
Long-term Loan                 __       __         --       --        --       --     1,103    1,202    1,311    1,428    1,557    1,697    1,850    2,016          --        --       --        --       --        --
Medium-term Loan               __       __         764    1,167      8So    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,00     1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Taxes L4                                              --       --                 --       --                                    --       154       152      175       758       758      758       758      758       758
Subtotal                   4,361    9,277    15.234   17,061   16,1o4   16,879   19,217   19,318   19,285   19,159   20,171   20,226   20,806   19,891   17,717   18,465   18,272   18,014   18,076   17,522
Cash Flow                         --       -          16o      687    2,104    1,965       937    1,611    1,927    2.121    1,109    1,054         474    1,381    3,563    2,815    3,008    3,266    3,204    3,758
Depreciation                                   444        951    1,171    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326    1,326
Cash Flow for Rate of Return       (4,247)  (7,286)   (2,683)  (1,357)   1,684    2,780    3,135    3,807    4,125    4,318    3,307    3,252    2,672    3,587    3,563    2,815    3,oo8    3,266    3,204    8,376 L
/1 Government contribution 40% of investment costs.
2 To cover interest and operating costs during implementation and seasonal credit.
7 Administrative Expenses Years 1, 2 and 3 and part of these expenses in Years 4 and 5 included in Project Unit costs during project implementation.
7  Provision for taxes which progress to 25% of Net Income after Interest and Depreciation following project implementation and a five year tax holiday.
/5  Includes residual herd value of 4,618,000 YRis.
Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return         12%
Sensitivity Test:
lvw,nnuauaCLiL        'tlO:    11% 
Operating Costs         +10%;     14%
Revenue                 -10%      2%
July 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Municipal Slaughterhouse and Retail lMarkets
1.        Present Facilities and Slaughtering Practice.  Facilities for hygenic
slaughter in the Yemen Arab Republic are non-existent. Of the three major
cities, Sana'a, Taiz, and Hodeidah, only latter abattoir has an adequate water
supply. The small abattoirs at Taiz and Hodeidah are little more than concrete
slabs with adjacent walled courtyards. Slaughter at Sana'a takes place on open
ground near to an uncompleted abattoir. Refuse is scavenged by numerous packs
of dogs, and there is no protection from flies, at the existing sites. Further-
more, the meat is transported from the slaughter site to the retail markets
under most unhygenic conditions, generally wrapped in its hide or skin, and
thrown into a dirty truck or on a motorcycle.
2.        Present Practices in Meat and Fish Retailing.  Sana'a has four meat
markets (two municipal, 1 Wafq, and 1 private) with a total of over 100 meat
stalls plus an unknown number of meat vendors who squat in courtyards. Fish
is said to be offered intermittently, and to be sold immediately. The two
municipal markets are in reasonable structural condition; the Wafq market is
old and congested; the condition of the private market is unknown. In
Hodeidah, fish is more important than in Sana'a. There appears to be only
14 meat stall vendors (it should be noted that home slaughter is common in
lUodeidah).  The present central location is rather distant (3 km) from the
town outskirts. In Taiz, the number of meat vendors is more than in Hodeidah
and considerably less than in Sana'a. The five locations could be reduced to
two.
3.        Most facilities are too small and too crowded, they generally lack:
(a) screening from flies
(b)  piped, potable water, and wash basin in each stall
(c)  washable surfaces for cutting and selling
(d) prohibition of courtyard vendors, and general licensing system
to prevent other non-inspected sales points
(e) effective health inspection
(f) acceptable refuse disposal.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Organization.  Abattoirs and retail meat and fish markets are under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Municipalities, the PU would establish a
MIunicipality Slaughterhouse and Mtarkets Division (MSMD) to construct the
slaughterhouses and retail markets in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah included in
the proposed project. MSID would operate these facilities on a commercially
sound basis. It would provide slaughtering facilities, delivery service and
market stalls to facilitate health control as well as orderly marketing.
Services charges would be levied to cover operating costs, depreciation and
financial expenses (Tables 1, 2 and 3).
5.        With respect to public health, an important aim of the project com-
ponent is to control sanitary conditions from slaughter to retail sale. Ac-
cordingly, similar standards of inspection would be introduced and enforced
in the new structures whose available facilities would make sanitary practices
possible and the municipalities would control conveyance of meat from abattoir
to the markets. The Ministry of Municipalities would introduce and enforce
regulations preventing slaughter of livestock for trade outside the approved
slaughterhouses in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah. A uniform system of vendor
licensing would be adapted for controlling retail meat and fish marketing.
6.        The new municipal abbatoirs would be organized in the manner found
effective in many other countries:
(a)  The abattoirs would employ their own butchers directly, but
would not buy and sell animals for their own account.
(b) Slaughter fees would be set by the Ministry of Municipalities
which would relate both to the cost of operating the facilities,
as well as the current level of such fees.
(c) Hides and skins would be purchased from the owners, the cost of
which would, in effect, be a credit against slaughter fees.
(d) No meat grading system would be initiated in the immediate
future, as it is judged too early for such a scheme in the
Yemen.
(e) Livestock would be deliveed to the abattoir by the owners accord-
ing to their assessment of the following day's market demands.
The livestock would be inspected and rested overnight prior to
slaughter the following morning.
(f) Slaughter would commence very early in the morning so that meat
could be delivered to retail markets for sale during the morning
hours.
(g)  The Hodeidah and Taiz abattoirs would not have chill rooms,
but the Sana'a abattoir does have a chill room and thus would
be enabled to carry over some carcasses. The butcher shop
improvement loans (Annex 7), would provide butchers with small
freezer units, so that they could carry unsold meat.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.        MSMD with the assistance of the PU would prepare grant applica-
tions for the subprojects that would include detailed investment costs,
projected income and cash flow statements and economic analysis and submit
them to ACF. Upon approval, ACF would provide proceeds from a Government
grant to implement the subprojects. After year 6, the PU would pass the
control of MSMD to the Ministry of Municipalities.
8.        Abattoirs to be built under the Project.  The project provides for
new abattoirs at Taiz and Hodeidah at a cost of YRls 2.2 million each (Table
5) and the completion of the Sana'a abattoir at a cost of YRls 1.2 million.
The proposed abattoirs in Taiz and Hodeidah would be simple enclosed plants,
with gravity on-the-rail dressing, and provision for hot, potable water under
pressure, a hide shed, and sewage treatment. Capacity would be 15 cattle and
50 smallstock per hour (Sana'a), and 10 cattle and 25 smallstock per hour
(Taiz and Hodeidah). The equipment would be simple to operate and maintain.
There would be no cooler, since fresh carcasses would be moved to the retail
market the morning of slaughter. The processing of by-products is not envi-
saged because in YAR virtually all parts of the animal are consumed. Com-
pletion of the abattoir at Sana'a is feasible and desirable as an alternative
to building a newly designed unit. This installation was financed jointly by
the UNDP and the YAR, but delays have been caused by problems with contrac-
tors, and with shortage of funds on the part of the Ministry of 'Municipalities.
With improved inspection, and the use of elementary sanitary practices, these
plants would deliver cleaner meat to the urban retail markets with consequent
benefits to the public health. In addition, the treatment of hides would be
improved, with a net benefit to the economy.
9.        Retail Markets to be built under the Project.  Recognizing the com-
plexity of retail marketing, the project proposes to initiate improved prac-
tices by financing the construction of 154 retail stalls appropriately distri-
buted in the three urban centers. The model (Table 6) for these retail mar-
kets is based on 28 fronted stalls of 9m2 each, with a covered extension of
an additional 4-1/2m2, and a central, drained courtyard. Investment cost per
stall is estimated shown in Table 6. Such a facility is relative easy to con-
struct, but attention would be paid to the following factors:
(a) location with respect to existing and future markets for
optimum consumer convenience
(b) overall future needs by city, with respect to space and
number of vendors
(c) revised stall rental rates to cover operating costs of
improved facilities.
10.       Total Investment Costs and Rate of Return.  A Government grant
(Table 4) would be provided to finance the construction of two new abattoirs,



ANNEX 6
Page 4
the completion of a third, and 154 new retail meat and fish stalls as well as
the divisional headquarters cost. The financial rate of return for the divi-
si~n is projected at 13%.
11.       Technical Assistance.  Construction and start-up supervision, as
well as management and training for the first years of operation, would be
undertaken by an expatriate, whose cost is carried in the MSMD Budget. Con-
struction time for each abattoir would be one year, and the three abattoirs
would be. completed over a three year phased period. An expatriate Hides and
Skins Specialist would also be retained for two years. The Hides and Skins
Specialist would in addition to training abattoir management and employees in
techniques for improved flaying followed by proper working and diry-salting
of hides and skins. In addition, this expert would conduct demonstrations
in rural communities on sound flaying methods, carcass dressing and dry-
salting processing of hides and skins. Provisions are included in this com-
ponent for training slaughtermen in livestock slaughtering techniques. Also
included is supplementary foreign training for YAR managers in abattoir ope-
rations in Middle East/East Africa country. Training provisions are in-
cluded for training a minimum of eight YAR meat inspectors in a Middle East/
East African country with similar livestock and conditions (Appendix 4,
Table 1).



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Abattoir (Sana'a)
Al. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Units             Unit Price        1           2           3           4           5           6-20
Revenues                                                ---YRls---         --------------------_---YRls OOOs---------------------
Slaughter fees Ll
Cattle                            13,000 head         32                          416         428         441         454           468
Calves                             6,ooo              20                          120         124         128         132           136
Smallstock                        75,000               8                __        600         630         662         695           730
Sales of hides and skins
Cattle                                                19                -          247        254         262          270          278
Calves                                                10                --          60         62          64          66            68
Smallstock                                             6                --        450         473         497         522           548
Delivery Fees  -2                                                                    79          81          85          89           93
Subtotal                                                                         1,972       2.052       2 139       2,228        2,3?1
Operating Expenses
Management and administration                                                        40          40          40          40           40
Labor                                                                    --         390         390         390         390          410
Water                                                0.40/hd                         14          15          16          17           18
Electricity                                          1.50/hd             --          54          56          59          61           63
Fuel Oil                                             0.50/hd             --          18          19          20          21           23
Miscellaneous                                                                        14          15          16          17           18
Salt for hides and skins                                                 --          75          79          82          85           88
Purchase for hides and skins
Cattle                                                 10               --         130         134         138         142          146
Calves                                                  5               --          30          31          32          33           34
Small stock                                             3                          225         236         248         260          273
Repais and maintenance L 3                                               -24                    240         240         240          240
Vehicle operating costs f                                                --           4           4           4           4            4
Subtotal                                                                     1,234                   1,285       1,310         1,357
Net Income Before Taxes                                                    -          738         793         854         918        __64
A1 Slaughter through put increases 3% for cattle and calves and 5% for smallstock per year from base year.
Delivery fees in Rials per carcass:  cattle 1.5, calves 1.0 and smallstock 0.7
X   Building 5% and 10% for equipment
20,000 km at 0.2 RLs per km
February 1976



APPRAISA-, OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Abattoir (Taiz and Hodeidah)
A2. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Unit   A         Unit Price            1            2            3            4            5           6-20
YRls           -------------------------_ YRl  '00 --___-_________________________
Revenues
Slaughter fees 1
Cattle                                                     10,000              32                 __           320         330           340        350           360
Calves                                                      5,000              20                 __           100         103           106        109           112
Small stock                                                40,ooo               8                 __           320         336           353         371          390
Sales of hides and skins
Cattle                                                                         19                 _19                     196            202        208           214
Calves                                                                         10                 --            50          52            54          56           58
Smallstock                                                                      6                 _240                     252           265  _      278          292
Dellvery Feest /3                                                                                                  148          50            52          54           56
Subtotal                                                    1                                                          1,319         1,372 1  1
Operating Expenses
Management and Adminislration                                                                        --            30          30            30          30           30
Labor L373                                                                                                                    373           373         373          373
Water                                                                       0.40/hd                  --             9           9            10          10           11
Electricity                                                                 l.0O/hd                  --            22          23            24          25           26
Fuel Oil                                                                    0.50/hd                  --            11          11            11          12           12
Miscellaneous                                                                  l/hd                  --            23          24            25          26           27
Salt for hides and skins                                                                             --            48          50            52          54           56
Purchase of hides and skins
Cattle                                                                         10                 --           100         103           106         109          112
Calves                                                                           5                --            25          26            27          28           29
Smallstock                                                                       3                --           120         126           132         139          146
Repairs and Maintenance                                 5% buildings                                 _             49          49            49          49           49
10% machinery & equipment                                 --             72         72             72          72           72
Subtotal                                                                                                    882         8 6           911         927          943
Net Income before taxes                                                                                             386         423           461         499          539
Li  Projected increase 3%/year for cattle and calves, 5% for smallstock.
2  Current fees are in kind, in form of head, hide, and offals.
3 Delivery fees in Rials per carcass: cattle 1.5, calves 1.0 and smallstock 0.7.
44 men at YRls 7,200 per annum.
/5 YRls 2.25/hd cattle, 1.10/hd calves, 0.50/hd. smallstock.
February 1976                                                                                                                                                                 x



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Retail Market
A3. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Unit          Unit Cost            1          2-20
Reavenues                                   --YRls---           ---YRls 000----
Annual Rent                 qm2            90/mo              -_           30
Subtotal                                                               30
Operating Expenses
Electricity                                                                26
Water                                                         --            2
Maintenance                                                   --            5
Administration A                        6,000/yr              --            6
Minor staff                             4,000/yr              --            4
Subtotal                                                               27
Net Income Before Taxes
/1   Administration costs prorated among markets
February 1976                                                                                       Hp?
FO



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Y4ENE AFAB REPUBLIC
B . Monicipal Abattoirs and Retail Markets
Cash Flow
YEAR
1         2         3         4                   6 6oo  ---   --                         10        11        12        13         14        15       16         17          18         19         20
ersh Inflow
Ilaoghnerhoosea /1                --      1,972     5,320     4,725     4,919     5,119     5,229     5,285     5,285     5,285     5,285      5,285     5,285     5,285     9,285     5,28s      5,285      5,285       5,285     5,285
Markets L                        --          76       121       166       166       166       I6;       if(,      i66       166       166        166       166       166       i66                  166        i66        i66        166
Ivestment
Government Grant/3              2,606     3,oo8     3 010        99        31       --        --        _         --        --        --         --        --
Snfbtot.l                     2.606     5.os6     6,451     4,990     516       5,285     5.395     5,451    5s451       5.451     5 451     5.451     5,451     5.451     5,451      5,45i     5.451      5,451       5.451      5,451
Cash Outflow                                                                      .
Operating Expenses                   --      1,292     2,234     3,354     3,399     3,475     3,500     3,516     3,516     3,516      3,516     3,516     3,516     3,516     3,516      3,516     3,516      3,516      3,516       3,516
Investments
Slaughterhose. Division           453       219       221        99        31        70        90        30       --         6o        70      1,107       867       777        --         70        30         30         --         --
Slaughterho.e..                 1,185     2,208     2,208       --        --        --        --        --        --        --        --         --        --
Markets                           968       581       581       --       _          --        --        --
Subtotal                      2,606     4,30      5,248     3,453     3,430     3,545     3.59      3,546     3,516     3.576     3,486      4,623     4,383     4,293     3.516      3.586     3,546      3.546      3,516       3,516
Bet Income                               0       L56    1,2 7      1,537     i.686     1,740    i,5        1,905        35     1,875      1,865       828         1,68      8     135        1,65       ,95       l,5         1,35       1,935
DepreciationL                          -       174       417       640       640       640       640       64o       640       640       640        640       64o       640       640        640       640        64o        640         6_o
Cash Flow for Rate of Return         2,606     2,252     1,803     1,428     1,655     1,740     1,805     1,905     1,935     1,875     1,865        828     1,068     1,158     1,935      1,865     1,905      1,905      1,935       1,935
1  Slaughterhouses - Sans., Thin, ad Hodeidah
Markets - Sanaa 70 stalls, Taiz 42 stalls, and Hodeidah 42 stalls.
Government contribution 40$ of investment.
Depreciation
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of ReLurn:  16%
Sensitivitv Tests
Investment Costs  +io%      14%
Operating Expensse  +10%    12%
Revenue            -10%      9%                                                                                                            tjs 



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Municipal Abattoir (Taiz and Hodeidah)
Dl. Investments
YEAR
1
Foreign                         F.E.
Investment Items                     Unit           Unit Cost            Local           Exchange            Total        Percent
--YRls---           ---------------YRls OOC --------------
Civil Works
Land Preparation                     lha                                 13                2                 15           10
Plant yards, fencing               750 m            150/m                79               34                113           30
Cattle and small stock pens        300 m2           300/mr2              63               27                 90           30
Main abattoir building             500 m2           goO/m2              135              315                450           70
Loading bays                       100 m2           700/M2               35               35                 70           50
Hide and skin shed                 150 m2           700/m2               42               63                105           60
Offices and aux. bldgs.            100 m2           700/m2               28               42                 70           60
Sewage treatment                   100 m2                                45               30                 75           4o
Subtotal                                                            M                -57 X9m
,Equipment
Potable water supply                                                     28              112                140           80
Boiler and pipes                                                          6               54                 60           90
Power lines and switches                                                 10               40                 50           80
Abattoir and Hide shed              15hd cattle/hr                       35               315               350           go
Equipment                           equivalent
Miscellaneous Small Equipment                                            10                90               100           90
Subtotal                                                             T               611                700
Vehicle L3
Other
Crating, freight,                   10%                                   7               63                 70           90
insurance
Installation                        20%                                  42               98                140           70
Engineering Fees                    10%                                  35              140                175           80
Subtotal                                                             7               301                385
Physical Contingencies                 5%                                  32               73                105           70
Total                                                                                                 249 1           70
Ll Covered medium size truck for delivering meat to markets
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Retail Meat Market (Sana'a, Taiz, and Hodeidah)
D2. Investments
YEAR
1
Foreign                      F.E.
Investment Items                         Unit            Unit Cost         Local           Exchange          Total      Percent
--YRls---        -----YRls'000  ------------
Civil Works                                 2                     2
Site Preparation                     500 m2                 3//m2            2               __               2         10
Central Yard                         210 mr2               50/m2             9                2              11         20
Meat Stalls (enclosed fronts)       28x 9m2               700/m2            70              106             176         60
Covered extensions                 28x4.5rm               300/m            19                19              38         50
Drains                                                                       3                3               6         50
Subtotal                                                               103               130             233
Equipment A
City water connection with over-
head water tank and chlorinator                                           16               29              45         65
Stainless steel sinks                                                        1                5               6         80
Concrete benches; terrazzo top
and tile front                                                             3               11              14         80
Hanging rail                                                                 1                1               2         50
Power connection                                                             2                8              10         80
Subtotal                                                              23                5               77
Other
Freight and Insurance                  l1%o                                  1                5               6         90
Installation                            20 o                                 2                6               8         70
Engineering fees                         0%o                                29                2              31         80
Subtotal                                                                32                13              75
Physical Contingencies                    10%                                 14               18               32        56
Total                                                                  172               215             3           56
1 XD
/1  Handtools, scale and small freezer financed through ACF -                                                            o 1  x
supervised credit to butchers.                                                                                     (   o
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LTVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECI
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Municipalities Slaughterhouse Headquarl era
Investnent and Recurrent Expenses
YEAh
1                      2                     3      YEAR           4                     5                      6
Unit     Foreign               Foreign                 Foreign               Foreign               Foreign                Foreign                           FPreign                   F.E.
lnit       Cost      Exchange   Total    Exchange    Total    Exchange   Total    Exchange   Total    Exchange   Total    Exchange   Total                   Local      Exchange    Total       Percent
---- - --- ----- -------- --- --- ----- -- - --- -- -- - -- ---- ---- - ------ --- --0--- -0-P1 s 0 0 - -- --- -- -- ----- - -- - - ----- -- --- ----- - --- -- - -- --- - --- -- -- - ---- - --- -- - -- --- -- - - -----
A. Investment Items
Eeadquarters
Office                      loom2       0.7          42         70                                                --          --               --                                           28          42          70         6o
Warehouse                    Coom2       0.          24         4o                                                 --         --               --                                            6          24          40         60
Car port                     60m2        0.3         11         18         --          --         --         --         --         --          __         __         __          __          7          11          18         6o
Fencing                     20Sm         0.2         24         4o         --          --                   4---        --         --                                            -          16          24          4o         6o
Equipment                    Set                     24         27         --          --                                                                                                    3          24          27         6o
Vehicles                        3         20         54         6o         --          --         --          -         54         6o          --         --         --          --         12         108         120         90
Subtotal                                         179        255                                     --     W               6      0                           -2 5                                   233         315
B. Recurrent Expenses 2
Director               Expatriate        225        M6g        225        169         225        169        225        169        225               --          --         --              224         676         900          75
Hides & Skins Spec.   Expatriate         225        i69        225        169         225         --         --                     --                                                     112         338         450          75
Clerk                  Yemeni             10                    10         --          10         __         20          --         20         --         20         --          20        100          --         100          --
Secretary              Yemeni              7         --          7                      7                     7                      7                     7                      7         42                      42
Co-Director            Yemeni             24                    24                     24                    24                     24                    24                     24        144                     144
Accountant             Yemeni             10                    10 10                   0 10                  0 10                   0 10                  0 o_                  10         6o          --           6o         --
Driver                 Ye-eni              6                    18         --          18         --         18                                          1i--                    18        108          --          108         --
Minor Staff            Yemeni              4          -          8                      8                     8                      S                     8                      8         48          --           48
Travel per diem  -3                                  -          39                     39                    30                     20                    10                     10        148          --          148         --
Fuel and Oil                   Ins       0.2         --         12         --          12         --         12          __         12         --         12          --         12         72                       72
Office Expense                 __         __         __         22         --          24                    25                     25         -25                    -          25        146          --          146         --
Maintenance                    --         --         --         12         --          12          --        12          --         12         --         12          --         12         72                       72
Subtotal                      X                             612                     9          99         391        143                                                              1,276        1,014       2,290
C. Training
Pl ant Managers  4             --         10         10         10         10          10         10         10          --         --         --         --         --          --         --           '0          30       1o0
Slaughter men                day          40         --          4         --          44         --          4          --          4         --         --          --         --         16          --           16         --
Inspection                     -          15                _       _      30                      30        30          30         30         30       -o           --          --         --         120          120       0lO
Subtotal                                          527                   78           5         209        VT         25         97           00        176         --                 1,374        1,397       2,771
Physical Contingency 5%        --         --         26        4W          19          33         10         22          13         24          1          9         --           7         69          70          139
Total                       --          --        553       925         397         6T9        213                                           31                    --          3 7                 1,462910
D. I1avestment Excluding nExpatriates                       199        44           43 i        13         42        021         g2         6           X         189          --        153                     4194
/1  Office furniture and office machines
2  Expatriate salaries inclo,de air travel, family allowances, relocation allowance, housing allowance, etc
Local salaries include stipend equivalent to that paid on FAO projects.
3  Per diem expatriates 80 rials per day and Yemenis 50 rials per day
4   3 months supplementary foreign training in Middle East/East Africa country in abattoir operation.
75  Per diem allowance for slaughtermnen from Talz and Hodeidah for 100 days training under technical expert at Sanaa.                                                                :x
6 months supplementary foreign training in Middle East/East African country with similar livestock and conditions.                                                                                                                      a
Februanry 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Supervised Credit
Landowner and Tenant Farmer Loans
1.        The Traditional Sector.  The nature and structure of the agriculture
sector have remained basically unchanged for centuries. A major constraint
to agricultural development is a deeply conservative rural population with
complex socio-economic and political institutions associated with the power
structure inherent in the centuries-old tribal society and resulting land
tenure arrangements. Agriculture remains almost entirely subsistence and
over 90% of the cropped area is devoted to sorghum, maize, and millet, yield-
ing an average 800 kg/ha. Less than 10% of the total cropped area is irri-
gated, mostly from spate flooding.
2.        Most agricultural land is privately owned.  Accordingly to the
area, between 5 and 15% is Waqf or state land. The percentage of the 3
types of farmers--owners, owner/tenants, tenants--varies considerably depend-
ing on locality. There are, however, a high percentage of tenant farmers,
most of whom farm small parcels of land varying from 0.3 to 6 ha. In some
cases individual holdings may be larger. Tenancies are on a year-to-year
basis but according to custom, security of tenure is more real than it ap-
pears. Government levies a 10% production tax (Zakat) on agricultural crops.
(Each party pays his own Zakat according to the proportion of crop production
received). The most frequent crop sharing pattern is 50% to the landowner
with the latter's share increasing up to 75% in the case of investment in ir-
rigation and tree crops. Usually, the tenant bears all costs of agricultural
inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, labor and draft power, although the owner
may share seasonal labor costs, and the share of other costs may be adjusted
to the proportion of the crop each party receives. Use of modern production
inputs is negligible. Farmers, however, are industrious and given the con-
straints of their resources, skilled. Farmers are prepared to accept new
methods provided their value has been clearly demonstrated. Except for the
excellent system of soil conservation and preserving rainfall for productive
use the level of agricultural technology is low.
3.        Livestock are largely geared to meet the needs of agricultural pro-
duction which relies almost entirely on animal power, and to rural transport
requirements which are still best supplied by camels and donkeys. Production
is low; about 250 kg milk/lactation every 2 years; 0.5-1 kg poor quality
wool (from the wool sheep); low calving rates; slow growth rates, and high
mortality from disease and parasites. Sheep and goat reproduction rates from
2 breeding seasons, are said to be as high as 200% but severe mortality



ANNEX 7
Page 2
amongst lambs due to disease, parasites, and unreliable feed supplies, great-
ly reduces this high potential production. Poultry exist entirely as
scavengers and are seldom fed; egg production would not exceed 30-40/year
and disease is rampant. Livestock are grazed on usually overgrazed village
communal rangelands. Sorghum and millet stover are preserved for use as dry
season feed. Lucerne is grown over a wide area but only where water and sub-
sistence is reliable. An important feature of animal husbandry is the care
and attention devoted to draft animals which receive priority treatment and
are usually in good condition. The main constraints to increasing livestock
production can be summarized as follows:
(a) widespread disease and parasite problems
(b) low agricultural crop production which prevents farmers from
actively pursuing livestock production safe from the risk of
being caught with inadequate food for family requirements
(c) inadequate and unreliable feed supplies
(d) lack of adequate water
(e) absence of seasonal and long-term credit for programs designed
to increase livestock production
(f) lack of trained extension services
4.        The Project.  The Project Unit in cooperation with ACF would com-
mence a supervised credit program to assist small sheep, goat, and dairy
farmers, and introduce small-scale commercial poultry production in the tra-
ditional sector. Recognizing that livestock production cannot be treated in
isolation in a subsistence agriculture the proposed credit program would be
an integrated package involving:
(a) provision of adequate water for irrigation by way of tube or
dug wells;
(b) increased agricultural crop production by introduction of
improved seed varieties, proper chemical fertilizer and
pest control, diversification into high yielding crops such as
maize, and the introduction on a regular basis, of a legume
into the rotation;
(c) provision of reliable, quality animal forage by the introduc-
tion of lucerne into a permanent crop rotation;
(d) the supply of improved dairy cows, whilst at the same time
recognizing the need to maintain the local zebu breed for
draft purposes;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(e)  the integration of milk production with an organized marketing
system;
(f)  the further strengthening of on-farm economy by the introduc-
tion of quick yielding investments in the form of small-scale
poultry production with improved breeds and a back-up supply of
prepared balanced rations; and
(g) the provision of back-up technical and extension services.
5.        On-Farm Development.  The project would assist participating land-
owners, either individually or as groups to install tube or dug wells and as-
sociated irrigation works to provide reliable irrigation for tenants. These
loans would be made in conjunction with tenant farmer loans for seasonal crop
inputs, animal health control expenses, and improved dairy cows. Thus a
joint development approach using the existing pattern of landholdings and
preserving the local social structure would result. An area of 20 ha held
by one landowner and operated by 8 tenant farmers each with 2.5 ha of pro-
ductive land has been selected as a model. Most farmers keep 1-3 cows, the
main purpose of which is to provide a continuing supply of draft oxen and
some milk and meat. In addition a small mixed flock of sheep and goats is
usually kept. Priority for the usually inadequate forage supplies is given
first to the oxen and secondly to the milking cows. Sorghum is the only
crop grown. Although the model development program is centered around dairy,
poultry, and sheep/goat production, flexibility would be exercised so that
cattle fattening loans could be made where it was shown to be technically
and economically viable. Each 2.5 ha units would maintain 1 ha of sorghum,
but introduce 1 ha of maize and 1/2 ha of lucerne. Improved seeds, fertil-
izer, pest control and provision of reliable irrigation water, would be part
of the technological package involving the integration of agricultural and
livestock production. Using the farmer's skills in feeding and handling
cattle, two improved dairy cows would be introduced. One local cow and
bull/oxen would be retained, as the objective of introducing new breeds would
be to improve meat and milk supply and not change the draft power cattle.
At the same time a full animal health control program and improved nutrition
would result in substantially increased production from the sheep and goat
flock.
6.        Project Production.  Pre-project grain production of about 2.25
tons would be maintained on the reduced area of 1 ha. In addition, 3.5 tons
of maize, 40 tons of green lucerne forage, and 6-7 tons of maize stover would
be produced. Production increases would be phased over a 3 year period (see
Tables 4-6, Appendix 1, Annex 7). Milk production would increase from a
pre-project level of about 250 litres to 4,500 litres from 2 improved and
1 local cow. Pre-project sheep/goat numbers are assumed to be about 18, in-
cluding 11 mature animals. Over a 5-year period, the flock on hand would in-
crease to 25, including 11 mature animals. Of these 8, or 73% would be breed-
ing ewes, compared to 45% pre-project. Annual sales would increase from 3 to
12 over a 5 year period. Incremental meat production would be about 400 kg/o
annum (see Table 7).



ANNEX 7
Page 4
7.        Investment and Credit Program.  Total landowner investment is shown
in Table ID.  Subloan repayment (80% of total investment) would commence at
the end of Year 3 and be completed over a 4-year period. Subloan agreements
and development plans would require the landowner to guarantee the tenant
loan and tenancy for at least the period of the loan. This would mean that
each group of tenants jointly and severally guaranteed each loan and the
annual repayments. Furthermore, LDC in conjunction with ACF would examine the
feasibility of establishing an insurance fund to which all borrower would
automatically contribute and which would specifically cover the improved cows
and poultry during the period of loan repayment. All loans would be channel-
led through ACF which would be assisted by the PU in the preparation of farm
development plans, and in providing back up technical support and loan super-
vision. Over a 6 year period about 24 landowner loans and some 375 tenants
loans for livestock would be made. A further 500 loans would be made for
poultry. Each tenant would invest over a two year period of which 20% would
be his contribution and 80% would be provided by long-term ACE loan at   %
interest. Included would be provisions for incremental working capital.
Subloan repayment would commence at the end of Year 4 and be completed over
a 4 year period for a term of 8 years.
8.        Net Income and Cash Flow.  Landowner pre-project net income after
payment of Zakat is shown in Table IA. Full development would be in Year 3,
and loan repayment completed in Year 6. The financial rate of return would
be about 30%. After payment of Zakat, increased rental, and non-family labor,
maximum post-development net income would be achieved in Year 6. Furthermore,
this increase in net income would be after allowance for about five times in-
crease in the value of family subsistence. During the first three years net
cash flow is zero although family subsistence would increase about five times.
Loan repayment would be completed in Year 8 after a 4 year grace period. Fi-
nancial rate of return is estimated to be 25%. See Table 4 and Table 5 of
Appendix 1 for details of operating income and projected cash flow.
Smallholder Egg Production
9.        The Project.  The productivity of village poultry is low in the
Yemen, the birds producing an estimated 30 eggs per year. The potential
exists for increasing yields five-fold by introducing improved breeds, provid-
ing access to feed, and the application of husbandry practices. As a begin-
ning, it is proposed to finance 500 flocks of 50 birds each over a four year
period in the region of Taiz. The ouitput from such a flock, after due allow-
ance for losses, would be a net cash income per year as shown in Appendix 2,
Table 1, in addition to the estimated value of family consumption shown.
This represents a significant addition to smallholder income and nutrition.
The farmer would purchase three week old chicks fully vaccinated, from Taiz,
and feed them for approximately 17 weeks, when they would commence laying.
Egg production is estimated at 180 eggs per bird; as well as an edible carcass
after 70 weeks. Feed would be purchased from the feed mill at Taiz, and would
be delivered periodically. Extension training would be given in poultry man-
agement, with emphasis on health aspects, and feeding rates.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
10.       Loan Requirements.  The investment per smallholder would comprise
poultry houses and equipment as well as an initial "feed bank" to cover the
period before pullets begin to lay (Table 3). A seven year loan would be
e.  nded, amounting to 80% of investment commencing in the second year.  Re-
turii on investment is estimated at 17%. It is estimated that the number of
loans taken up over four years would be 60, 100, 150 and 190.
Butcher Shop Improvement Loan
11.       Financing under the project of retail meat markets (Annex 6), makes
it desirable that provision be made for associated small loans to butchers
who would rent stalls in such markets. The investment per butcher is shown
in Table 3, of which a freezer unit would be a major item. A loan of 80% in-
vestment would be extended for three years. It is contemplated that 84 such
loans would be made. The purpose of the freezer unit is to enable the vendor
to carry over unsold meat until the following day in good condition. The
present system is for unsold meat to be resold to other vendors who sell the
spoiled portions at reduced prices. The balance of the loan is for tools
of the trade. Eventually it is expected that use of freezers arLd adequate
tools of the trade will be general in the retailing of meat (including poul-
try) and fish, and that these loans will encourage that trend.



AMOEX 7
Appendix 1
APPRAISAL OF                         Table l
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Traditional Sector Livestock Developmert
Model: Lando-.ner (rrigated)
A. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Before
Development         1          2          3-20
---------YRls'000-----------
Revenue
Rental                   7.2             34.7       53.2          4
Subtotal                    7.2             34.7       53.        59,4
Operating Expenses
Tax - Zakat A            0.7              1.7        2.7        3.0
Fuel and Oil              --              8.0        8.0        8..
Pump Operator             --              5.0        5.0        5.0
Maintenance
- Pamp                                 --        1.0        L.-  4
- Irrigation Works  --                --         1.3       1.3
Subtotal                    0.7             1.7        21.0       21.3
Net Income                   6.5             20.0       32.4        38.1
1  Tax charged at 10% (non-irrigated 'before development' thereafter
5% - punp irrigated rate, tenant pay own tax on their share of crop
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
YEAR
1      2       3      4       5       6      7       5-12       13       14-18       iS       20
Cash Inflow
Revenue                    34.7   53.11   59.4  59.4             59.4 59.4   59.4          59.4      59.1       59.4    59.4
r-.an - Long Term          89.o-         - -       -----                       --       --        -- -_
Owners Cantribution    22.0---- -- -                                              --    --    --                 --   --
Subtotal                      145.7  35717   59.11 95         59.h   597   5-9.       9557     59.4       7197      3597     3597
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses         14.7   21.0   21.3  21.3    21.3   21.3   21.3    21.3          21.3      21.3       21.3    21.3
Investment                111.0    --      --    --       --      --    i6.5       --      16.5       --        16.5      --
Debt Sevi-e
Interest - Long Ter       --     8       8     6.02     4.3    2.3    --        __        __        __         __       __
Loan Repayment
- Long Term    --      --    19.4  21.2    23.1   03.1    --          --        --        --         --       --
Subtotal                      125.7 279.0   W87  17    7 1;7                37.       21.3      37.8      695       3-7.     21.3
Cash Flow                       20.0   14.4   10.7  10.7    10.7   10,6   21.6    36.1          21.6      38.1       21.6    38.1
Net Cash Flow Rate of
Return                       (97 5)  25.9   31.6   1.6    31.6 31.6   15.1    31.6               1      316        15.1    31.6
C.  Prolcited Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:                  30%
Sensitivity tests
Investment Costs      -106:                26%
OperatinE Expenses   -10%:                 27%
Revene                 -10i:               23%n
D. Investments
YEAR 1
Foreign                   Foreign
lnit Cost      No. of Units       Total Cost        Local       Exchange      T^tal       Exchange 6
------- --------- --- -- -- - -------- -- - ---- ---Y Rl s000 --------------
Tubewell and pump complete            PO              1                 80               16           64           80           8o
Irrigation Works                      26              1                 26               23            3           26           10
Subtotal                                                              960               39    s i                1o6 6S
Physical Contingency 5%                                                   5               2            3            5
Total                                                                  111               41           70          111
Basic Assumptions
Total Productive Area (excluding building) - 20 ha
Number of Tenants                             -  a
Before Development - Rain-fed or ocasonable spate flC    _
After Devel.pment - Tube or D.g vell and chan-e  irrigation
Febraary 1076



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Traditional Sector Livestock Development
Model: Tenant Farmer-Dairy - Sheep
A. Projected Income Statement
YEARS
Before
Development                  1               2                3                4                 5                 6-20
------------------------------------   YRls-------------------   .-.--    -    -      -    -
Revenue
Milk /1                          150                      1200            1410             4815             5940              5940                5940
Livestock                        690                       690            3880             4900             6585              6715                6715
Grain and Fodder /2             2700                      8680           13360            14860            14860             14860               14860
Other Produce  3                 100                       150             150              150              150               150                 150
Subtotal                      3640                    10720            1TRii            24725            27535             27665
Operating Expenses
Tax - Zakat  4                   270                       434             668              743              743               743                 743
Rental /5                        900                      4340            6680             7430             7430              7430                7430
Crop Production Costs
Fertilizer, insecticide /6      --                       550             550              550              550               550                 550
Non-family labor /7             90                       180             270              270              270               270                 270
Seed /                         150                       170             170              170              170               170                 170
Packing Costs 19                34                        66              75               84               84                84                  84
Livestock Feed /i                 --                      4000            8000             8000             8000              8000                8000
Animal Health /1--                                         135             135              145              145               145                 145
Livestock Purchase                --                       --              250              --               --
Family Consumption /12
Milk                           150                       547             547              825             1095              1095                1095
Grain                         1356                      1440            1512             1584             1584              1584                1584
Meat                           6                         760              900             900             1035              1380                1380
Subtotal                       3640                     12622           19757            20701            21106             21451               21451
Net Income                           --                     (1902)            957)            4024             6429              6214                6214
g Includes value of family consumption, YRls 1.5 litre
Gross value of total crop production excluding maize and sorghum stover, assumes total crop residues fed to livestock
Eggs, milk, cheese, wool, vegetables
'Before Development'  (non-irrigated) calculated at 10%, thereafter at 5% (pump-irrigated); assumed livestock would not
attract tax, assessment only on gross value of grain and fodder crops; assume landlord and tenant pay tax
individually on proportionate share of crop
/5 'Before Development' calculated at 33.3% of value of grain and fodder crop production, thereafter at 50%.
Assume full utilization of forage crops for livestock and in lieu of proportion of fodder owner paid in cash
/6 Assume average application of 100 kg NPK compound/ha/annum, cost YRls 180/ha, insecticide including Lucerne allowed
at YRls 40/ha/annum.
/_-'Before Development' includes 3 men for 3 days at YRls 10/man-day, subsequent allowance increasing to 27 man-days/annum
'Before Development' 50kg/ha/YRls 1.2 kg, subsequent allowance Sorghum YRls 60/ha, maize 60/ha, Lucerne average 100/ha/annum
Allow for sacks at YRls 15/1000 kg grain
Opportunity cost of green lucerne production
Allow YRls 15 head for cattle and YRls 5 for sheep, includes salt and minerals
Assumes family size of 6, 'Before Development' milk consumption 100 litres/annum rising to 730 litres, grain 190 kg per capita
consumption rising to 220 kgjfresh meat consumption doubling, no account taken of family vegetable and fruit production
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Traditional Sector Livestock Development
Model: Tenant Farmer Dairy - Sheep
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
YEAR
1         2         3          4         5         6         7          8        9-19         20
-----------------------------------------------YRls'0O--------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                      10.7      i8.8       24.7      27.5       27.7      27.7       27.7      27.7       27.7      27.7
Loan - Long Term              9.5       7.0        --        --         --        --         --        --         -- --
Tenant Contribution (20%)    2.4        1.4        --        --                    _         __        _ 
Subtotal                   22.6      27.2       2T .7     27.5       27.7      27.7       27.7      27.7       27.7      27.7
Cash Cutflow
Operating Expenses           12.6      19.8       20.7      21.1       21.4      21.5       21.5      21.5       21.5       21.5
Investment                   10.0       6.3        --        --         --        --         --         --        --         --
Debt Service
Interest - Long Term        --        1.4        1.4       1.4        1.1       0.8        0.4       --         --
Loan Repayment
- Long Term       --         --        --         3.6       3.9        4.3       4.7        --                   _
Subtotal                   22.6      27.5       22.1      26.1      g75                             21.5       2f1        21.5
Cash Flow j                        --         --        2.2       1.4        1.2       1.1        1.1        6.2       6.2        6.2
Net Residual Value of Livestock         --         --        --         --        --         --              --        --        11.4
Net Cash Flow Rate of Return    (11.9)       (8.4)      4.0       6.4        6.3       6.2        6.2        6.2       6.2       17.6
A1  Operating expenses include full allowance on arn increasing scale, for family subsistence.
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:            25%
Sensitivity tests
Investment Costs    +-1%             23%
Operating Expenses  +10%             14%
Revenue              -10%           12%
February 1976
.Dx
F J



APPRAISAL CF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PRCCESSINO PRCJECT
YE4EN; ARAB REPUBLIC
Traditional Sector Livestock Development
Model: Tenant Farmer Dairy - Sheep
D. InvestmentoJ
YEAR
12
Unit         Foreign                        Foreign                       Number of                       Foreign                           Foreign
Investment Items                                           Unit          Cost         Exchange         Total         Exchange          Total         Units            Local         Exchange           Total         Exchange %
------------------------------------------------------YRls ------------------                              ------------ YR1S-----------------
Lucerne Establishment A                                 ha            830            290             415             --              --           0.5               125            290               415            70
Maize  lst Crop /2                                       ha           610             550            610             __              --              1               60            550               610
Cattle - Improved Cow                                  head        6,ooo           5,400          6,ooU            5,400          6,000             2             1,200         10,o0O            ta,0090
Sundry - bucket, milk can, strainer,
hand spray outfit, vet requisites
and medicines                                  set        1,000             goo          1,000                             --              1              100            goo            1,000              90
Building - milk shed, water trough,
small yard and fence                          unit        1.500             300         1,500               --                             1              2              3000             150              20
Subtotal                                                                                     99 5,                                                                         12,      ol0  15,525                 83
Physical Contingency - 5%                                                            370             475             270             300                            135            640               775            83
Ir,crement-l w-rkina casital                                                                        900             -2,10C                                        4=l             --1
sDtal Investment                                                                  ',810         11,900            s,670          8,400                          6,820        '2,480             20,00A
 1 Seed 300 Fertilizer 680, custom labor 150
2    Seed 110, Fertilizer 460, pesticide 40
Basic Assumptions
Total area = 2.5 ha productive land (0.2-0.3 ha Homeste9d vegetables and fruits not include
Before development = 2 ha sorghum grain - rain fed, rental 33.3% of crop production
After development = 1 ha sorghum, 1 ha maize, 0.5 ha lucerne - Tube or dug well irrigation to supplement existing
source for 2.5 ha.  Rental 50% -f crop production
Crop Production
Before
Development                    Year 1             Year 2-20              Year 3-20
Maize
Yield                      kg/ha                                                     3000                3200                     3500
Area                          ha                         --                              1                   1                       1
Volume                        kg                         --                          3000                3200                     3500
Gross Value                YRls/kg                       --                          3000                3200                     3500
Lucerne
Yvied                      kg/hb   ()                    -                          40000               80000                    80000
Area                          ha                         -.F                                                 0.5                     0.5
Volume                        kg                                                    20000               40000                    40000
Gross Value                YRls 0.25/kg                  --                          40oo                8000                     80o0
Sorghum
Yield                      kg/ha                         900                          1400               1800                     2100
Area                          ha                           2.5                           1                   1                       1
Volume                        kg                        2250                         1400                1800                     2100
Gross Value                YR:s 1.2/kg                  2700                         1680                 2160                    3360
February 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 5
APPRATSAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDTEi AID PROCESSING REPORT
EMEAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Tenant Farner-Dairy Sheep
E.  Herd and Flock Projections
END SF YEAR
Before
Development                 1                 2                  3                 4                 5-20
----~~  ~~-- -- - - - --- - - - - - - - - _   HEAD ---_-__-__-_--_--_--_-__-__-_--_--_--_-__-__-_--_--_-
A.   Herd Projection
Herd Composition
Bulis /1                       1                       1                 1                  1                 1                   1
Cows /2                                                3                  3                 33
Cslves                         1                       1                 3                  2                 2                   2
Heifers - 1-.' years          --                      --                --                  1                 1                   1
- 2-3 years          --                      --                --                --                  1                  1
Steers - 1-2 years            __                       1                  1                 1                -_                  -_
TotalS Head                    T                                                           X7                                   7
Total Ar<nsl  mite                  3                       5                 5                 6                  6                  6
Deaths
Cnsss                          1                      -                  --                                   --
Steers                        --
T'tal Deaths                      1                     --                 --                --                --                  --
Purchases
Heifer 3 year (in-calf)       --                       1                 1                 --                =                   --
Total Purchases                 --                       1                 1                 --                --                  --
Soles
Cullcows                      --                      --                 1                  1                --                   1
SteerS 24 mths                --                      --                 1                  1                 1                 __
Steers 12 mths                --                      --                --                 --                 1                   1
Total Sales                                             2-                  2                 2                 2                   2
B.   Flock Projection
Basms  3                            2                       2                 1                 1                  1                  1
Ewes                                5                       6                 7                 8                  8                  8
Lamb                                7                       8                10                12                14                  14
Hogget- female                      2                       2                 3                                    _2                 2
-male                      2                       2
T tal Flock                     12                      20                24                 2                 25
Tctal Anima    Units /4             2                       2                 3                 2                  2                  2
Deaths
Rams                            --                      --                 --                --                --                  --
Ewes                              1                      1                  1                 1                 1                   1
Lambs                            2                       2                  2                 1                 1                   1
goggets - male                  --                      --                 --                --                --                  --
- female                --                     -                 -
Tsta  D-aths                        3                       3                 3                 2                  2                  2
mrachases
Ewes                             _-                     --                  1                -                  --
Total Purchases                    --                                         1         _ _               _ _                __
Soiles
Rams                                                                        1                --                --                  --
oll Ewes                          1                      1                  1                 1                 2                   1
Hoggeta - male                    2                      2                  2                 3                --                  -_
Lamb                            -_                      --                --                  6                 9                 11
Total Sales                         3                       3                                  10                11                  12
C.  Technical Co-efficients /5
Weain.g Rote - Calves              50                      66                70                80                80                  8o
- Lambs /          140                     150               150               175               175                *175
M-rtality - Adult Cattle           15                      10                 4                 4                  4                  4
-Adult Sheep           10                       8                 5                  5                 5                  5
-Lambs                 25                      20                15                10                 10                 10
Milk Yield per cow-Litres /L  250                         500               800              1000              1000               1800
/    Local bred zecb  bull, improved cows served by Livestock Development Corparatian belle
Fram Year 3 onwards 2 improved cows 1 local zebu, latter cow replaced as required by
purchase and sale in same year
Rams replaced every 3-4 years by swapping with neighbors
/    Assne 5 adult sheep = 1 AU
Because of small numbers Technical Co-efficient cbanges may not be precisely reflected in herd
and flock projections, projected improvements consequence of better nutrition and disease and pest control
6   Fars repeatedly report 200% reproductive rate/annum  in sheep and goats; co-efficient changes reflect astiepated improvement in survival rate
E Assumes 1-cal css production improves to 500 litres/annum, improved cow up to 2500 litre/annum, year 5 onwards
From Year 2 onward total annual dry matter forage sUpplV estimated at about 16000 kg (60% Lucerne), annual IL requirements,  from  Year 3
on assumed as follows:  Cattle - 2 improved cavs --               --    6600
1 improved 1 yr. heifer  --    1500
1 improved 2 yr. heifer  --    3000
1 local caw                 --    2500
1 local bull                --    2500
2 salves - 3-12 months   --    1600
Subtotal                 17700
Sheep    9 Breeding ewes & rams               500    -_  4500
2 Female Hoggets                    300    --   600
14 Lambs                             100     --  1400
Subtotal                               6500
Total Annual DM Requirements -- 2,4200
Balance of forage requirements obtained from communal gracing and some purchase of sorghum stover
February 1976



ANNEX 7
Appendix 2
APPRAISAL OF                             Table 1
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Smallholder Egg Production
A. Projected Income Statement
YEAR
Unit    Unit Cost          1        2-20
Revenue /1                                      YRls         --Rla4-.
Eggs                               each         0.5         2,160       4,320
Old hens                           each        12.0            --         552
Subtotal                                                 2,160       4,872
Operating Expenses
Purchase of 3 week old chicks    each           4.0           240         240
Feed                                 kg         1.1         1,748       2,769
Health costs                       head         1.5            77          77
Family consumption /2                                          75         384
Repairs and maintenance /3         10%                         --         300
Zakat                               5%                        130         244
Subtotal                                                 2,270       4,014
Net Income After Taxes                                         (110)        858
/1 Sold direct in local markets.
/2 Family of six consumes 12 eggs per week and 6 birds per year.
/3 On investment of YRls. 3,000 for chicken houses, troughs, and buckets.
Technical Coefficients
Egg Production: 180 per bird per year based on average of 48 layers.
Feed rates: pullets -- 11.4 kg over 17 weeks
layers -- 36.4 kg over 52 weeks
Mortality: pullets 5%
layers 20%
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Smallholder Egg Production
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
YEAR
1       2         3        4         5        6         7        8-20
--------------------------- YRls -------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Revenue                         2,160   4,872    4,872    4,872    4,872    4,872    4,872   4,872
Equity                            800      --        --       --        --       --        --       --
Loan                            3,200      --        --       --        --       --        --       --
Subtotal                    6,160   4,872    4,872    4,872    4,872    4,872    4,872   4,872
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses              2,270   4,014    4,014    4,014    4,014    4,014    4,014   4,014
Investments                     4,000      --       --        --        --       --        --       --
Debt Service:
Principal                       ---     469      511       557       607      662       394      __
Interest /1                     144     288      246       200       150       95        35      --
Subtotal                 6,414   4,771    4,771    4,771    4,771    4,771    4,443   4,014
Net Cash Flow                           538     101       101       101      101       101       429     858
Cash Flow for Rate of Return         (4,110)    858       858       858      858       858       858     858
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return             
nrtz
Financial Rate of Return:          17%                                X   x
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs      + 10%:       15%                                  N
Operating Expenses   + 10%:         6%
Revenue               - 10%:        4%
Li Interest 9%.
July 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Smallholder Egg Production
D. Investment
YEAR
1
Foreign                     F.E.
Investment Items               Unit         Unit Cost         Local         Exchange        -Tzt        Percent
--YRs ---               ------ YPIS -----------
Poultry Houses Ll               36 m2          75/mr2          1,350          1,350            2,700      50
M'iscellaneous L2                                                 270             20             300       90
Incremental Working
Capit 1 L3                                                   1 000              -           1 000       --
Total                                                    2,620          1,38C0m                     --
,- Dhen wall with metal roof.  Separate housing for layers and pullets.  Provide 0.4 m  per layer
ar0.2 m2 per pullet.
/2 Feedirg troughs, and buckets.
TI finance initial 5 months operation before egg production commences.
February 1976
Fd
O DM
(D D X



APPRAISAL OF
A LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Butcher Shop Improvement
A. Projected Income Statement
Unit       Unit         Before Development         Unit       After Development
Unit       Cost    Total Units   Total Cost        Cost    Total Units   Total Cost
YRls
Revenue
Sale of beef                  kg          14      10,800         151,200         14        14,400        201,600
Sale of mutton                kg          18       9,000         162,000         18        12,600        226,800
Subtotal                                                      313,200                                 428,400
Operating Expenses
Rent                         p/month                                  360        90            12          1,080
Labor   /1                                                        14,400                                  18,000
Electricity                                                            l                                     720
Maintenance of equipment                                              100         20%                         767
Purchases
Beef                        kg          13      10,800         140,400         13        14,400        187,200
Mutton                      kg          17       9,000         153,000         17        12,600        214,200
Subtotal                                                      308,260                                 421,967
Net Income /2                                                         4,940                                   6,433
/1 Chief butcher 7,200 yr; assistants 3,600 yr
/2 Free limit for taxes on profits is YRls 7,500 yr.
February 1976                                   
m11A



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Butcher Shop Improvemnet
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
YEAR
1        2        3      4-20      5     6-9       10       11-14    15       20
Cash Flow                   ----------------------------------YRls'OOO -----------------------------------
Revenue                  428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4   428.4
Equity    20%              0.8    --       --       --       --      --       --       --       --      --
Loan                       3.0    --       --       --       --                                 --      --
Subtotal            432.2   727.;   _2___   12-ST   727.T   12-TT   72B7    420.4   1277    428.4
Cash Outflow
Operating expenses       422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0   422.0
Investments                3.8    --       --       __        2.5    --        2.5    --         2.5    --
Debt Service
Principal              --        3.0    --       --       --      --       --       --               __
Interest 9%             0.2     0.3    --        --      -_       __       __       __      __       __
Subtotal             26.0   425.3  1422.0   422.0  1424.5.5122.0   7I7T   422.0    24.5  1422.0
Net Cash Flow                  6.2     3.1      6.4     6.4      3.9      6.4     3.9      6.4      3.9      6.4
Cash Flow for Rate of
Return
New Investment         (3.8)   --       --       --        --     --        --      __
Incremental Income      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5
Replacements            --      --      --                (2.5)   --       (2.5)   --        (2.5)   __
Net Benefit Stream  (2.3)    1.5       1.5      1.5     1.0      1.5    (I-0h)    15    (I-0)    1.5
C. Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:  53f
L    Net income is based on incremental net income from project = YRls 1,473/year.
February 1976
(D Pa A
M x 
ro



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Butcher Shop Improvement
D. Investments
YEAR
_        ~~~1
Foreign                  F.E.
Investment Items                                                   Local      Exchange        Total    Percent
---------YRls -     ---- --------
Meat cutting table                                                22        198            220         90
Pan scales                                                        31         279           310         go
Set of knives, cleavers, and saws                                 25        225            250         90
Flat trays                                                        18         162           180         90
Protective cl9ihing                                               17        158            175         go
Freezer unit                                                     250      2,250          2 500         90
Subtotal                                                    3        3,272          3
Thysical Contingencies 5%                                            18         165            183        90
Total                                                       3        3,437           ,3
/A 1.3 cubic meter selfcontained freezer box for storing perishable products from one day to next
February 1976                                                                                                   f|3



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Animal Health
1.        BACKGROUND.  Until recent years there were no trained veterinarians
and no animal health control service in YAR. Inadequate control of animal
disease is a severe constraint on the development of the livestock subsector.
Almost all the important major diseases and animal parasites are thought to
be present in greater or less degree. Epidemic diseases, such as rinderpest
and newcastle disease, periodically devastate the ruminant and poultry popula-
tions, respectively. A wide range of endemic diseases, including parasite
infestations, pox and skin diseases, and foot and mouth disease, result in
high livestock mortality and general economic loss. Disease and parasites
greatly compound the effects of inadequate nutrition and the ravages of
drought (and vice versa). Improved road communication has resulted in more
speedy movement of livestock throughout the country thereby increasing the
possibility for rapid spread of epidemic diseases, such as rinderpest. With-
out quarantine facilities and adequate staff, increasing imports of live
animals from neighboring African countries presents a continuing danger.
2.        In 1972, under a bilateral aid agreement with U.K. technical assist-
ance (ODM), a small veterinary team was established in the Ministry of Agri-
culture to investigate the animal disease position and to form the basis of
a national animal health service. A small diagnostic laboratory is operated
in Sana' and limited vaccination and curative campaigns have been undertaken.
Farmer response to the services has been encouraging. The current ODM pro-
fessional team of two veterinarians and one diagnostic officer together with
Yemeni counterparts and supporting staff is not ony unable to cDpe with cur-
rent demands but is inadequate in terms of providing the basis of a worth-
while animal health service. Under a new agreement the ODM Veterinary project
is to be substantially expanded. The Livestock Credit and Processing Project
proposes to assist with further essential expansion.
3.        The Project.  Over a six year development period, it is proposed to
finance the facilities and staffing required by the Directorate of Animal
Health to establish a small but comprehensive field service, backed by ade-
quate diagnostic facilities and veterinary investigation staff. A small head-
quarters exists and both the Director of Animal Health and the project manager
(ODM) have been appointed. These officials would be responsible for the
strengthening of the administrative framework of the Directorate, and for
advising on policy and planning including the drafting of appropriate animal
health control regulations. They would also supervise the construction and be
responsible for organizing both in-country and overseas training of veterinar-
ians and veterinary assistants. Diagnostic laboratory facilities in Sana'a



ANNEX 8
Page 2
would be enlarged and an animal clinic, stores and garages built. Three re-
gional veterinary centers with offices, stores and associated buildings would
be established in Taiz, Sana'a, and Hodeidah. These would be headed by three
senior veterinarians (two ODM, one Project financed) and assisted by five
associate experts, and Yemeni counterparts and assistants. A cadre of vet-
erinary scouts would be trained to undertake field assignments. The centers,
including the diagnostic laboratory would be fully equipped with veterinary
supplies, vaccines, veterinary equipment, and vehicles, including 4-wheel
drive (complete with field equipment) and motorcycles. In addition to the
primary duties of regional disease control, the centers would provide vete-
rinary services to project-related enterprises including the livestock
finishing farm, dairy farms and associated milk colonies, range improve-
ment centers, village development associations, and the poultry complex.
To reduce the danger of importing contagious disease, a quarantine station
would be built at Hodeidah, the principal port. It would be small and un-
sophisticated, but capable of expansion at the appropriate time.
4.        Management and Training.  The leader of the U.K. aid team would
act as project director for five years, the projected period of current ODM
commitment. He would, along with the Director of Animal Heath, coordinate
with the project manager on all project related matters. From year five the
Director of Animal Health would be a fully trained Yemen veterinarian who
would assume control of the animal health subproject. Funds for training
counterpart personnel would constitute a most important aspect. During early
years, the high ratio of expatriate support would facilitate in-service train-
ing. A full-time expatriate training officer would be provided for a period
of five years. Furthermore, the UNDP/FAO training school at Taiz, which is
already assisting SURDUP, has agreed to introduce an animal health and husban-
dry course suitable for veterinary assistants and scouts. The Project
Manager would assist with preparation of a suitable curriculum, and in addi-
tion to direct project financial assistance; the Regional Veterinary Officer,
and the SURDUP Veterinarian and Livestock Production Specialist, would assist
with course implementation. Furthermore, overseas training would be provided
as follows:
(a) subject to final approval of the Project Manager and Director
of Animal Health, three graduate veterinarians would complete
one-year graduate courses in veterinary medicine;
(b) a total of 36 man-years in a full six-year veterinary medicine
course would be provided. By project Year Six, four graduates
would be available followed by an additional four over the next
five years;
(c) following successful completion of two years in-service training,
twenty veterinary assistants would undertake six-month courses
in disease control measures and field practice in Syria, the
Sudan or Egypt.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Flexibility would be maintained in regard to the number undertaking graduate
and post-graduate training. Because of the urgent need for trained Yemen
staff, greater emphasis may be placed on sub-professional overseas study
(2-3 years). More sophisticated study and training could be introduced at a
later stage when it is likely to be of more value to the country. At the
end of the six year disbursement period, Yemen personnel would have assumed
the positions previously held by expatriates, with the exception of one
veterinary officer and two laboratory technicians.
5.        Cost Estimates.  Full details set out in Tables 1 and 2 are sum-
marized as follows:



APPRAI SAL OF
LIVE3ST25K CRE3DIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Animal Health Division
A. ODM Bilateral Programsl
Budget provided in Sterling and converted at YBis 8 to 1 Pound Sterling
1                     2                      3                       6 4                   7                 6                     T   0   T   A   L
F.E.       Total       F.E.      Total        F.E.     Tota         F'.E.     Total       .E.        Total    F.E.   Total          Local        F.E.           Totai
A. Staffing:                                ------------------------------------------------------------- YRls '000 -----------------------------------------------------------____________________
1. UK Staff
Project Manager                         128.0      128.0       128.0      128.0       128.0    12b.O         128.0    128.0        128.0      128.0    --        --           --           64o.o         640.o
Senior Veterinarian (Field Officer)   96.o          96.0        96.o       96.o        96.o      96.o        192.0    192.0        192.0      192.0    --        --                        672.0         672.0
Vet. Investigation Officer              170. 4     170.4       170.4      170.4       170.4    170.4         170.4    170.4        170.4      170.4    --        --            --          852.0         852.0
Vet. Laboratory Technician               72.0       72.0       152.0      152.0       152.0    152.0          76.o      76.o        76.o       76.o    --        -5 28.0                                 528.0
Livestock Officer                        83.2       83.2        83.2       83.2        83.2      83.2         83.2      83.2        83.2       83.2    --        --            --          416.o         416.O
Administration/Livestock Officer        164.0      164.0       246.o      246.o       328.0    328.0         410.o    410.0        410.0      410.0    --        --                      1,558.0       i,558.o
Animal Health/Training Officer           96.o       96.o        96.0        6          g6.o      96.o         96.o      96.o        96.o        96.o    --       --            --          480.o          480.o
Subtotal                              9                    971.7      971.6    1,053.o  1,053.6       i,1 5     1,155.6    1,1557T   1,155.6    --           --           --        5,16.0         5, .
Price Contingency                    85.7       85.5       234.2      234.2       415.1    415.1         652.9    652.9        874.8      874.8                                      2,262.0       2,262.0
Subtotal                            894.6      894.6    1,205.8   1,205.8    1,468.7  1,468.7          i,808.5  1,808.5    2,030.4   2,030.4    --           --           --        7,408.0        7,408.0
2. Local Staff
Executive Officer                       --           9.6       --           9.6       --          9.6        --          9.6       --            9.6    --       --            48.o        --             48.o
Drivers                                 --          43.2                    8.o       --         52.8        --                                 57.6    --       _            259.2           =          259.2
Subtotal                            --          52.8       --          5          IC.                    -          67.2                   67.2    --                    307.2                       307.2
Price Contingency                   --           5.3       --          12.1       _          20.6                   31.2                   4 61.1   _                    110.3         --            110.3
Subtotal                            --          58.1       _           69.7                  83.0                   98. 4                 108.3    --        --          417.5                       417.5
B. Investment and Recurrent Costs
1. Equipment
Range Rover                              40.o       40.o       --         --          --        --            40.o      40.0       --         --         --      --           --            80.0           80.0
Land Rover                              108.0      108.0       108.0      108.0        108.0    108.0        108.0    108.0          72.0       72.0    --        --          --           so4.o          50o40
Land Rover Trailers                       8.0        8.0          4.o       4.o       --        --              4.o       4.o       --         --        --       --          --            16.0           16.0
Trucks                                   80.0       80.0        80.0       80.0        80.0      80.0        --                     80.0        80.0    --       --           --           320.0          320.0
Motorcycles                              12.0       12.0          8.0       8.o          8.0      8.0           8.0       8.o       --         --        --       --          --            36.o           36.o
Field equipment                          24.o       246o        13.0       13.0        15.4      15.4         15.4      15.4          3.2        3.2         --               --            71.0           71.0
Laboratory equipment & supplies          57.6        57.6         6.4       6.4          4.8       4.8          4.8       4.8         4.8        4.8    --        --                        78.4           78.4
Miscellaneous supplies                     2.4        2.4         2.4       2.4          2.4      2.4           2.4       2.4         2.4        2.4    --        --          --            12.0           12.0
Training equipment                       16.o       16.0          2.4       2.4         2.4       2.4           2.4      2.4          2.4        2.4    --        --          --            25.6           25.6
Subtotal                            368.0          o       224.2      22 .2       2210  221.0            185.0    18570           o        ; 3I14   --       --           --         1,163.0       1,163.0
Crown Agents Charges 10%                 34.8       34.8        22.4       22.4        22.1      22.1          18.5     18.5         16.5       16.5    --        --          --           114.3          114.3
Subtotal                            382.8      3     2  4        6             246. 26323.1    223031                 .5       18.3                 --       -            -          1,257.3       1,257.3
Price Contingency                    34.4       34.4        43.7       43.7        65.9      65.9         75.9      75.9        87.5        87.5    --       -_           _            307.4         307.4
Subtotal                            417.2      417.2       290.3      290.3       309.0    309.0         279.4    279.4        268.8      268.B    -                                 1,564.7       1,564.7
2. Maintenance and operating
costs of Vehicles                     --          36.4       --          44.5       --         53.7        --         63.4        --          69.7     _        _           267.7        --             267.7
Subtotals A and B                 1,311.8   1,406.3    1,496.3   1,610.3    1,777.7  1,914.4           2,087.9  2,249.7    2,299.2   2,477.2                              685.2      8,972.7        9,657.9
Contingency 10%                     131.2      140.6       149.6      161.0       177.8    191.4         208.8    225.0        229.9      247.7    --        --            68.5        897.3         965.8
Total                        1,443.o   1,546.9    1,665.7   1,771.3    1,955.5  2,105.8            2,       2,9 7.7    2,529.1   2,726.9    --           _           753.7       9,870.0      10,623.7
/1 ODM Bilateral Program presented in Sterling converted at rate, YR1s 8 to E1 1.
July 1976
H N
H x5



APPRAIbAL  1b
LIIVT_CI. CR-11' AND PROCEcSlNGI PIPYiI.:e
YFKE4 ARAB RhPUBLIC
Animal Health Division
S.  Staffing, Investme-ts  ad Recurrert Canto
1                 2                  3                 4                   5                  6                                            ..
F.E.   Total      F.E.   Total       F.E.   Total       1.E.  Total        F.E.   Tota        F.E.   Total        Local  F.E.    Total         oroersage
_---  -------- _____________                -_-_----------- ---------- -- ----- YR s ' 900 -- - ---- - ----- -- -- - ---- -- -- - ---- ---- --- -- ----- - --- --- --- - ---
A. Staffiog
Di-ooton of Animal H-olth                   --       ,h                 36                 36 _  36                     __       36        --       36       216      --       216
Reg.onl C-ente- Aesistanot                  --       90        --       90 90                        --     90          -        90        --       9o       54o      __       540
Dign-ostic Jester Ansietan                   --      30        --       30        --       30                 0 30               0I        --       ,0       SRI      _        180
Lab-rato-y Assi,tant                         -_      36        __       36        --       54        __      72         --      9g         _      S 108      396               396
Lie..toni A.sist.i t                         __      72        __      108        --      162        --    216          --      270        --      324    1,152       __    1,152
AdRonotrator                                 __      36        __       54        __       54         _      51;        --       54        --       51       306      --       306
Clerk                                       --       40        --       50        --                         50         --       50        --       50       290      --       290
Se-retsry                                    --      28        --        5        --       35        --     35          --       35        --       35       203      --       203
Drivers                                      -_      24        __       48                 48                48                 _4                  96       312      --       312
Minsr Staff                                          16        --       32                  2 32             32         __       32        --       32       176      __       176
Senior Vete-inarisa  (Te7pntniate)           99     132        99      132        99      132        99    132          99      132        --       --       165    495        66o          71
B. Investments                         CTst of
Unit     Unit
Building HRedqante-sLl        2
Offi-e and Laboratery 300m2    0.7    12b         210        --       --        --       --        --      --         --       __        --       -_        84    126        210          61
Garage                  300R       o4    72      120        --       --        --       --        -_      --         --       --        --       -_        48      72       120          60
Animal Clinic            70m      0.7      --      --        29       49        --       --        __      __         __       __        __       __        20      29        49          60
BRilding Regi-nl CenteeL/  
Office sad Laboratory 230ma       0.7      96     161        97      161        --       --        --      --         --       --        --       __       129    193        322          60
Garage                  200m      0.4      48     8R         48       80        --       --        --      --         --       --        --       -         64      96       160          6o
9u-antine Stati.ne 3                       180      300        --       --        __       __        __      __         __       __        __       _        120    i8o        300          61
B,ilding L4
HRuing, Epatniate   13Dm2    0.7           54      31        55       91        -_       --        --      --         --       --        --       --        73    109        182          60
Housing, Loana          lOOm      o.6      36      tO        36       60        --       --        --      --         --       --        --       -_        48      72       120          6o
Equipment
Office                                     36      40        14       15        --       --        --      --         --       --        --       --         5      50        55          99
Lab-rat-ry                                 54      60        18       20        --       --        __      __         __       __        __       __         8      72        80          90
Oilher                                    27       30        14       15        --       __        __      __         __       __        __       __         4      41        45          90
Vehicles
4-Wfheel drive                  44       119      132        --       --                          li -_  119    132   -_       --        --       __        26    238        264          90
Motorcycles                       4       36       40        --       __        --       --        72      80         -_       _-        --       __        12    108        120          90
C. Recurrent r.pe.ses
Travel (per diee)5                          --      190        --      244        __      267        --    105          __      320        --      202    1,528        -    1,528           --
F-el sad Oil /6                              22      32        22       32        22       12        68      96         68       96       119      170       137    321        458          70
Drugs snd Vaci-ne                           54       6o        67       75        81       90        ,5    105         108      120       108      120        57    513        570          go
Serviee Clinics                              --       8        __       i6        --       20        --      24         -_       24        -_       24       116      --       116          --
Rent All-v-nee/                              --     100        __      120        --      130        _-    140                  i4 100     --       --       630      --       63n          --
Maints.. ee. -__                                     11        __       52        -_       65        __      65         __       65        __       65       323      __       323           __
Office gEpena.a                               6o     40        20       40        25       50        25      50         25       50        25       50       140    140        280           50
D2. Train ing
Veterinarian Traine/ y-                              60L       61       6o        90       90         30    9D         120      120       120      120        --    540        540
Veterinarian P-it-G-rd-nte/lo                --                'C L     30        --       --         0      30         -                  jo        0                90        go
Veterinasi-n Assistant/il  -                 __                  4      24        36       36        61      6o         64       640       6o       6o        __    241        240
Live-to-k Te-hninian_/12                     -- _               -_   15            . _   0                             _ __ -    20        --       -         75   _-           75
I.bttial                             1,139   2,385        633   1.850        353   1,523        658  1,972         480   1,882       462   1,696    7,583  3,725   11,308
Physical  -ntingen-e-                    7      11,        _        93        18       7n              fi           24       94        23       85       379    197        566
Total Animal Health Project   1,lS6    504           661   1,943        371   1.599        691  2,071         504   1 97C        485   1 781    7,962   1z?    11,874
Total mithant Senior Vet        1/2/2   2            VI 5f    1,804     267   1,460        587  1,932         400   1,837        485   1,781    7,787  3.392   11,179
1   Assumes present Diage-stic LaDbe-t-ry Raildint no be need with extensios far Headquarters and additional la.a.aiIies.
ID Provides simply equipped Regional Animal Relth Centers in Toi- and Hodeidah districts.
74  Provides basin i-laItion quarantine atation at Hodeidah toe lSie anima  imenters.
E   Provides honsing foa  expatriate and Yemen e-pe-to  at Regional Animal deslth Testers.
2   Travel pee diem daily rate: Expatrinte 70 rials, an Yemeani 1 raias
6AsDume  20,000 k. __.ully per vehicle.                                                                                                                                                        o
Rent all-wa.ne expatriates 10,000 riala s         1annaly.
Vehieles 7% p.m., Equipment 7% p.m., BRildings 0% p.,.
8ix-yearveteritnary ecurse inel,des air travel, livi   :111 RSuncle and canne fee.
One year pst-_graduate veterinary canrse includes air   occi, I ivisg slina_ce  and  crae Pee.
DSi  manthe sapplemeetary foreign treiniag  field  _eterinary penciles, iseludes air travel, lInini  alinwanne and eanrs Pee.
In eontry training animal health technician level.
July 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock and Range Improvement
1.        Background.  The basic conflict between individual ownership of
livestock and community ownership and uncontrolled use of rangelands has
resulted in severe overgrazing and depletion of natural pastures. Live-
stock producers face severe problems in improving herd and flock productivity
on poor natural pastures and with crop residues low in both energy and pro-
tein. With controlled improvement and management program, the low rainfall
in important livestock areas, coupled with intense pressure for the use of
land from agricultural activities as well as livestock, makes productive
regeneration of natural pasture an impossible task. Furthermore, range im-
provement, like all aspects of rural development cannot be undertaken in
isolation, but must be part of a wider program designed to meet the overall
needs of the people. It should also, wherever possible be based on're-
search results and practical experience. Little is known of the tech-
niques and technology necessary to bring about signficant productive im-
provement of natural pastures under the widely varying climatic and
ecological conditions in YAR. Similarly, although indigenous sheep, goats
and cattle are very well adapted to the local environment their capacity
to respond to improved management and nutrition is not really known. The
exceptional quality of many work bulls/oxen, sheep and goats seen in the
country indicates that good potential responses could be obtained both to
nutrition and genetic upgrading.
2.        Forestry development can be complementary to rangeland improvement.
Firewood is an important source of energy over most of the country, partic-
ularly in rural areas. Almost all building timber, even of the most rudi-
mentary kind must be imported. Natural bush and forests, already severely
depleted face further devastation as rapidly rising population escalates de-
mand for more energy. Preliminary work being undertaken in UNDP/FAO Projects
in Taiz with quick yielding trees combined with range spelling is promising
and is worthy of wider application and detailed investigation.
3.        The Project.  In conjunction with the ODM Montane Plains and Wadi
Rima (MDWR) Program, an Agricultural Improvement Station with a Range Improve-
ment component would be established near Damar in the central Montane Plain
area. Furthermore, as part of the range improvement studies, 10 pilot Village
Development Associations (VDA) would be established. The knowledge and ex-
perience gained as a result of the work undertaken would provide a valuable
base for expanded second phase development.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        Damar Agricultural Improvement Center.  A part of British bilateral
aid to YAR, a comprehensive survey is being made of the Central Montane Plains
and Wadi Rima. The objective of the survey, which includes a wide range of
ground water studies, is to identify priority avenues for agricultural develop-
ment and recommend suitable programs for implementation. An expanded program
is to include the establishment of an Agricultural Improvement Center (AIC)
which would involve both agricultural research and extension. It is proposed
that the AIC would inter alia experiment with new crops, new varieties of
existing crops, water use, crop husbandry techniques, and the economic res-
ponses to various agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides, etc.
Work would also be carried out on methods of improving production from rain-
fed land. Originally the program called for a small livestock and associated
range improvement component which would examine forage crops, draft power
husbandry and means of improving communal grazing areas, including the estab-
lishment of browse shrubs. An important function of the AIC would be to
identify, train and work through suitable Yemen extension agents. The total
ODM project including investment, expert and recurrent costs would amount to
some YRls 5.2 million over a five year period.
5.        Project Development.  In order to avoid duplication and to take
advantage of the background already built up by the ODM team, the Livestock
Credit Processing Project would provide for an expansion of the Livestock and
Range Improvement component of the proposed AIC. Total investment cost is
shown in Table 1 and would be phased over four years. Investmient would in-
clude buildings (office, store, housing), vehicles and equipment, on-farm
development and livestock. A 5% physical contingency would be provided.
In addition recurrent costs over a six year period would be incurred (see
Table 11). Under the project two or three representative areas (about 200
ha in total) of rangeland would be fenced, stocked with local sheep, and a
pre-arranged program of improvement undertaken. The objective would be to
determine as quickly as possible the pasture species and management tech-
niques required to improve rangeland pasture productivity responses and
changes under a grazing regime. Furthermore, a wide range of browse species
would be introduced with a view to determining those most suitable for estab-
lishing in a number of ecological zones. The emphasis would bea a simple ap-
plied research which would lead to the evolution of practice techniques and
management systems suitable for application under village conditions.
6.        In addition to the ODM expatriate staff who would cover a wider
range of disciplines, the project would provide two specialists in the fields
of livestock production and range improvement. The actual fields of special-
ization would be finally decided by the Project Manager after consultation
with the ODM Project Director and the Minister of Agriculture. These spe-
cialist would be integrated into the ODM team and be responsib:Le to the Proj-
ectg Manager through the ODM Project Director. A prime responsibility would
be the training of Yemeni technicians and extension agents and to assist with
the formation of VDA's and implementation of the proposed development programs.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
7.        Village Development Associations.  As a pilot project designed to
accumulate experience and background for wider scale second phase development,
and to serve as an integral extension of the range improvement research pro-
gram, 10 VDA's would be formed. Each VDA would involve a package program of
communal grazing control, integration of forestry, grazing and natural pasture
improvement, formation and operation of small village associations or coop-
eratives, provision of credit, livestock improvement and animal health control,
and extension. Each VDA would consist of about five subvillages. About 125 ha
(25 ha per subvillage--no more than 1/3 of total village grazing land) of com-
munal grazing land would be fenced and planted with about 20,000 trees, half
of which would be browse shrubs. In addition the natural pasture would be
oversown with suitable grass and legume seeds. Timber seedlings would be
obtained from either the UNDP/FAO nursery at Taiz or the Directorate of
Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture. Seeds for browse shrubs and pasture
would be imported. Livestock would be kept out of the enclosed areas for at
least 12 months and then reintroduced on a controlled basis. Simultaneously
a comprehensive animal health program would be introduced and villagers
encouraged to reduce the number of head being carried. Livestock would
remain privately owned.  They would, however, be grazed under community con-
trolled management. Owners would pay a fixed grazing fee based on headage.
Benefits of increased productivity would accrue to individuals.
8.        Where possible, VDA development would coincide with other project
inputs such as credit for livestock, improved seeds, irrigation, etc. Close
cooperation with SURDEP, TDA and other development programs would also be
practiced. In such cases totally integrated village development involving
improved crop production, provision of village water supplies, expanded
irrigation and improvement of feeder roads, etc. would be put into practice.
The complex problem of improvement to village community grazing lands in-
volving a fundamental change in established custom would then be 'Linked to
popular more readily accepted development.
9.        Project Cost, Credit and Cash Flow.  Investment costs, spread over
three years, covering fencing, seedling trees, planting, and pasture seeds
are shown in Table 4; 20% would be contributed by villagers mainly as labor
and kind. The balance would be financed by ACF on a long-term basis. In-
cremental working capital required during the first six years would be con-
tributed by villagers. Livestock owners would pay an annual grazing fee of
YRIs 8 per head of livestock. Sales of timber (poles) and firewood would
commence in year 7. Long-term subloan repayments would commence in year 7
and be completed in year 11. Details of projected income, cash flow, invest-
ment, and flock, are given in Annex 9, Table 3, 4, 5 and 6 respectively. Fi-
nancial rate of return would be about 10%. The first VDA would be established
in year 1 followed by three in year 3 and six in year 4.
10.       Project Benefits.  Carrying capacity of the enclosed area would
triple over a six year period. Assuming an initial village flock of 229 (23
AU) numbers would initially be decreased and then steadily increased to reach
a stable maximum of about 450 (42 AU). Flock productivity would improve with



ANNEX 9
Page 4
lower mortality, and annual sales improved as shown. Supply oif low grade
building poles (used extensively in house construction) would be substantially
improved as would the availability of firewood. More importanlly this experi-
ment in village cooperation could provide the catalyst needed for improvement
of the potentially valuable natural pastures of YAR.



APpPRAISAL OF
LIVESIU0R CItiUIT AND Ph C?1:5]N, REPnRT
YEM4EN ARAB hhPUBLIC
Ldvest-es sod R.ng. impreent rent-r
Investment and Recurrent 'oats
YFAh
1                        2              _                           _         4                        S_                        6
Unit      Foreign                   Fo.reign                  Foreign                      reitn                  Foreign                  7'dreign                          Foreign              F. B.
unit      cost      to-h..ge       Total      iahug          Total      E-ohonge       Total      Eschaiame      Total      Exschange     Tt.al      Exchange      Totasl   Lk&I        Echange   I12i4    F.t
A. Investments
Bu.ildings
Office, Stores and Garage         100 ,2     o.6          36          60            --           --          -_           __           __           __           __           __                      --          24        36         60       60
Houaing
Expatriate                      150        0.7         126         210           -       -           --          --           .-                                                                               86                   a        60
Local                           100        0.6          36          60           36            60                                                 -72 --             --           --                             8        72          0      60
local                            80        0 6          29          48           29            48                                    _            _           _              _ -                                438      59          96      69
Sheep                           hd         0.04                     -- _          4            22         __            __          _             __          __                                               la          4         22      20
Vehicles
4-wheeldrive                      2         44            80          88            --           --                                    80           8B                                                            16       160        176       90
T ruc k                           1         35            32          35            -             -          -             .--                                   --                       --                       3        32          35      90
Trailers                          2          6             5           6            --1                                                                                                                                      5          6       90
Equipsient
Office                            :et         --          18          20                                            --           --                                                                                2        18         20       90
Technical                         set         --          36          40           18            20                                                                                                                6        54         60       90
Fencing                              km         4.5          12          23            11           23          --                                     2. --                                       --                23        23        146       50
On Far  and Access Roads             km        12.0          15          30            --           --          -_           __           .            __           __             _         --         ' -.         15        15          30      50
Stockhindling Facilities
Corrals and Crushes               unit       7.0           3           7             3            7                                    -            --          --                                     --          8         6         14       40
Spray race                        unit      10.0           9          10            --           --                                    -            --          --                                     --          1         9          10      90
Research Materials - seedes
plants, fertilizer, miscellaneous  set        10.0           1           5                          5          __           __           _             _           __                                                9         1          10      90
Livestock
Raws                             h'A       300            --          --                                                                            _- 2                      __          ..           __          2        __           2      _
Ewes                             h d       240           -_                        __            48          --           -_           ..                                                  _48                               _48
Subtotal                         Ijj                                               il TOR                                              -ii           - B                         -                  =                                             65
S. Recurrent Expenses
Staffing
Enpatriates L
Live tock Production Specialist 1        225          169          225          169           225        169           225         169           225          169          225          __           __        280       845       1125       75
Range rumprovent Specialist    1         225          169          225          169           225        169           225         169           225          169          225          _-                     280       845        l125      75
Local
Livestockic Tenician            1         38            --          18           --            18          --           18           --           18          -_            18                       le 18     108        --        108       --
Pasture Specialist               1        18            _           18           __            18         __            18          -.            18                        18          __          18         108         _        108       -
Junior Technicias                2         8            --          16            --           16          --           16           --           16           --           16          --           16         96        --         96       --
Fare Hands                       2         4             _           8           __             8          __            8           __            8                         8                        8         48        _-         48       __
Driver                           2         6            __          12            --           12          __           12           __           12           ._           12                       12         72                   72       _.
Guard                            2         5            __          10            __           10          __           10           __           10           __           10          _-           10         60        __         60       -.
Operating Expenses
Office                                      --            --          12            --           14          --           16           --           16           --           16          __           16         90        --          90
Fuelend Oil                       h ka       0.2          -           12            --           22          --           22           --           22           __           22          ..           22        122                  122
Maintenance                                                           18            --           28          --           28           __           28           -.            28         --           28        158        --         158      __
Per Diem Expatriates                        70            __           5            __            8          __            8                         8                         8          --           --         37                    37      --
Per Dim Local                               40            -3                                      6          __            6           __            6           .             6 
Subtotal                                                                                          M                          2  61 62 _ __3
C. Training Grants
Assistant A.H.O  /3                  grant     15            __          __            30           30          30           30           30            30          --            __         __           __         __                    90     100
Assistant A.N O. (~rainee)  4        grant     13            26          26            52           52 52                                 52           52           26            26         __           __                              208     100
In-country Training                  grant      5            __          10            --           10          __           10           __           10           --           10          --                                                    --
S.btDt.li '7;9                                                                       -g           -U    92                              ii            -92        ;- - 0 58
Subtotal . 1l                                                                       521          937                                               5 792                                                   _    14                               58
Physicsl Contingency                                            40          3             26           47          21                        25            40          18                        --22
Total                                               n                      1323                                    r                                       I            2                                   I5s       45                                8
1 Ipetriata  salaries include internatlonal air fares, faily end local allowances, re-location  3a1oweDce, shROl fTess, aedical and insurance, gratuity
Z     Tvo vehicles at 30000 Ian  per year sad one truck at 20,000 ka  per year at 0.2 nd 0.5 YXls per kx  wespectively
Six_-ontha supplementary training in Middle/East African country af'ter succe..ful in-service training, 'includes travel and living allowances
Four year undergraduate training; programc designed to meet future needs, includes travel, living and tuition costs
Febroarv 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC_
Model: Village Develoazet Association
A.  Prolected Income Stateet /
Before
aerseoe                                     Sevelotusa~~~~~~~~~~~~_%,t  1                   2                         3                       4                     5                                              7                      8-20
Li-eeight        YR1S/             No.      YRie        No.      YRin.         No.      TRia.            No.      YR]LA.         No.      TRIS.         No.    151..           No.    1518S.         N..      YRls.          IV        TRIm.
kg           Head                      '000                   O(00X)00                                         '0                     'ro86         -                                                      '
Sheep Sales
Cull R-m                50            0.325            1        0.3         2         0.7          1        0.3              1         0.3           1        0.3           1        0.3           1       0.3             1        0.3          1           0.3
Cul1lEwes               40            0.260           --         --        25         6.5          3        0.8              2         0.5           9        2.3           5        1.3           5       1,3           it         3.1         25           6.5
Hoggets                 30            0.195           15        2.9        15          2.9        19        3.7             22         4.3          32        6.2          29        6.6          29       6.6            22        4.3         29           6.6
Lamb.                   20            0.140           52        7.2        46         6.4         45        6.3             20         2.8          47        6.6          78       10.9          98      13.7          ill        15.5        133          i8.6
Timber                                      ---                      - -   -- --                           --                  --          --           --        .--         --        --           --       --            800       16.0        800          i6.0
irons. Reveue                                                                          T5                    1-1.1                       7.9                   ifliT9-.                                      --9                                              Z. -
Opera.ting Cost7A..                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...        1g,-
Assiel Health                           1-l:                                                                               _Z-                      --           2                  1_8--Z_--                                      3.9,_
Net Operating Inco-                                               LO                      -                                                           -          11-2         -          --                   --                                         
Incremental Incom                                                                         3.0        --        (2.4)           --        (5.7)          --        0.6         --         1.4         --       4.2           --21.5                --30.3
A~ Shove total pro,jected income including livestock sae,li-tock incme wold accrue to the ownrs and in not reflected in Cash Plow-  Table    or finanial rate of retur
Febroary 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock and Range Improvement
Model: Village Development Association
B. Projected Cash Flow Statement
YEAR
1        2         3       4         5        6        7         8         9         10         11          12-20
--------------------------------------------YRls'000--------------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Tree Sales /1--                                 --         --      --       --      --        16        16        16         16         16           16
Grazing Fees/                         --        --          3       3        3        4        7         7         7          7          7            7
Long Term Loan                         8        14        13       --       --       --       --        --        --         --         --           --
Government Grant
Contribution /3                      5         9         9       --       --      --
Operating Cost L                       6         7          8      10       10        9       --        __        __         __         __           __
Subtotal                            19        30        33       13      13       13        23        23        23         23         23           23
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses
Watchman                             6         6          6       6        6       6         6         6         6          6          6            6
Fence Maintenance and Sundry        --        --         1        1        1       1         1         1         1          1          1            1
Investments                           13        23         22      --       --       --       --        --        --         --         --           --
Debt Service
Interest 9%                         --         1          3       4        4       4         4         3         3          2          1           --
Principal                           --        --         --      --       --      --         6         6         7          7          9           --
Subtotal                              19        30         32      11       11      11        17        ___       17         ___        17            7
Cash Flow                                  --       --          1       2        2        2         6        7         6          7          6           16
Cash Flow for Rate of Return               (19)     (29)       (26)    (4)      (4)      (3)      16        16        16         16         16           16
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:          10%
Sensitivity tests
Investment Costs      +10%:         9%
Operating Expenses   +10%,:        9WI                                                                         - >
Revenue               -10%:         8%
1  Initial planting of 20,000 seedings (10,000 browse), yields 8000 timber trees
2   Livestock remain privately owned, owners pay an annual grazing fee of YRls 8 head, area closed to grazing during
1st 12-18 months, trees individually protected
/j   Government grant contribution equal to 40% of investment costs
/4   Operating costs through Year 6 contributed by village
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock and Range Improvement
Model: Village Development Asso^iation 4
D. Investments
YEAR
1                             2                            3
Unit        Foreign                      Foreign                        Foreign                   Number of                      Foreign                        Foreign
Investment Items                                 Unit       Cost         Exchange       Total         Exchange         Total        Exchange        Total        Units          Local         Exchange         Total        Exchange %
--------------------------------- RLa 000------------------ SPI sOOG0--------
Fencing
Post and Wire                                  km          4.5            1              2              2              4              2              3           2              4               5              9             60
Green                                         lm           1.0          _               1                             2 _  2_                       2           5              5                              5              --
Seedling Purchase                            1000/trees      0.63           2              3              2              5              2              5          20              6               7             13              50
Planting Costs
Digging Holes                              mon/day         0.01          __              1             __              2             __              2         500              5              --              5              __
Planting                                   mon/day         0.01          __              1             __              1             __              1         300              3              --              3              __
Protection                                 1000/trees      0.25          --              1             __              2             __              2      20,000              5              __              5              __
Pasture Seed /                                   ha          0.03           3              3              5              6              2              6         125             2531                                           90
Subtotal                                      h                                         12              9             22              9              16                        TO              25             55              45
Physical Contingency 5%                                                    --              1             --              1              --             1                          2               1              3              --
T tal Investment                                                            6             13              9             23               9            22                         32              26             58              45
/1    Basic Assumptions
(a) One village = 5 sub-villages
(b)  Hectares enclosed/village = sboot 125 or 25 ha/sub-village--sot more than 30% of total village gracing land
(c) Tree species - 50% Eucalypts, 50% selected browse species, 20,000 trees/village or 4000 sub-village
(d) Phasing of planting - (sub-villages) year 1 = 1, year 2= 2,year 3 = 2
/2     Assume 12 kg/ha mixed grass and legme seed over suWs, cost YRls 120/ha
February 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Livestock and Range Improvement
Model: Village Development Assocation
E. Flock Projection
END OF YEAR
Before
Develoi)ment          1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8-20
- ---------------------------------HEAD---------------------------------------------
Flock Composition A
Rams                                        5                  3           3           h           4           5           5           5            5
Ewes                                       80                 60          72          90         100         115         130         140          140
Lambs (3-6 months)                       112                 112          go         119         153         170         196         220          238
Male Hoggets (1l years)                    18                 22          25          30          30          30          20          25           25
Female Hoggets (1 years)                  14                 22          25          31          30          30         *            40           40
Total Head                                 229                219         215         271i        317         350         386         430 
Animal Units  2                             23                 21         T25          31          32          7           34
Deaths
Rams                                        1                  1          --          --          --          --          --          --          --
Ewes                                       12                  8           5           4           5           5           6           7            7
Lambs                                      28                 22          17           9          12          15          17          20           22
Hoggets -Male                               3                  2           2           1           2           2           2           1             1
Female                           2                  1           2           1           2           2           2            2            2
Total Deaths                               3_                  _           2           15          21          __          27          30            32
Sales
Cull Rqms                                   1                  1           1           1           1           1           1           1             1
Aged Ewes                                  --                 25           3           2           9           5           5          12            25
Hogget,. - Male                            15                 12          19          22          27          26          27          18            23
- Female                          --                  --         --           --           5           3           2           4            6
Lambs                                      52                 46          45          20          47          78          98         111           133
total Sales                                 _                  __                                  7 9        113         133         ___          _
Technical Co-efficients
Lambs weaned /3    %                      140                140         150         165         170         170         170         170           170
Mortality - Adults                         15                 10           8           5           5           5            5           5            5
- Lambs                         25                 20          15          10          10          10          10           10           10
Carrying Capacity:  has/AU                 10-1                6:1         5 1         4:1         4:1         3.5:1       3:1          3-1          3.1
Stocking Rate:  has/AU                      5.1                6:1         5 1         4-1         4.1         3.5:1       3:1          3'1         --
Cull - Ewes %                              --                 30           5           6          10           5           4            9           18.
Ewes:  Ram ratic                           16U-               20:1        25:1        23'1        25:1        24:1        26.1         28.1         28.1
1   Flock in practice  would probably be made up of about 2/3rds sheep (fat tail), and 1/3 goats
2   5 adult sheep   1 animal unit (AU)
Farmers consistently report 200% annual lambing/kidding rate; death rate in young lambs is high, ewes first lamb at 18 months
February 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Staff Recruitment & Consultant Service - Duties and Responsibilities
Project Staff
1.        The provision of foreign specialists and associate expert staff
for all positions except the senior veterinary officer and those furnished
by ODM, will be furnished by an experienced agricultural management and
consulting company, internationally selected according to IDA. guidelines,
that would supply all personnel through a packaged team, with the consulting
company assuming full responsibility for selection, replacement and salaries
(for each post, Government would require a candidate selection and approval
system). This Company,Hendrikson Associates, has ben selected.
Expatriate staff should have a knowledge of Arabic and English languages.
Positions where Arabic is considered essential are specified in the following
detailed job descriptions.
Project Headquarters
Project Manager
2.        The Project Manager would be required for five years.  He would be
recruited internationally, be senior in nature and have a broad professional
experience with the following specific qualifications:
(a) university degree or its equivalent in Agricultural Science,
preferably with a livestock-farm management, agribusiness
management bias;
(b) experience in the start-up and management of national level
livestock credit and development projects in developing countries;
(c) at least 10 years field experience of which at least 5 years would
have been in livestock and agricultural crop production;
(d) a proven ability in organization and management and experience with
staff management;



AN'NEX 10
Page 2
(e) knowledge of Arabic is considered essential.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) directly responsible to the chairman of the Livestock Development
Board (Ministry of Agriculture) for implementation of all compo-
nents of the project in accordance with policies laid down by
the Board (LDB).
(b) advise LDB and appropriate Government institutions on the terms,
conditions and qualification of employment of all staff (foreign
and local);
(c) recommend employment of such staff as he considers necessary
to carry out the project and in accordance with the final agree-
ment with Government.
(d) define the duties and responsibilities of the staff, train them
and supervise their work;
(e) assist the various project related Ministries and institutions
in selection of the project staff for overseas and local training
and arrange such training in consultation with the appropriate
training organizations;
(f) with the Livestock Development Corporation Manager, assist all
departments and institutions in the formation of their respective
project subcomponent;
(g) recommend to the LDB any adjustments to the project implementation
schedule which may occur for technical or economic reasons;
(h) assisted by the Financial Assistant, introduce an accounting and
auditing system which will be acceptable to Central Government
auditor, and coordinated with the accounts of participating in-
stitutions;
(i) training of Yemeni staff in project organization and management.
Livestock Development Corporation (LDC) - General Manager
3.        The LDC General Manager would be required for five years and have
the following qualifications and experience:
(a) a university degree in Agricultural Economics, Agricultural
Science, Agricultural Commerce or its equivalent;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) a broad professional experience of at least 10 years in agri-
culture or related sectors in agriculture or related sectors,
part of which should have been spent in a developing country;
(c) a thorough knowledge of the principles and practices of economic
dairy, beef, sheep and if possible poultry production, and farm
management;
(d) a proven ability to organize and to handle staff;
(e) a knowledge of Arabic would be desirable but not essential.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) be directly responsible to the Project Manager and under him
assume responsibility for the establishment and initial manage-
ment of the Dairy, Poultry and Feed, and Livestock Finishing
Divisions of LDC;
(b) advise the Project Manager on the selection and recruitment of
local technical staff required for Project implementation;
(c) prepare suitable loan applications supported by farm development
plans, cost estimates, cash flow and economic evaluation, for
submission to ACF so as to facilitate the financing of the devel-
opment farms and other components under his supervision;
(d) coordinate and supervise the duties and responsibilities of the
LDC Divisional Managers and their counterpart staff;
(e)  in conjunction with the Project Manager and the Financial Assistant
establish and supervise the maintenance of suitable records and
financial accounts for all development components under his
supervision;
(f) advise the Project Manager on, and assist with, the procurement
of all materials, equipment, machinery livestock and other re-
quisites necessary for Project implementation;
(g) train a Yemeni successor to assume his responsibilit:ies at the
termination of the LDC Manager's contract and ensure the same
process with all expatriate personnel within LDC.
4.   Financial Assistant
The Financial Assistant would be:
(a) a fully qualified accountant with experience in developing coun-
tries and in all aspects of accounting and auditing procedures
at both government and corporate levels;



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(b) preferably experienced in Arab countries with some language
competency in order to adapt financial procedures to particular
systems and at the same time to train a locally recruited counter-
part and subordinate staff in those procedures;
(c) directly responsible to the Project Manager for the financial
organization of the Project;
(d) design and incorporate a system of accounting and audit for
consolidated accounts, including the coordinated design and
implementation of subproject accounts and be responsible for
all disbursement and reimbursement procedures of Government,
IDA and Kuwait Fund loan funds.
(e) ensure the adequate training of all Yemeni staff under his
control and in particular that of his own Yemeni counterpart
who would ultimately replace him.
5.   Dairy Production Division Manager would be:
(a) a university graduate or diplomate in Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry, Farm Management, or Agronomy, with at least
8 years experience in practical commercial farm operation
part of which must have been dairy. Experience in a devel-
oping country and a working knowledge of Arabic would be
essential;
(b) assume responsibility for the operation of the Dairy Production
Division including the commercial dairy farms and milk colonies,
and staff training; assist with the preparation of farm develop-
ment plans and associated cost estimates and ACF loan applica-
tions; assist with milk colony supplier farm selection and co-
ordinate with other Divisional Managers, assume responsibility
for the health, production and development of the dairy herd;
by teaching and example, create a team of skilled Yemeni cowmen.
He would need to have particular ability to impart experience and
teach practical and visual skills.
Livestock Finishing Division
6.   Livestock Finishing Division Manager would be:
(a) be a university graduate or diplomate in agriculture with at least
5 years experience in practital irrigation, fodder production and
livestock fattening, part of which would have been acquired in
developing countries; a working knowledge of Arabic would be
desirable; and



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(b) assume responsibility for the physical and financial control
of the Livestock Finishing Division, including fodd[er produc-
tion and livestock management, procurement and sales, farm
development planning and ACF loan application preparation,
staff training; and coordinate with other Divisional Managers
and Project staff.
7.   Master Mechanic would:
(a)  posses a qualified "A" grade mechanics certificate or its equiva-
lent, have a minimum of 5 years experience in the repair and
maintenance of agricultural machinery, and wide experience in
the operation and management of agricultural machinery partic-
ularly that related to forage crop production and conservation,
a demonstrated ability to manage labor and trained technical
staff, an excellent knowledge of Arabic and at least a working
knowledge of English; and
(b) be responsible to the Divisional Manager for the overall mecha-
nical management, maintenance and repair of machinery, tractors,
and pumps; staff training and supervision; advise on the procure-
ment, type, operation and management of the farm machinery, and
establish and supervise the operation of the machinery repair
shop, including a spare parts section with a system for sustain-
ing the inventory.
8.   Irrigation - Crop Manager would:
(a) be a tertiary diploma holder in agriculture, agronomy, or irriga-
tion with at least 5 years practical experience in irrigated crop
production part of which must have been in a tropical envi-
ronment and a developing country; have demonstrated ability
to manage labor and trained technical staff; an excellent
knowledge of Arabic and a working knowledge of English; and
(b)  be responsible to the Divisional Manager for overall management
of crop production and conservation including the preparation of
a schedule of irrigation operations in accordance with crop and
soil requirement; organization and supervision of irrigation crews
and machinery operation; crop husbandry including weed and pest
control; coordination of forage supplies with animal requirements;
and training of Yemeni staff.
Poultry-Feed Mill Division
9.        Poultry-Feed Mill Division Manager would:
(a)   be a university graduate or diplomate in Agriculture, Poultry
Science, Agricultural Engineering or Agronomy with at least



ANNEX 10
Page 6
8 years experience in commercial poultry and/or feed mill op-
erations. Experience in a developing country and a working
knowledge of Arabic would be essential;
(b)   assume the responsibility for establishing and the operation
of the poultry-feed mill division including raw material ac-
quisition, processing, marketing, financial management, staff
training, loan application preparation, technical assistance
to the traditional sector poultry producers, and coordinate
with other Divisional Managers and Project staff.
Agricultural Credit Fund
10.       Livestock Credit Officer would:
(a) be a university graduate or diplomate in Agricultural Economics,
Farm Management, Animal Husbandry or Agricultural Science, includ-
ing a livestock bias with at least five years experience working
on livestock of agricultural systems with Government or private
banks; a working knowledge of Arabic would be desirable; and
(b) be responsible directly to the ACF General Manager for the prep-
aration and administration of a livestock credit system, including
formats and procedures for farm/ranch development plans on both
technical and creditworthiness grounds. His duties would include
the preparation and implementation of a training program for YAR
credit technicians. He would establish a supervised credit and
collection system for ACF sub-loans, supervise and coordinate the
activities of the Farm Management Extension Officer, and where
possible assist all Project related staff including those in
SURDUP and IDA.
11.       Farm Management Extension Officer would:
(a) be a university graduate in Agricultural Science or its equivalent
with a Farm Management bias and have at least 5 years experience
involving agricultural credit, extension and professional farm
management; on appreciation of and experience with the need to
approach farm development on a whole enterprise basis involving
both agriculture and livestock, technology and economics would be
essential; experience in a developing country and some knowledge
of Arabic would be desirable; and
(b) be responsible to the ACF General Manager through the Livestock
Credit Officer for field credit supervision in particular, the
preparation of farm development plans and the appraisal of loan
applications, supervision of loan disbursement and farm development
and the training of Branch Office Managers and Extension workers.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
12.       Accountant - Financial Controller would:
(a) be a fully qualified accountant with experience, preferably in a
developing country, in all corporate audit, accounting and finan-
cing procedures; a working knowledge of Arabic would be essential;
and
(b) be responsible directly to the General Manager of ACF and for all
duties common to this type of post. He would also be responsible
for coordinating his acccounts with a system to be developed by
the Financial Assistant of LDC and to train all ACF aclministration
and office staff including those in the various branch offices,
in complete procedures for the efficient operation of ACF as a
commercial company. He would train a local successor to take
over his responsibilities at the completion of his contract.
Animal Health
13.       Project Manager - This post is presently financed and filled by an on-
going bilateral assistance project for Veterinary Health (ODM). It is expected
that ODM will renew its program and that this post will continue to be supplied
under the new technical assistance bilateral agreement.
14.       Senior Veterinary Officer - One veterinary officer is presently sup-
plied under the ODM programme; his responsibilities are and wil:L continue as
officer-in-charge of the central diagnostic laboratory and as assistant to
the Project Manager. Provision has been made under the project to finance one
Senior Veterinary Officer who would be recruited by ODM to the same standard
as those staff already on-station in YAR. ODM would also furnish under the
technical assistance bilateral agreement, a second senior veterinary officer,
a veterinary investigation officer, 2 veterinary laboratory teclnicians, 5
livestock officers, an administrative officer and an animal hea:Lth training
officer.
Livestock and Range Improvement
15.       Range Management Specialist would:
(a)  possess a university degree, preferably at post-graduaIte level in
agronomy, agricultural science, or plant science, with some animal
husbandry/management bias, have at least 5 years field experience
in applied research, farm management extension, or range improve-
ment, part of which must have been in a low rainfall semi-arid
climate. He must also have experience in and understianding of
the pasture/sheep complex as it relates to animal maniagement;
experience in a developing country where community grazing of
livestock is customary would be an advantage; and



ANNEX 10
Page 8
(b)  through the ODM Project Manager assume responsibility, in
conjunction with the Livestock Production Specialist, for
establishment and operation of the Range Improvement component
of the Project, including a program of applied research designed
to devise economic management systems for the improvement of YAR
rangelands, and in particular systems which take into account
indigenous socio-economic customs; assist other project staff and
advise the Project Manager on the establishment and operation of
the proposed Village Development Associations; assist with training
of Yemeni extension workers and technicians, and advise the Project
Manager on the nature, place and extent of overseas training for
Yemeni staff.
16.       Livestock Production Specialist would:
(a) possess a university degree in agricultural science, animal husbandry,
farm management, or animal nutrition including some agronomy and
plant science; have at least 5 years field experience in applied
research and agricultural extension, part of which must have been
in a low rainfall, semi-arid climate; and
(b) in conjunction with the Range Management Specialist assume respons-
ibility for the livestock and extension aspects of the Range
Improvement and Village Development Association components as
described under (b) above.
Municipalities Slaughterhouse and Markets Department
17.       Slaughterhouse Specialist would:
(a)   be a professionally qualified and experienced slaughterhouse
manager with at least eight years of experience including a
minimum of five years in a developing country; he should have
experience in designing, supervising construction and start up
of new slaughterhouses; he should have experience in training
meat processing techniques to both management and butchers;
(b)   be responsible directly to the Project Manager for the estab-
lishment of the three slaughterhouses, municipal retail meat
markets, hides and skins improvement program, enforcing legis-
lation and operating procedures; he would coordinate closely
with the manager of ACF in identifying and selecting retail
butcher loans and he would be responsible for establishing
training programs for butchers, management and meat inspectors.
18.       Hides and Skins Specialist would:
(a)   be a professionally qualified and experienced hides and skins
specialist with at least ten years experience in hides and



ANNEX 10
Page 9
skins flaying techniques, post slaughter treatment and pre-
servation, storage and transport; he would have experience in
international marketing of hides and skins including grading
standards; and he should have experience in training and de-
monstration techniques for impoving hide and skins quality
for export markets;
(b)   be responsible to the MSMD Manager for the development of a
hides and skins improvement program in YAR that would include
training butchers in the urban slaughterhouses in proper flay-
ing and preservation techniques; he would assist in designing
the new slaughterhouses to assure facilities to properly handle,
preserve and store hides and skins, and he would set up demon-
strations throughout YAR for improving hides and skins removal,
preservation and handling methods.
Consultant Services
I.   Livestock Finishing Division Farm Site and Wadi Surdud Farm Study
A consultant team of agricultural production and marlketing specialists
and irrigation and groundwater experts would be recruited internationally for
about 24 man-months to make recommendations to Government and the Project Manager
on the most suitable site for the proposed Livestock Finishing Farm and the con-
tinued development and operation of Wadi Surdud State Farm.
The team would consist of:
(a)  a team leader - an agriculturalist experienced in irrigated crop
production in arid and semi-arid environments;
(b) an agricultural engineer with irrigation systems experience;
(c) a soils expert;
(d) a crop marketing specialist;
(e) a livestock farm management specialist with dairy and intensive
feed experience; and
(f) an agricultural economist/financial analyst.
(g) other short-term specialists as considered necessary to comply
with the terms of reference.



ANNEX 10
Page 10
1.   Farm Site Selection
(a) review all existing groundwater, soils, climatic and crop produc-
tion data at present available from various sources for the Tihama
Region; including in particular present and future groundwater
use trends in relation to probable total water supply;
(b) taking account of the objectives of the proposed Livestock
Finishing Division including the type of crop and animal
production proposed, and using the data derived from (a) above,
examine the alternative sites available, including Wadi Surdud
Farm, and recommend to Government the one considered most suitable;
(c) the consultants would inter alia, have particular regard to water
availability and quality, soil characteristics and their suitability
for irrigation and fodder and agricultural crop production, any
climatic constraints, road access, existing land use, availability
and capacity of markets, and the desire to bring new land under
irrigation.
2.   Design Work
Once the final site was selected the consultants would:
(a) Prepare detailed designs, working drawings, and tender, advertise-
ment and contract documents including specification for all elements
of the Project, including: (1) Land grading, (2) Tubewell construc-
tion including pumps, and equipment, (3) Canal system with struc-
tures, (4) Drainage system with structures, (5) Road system with
structures, and (6) Domestic and stock water system;
(b) Prepare a schedule for tendering so that the irrigation component
would be completed in a timely fashion;
(c) Advise LDC on issuing the tender, advertisement and contract docu-
ments on the pumping equipment (separate from the civil works);
(d) Advise LDC on the issuing of the tendering documents on civil
works; and
(e) analyze bids and make award recommendations for the pumping
equipment and the civil works.
3.   Wadi Surdud Farm Study
(a) a complete review of farm activities and performances in the past;



ANNEX 10
Page 11
(b) recommend revised production patterns and their interrelationships -
i.e. cotton, rice and other products with livestock byproduct util-
ization opportunities, feed grain production or livestock fattening
and dairying integrated with intensive forage production;
(c) market potentials and domestic and foreign price expectations
for surpluses;
(d) the integration of large-scale low-cost dairy production;
(e) recommendations for harvesting, transportation, storage, process-
ing and wholesaling of farm production;
(f) a corporate structure suitable for public and private sector;
(g) an administrative structure including organization and manage-
ment procedures;
(h) a technical support package and technical staff requirements;
(i) complete financial estimates, including incremental development
and working capital, rates of return estimates, cash flow pro-
jections after debt services and a recapitalization schedule;
(j) the identification and preparation of an expansion program to
optimize economy of scale benefits.
II. Dairy Production Division - Farm Site Study
An international consultant team of agricultural production, and
irrigation and groundwater experts would be recruited for up to 24 man-months
to make recommendations to Government and the Project Manager on the selection
of suitable sites for the proposed dairy farms to be established near Sana'a,
Taiz and Ibb.
The team would consist of:
(a) a team leader - an agriculturalist experienced in irrigated
crop production preferably with livestock integration;
(b) a livestock farm management specialist with dairy and intensive
feed experience;
(c) an agricultural/groundwater engineer with irrigation systems ex-
perience, and preferably a good knowledge of soils and their
requirements for irrigation; and
(d) an agricultural economist/financial analyst;



ANNEX 10
Page 12
(e) other short term specialists as considered necessary to comply
with the terms of reference.
The terms of reference would include:
1.   Farm Site Selection
(a) review all existing groundwater, soils, climatic and crop produc-
tion data for the Sana'a, Ibb, and Taiz areas where dairy farms
sites are proposed;
(b) examine in detail the precise area (survey, if necessary) of land
proposed for each site, and if necessary prepare an existing land
use and tenure plan, so that the area of private, wafd, or govern-
ment land is known;
(c) having due regard to the project proposals, including the establish-
ment of milk colonies, forage production, milk marketing, future
development expansion and environmental factors, to the data de-
rived from (a) and (b) above, and in particular the availability
of both adequate land and water, recommend to Government and to
the Project Manager, the most suitable farm sites.
2.   Design Work
For at least the first two sites, the consultants would:
(a) Prepare detailed designs, working drawings, and if necessary,
tender, advertisement and contract documents including specifica-
tion for all elements of the Project, including: (1) Land grading,
(2) Tubewell construction including pumps and equipment, (3) Canal
system with structures, (4) Drainage system with structures, (5)
Road system with structures, and (6) Domestic and stock water system.
(b) Prepare a schedule for tendering so that the irrigation component
would be completed in a timely fashion;
(c) Advise LDC on issuing the tender, and advertisement and contract
documents on the pumping equipment - (separate from the civil works);
(d) Advise LDC on the issuing of the tendering documents on civil works; and
(e) Analyze bids and make award recommendations for the pumping equipment
and the civil works.
3.   Farm Development Plan
In conjunction with the Project Manager the consultants would prepare
detailed farm development plans including, inter alia, initial layout, farm



ANNEX 10
Page 13
building design, crop rotation, fodder conservationn facilities, livestock feed-
ing and milking facilities, and farm machinery. In accordance with the require-
mnents of ACF, and the Project Manager, the plans would be supported by cost
estimates including investment, projected income and cash flow statements, and
economic evaluation.



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Costs - Foreign Recruitment
Cost per                    YEAR                          Total                     Foreign                      F.E.
Man Years    1        2      3     4       5      6        Man Years    Local       Exha            Total    Percent
- ________________-_ s-----YRIs'000--------------                              -        sOOO---------------------
Project Headquarters
Project Manager                                   270        270    270   270   270    270    --              5           337        1,013         1,350          75
Financial Assistant                               225        225    225   225   225        --    --           4           225           670          t00          75
LDC Manager                                       245        245    245   245   245    245    --              5           306           919        1,225          75
Dairy Division Manager                            225        225    225   225   225    225    --              5           281           844        1,125          75
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF)
General Manager                                   270        --     --    270   270    270    270             4           270           810        1,080          75
Livestock Credit Officer                          250        250    250   250   250    --        --           4           250           750        1,000          75
Farm Management Extension Officer                 250        __     250   250   250    250    --              4           250           750        1,000          75
Accountant-Financial Controller                   250        250    250   250   250    250    --              5           312           938        1,250          75
Animal Health/i
Project Manager ODM                               --    --- - - - --  --                                      5           --            --                        --
Senior Veterinarian/2                             132        132    132   132   132    132    --              5           165           495          660          75
Senior Veterinarian  ODM                                                           --                    10           --            --           --           __
Vet. Investigation Office  ODM                    --                                     --                   7           --            --           --           --
Laboratory Technician  ODM                        --                                --        --          7           --            --           --
Livestock Officer -Associate Vet.  ODM            --                                --       --          19           --            --           --           --
Administration Officer - ODM                      --                               --         --          5           -- 
Animal Health Training Office   ODM                           --       ----                     --           5           --                         -            --
Livestock and Range Improvement
Livestock Production Specialist                   225        225    225   225   225    225    --              5           281           844        1,125          75
Range Improvement Specialist                      225        225    225   225   225    225    --              5           281           844        1,125          75
Livestock Finishing Division
Divisional Manager                                248        124    248   248   248    --         --          3.5         217           651           868         75
Master Mechanic                                   180         60    180   180    90    --         --          2,8          127          383           510         75
Irrigation-Crop Manager                           180         60    180   180   180    --        --           3.3         150           450          600          75
Poultry and Feed Unit
Divisional Manager                                225         --    225   225   225    --         --          3            169          506           675         75
Slaughter house Department
Director                                          225        225    225   225   225    --         --          4            225          675           900         75
Hides and Skins Specialist                        225        225    225   --    _         _                   2            112          338           450         75
Subtotal                                               3.444  4 462 4.587 4.596  3.153    270           122.6        3.793       16.719        20.512          82
Studies
Livestock Finishing Farm-Site                              1,125    --    --    --        --      --          2            113        1,012         1,125         90
Dairy Farms-Site                                           1.125     _     --      _      --      --          2            113        1.012         1.125         90
Subtotal                                               2,250    --                                         4           226         2.024        2.250
L1  ODM bilateral aid to furnish staff for all positions except one Senior Veterinarian.
/2 Project to Drovide funds to ODM to engage Senior Veterinarian for Regional Center
July 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Cost of Project Expatriate Staff/1
-------------------------------------________------------------  YR ls   '000  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year 1           Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year  5           Year  6          Base
Local      FE    Local       FE     Local      FE     Local    FE        Local      FE     Local  FE       Local     FE      Local       FE        TOTAL
Project Manager                         94      251      112      275       135      302      162     332       195       360      -      -       71       213      698      1,520       2,218
Financial Assistant                     78      209       93      228       112      251      135     276        -        -        -      -        59      177      418         964      1,382
LDC Manager                             84      228      101      249       122      274      146     301       175       326      -      -       64       193      628       1,378      2,006
Dairy Division Manager                  78      209       93      228       112      251      135     276       162       299      -      -        59      177      580      1.263       1,843
ACF General Manager                     -       -                  -        135      302      162     332        195      360      233    390      71      213      725      1.384       2,109
Livestock Credit Officer                87      232      104      254       125      280      150     307       181       333      -      -       66       197      647      1,406       2,053
Farm Management Extension               -       -        104      254       125      280      150     307       181       333      -      -        66      197      560      1,174       1,734
Accountant - Financial Controller       44      116        52     127        63      140       75     154         91      167      -      _        66      197      325         704      1,029
Senior Veterinarian                     46      123       55      134        67      148       80     162        96       176      -      -        35      104      344         743      1,087
LRID  Livestock Specialist              78      209       93      228       112      251      135     276       162       299      -       -       59      177      580       1,263      1,843
LRID Range Improvement Specialist       78      209       93      228       112      251      135     276       162       299      -       -       59      177      580       1,263      1,843
Livestock Division Manager              43      115      103      252       124      277      148     304        -        -        -       -       65      195      418         948      1,366
Master Mechanic                         21       56        74      183       89      202       54     111        -        -        -       -       47      142      238         552        790
Irrigation Crop Manager                 21       56       74      183        89      202      107     222        -        -        -       -       47      142      291         663        954
Poultry & Feed Unit Div. Manager        -       -         93       228      112      251      135     276        -        -        -       -       59      177      340         755      1,095
MSMD Director                           78      209        93      228      112      251      135     276        -        -        -       -       59      177       418        964      1,382
Hides and Skins Specialist              78      209       93       228      -        -        -        -         -        -        -       -       59      177       171        437        608
Total                              908    2,431     1,430   3,507    1,746    3,913    2,o44   4,188       1,600    2,952      233    390    976    3,032    7,961       17,381     ?5,342
L  Cost includes physical and price contingencies
July 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PRCJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Project Component Phasing
YEAR                                              Total
Component                    1           2          3          -4          5         6         Number Units
LDC
Dairy Farms (50 cow)         1           2          3           2         __        __             8
Milk Colonies               --           1          2           2         --         --             5
Livestock Finishing          1          -     -     - _        __         _         _              1
Poultry and Feed Mill       --           1         --          __         _         __             1
Municipalities
Abattoirs                    1           1          1          --         --         --             3
Market Stalls               70         42          42          --         __         __          152
Supervised Credit
On-farm Landowner           _            2          7           7          7          l            24
On-farm Tenant              __          30        120         150         75         --           375
Smallholder Poultry         --          --         60         100        150       190           500
Butcher Shop Improvement   28           28         28                     --                       84
Livestock and Range Development
VilIage Development Assocs.--            1          3           6         --         --            10
February 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ACF Cash Flow, Summary Project Cost, and Financial Results
1.        The projected ACF Cash Flow, and Summary project cost are shown in
Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. The financial rates of return including those for
sensitivity tests are summarized below. All rates of return calculations are
based on 1975 prices projected in constant terms.
Investment   Operating   Revenues
Base    Costs +10%   Cost +10%       -10%
a)   LDC combined results              12          11             4           2
(including headquarters
costs)
50-Cow Dairy Component            12          10            10          8
Milk Colony Component             23          22             7          4
Livestock Finishing
Component                       13         11             3           1
Poultry-Feed Component            13         11            -3          -8
b)   MSMD                              16          14            12          9
c)   Supervised Credit
Landowner Farm              30          26            27          23
Tenant Farm                 25          23            14          12
Smallholder Poultry         17          15             6           4
d)   Village Development
Associations                    10          9             9           8
The Poultry-feed component and the Milk Colony components are very sensitive to
reductions in the margin between revenues and raw material costs. This is to be
expected because in these cases raw material costs constitute a high percentage
of revenues. Conversely, the Landowner farm components and the VDA show small
sensitivities because they have no substantial raw material costs. Normally,
this margin is kept constant, such that the sales price is adjusted to changes



ANNEX 12
Page 2
in raw material costs; consequently, the risk shown is not unduly high, but
rather a function of the structure of these enterprises.
2.        All income statements and cash flow statements for models have been
projected at constant 1975 prices. No changes in relative prices are foreseen.
In Table 2, showing Total Project Cost and Disbursement by Year, the following in-
flation rates were used (in percent per annum):
Imported Component            Local
Civil Works    Equipment        Component
1976                                         14            10              20
1977                                         12             8              20
1978                                         12             8              20
1979                                         12             8              20
1980-85                                      10             7              20



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YTDNI ARAB REEULIC
ACF Project Cash Flow
YEAR
1977     1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     198      1984      1985     198       1987     1 8       1989     1990      1991     199       199      1994      1995     1997
977 1 1 30 1901 2--------------1--------1    1   Y---------- M0                         0   ----_---------------------------------------------------__------------------_--_--
Sources of Funde
Loan from Government
Long-Term /1                              3,233    6,805    7,261    9,747    7,940    3,670         ------                      ---       --
Medium-Te- 72                               640    1,36o       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~             ~
Grant from Government /3                    14,847   13,973   15,079   13,242   11,535    7,408         ---      ---       ---      ---
Interest Income
Long-Tern 9% per annom /4                   146       597    1,216    1,962    2,708    3,435    3,154    2,597    2,021    1,533    1,179          915       646      357       ---                ---
Medium-Te= 9%per annum /                     29        99      178        77       38       21        19       13       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---                          --- ___     -      -
Seasonal credit 9% per annum /6              ---       21       27        30       54       77        90       90        90       90        90       90        90       90        90      ---       ---
Repayment of Loans
Long-Term --                                          159      212       583    1,669    4,953    6,186    6,403    5,428    3,922    2,948    2,988    3,206          ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---
Medium-Tern                                  _._      270    1,123       426      193       23        64      145       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---      -__        --       _,_                ---       --
Seasonal Credit                              ---      46o    - 61o      670    1,200    1,700    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,0C0         2,000    2,000    2,000       ---       ---       ---      ---       ---
Equity Contributed by Government /Z          2,087    4,025    2 413    2 490    1 142         268      ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       --                                    .-
Total                                20,9B2   27,769   2B,119   29,7   26,179   21,555   1151    n957            9,539    7,515    6,17    5,993    5,942    2,447          9         ---       ---           -     --      ---
Ilse of Funds
Loan Disbursements /1                        3,233    6,805    7,261    9,747    7,940    3,670         ---      ---       ---      ---       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      --_
Medium-Term Loans '/2                       640    1,36o       244       ---      ---       ---      ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---       ---      ---       __
Seadmnal Credit r o                          --       460      6io      670    1,200    1,700    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000           ----       ---       ---      ---       ---
Srantso 3                                   14,847   13,973   15,079   13,242   11,535    7,408         ___      ---       ---      --_       ___       --       ;__ __ ---         ---                ___ ---            ___       ___
interestPayment to Government
Long-Term 4% per annum /9                    65       265      546      886    1,240    1,473    1,546    1,546    1,453    1,357    1,256    1,151    1,043           929       812      689       562      130       292       119
Medium-Term 4% per annum /9                  13        53       80        80       8o       64       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---       ---      ---
Long-Term Loan Repayment                        ---      ---      ---       ---      ---       ---      ---    2,325    2,418    2,514    2,615    2,720    2,828    2,942    3,059    3,182    3,309    3,441    3,579    3,724
Medium-Tern Loan Repayment                      ---      ---      ---       ---      600    1,400       ---       ---      ---      ---       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ___       ---      ---       ---      ---
Equity 17                                    2,087    4,025    2,413    2,490    1,142         268      ---      ---       ---      ---       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---       ---       ---      ---       ---      ---
Administrative Erpenses /1Q                     314      478      908    1,089    1,310    1,568    1,568    i,lfl    1,270    1,143    1,029           926      926       926      926       ---      ---       ---       ---      ...
Write-off for bad debts                         ---       16       22        58      166       496      618      64o       542      392       294       298      320       ---      ---       ---      ------
Total Uses                           21,19078fl~    27,163   25,262   25,213   18,047    5,732  7,922V~                    7,633 TT~                    7,406  2B79 2 7,B7 7,194 7,095    f,7   T71 3,871 3,       871 7
Annual Cash Balance                              (217)     334      956       965    1,266    3,508    5,781    3,326    1,856        139      (977)  (1,102)  (1,175)  (4,350)  (4,707)  (3,871)  (3,871)  (3,871)  (3,871)  (3,873)
Income on Surplus 9% per annum                    ---      ---      ---        39       84       165      476    1,047    1,449    1,754    1,933    2,027    2,118    2,211    2,027    1,794    1,795    1,608    1,405    1,182
Income on Seasonal Credit 9t per annum            ---                27        30       54        77       90        90       9        90        9                  90        90        0        90      _-        _
Net Cash Flow                                    (217)    37    __E%    1,034    1 4   3,745750           634 7 3           ,395 1    ,046                       TA          1    1513 (T53)  (   )   590)         77)T(76)  (27263)
Cumolatiue Cash Flow                             (217)     117    1,100    2,134    3,538    7,288   13,635   18,098   21,493   23,476   24,522   25,537   26,570   24,521   21,931   19,944   17,868   15,605   13,139   1o,448
Seasonal Credit /12                               ---      61o      670    1,200    1,700    2,000    2 000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000             ---       ---      ---       ---      ---
Surplus Funds /13                                (217)  (493)       130       934    97876  ft,86   352173   16,998   19,493   8             221,276  2   23,537  24,570  22,521 21 ,931 19,911   17,868   15,605          13,139   TO
Su                          _T2_1f) -793)                  93     1        te_                                                               _            _      _ 2_3_5_7
/1  Amounts to 60% of the investment costs of LDC and VDA and 80% of individual subborrowers investments.
Covers interest during construction.
73  Government grant for PUI, ACF, AIM, LRID and MBMD investment and recuroent costs.
9% per  nnum on amount outstanding.
;7 9% per annum on amount outstanding.
7   9% per annum  on      t outstanding.
/ Government equity contribution equivalent to 40% of LDC and VDA investment costs.
7 Seasonal Credit sin months per annum
/94% per annum on  -munt outstanding.
1   ACF's spread on sublnans of 5% covers:  3.2% administrative costs, 1.2% risk allowance, and o.6% equity build  p.
Eased upon 10% of repayments due per annum.
Fund6 on-lent for  i months short-term  loan in following year (see Us. of Funds, Seasonal  Credit, above).
1   On-lent at 9% per annum in following year.
July 1976



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Total Project Cost and Disbursement by Year
YEAR
Foreign
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982        Total        Exchange
--------------------------------------YR1s   '000-------------------------------------
Dairy Farms                              692     2,277      4,356     4,880      2,229       198       14,632         9,631
Milk Colonies                             --       107         389      695        625       472        2,288           662
Livestock Finishing Farm                4,526    3,127       1,288       650       --         -_        9,591          3,908
Poultry-Feed Mill Unit                   __       4,551        --       __         __         __        4,551          3,094
Slaughter and Retail Markets           3,213     4,194       4,795      162         52        __       12,1416        7,324
Supervised Credit                        127        946      4,473    7,265      7,430     3,819       24,060        12,112
Village Development                      --         19         105       333       474       355        1,286            394
Technical Assistance
Animal Health                       2,969     2,688      2,645     3,982     4,613     5,139       22,036          4,871
Livestock and Range Improvement     1,055       754        466       697       541       538        4,051          1,265
ACF Institutional Assistance          736       832        814    1,059        821        59         4,321         3,340
Project Implementation Unit           755       558        658       978       766       907         4,622         1,083
Site Selection Studies             2,781        ---        ___       ---       ---      -__         2,781          1,593
ODM Animal Health                  1,547    1,771        2,106     2,475     2,724       -_-       10,623          9,870
Expatriate Staff                    3,339     4,937      5,659     6,232     4,552       623       25,342         17,381
Medium Term Credit                        640    1,360         ---       ---       _- ____              2,000            ---
Total                            22,380    28,121     27,754    29,408    24,827    12,110      144,600         76,529
July 1976
roI



ANNEX 13
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursement
US$ Million
Bank Fiscal Year            Disbursements         Cumulative Disbursement              Outstanding Balance
and Quarter                during Quarter          at End of Quarter                   at End of Quarter
1977
I                           --                        --                                 5.00
II                          0.04                       0.04                               4.96
III                          0.06                      0.10                                4.90
IV                          0.10                      0.20                                4.80
1978
I                          0.12                      0.32                                4.68
II                          0.15                      0.47                                4.53
III                          0.18                       0.65                               4.35
IV                          0.20                      0.85                                4.15
1979
I                          0.22                      1.07                                3.93
II                          0.25                      1.32                                3.68
III                          0.25                       1.57                               3.43
IV                          0.28                      1.85                                3.15
1980
I                          0.32                      2.17                                2.83
II                          0.35                      2.52                                2.48
III                          0.35                       2.87                               2.13
IV                          0.38                      3.25                                1.75
1981
I                          0.30                      3.55                                1.45
II                          0.30                       3.85                               1.15
III                          0.28                       4.13                               0.87
IV                          u.25                      4.36                                u.62
1982
I                          0.23                      4.61                                0.39
II                          0.15                      4.76                                0.24
III                          0.10                      4.86                                0.14
IV                          0.06                      L.92                                0.08
1983
I                          0.05                      4.97                                0.03
II                          0.03                      5.00                                 --
July 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Economic Rate of Return of the Total Project and Components
1.        Overall Benefits.  Overall, the Project has a calculated economic
rate of return of 27%. Additional, non-quantifiable, benefits which will
accrue to the YAR include:
(a) Improvement to public health through upgraded conditions
of slaughtering and vending meat,
(b) The training of a substantial number of Yemeni in diverse
skills, including management and administration, animal
husbandry, and veterinary technology,
(c) The introduction of new enterprises and methods on a pilot
basis which can be expected to provide a framework for
future expansion. These include dairy farming, live-
stock finishing, smallholder commercial poultry, and
timber management,
(d) Building institutions which will contribute to the coun-
try's progress beyond the present Project.
2.        Price Assumptions.  The economic rates of return are based on
specific price assumptions for input and output components. The signific-
ant price assumption are as follows:
(a) Output Prices
(i) Beef Cattle: YRls 10,000 per ton (US$2,200/T), equivalent
to the estimated landed price at Hodeidah of meat of simi-
lar quality.
(ii) Mutton: YRls 9,000 per ton (US$2,000/T), equivalent to the
estimated landed price at Hodeidah of meat of a similar
quality.
(iii) Poultry: YRls 8,000 per ton (US$1,800/T), equivalent to the
estimated landed price at Hodeidah of meat of a similar
quantity without price penalties attached to very small
orders.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(iv)  Eggs:  YRls 9,000 per ton (US$2,000/T), based on observed
prices in the YAR of imported eggs.
(v) Milk: YRls 2,000 per ton (US$440/T), or YRls 2/liter, based
on reported import prices in the Yemen.
(vi) Hides and Skins: A 30% added value increase over before
project export income based upon improved processing tech-
nology.
(b) Input Prices
(i) Labor: Labor was not specifically shadow priced for the
calculation since unemployment is not a serious problem in
Yemen. Although available data are not wholly dependable,
information from the YAR preliminary census results and
from WHO provides a round indicator of the limited size
of the domestic labor pool. WHO has estimated that 53.1%
of the resident population comprises those withirn the 15-
65 age group, or the "working age" sector. Since men ac-
count for the major portion of the work force especially
in urban centers, a group supplemented by female partic-
ipation only in rural areas in agricultural activities,
extrapolation from census data reveals a domestic working
age male population of only about 500,000:
Total estimated population                 6,471,893
Male population (50%)                      3,235,946
Male population in "working age"
group (53.1%)                            1,718,187
Yemeni outside the country 1/               1,234,000
Resident "working age" males                 484,287
Although boys often do hold employment before entry into the
formal "working age" category, the figure above appears
strikingly low and indicative of lack of domestic manpower
surpluses. Availability of higher paying employment in
nearly countries, especially Saudi Arabia, has induced
a male manpower drainage from Yemen currently estimated at
1.2 million. Additionally, urban populations reflect
1/   Census officials reported that only a very small percentage of those out-
side the country were women and that most represented men employed in
nearly Middle Eastern states, especially Saudi Arabia.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
significant sex ratio imbalances as males have migrated
internally seeking better jobs off the farm.
(ii) Imported investment items have been valued at landed
price Hodeidah. Other inputs have been prices in conform-
ity with prices prevailing at the end of 1975. It has
been assumed that these input prices sufficiently reflect-
ed the marginal value product of the respective factor
of production making additional shadow pricing unnecessary.
Only the price of petroleum products was adjusted for
taxes.
(c) Exchange Rate.
The prevailing exchange rate of YRls 1.00 = US$0.22 has been em-
ployed in the economic analysis. The rate con tinues to display
market stability bolstered by overall surpluses in balance of
payments reflecting significant remittances from workers abroad
as well as foreign aid for development and budget-
ary obligations. Currencies are easily convertible within Yemen
in conformity with this rate.
3.        Benefits of Respective Components.  Measurable economic benefits
attributable to the project would flow from the following components:
(a) Livestock Development Corporation (LDC)
(b) Animal Health Division (AHD)
(c) Hides and Skins component of Municipality Slaughterhouses
and Market Department (MSMD)
(d) Village Development Associations (VDA)
(e) Supervised Credit to the Traditional Sector
4.        The benefits from the LDC would be as follows:
(a) Eight dairy farms and five milk colonies which would produce
3,125 tons of milk per year at full development (including
the dairy component of the Livestock Finishing Farm).
(b) A Livestock Finishing Farm which would produce 283 tons of
meat per year (carcass equivalent) at full development, of
which 197 tons would be sheepmeat and the balance beef.
(c) A poultry and feed mill unit which would produce 150 tons of
poultry meat per year and 3,000 tons per year of feed at



ANNEX 14
Page 4
full capacity. The net economic benefits of the feed mill
will be the value added at the mill, which is the cost of
mixing and bagging the ingredients.
5.        The economic benefit of decreased mortality of cattle (including
dairy), sheep, goats, and poultry populations is calculated as the incre-
mental annual production, at their economic prices, resulting from the animal
health program. This is calculated as 1-1/2% per annum growth incremental
to pre-project growth of 1% per annum. The base figures for estimated pop-
ulations and offtakes are given in Annex 2, Table 5. The net benefit takes
into account the costs of the animal health program (Annex 8, Tables 1 and
2), and also the costs of the Livestock and Range Improvement Center (Annex
9, Table 1), as this part of the project should be allocated against greater
meat and dairy production.
6.        The economic benefits of the MSMD program include both quantifiable
and non-quantifiable benefits. The latter are chiefly the considerable
public health benefits arising from the improved hygiene of new abattoirs and
meat markets. The condition of such facilities as presently exist is con-
sidered injurious to the public health, and this is confirmed by the wide-
spread occurrence in the YAR human population of internal parasites.
7.        The quantifiable benefit are the improved value of hides and skins
resulting from better techniques at the time of slaughter. It is estimated
that a 30% increase in export prices will be attained from a substantial
proportion of hides and skins. Taking as a base 197-exports of YRls 3,066
million, the incremental benefits of the program are projected as rising to
YRls one million in project year 5 and increasing at 5% per annum thereafter.
8.        The economic benefit from the VDA includes sales of timber and the
incremental output from improved pastures, which is projected to be two tons
of sheepmeat per year for each of the 10 VDAs.
9.        The economic benefits from the three components of supervised
credit to the traditional sector are as follows:
(a) Economic benefits projected for the on-farm loans to 24
landowners and 375 tenants include:
(i) incremental meat production of 150 tons
(ii) incremental milk production of 1,600 tons
(iii) incremental milk production of 1,300 tons
(b) Loans to 500 smallholders for poultry production will result in
production of 180 tons of eggs.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
(c) Loans for butcher shop improvement are not projected to result
in quantifiable economic benefits, but will have a beneficial
effect on public health through improved hygiene. The costs
of these butcher shop loans have been allocated against the
supervised credit component in calculating the economic rate of
return.
10.       Institution Building.  The Project will substantially strengthen the
Agricultural Credit Fund, will help build the Animal Health Division, and
will create the Livestock Development Corporation, as well as the Livestock
and Range Improvement Division. This institution building will have favorable
but non-quantifiable effects for the future of the Yemen economy in increasing
capacity to implement expanded activities in livestock development and related
activities.
11.       Foreign Exchange Earnings.  Foreign exchange earnings and savings
under the project are projected as follows:
(a) Milk production: 4,725 tons production is projected at full
development of new enterprises, plus 11,100 tons of dairy
products (in project year 5) attributable to the animal
health component. At a value of US$440 per ton the net fo-
reign exchange savings will be US$7 million per year.
(b) Hides and Skins: the incremental value is projected as
rising to US$0.22 million in project year 5.
(c) Meat output attributable to the project is projected at
4,000 tons in project year 5, the value of which is equi-
valent to US$8 million
(d) Grain output attributable to the project--from tenant farm
production--is projected at 1,300 tons per year. This out-
put may be projected at US$0.3 million per year; valued at
the import price of wheat in order to calculate import sub-
stitution savings.
12.       Training.  Considerable, but non-quantifiable, benefits will re-
sult from training of Yemeni nationals under the project. Major categories
of training will be:
(a) On-the-job training by expatriates
(b) Budget grants for formal training
(c) Training of farmers in specific skills by extension workers.
Over the project, the acquisition of skills by Yemeni is expected to be an
important contribution to the country, especially considering the present
small percentage of trained personnel in the Yemen.



ANNEX 14
Page 6
13.       Impact of the Project on Employment.  Number of jobs expected to
be created under th project for Yemeni nationals total 458:
(a)  LDC:                               237 jobs
(b)  AHD:                                78 jobs
(c)  ACF:                                24 jobs
(d)  Other:                             119 jobs
No additional employment will be created through the smallholder poultry
loans as they will use family labor. No additional employment: is assumed to
be created by the three municipal abattoirs as they will recruit butchers
and allied workers who currently follow the trade.
14.       Distribution of Benefits.  Project benefits will be widely distri-
buted:
(a)  The animal health program will benefit farmers throughout the
country. Of first importance will be reduced mortality to
work oxen, which provide the power for most of the country's
agriculture. In addition, owners of smallstock and poultry
throughout the country will benefit from the prograrn.
(b) On-farm loans to 500 smallholders (poultry loans), :375 tenant
farmers, and 24 landowners will benefit the rural sectors.
The VDAs will also contribute to rural income.
(c) LDC production of milk, poultry, and meat will mostly be
marketed in urban area, thereby contibuting to improved nutri-
tion.
(d) MSMD activities in abattoirs and markets will improve the
public health of urban dwellers.
15.       Impact of Additional Capacity on Prices.  Additions to the sup-
ply of meat and milk due to the project will approximate 1-1/2% of the total
supply. However, because the rate of increase in consumer demand cannot be
estimated with any accuracy, the quantitative effect on prices is unknown.
It may be concluded, however, that this additional capacity will have a
dampening effect on prices, and will be beneficial in a country where meat
and milk prices are high relative to consumer income.
16.       The poultry output may be expected to result in low,er prices in
certain markets such as Taiz, where economics of scale should enable poultry
meat to be sold at a lower price per kg than pre-project prices.



ANNEX 14
Page 7
17.       Economic Rates of Return by Component.  The overall rate of re-
turn to the Project is 27%. Sensitivity testing for 10% increase in invest-
ment costs, and separately for 10% increase in operating costs and a 10%
decrease in benefits both for the Project as a whole and for the individual
components (Table 1) reveals that reductions in rates of return do not fall
below 22% for the project. The animal health program has a very high return,
as might be expeced from the initiation of effective measures where little has
been done in the past. The public health effects of the new abattoirs and
food markets have not been possible to quantify and setting their entire costs
against the quantifiable benefits arising from improved hides and skins income
results in a very low economic rate of return.



APFRAISAL OP
LIVEIOTDCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PR03ECT
CrM22 ARAB REPDBLlC
Economic Rkt of Return
YEaR
j2                         5         S        _        8                    10       11         11        L,         14        15        1i          17        18         19        0
----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---- ---------- --   -- _ YRlc  ' 000------- ----- ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ProJect Benefits A
Liveatock Deoulopsent Corporation /2        --    653    5,771      a 44l    10,496   12,270   13,754   14,527    14,812    14,880    14,880    14,880    14,880    14,880    14,880    14,80    14,8           880 14,880    14,88b    o,82o
Animal Henith Diviujon /3               2,280   4,590    6,880      9,130    11,500   14,000   16,900   19,500    22,1C0    25,i00       28,200    31,500    34,500    37,500    41,200    44.300    48 400    52,200    56,400   no,200
Mooicipslity SiaughterhoUe &
Marknt Division/k                        --     600       750       80     1,000    1,050    1,103    1,158       1,216     1,276      1,340     1,407     1,477      1,550     1,628      1,710      1,795     1,885      1,980     2,078
Village Deve1opentA.sociatione             --       --       --         3         12       30       31        53       116       230        230       230        230       230        230       230        230       230        230     1,476
Supervised Credit /5                      _        222    1,6j8     4,131     7,351   10,157   11621   11.690    11,690    11.690    11,69         11,690    11,690    11.690    11,6        ii,690    11.690    11,690      1,690    17.680
Project Benefit Total                        2 20   6.          15.039    22507     A       307   43,409   46,928    49.93         53.176     6,340    5.0        62.777   ,65.85      69.628    72.810    L=          80.885    85.180          4
Project Coot,
-_weot.ent Costs
Li-ectook D.eeIop-e,t Corporatitn       4,207   6,454    3 661      5.528      1 443      385      952      580        35e       198      1,209     1,110     1,692        754       1I35       343        750       492        5S4        __
Animal Realth Dvision /6                 5,249   4,408    3,942     4,618      4,378    1,945       _     -        --        --        --         --        --         --        --         --              __
Mtnicipality Slaughtor8cu-e &
Mnrket Division                       2,606   3,008    3,010         99         31       70       90       30         __        6o         70     1,107       867        777         --        70         30        30         --         -
.llsg . SeveuIpasat Assoc iations..                 13       62       i69        204     i132-                           -        --        -           -        -           -                    -         -                    --
Siopavied Credit                           106     685       2 803  3          3,530    1,501 32-                                                                                                                               ----
Invest.ent Subtotal                       12,1638  1,76b   It                    9,591      ,533    1072      i           359       258     1,79       2,217     2,559      1,531       195      1,013       70         522        5
Operatinlg Costs
Li-ecto-k Devlopent Corporation             40   1,280    4.933     6,612      7,504    8,675    9,77    10,280    lo,468    10,504    10,504    10,50        10,004    10,504    io,674 1o,1o4    10,5o0    10.5o4    10,5o4    io,6o4
Animal Hoalti Divbiun.                              L-      -           -          -       -      ,670    1,670      1,670     1,670      1,670     1,670     1,6070     1.670      1,670     1,670      1,670     1,670      1,670     1,670
Runicipality Slaughterhouse &
sacket Dlvision                         __     1,292    2,234     3,354      3,399    3,475    3,500    3,516      3,516     3,516      3,516     3,516     3,516      3,516      3,516     3,514      3,516     3,516      3,516      3,S1l
village De-elopsnt Association. ..                   6       24        61         64       70       70        70        70        70         70        70         70        70         70        70         70         70        70         70
Supervised Credit                         -_        26    1,864                6 54       661    7,9-      7                                                                                                                       7,988 7,93
peranti.g Costs Subtotel                     4i4                                                                                              - 9,055o i4,3W    _____  -o    22,,86
Invest-tni & Operating Costs Total           i2,28  17,672   22,533    26,572    27,062   24,414   21,93    22,464        2,401    22,336    23,357    24,295    24,637    23,809    22.273    23,091    22,858    22,60)    27,632    22,078
ftpatristee                                    728   1,346    1,UO0      1 016       __        _-       --_       -- i_                __         __        __        __         --         __        __         __         __
Project Unit                                 i,6ii   1,384    1,384      1,510   1077         300       --        --        --        --         --        --         --        --         --        __         -_
ASricoltura  Credit Pond                     1,002   1,275    1,500      1,555    1,378        317       --                  --        --         --        --         _-        __         __         __        __         __        __         __
Project Studies                              2.250       --       _-        __       __        -_        __      _           __        _-         __        __         __        __         __         _-        __         __        __
Project Cost Total                        17,799  2'i677   26,527    30,653   29,517    25,031   21.933   22.464          4                 2         24.2ff    24.637         0                           22,858    22,6oo    22,632   02,078
Net Be.efits - Total Project                (15,51)(15,612) (31,638)   (8,146)      842    12,476   19,332   24,464    27,533    30,840    32,983    35,412    38,140    o2,24X    47,355    47,717    54,139    58,285    62,548    80,176
Net Resefite - Livestock De-elopepnt
Corpor.tion             ( 4,247) (7,281)  (2,823)   (1,497)   1,544       2,710    2,995    3,667      3,667     3,985      4,178     3,167     3,266      2,845     4,181      3,363      3,596     3,854      3,82     10,316
- animl Remlth Div.          (2,629)    182   20938       4,512   7?,1       12,055   15,230   17,830    23,430    23,430    26,530    29,830    32,830    35,833    39,530    42,630    45,73o    50,530    54,73o    58,530
- Munioipality Sla-ghter-
houses & Market Div.       (2,606) (3,700)  (4,494)   (2 653)  (2 4301   (2 495)  (2S487)  (2,388)   (2.300)   (2,300)   (2,246)   (3,216)   (2,906)   (2,743)   (1,888)   (1,876)   (1,751)   (1,661)   (1,536)   (I,438)
- Village Dee. A-e.                      (19)     (86)     (105)    (256)      ?172)     (39)      (1T)       46       166        160       160        160       160        160       160        160        i60       160        160
- Supervised Credit            (106)   (789)  (3,029)   (4,200)  (2,683)        995    3,633    3,702      3,700     3,702      3,702     3,702     3,702      3,702      3,702     3,702      3,702     3,702      3,702      3,702
Messomie Mte of Retern sad Senslt-Ity  Malysis
Baes =R     0ventoat Costs o 1%         Oersrtise Cts s 4- 10      ProJect Benefits - 10%
Total Project                            27                 25                        24                            22                                                                1
I  Residual values sue included in yamo 20 hlees sppropriste.
_   LDC is c epused of dairy farms, milk col ales, a pouatry/feed unit, and a licest-ok finishig component.
3   The. benefits from the Anisl Hea th Pgresgu are o-oseined as Ij% ic-rementa  -.nu..l prnduotios  oa -ttls, Sheep sad goats, pooltry aol dairy  -cldet  at t,eir economic prices).
Inoremtatal value of hides sd skim  des to the project are the sole qusatifiable economic benefits proJected from  the Municipl Dlaughterhuose  ald Maciecs Di10110.
Ouper-ied credit is eoed of laa r sd teat fm loans, sad butcher shop iprovesent l ans--so quatifishle benefit, are projected fur the letter.
Costs of the kg  } or_nt Cseters arm mllolted aaint this ite  me it till mien coetribute to increse anii prdaction.
Enuomio rate of stemrw. sot qusatirlbla; see eAnne 14, peas. 5 and 17.
E3conomic rmte of ntttr at qusatifihbls; see Annex 14, peras. 6, 7 and 17.



ANNEX 15
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        It is essential to establish from project initiation efficient sys-
tems for (a) monitoring progress of project implementation, and (b) continuous
evaluation of the impact of the project on institutions, on livestock and
poultry development and on participating beneficiaries. The monitoring system
would record progress in relationship to project objectives, goals and sched-
ules established for each project component. It would enable modifications
and improvements to be made to the project as well as to provide an early
warning of project implementation problems. The evaluation system would en-
able project management and policy makers to make necessary adjustments in
policies, objectives, institutional arrangements and resources in order that
the project can achieve its objectives. It would make possible to use experi-
ence gained in the early stages of project implementation to be applied appro-
priately to subsequent stages of the project and importantly to repeater
projects.
2.        Project monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by the PU, LDC
and ACF during project implementation. Overall responsibility would be with
the Project Unit Manager who will work closely with the division managers.
The Project Unit Manager would establish an Evaluation Unit made up of repre-
sentatives of the various Divisions, LDC, and ACF and employ short-term field
staff and specialists as necessary. The functions of the Evaluation Unit
would include:
(a) Monitoring of the overall progress of the project in relation
to the implementation schedule and identification of likely
problems.
(b) Carrying out studies and surveys to determine the impact of
the project on agricultural and livestock production, on
the institutions and on the beneficiaries, using the services
of the local staff supplemented by specialists when necessary.
Information collected will be kept to the minimum necessary
to prepare quarterly progress reports and annual evaluation
reports.
(c) Conducting special surveys as necessary.
3.        Objectives, and factors to monitor and evaluate for each project
component are illustrated in the following paragraphs. During initial super-
vision the Project Unit Manager and IDA would develop key indicators for
meaningful monitoring and evaluation.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
4.        Livestock Development Corporation.  The three divisions - Dairy
Farms, Livestock Finishing Farm, and Poultry/Feed Mill Division -- have as
their objectives (a) production of meat, milk, and eggs, (b) demonstration of
techniques, (c) improvements in the marketing system. The LDC Manager would
monitor (a) output figures, (b) activities to promote demonstration, and any
known implementation resulting therefrom, (c) data on distribution costs and
retail prices with and without project and effect of diverting land to project
component use.
5.        Slaughterhouses and Meat Markets.  The objectives are (a) improved
public hygiene, (b) improved retail meat quality, and (c) increased export
earnings from hides and skins. Accordingly, the MSMD Manager will monitor
(a) nature and results of inspections of the facilities concerned (b) distri-
bution costs and retail prices (c) output and grade of hides and skins from
the facilities, if possible with reference to project impact on quality im-
provement.
6.        Supervised Credit.  The objectives of on-farm programs are (a) in-
creased production of food products and increased income to producer families
(b) improved techniques and management practices at the farm level, and (c)
more efficient retail meat marketing. In line with these objectives, the
General Manager of ACF will monitor, (a) output and income figures for bene-
ficiaries of on-farm credit (based on sample surveys; and attempting to
analyze impact with and without project), (b) actual observed benefits arising
from improved meat retailing, and (c) distribution of credit.
7.        Livestock Range Improvement and Village Development Association.
The objectives of these programs are (a) to improve carrying capacity through
applied research, (b) to communicate these methods through demonstration and
extension (c) to promote livestock improvement practices, and (d) to increase
income in ten "Village Development Associations," each composed of about five
sub-villages. Accordingly, the LRID Manager would monitor similar character-
istics as those detailed under "Supervised Credit" above.
8.        Animal Health.  The objectives of the animal health program include
controlling disease, and reducing mortality, with consequent increased pro-
ductivity of livestock in their functions as draft animals and providers of
food and hyproducts. The AHD Manager would monitor (a) the disease control
program, (b) quarantine effectiveness of imported livestock, and (c) incidence
of disease.
9.        Training.  Training of Yemeni counterparts is an important objective
of the Project. Division Managers will monitor the response of trainees, and
report to the Project Manager.
10.       Overall Objectives of Program.  In addition to the objectives listed
above under the various project components, there are the following overall
objectives (a) institution building, (b) import substitution, (c) upgrading
nutrition, (d) extension of credit to target groups.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
11.       Evaluation.  The on-going evaluation of the Project by the Project
Manager will arise from analysis of the monitoring functions performed at divi-
sional level. This will be performed within the context of macroeconomic and
other considerations. The output of the evaluation will enable the Project
Manager to adjust management emphasis and deploy resources as necessary as
well as to recommend policy changes in his annual report to the investors.



IBRD-il978
ES' .5~ FAzI                                                                                                                                     FEBRUARY 197E
,IR  ~~~~~~~' ~~YEMEN ARAB  REPUBI
8,.! R'H                                      ~~~~~~~~S A U DI  A RA B IA              LIVESTOCK CREDIT' AND PROCESSING PROJECT
SAEEI HERE V  'RE  DErI,,on                                      S-GAUHTER HOUSE AND MARET FACIL TIES
R                                                              ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ POULTRY UNll
'   X   U ITE EUR                             4~-~ n N dIr                                                  DAIRY FARMS
REGIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH TEETER
PETPLEAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ""V     .                    ~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK GLAR.NTINE STATISM
svr                                      )   l    f 'N         1_,         J-                          *    LIVESOTCE K.SD"T OAN  RANGE IMFRUVEMENT CENTER
VC Ir ETHR0          <                             XSIT  FO LO INSETDCK FATTENINU FARM
_______/ |   5              flf         I                                     PAVED ROADS UNDER CEOSTRECTION
r    \\                     j 4 9               <  ~~~~~~~~ ~                             ~ ~~~~~~D  A  H'  O _7TEb ROaDF
GV -;                                                            I>                         -JOO--- T i t; 2\F<    \   <k    ( 9   jsig  r   g *   T061 0 ONI OUTS IS METERS
;2iS i    4-iz4 -  I,                                                         ,                          A % V  l   (   7g.rr.FN >+    INTERINATIONAL A RPORTS
'                          F~~~~~~~~~ROVINCIAL ESUNDAE ES
= = =" 0 *  (      \         '-"U'-'-                            |                   -  l\; ~ 5;ie       _INTELRNAT ONAL EOUNDARIFS
AJJA                     KEUt,               - '                                    U       20      40      50       8U      UT0
IA'  --           II                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~ jKILOMETERS                                                                                          IA
/                           0 U                    N                 '                                                   M  IB/-
V                                                                                    -  dXV^1                                        wePusLc oF            emel
,.         0d40   HU,                        \0  -                                                         6,
A
1x'=I,,IEE .   '   -                           SI 1  /o                                                    L~;-(;bNi   ; 
EEI                                                                                        500 T  D A 
AA l                                                                                             W                                        1
8                                                  D.                                    I  D     AIIU 
AI--
/C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N-, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~E
E         IS N EU,TPIRATI* ,AI
44'                                                                     AAE aSDO1 flIeE



