CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 662 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Livestock Credit and Processing Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 15, 1976


﻿0A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 15, 1976, between YEMEN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrover intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to eleven million six hundred forty thousand dollars
($11,640,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(C) The Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (hereinafter called the Netherlands) a loan (herein-
after called the Netherlands Loan) in an amount equivalent to
seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Netherlands Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Netherlands;


﻿-2-
(D) The Borrower intends to obtain from the Ministry of
Overseas Development of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland (hereinafter called ODM) a grant (hereinafter
called the ODM Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million four
hundred thousand dollars ($2,400,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the ODM Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and ODM; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREvORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿0111
-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "LDB" means the Livestock Development Board established
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(b) "LDC" means the Livestock Development Corporation estab-
lished pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment;
(c) "MSMD" means the Municipalities Slaughterhouse and Markets
Division established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04
(a) of this Agreement;


﻿(d) "AHD" means the Animal Health Division established
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(e) "LRID" means the Livestock and Range Improvement division
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement;
(f) "VDA" means any Village Development Association estab-
lished under Part D(2) of the Project;
(g) "ACF" means the Agricultural Credit Fund Department
established within the Central Bank of the Borrower in connection
with the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 376 YAR) between
the Borrower &nd the Association dated May 7, 1973;
(h) "Project Unit" means the Project Implementation Unit
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and its Central Bank pursuant
to Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(j) "sub-loan" means any loan or credit made or to be made
under Part A, Part D (2) or Part E of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services and in respect
of amounts disbursed under sub-loans required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿0
-6-
Section 2.06, The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing January 1, 1987, and ending July 1, 2026 each
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 1996
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿*                          -7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall establish a Project Implementation
Unit (hereinafter called the Project Unit), responsible to LDB and
with headquarters located in Sana'a, for the execution ad manage-
ment of the Project, with such organization, responsibilities and
powers as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time, and shall, not later
than April 30, 1977, or such other date as shall be agreed with
the Association, cause the Project Unit to be adequately staffed.
(c) The equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of the expendi-
tures incurred in respect of Part A and Part D (2) of the Project
shall be financed by the Borrower under sub-,.oans made through
ACF to LDC and VDAs, respectively; the balance of such expendi-
tures shall be financed by the Borrower through ACF in the form
of equity contribution for LDC and of grant for VDAs.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of overall responsibility of
the Project and coordination of the Project activities with various
Government departments and institutions and with bilateral aid
organizations, the Borrower shall establish, within its Ministry
01


﻿-8-
of Agriculture, a livestock development board (LDB) under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture or his designated
representative and with representatives of the Borrower's Central
Planning Organization, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities and the General Manager
of ACF, and the Project Manager and Co-Manager.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of operating and managing the
facilities referred to in Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall establish a livestock development corporation (LDC), with
headquarters located in Sana'a, as a semi-autonomous Government
enterprise with such organization, responsibilities and powers
and under such a charter as shall all be acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. The Charter of LDC may be amended from time to time as
may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Project Unit in the
implementation of the Project and in the operation and management
of the facilities under the Project, the Borrower shall, in con-
sultation with the Association, establish within the Project Unit:
(i) a Municipalities, Slaughterhouse and Markets Division (MSMD)
for Part B of the Project; (ii) an Animal Health Division (AHD)
for Part C of the Project; and (iii) a Livestock and Range Improve-
ment Division (LRID) in Damar for Part D of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to ensure that, not later than six years from the date
of this Agreement or such later date as shall be agreed with the
Association, MSMD shall be transferred to the Borrower's Ministry
of Public Works and Municipalities to be responsible for the


﻿9
operation of all slaughterhouses and retail markets within the
territories of the Borrower.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1977 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
submit to the Association for approval by the Association proposals
for such regulations as may be necessary to ensure that: (i) no
animals shall be slaughtered except at the Borrower's slaughter-
houses in any part of the territories of the Borrower where such
slaughterhouses are available; (ii)-appropriate meat inspection
procedures are enforced at said slaughterhouses; and (iii) all
retail markets established within the territories of the Borrower
shall be properly licensed and maintained in a sanitary manner.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to ensure that the regulations referred to in subsection
(a) of this Section shall be applied to the respective areas within
the territories of the Borrower where the said slaughterhouses and
retail markets have commenced operation.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that: (i) all animals to be slaugh-
tered at the slaughterhouses referred to in Part B(l) of the
Project shall oe slaughtered by MSMD slaughtermen; and (ii) all
carcasses and offal of the animals so slaughtered shall be deliv-
ered by the slaughterhouses to the retail markets.
Section 3.07. In order to enable the slaughterhouses and
retail markets referred to in Part B (1) and (2) of the Project
to be operated on a sound financial basis, the Borrower shall


﻿- 10 -
cause MSMD to operate said slaughterhouses and retail markets and
to collect such fees for services rendered by said slaughterhouses
and retail markets as may be required for the purpose.
Section 3.08. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ:
(a) for Part F (1) and (3) of the Project, fourteen veterin-
arians and technicians, an expert to fill the position of General
Manager of ACF, and a management consulting firm to provide the
other experts referred to in Part F (1) of the Project and super-
vision of the consultants to be employed pursuant to paragraph (b)
of this Section; and
0
(b) for Part F (2) of the Project, livestock and dairy con-
sultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Kuwait Fund and the
Association.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause ACF, with the
cooperation of the Project Unit, to act as the lending channel
for all sub-loans extended under the Project.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying
out Parts A, D (2) and E of the Project, lend to its Central Bank
an amount equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) out of
the Proceeds of the Credit, the Kuwait Fund Loan, the Netherlands
Loan, and the Borrower's own funds under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and its Central Bank


﻿- 11 -
upon terms and conditions (including those set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement) which shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under this Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and,the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall cause its Central Bank to take all
measures necessary:
(i) properly to supervise, through ACF, the provision
of sub-loans;
(ii) to require that (1) the goods and services to be
financed under a sub-loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and ef-
ficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties render-
ing them and (2) such goods and services shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-
project for which the sub-loan is made; and
0


﻿-12-
(iii) otherwise to ensure the use of the proceeds of
said sub-loans in an efficient manner.
(e) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary for the transfer of the obligations, powers and re-
sponsibilities of the Central Bank under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to either (i) ACF if the Borrower decides,
after consultation with the Association, to establish ACF as an
independent national credit institution or (ii) an independent
national credit institution if the Borrower decides, after con-
sultation with the Association, to incorporate ACF into such an
institution.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause ACF to act as the
administrative channel for: (a) the Borrower's equity contribu-
tion to LDC; and (b) the Borrower's grant contribution to the
Project Unit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not later than fourteen
months from the date of this Agreement, or such longer period
of time as the Association may agree, formulate and implement
a training program, acceptable to the Association, for local
counterpart staff working on the Project, with the assistance
of the consultants and experts specified in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement.
Section 3.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.


﻿0M
- 13 -
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation promptly upon their preparation, the reports, contract
documents and work schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods, works
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit,
ACF and LDC to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Project Unit, ACF and
LDC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit, ACF and LDC
to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Project Unit, ACF and LDC and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project Unit to pre-
pare quarterly progress reports on the Project; and (ii) submit
such reports to the Association not later than 3 months after the
end of each quarter.


﻿- 15 -
(d) The Borrower shall submit to the Association, not later
than 3 months after the end of each fiscal year, a report evaluat-
ing Project performance for said year.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the facilities
provided under the Project shall be operated and maintained, and
that promptly as required all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof shall be made, in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, agricultural and meat processing practices.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Kuwait Fund Loan, the Netherlands Loan
or the ODM Grant shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement, the Netherlands Loan Agreement or
the ODM Grant Agreement, respectively; or
(ii) the Kuwait Fund Loan, the Netherlands Loan or
the ODM Grant shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of thi   paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on


﻿- 17 -
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement shall have been signed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(b) the Netherlands Loan Agreement shall have been signed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Netherlands;
(c) the ODM Grant Agreement shall have been signed on be-
half of the Borrower and ODM;
(d) the Borrower shall have approved a charter establishing
LDC in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this
Agreement;
(e) the Borrower shall have appointed a management consult-
ing firm in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.08 (a) of
this Agreement;
(f) the Borrower shall have appointed the Project Co-Manager
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(g) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and its Central Bank, re-
spectively, shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corrporate and governmental action.


﻿-19-
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and its Central Bank, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and its Central Bank in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 15, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
S"xction 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty five years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿200
- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Agriculture
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Yahya Al-Mutawakel
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Categx'rE              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' Ser-          3,500,000         100% of foreign
vices and Techni-                            expenditures
cal Assistance of
expert staff for
the Project Unit,
ACF and LDC
(2) Supervised Credit         1,100,000          27% of amounts
disbursed under
sub-loans made
by ACF
(3) Unallocated                  400,000
TOTAL      5,000,000


﻿0
- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $150,000 may be
made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after Algust 1, 1)76.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:


﻿- 24
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Associption are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms the initial phase of a long-term program
of the Borrower to expand and improve livestock development and
production, and consists of the following parts:
Part A:
The Establishment within LDC of the following:
(1) A Dairy division comprising about eight commercial
dairy units and about 5 associated milk colonies.
(2) A Livestock Finishing Farm division comprising
an irrigated livestock finishing farm with a com-
mercial dairy farm in the Tihama area.
(3) A Poultry-Feed Processing division comprising
a poultry unit in the Taiz area and a small feed
mill.
Part B:   Slauhterhouse and Retail Markets
(1) Construction of new slaughter facilities in Taiz
and Hodeidah and completion of the abbatoir in
Sanala.


﻿-26-
(2) Construction of retail meat market stalls in
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah and provision of
the necessary supporting facilities.
(3) Establishment of a hides and skins improvement
program.
(4) Training of local butchers in livestock slaughtering
and skinning techniques.
Part C:   Animal Health Services
Expansion of animal health services of the Directorate
of Animal Health at the Borrower's Ministry of Agricul-
ture through:
(1) Staffing and construction of facilities re-
quired by the Directorate of Animal Health to
establish field centers equipped by adequate
diagnostic and veterinary investigation facil-
ities.
(2) Enlargement of the diagnostic laboratory
facilities in Sana'a.
(3) Establishment of a regional veterinary center
in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah.
(4) Construction of a quarantine station in
Hodeidah.


﻿- 27 -
Part D:   Livestock and RanEe Improvement
(1) Establishment of an agricultural improvement sta-
tion with a range improvement center near Damar,
and provision of the necessary facilities, equip-
ment and vehicles to the station and the center.
(2) Establishment of pilot village development
associations (VDA) for livestock production
improvement and range improvement, including
the provision of the necessary facilities,
equipment, vehicles and livestock.
Part E:   Servised Credit
(1) Provision of sub-loans to farmers for the purchase
of sheep, goat, dairy and poultry and for financing
investments to increase livestock production for
on-farm infrastructure investment.
(2) Provision of sub-loans to butchers for purchase
of equipment and tools.
Part F:   Project Staffin, Studies_an     nin
(1) Provision of the following expert services:
(a) Project Unit Manager;
(b) Financial Expert;


﻿- 28 -
(c) for LDC, an LDC Manager, a Dairy Division
Manager, a Poultry-Feed Mill Division Manager,
a Livestock Finishing Division Manager, a
Master Mechanic and an Irrigation Crop Manager;
(d) for AHD, a Manager and about 13 veterinarians
and technicians.
(e) for LRID, a Livestock Production Specialist
and a Range Improvement Expert;
(f) for MSMD, a Manager and a Hides and Skins
Specialist; and
(g) for ACF, a General Manager in year 3 of the
Project, a Livestock Credit Officer, a Farm
Management Extension Officer and the neces-
sary local staff.
(2) Studies for the selection of suitable sites for
the livestock finishing farm and the dairy farms
and for a farm development plan for the purpose
of continuing the operation of the Wadi Surdud
farm and reviewing the characteristics and tenure
status of selected sites and the possible effects
of relocation on farmers.
(3) In-service and overseas Training and Fellowships.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
The Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit shall be headed by a qualified and experienced
Project Manager assisted by a Co-Manager who shall both be gradu-
ates in agriculture. A qualified financial specialist shall also
be employed.
2.   The Project Unit shall have the following divisions: MSMD,
AHD and LRID.
3.   The Project Unit shall have the following responsibilities
and powers:
(a) procurement of goods and services and formulation of
accounting and audit procedures;
(b) selection of staff and terms and conditions of their
employment;
(c) selection of staff for overseas training and fellowships
and coordination of internal training programs;
(d) initiation and supervision of studies for selection of
sites for the dairy farms, the livestock finishing farm
and a farm development plan for the purpose of continuing
the operation of the Wadi Surdud farm;


﻿- 30 -
(e) approval (by the Project Manager) of all loan applica-
tions by LDC and VDA prior to their submission to ACF;
and
(f) formulation by the Project Manager, in cooperation with
the division Managers, of operating and administrative
procedures for LDB's approval.
4.   The Project Unit and LDC head offices will be in Sana'a and
LRID will be located in Damar.


﻿*                                     - 31-
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Credit Arrangements
1.   Lending terms - the Borrower to its Central Bank:
(a) Period: repayment within 20 years including a 7 year
grace period.
(b) Interest: 4% per annum on outstanding balance.
2.   Lending terms - the Central Bank to LDC, VDA and traditional
sector sub-borrowers:
(a) Terms:
(i) maturities will not exceed the life of the assets
financed;
(ii) maximum repayment periods for the various subloans
shall be as follows:


﻿- 32-
Investment Category      Grace      RepayMent     Total
Years
(1) LDC
Livestock Finishing
Farm                  5            5          10
Dairy Farms             4           7           11
Milk Colonies            5           4           9
Poultry-Feed Mill       4            8          12
(2) VDA                         6            5          11
(3) Supervised Credit
Landowner               2           4            6
Tenant Farmer           3            4           7
Smallholder Poultry
Farms                 1           6            7
Butchers                1            1           2
(iii) for LDC and VDA investments the Subloan portion
shall be 60% of the investment cost.
(iv) the minimum contribution of farmers under the
supervised credit shall be 20% of the investment
cost.
(b) Interest: 9% per annum on outstanding balance.


