                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 8035-PH




              Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and
                   Community Participation Project)


                               between


                 REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES



                                 and


        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                  AND DEVELOPMENT




                         Dated May 12, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT dated May 12, 2011, between the REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (“the Borrower?) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank?) for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in this
        Agreement, or if not otherwise defined, in the Original Loan Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) as
        such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
        in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“the
        Loan?), to assist in financing Part A.2 of the project described in Schedule 1 to
        this Agreement (“the Project?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
                                           2


        the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
               of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
               (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
               amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
               Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
               portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
               from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa or from a Variable
               Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
               Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
               all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
               outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
               Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
               is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
               in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
               provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
               Guidelines.

        (c)    Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
               Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
               premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
               itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
               with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
               allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
               Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part A.2 of the Project through MDFO; and
        cause LLDA to carry out Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project, all in accordance
        with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
                                           3


3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
        ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

        (a)     The Republic Act No. 4850 of the Borrower (“The Laguna Lake
Development Authority Act of 1966?), as amended by Presidential Decree No. 813
(October 17, 1975) and Executive Order No. 927 (December 16, 1983), has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of LLDA to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

        (b)     The Borrower has amended, suspended, abrogated or waived the
LLDA’s Re-engineering Program, or any provision thereof so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of LLDA to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

        Section 4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following; that
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement or the event
specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement has occurred.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: that the
        Bank has received draft final bidding documents of at least four (4) Subprojects.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

                Department of Finance
                Department of Finance Building
                Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex
                                            4


               Roxas Blvd.
               Manila, Republic of the Philippines

               Cable address:           TELEX                 Facsimile:
                                        40268CB-              CONF
               SECFIN
               Manila                                         (63-2) 523-9216

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:           Telex:                Facsimile:

               INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or        1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)


       AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first
above written.


                                 REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES


                                 By /s/ Cesar V. Purisima

                                                            Authorized Representative


                                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                 By /s/ Chiyo Kanda

                                                            Authorized Representative
                                           5



SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the environment
quality of the Laguna de Bay Watershed.

        The Project, comprising the Original Project with the modifications set forth
below, consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the Borrower
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A: Micro-watershed Environmental Interventions

       Carrying out a program of environmental management and improvement of the
Laguna de Bay watershed at the micro-watershed level, said program consisting of:

1.      Preparation of small-scale investment sub-projects which are parts of an
        integrated program at the micro-watershed level, in waste management and
        sanitation, natural resource development and management, eco-tourism, soil
        erosion and localized flood prevention.

2.      Provision of Subloans and Subgrants to selected LGUs for the implementation of
        the Subprojects, including provision of Subloans and Subgrants to selected LGUs
        for the construction, rehabilitation or enhancement of the following types of
        Subprojects: (a) solid waste management facilities; (b) water and wastewater
        management facilities; (c) local drainage and flood control and prevention;
        (d) slope and river bank stabilization and protection; (e) natural resource
        management; and (f) environmental improvements/eco-tourism.

3.      Monitoring and supervision of the implementation of the Subprojects referred to
        in paragraph 2 above.

Part B: Institutional Development

        Carrying out a program to strengthen institutions and develop instruments to
effectively manage the Laguna de Bay Watershed environment, said program consisting
of:
                                         6


1.   Enhancement of the capacity of the Laguna Lake Development Authority,
     through: (a) the development, piloting and strengthening of regulatory
     instruments and approaches to control environmental pollution and degradation;
     (b) the strengthening of its policy and planning capacity; (c) the development and
     implementation of information, education and communication programs; and
     (d) the formulation of a strategy for trunk infrastructure development;

2.   Development of the environmental protection and management capacity of
     stakeholders in the micro-watersheds, through: (a) the preparation, on a
     participatory basis, of about twenty-four (24) Laguna micro-watershed
     environmental action plans; and (b) provision of training and skill development
     assistance to LGUs, River Councils and community groups within the Laguna de
     Bay Watershed;

3.   Provision of support for Project coordination and management; and

4.   Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Framework, and dissemination of
     lessons learnt.
                                           7



SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements.

1.      The Borrower shall, for the duration of the Project, maintain the institutional
        arrangements set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Original Loan
        Agreement.

2.      The Borrower shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project through MDFO, and cause
        LLDA to carry out Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project, in accordance with the
        provisions of (a) Section 3.01 (except for sub paragraph (c) thereof) of the
        Original Loan Agreement: and (b) the part of the Implementation Program set
        forth in Section A and B of Schedule 4 to the Original Loan Agreement subject
        to the amendments and revisions set forth in Part C below;

3.      Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
        shall cause LLDA to (a) carry out Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project, in
        accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, provided that in the event that
        any provision of the aforesaid documents is inconsistent with the provisions of
        the Original Loan Agreement or this Agreement, the provisions of the Original
        Loan Agreement or this Agreement shall prevail; and (b) not to change, assign,
        amend, abrogate or waive the PIP, or any provision thereof without the prior
        written consent of the Bank.

B.      Subloans and Subgrants

The procedures for the processing of Subloans and Subgrants shall be those set forth in
Schedule 4 to the Original Loan Agreement as amended on July 10, 2009, and thereafter
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, subject to the
amendments and revisions set forth in Part C below

C.      Amendments and Revisions to the Original Agreement

1.      The term “Operations Manual? wherever it appears shall be deemed to be a
        reference to the Operations Manual defined in the Appendix to this Agreement
                                             8


2.      The reference in Paragraph 4(d) to Annex 1 of Schedule 4 shall be deemed to be
        a reference to Section III of this Schedule 2; and

D.      Safeguards
        The Borrower shall ensure that the Project (including Subprojects) is
        implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
        Safeguards Framework.

E.      Anti-Corruption

        The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II.     Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 of this
        Schedule. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
        and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
        of the period covered by such report.

2.      For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
        execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
        be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Project closing
        date.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
        prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
        each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
        the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
                                            9


3.      The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
        The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
        requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
        and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
        the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
        Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
        contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
        Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
        of International Competitive Bidding.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
        specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
        Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
        specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
                                           10


Procurement Methods
(a) National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the additional
procedures set out in Annex 2 to this Schedule.
(b) National Shopping
(c) Community Participation in Procurement
(d) Procurement of Small Works


C.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
        basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
        specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
        Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
        shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Methods
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants
(c) Single Source Selection


D.      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV.     Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.      General

1.      The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
        additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
        (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
        2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
                                                   11


           Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
           forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.          The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
            financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category?), the allocation of the
            amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
            financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

        Category              Amount of the Loan                Percentage of
                                   Allocated                  Expenditures to be
                              (expressed in USD)                  financed
(1) Subgrants and                   9,975,000             100 % of amounts of
Subloans under Part                                       Subloans and Subgrants
A.2 of the Project                                        Disbursed.
(2) Front-end Fee                      25,000             Amount payable pursuant
                                                          to Section 2.03 of this
                                                          Agreement in accordance
                                                          with Section 2.07(b) of the
                                                          General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap                    0                Amount due pursuant to
or Interest Rate                                          Section 2.07(c) of this
Collar premium1                                           Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT                       10,000,000


B.         Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.         Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
           made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2.         The Closing Date is April 30, 2014.




1
    The amount allocated to this category will be zero until premia is to be charged.
                                               12


                  Annex 1 to Schedule 2 Project Performance Indicators

Outcome                 Baseline     End of Project      Achievement         Additional
Indicator               (2003)       Target              under the           Financing
                                     (July 31, 2010)     Original Project    Indicators
                                                         (as of January      (April 30, 2014)
                                                         2011)
1. At least 10          BOD          10 percent          15 percent          10 percent
percent reduction in    loading:     (744.80 MT)         (698.37MT)          (744.80 MT)
pollution loading       827.56 MT
for         regulated
parameters
2. At least 30          507          30 percent          91 percent          91 percent
percent increase in                  (659 enterprises)   (971 enterprises)   (971enterprises)
compliance by
enterprises
3. All LGUs in at       0            All LGUs in 10      All LGUs in 24      All LGUs in 24
least 10 of the                      micro-watersheds    micro-watersheds    micro-watersheds
micro-watersheds                                         adopted LEAP        adopted LEAP
have adopted multi-
stakeholder micro-
watershed planning
as part of their
municipal
development
planning process
4. At least five (5)    0            5                   33                  50
of the micro-
watershed
interventions that
are implemented
result in
measurable
reductions in
important
environmental
pressures
5. At least 30           249 (men)   30 percent          300 percent         300 percent
percent increase in     162          535 (324 men        1644 (1080 men      1644 (1080 men
the number of men       (women) =    and 211 women)      and 564 women)      and 564 women)
and women from          411
community and
stakeholder groups
that are involved in
watershed planning
and management
Results Indicator
by Component
                                       13


Component 1: Co-
managed micro-
watershed
environmental
interventions
6. Monitoring and      None   M&E framework   M&E framework       M&E framework
evaluation                    & system in     & system in place   & system
framework set up              place                               improved and in
and in use                                                        use
7. MIS                 None   Completed       Completed           Completed
benchmarking
completed
8. Multi-              0      24              24                  24
stakeholder
planning process
(Lake Environment
Action Planning-
LEAP) conducted
in 24 micro-
watersheds
9. Number of           0      20              38                  50
micro-watershed
sub-projects
identified and FS
completed
10. At least 20 sub-   0      20              33                  50
projects approved
with adequate time
for their
implementation
within the project
duration
11. Number of          0      20              22                         35
SPLAs signed
12. More than 80       0      20              33                  50
percent of sub-
projects that are
approved for
funding are
implemented and
completed
Component 2:
Strengthening
institutions and
instruments
13. LLDA has           None   New structure   New structure        Sustain
implemented the               implemented     implemented         implementation of
new structure and                             based on approved   new structure
completed its re-                             Rationalization     based on the
                                               14


engineering                                             Plan                Rationalization
program as                                                                  Plan
envisioned in the
LIDO
14. Data               None         Data                100 percent         Data management
management                          management          completed           system in use
systems improved                    system
                                    completed
15. Laguna de Bay      0                Total of 5      5 LdBE Monitors     7 LdBE Monitors
Environment                            publications        published           published
Monitor published
annually
16. Modified           None         Modified EUF        Modified EUF        Modified EUF
Environmental                       Formula adopted     Formula adopted     Formula adopted
User Fee (EUF)
formula officially
adopted
17. EUF                1            3                   3 (BOD, TSS,        3 (BOD, TSS,
parameters                                              TSS/BOD)            TSS/BOD)
expanded
18. Number of          1000         1400                2182                2482
establishments
covered by EUF
increased by 300-
400
19. 85-90 percent      0                85-90 percent   79 percent          At least 85
of Loan proceeds                                                            percent
disbursed
20. 16-25 percent      55 million   25 percent          126 percent         25 percent
increase in revenue                 increase            (P124.705m)         increase
from EUF system                     (P68.75m)
21. Revenues           0            P25M                P11M                P37M
reinvested in
environmental
projects through
PDF & other
instruments by
LGUs & the private
sector
22. Operational        0            Guidelines           Guidelines          Guidelines
guidelines for                      developed and       already developed   adopted and
expansion of EUF                    adopted             and adopted         sustained
to new enterprises
and their collection
adopted
23. Public             None         2                   3                   5
disclosure of
industry and LGU
performance occurs
                                       15


at least twice
24. Measures to       None   PMEPPP                PMEPPP has          PMEPPP
upgrade permitting,          officially adopted   been adopted         implemented
monitoring,
enforcement, policy
and planning
procedures
(PMEPPP)
officially adopted
25. Infrastructure    None   Infra Dev.           Infra Dev.           Infra Dev.
strategy adopted by          Strategy adopted     Strategy for         Strategy adopted
LLDA                                              LLDA Board
                                                  approval
26. Operational       None   Operational          Operational          Operational
guidelines for EUF           guidelines for       guidelines for       guidelines for
expansion to                 EUF expansion        EUF expansion to     EUF expansion to
households and               to                   households and       households and
regulation of water          households and       water use            water use
use developed                water use            regulation adopted   regulation adopted
                             regulation
                             adopted
27. Number of RC      0      10 RC offices        Only 1 RC has        Dropped
offices established          established          established an
                                                  office
28. Annual            0      5 conferences        5 conferences        7 conferences
Conference/
Learning Forum
29. Capacity of 24           Average maturity     Average maturity     Dropped
RCs substantially            index scores of      index scores of 24
expanded by at               24 RCs moved         RCs 3.51
least 3 levels               up by 3 to 7.59
30. Public            None   2 surveys            Baseline survey      A 3rd survey
Perception Survey            conducted            conducted in 2005    conducted by
on effectiveness of                               and the 2nd in       2013
IEC programs                                      2009; Analysis of
conducted at least                                results of 2009
twice by end of                                   survey available
project                                           by 15Feb2010
31. Number of         0      _                    37                   50
watershed
management-
related SB
resolutions
approved and/or
enforced
                                         16


                                                                Annex 2 to Schedule 2

              Additional National Competitive Bidding Provisions

1.   Eligibility screening shall not be applied. However, bids that do not contain any
     of the following documents will not pass the documentary compliance check:
     (a) evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability; (b)
     audited financial statements; (c) credit line or cash deposit certificate; (d) bid
     security; and (e) authority of the bid signatory.

2.   A ceiling may be applied to bid prices provided the following conditions are met:
     (a) bidding documents are obtainable free of charge on a freely accessible
     website; (b) the agency has procedures in place to ensure that the ABC is based
     on Engineer’s Estimate; (c) the agency has trained cost estimators on estimating
     prices and analyzing bid variance; and (d) the agency has established a system to
     monitor and report bid prices relative to ABC and Engineer’s estimate.

3.   Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the evaluation of bids,
     and other preference in effect in the Philippines will not be used except with prior
     concurrence of the Bank.

4.   In case of contracts for prior review, modification exceeding 15% of contract
     amount and materials changes in the conditions during implementation require
     prior Bank concurrence.

5.   Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested,
     without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint venture, with
     local firms. Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even without
     registration, licensing, and other government authorizations, leaving these
     requirements after award and before signing of contract.

6.   For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall be: (a) at least
     one previous contract at 80%of the estimated cost of the contract being procured;
     and (b) an annual turnover from all works averaged over the last three years
     equal to 100% of the estimated cost of the contract being procured.

7.   Alternative procurement methods defined in the implementing rules and
     regulations such as Limited Source Bidding, Direct Contracting and Shopping
     are acceptable. The use of the other alternative methods will require prior Bank
     concurrence.
                                          17


8.   A period of at least thirty (30) days for bid preparation shall be required.
                                           18


                                    SCHEDULE 3

                               Amortization Schedule

1.     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
       Payment Date (“Installment Share?). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
       withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
       Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
       determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
       first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
       Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
       amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
       Conversion applies.

                                                        Installment Share
        Principal Payment Date                      (Expressed as a Percentage)

On each January 1 and July 1 beginning
July 1, 2021 through July 1, 2035                                3.33%
On January 1, 2036                                               3.43%

2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
       each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
               the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
               Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
               of this Schedule.

       (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
               repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
               withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
               amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
               the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
               Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share?)
               and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
               Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
               date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
               amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
               Conversion applies.
                                       19


3.   (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
            any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
            the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
            as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
            following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
            Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
            Date following the date of withdrawal.

     (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
            at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
            invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
            provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
            withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
     Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
     Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
     repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.
                                           20



APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

2.      “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
        this Agreement.

3.      “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

4.      “Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework? means the updated
        framework dated April 12, 2010 prepared by the Borrower, approved by the
        Bank and publically disclosed on April 12, 2010 setting out, inter alia, policies
        and procedures for the screening and management of environmental and social
        impacts of activities to be carried out under the Project (including Sub-Projects),
        and including: (i) the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
        Framework, and any Resettlement Action Plans required thereunder; (ii) the
        Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and (iii) the Environmental
        Management Plans for specific types of activities, as the same may be amended
        from time to time with the agreement of the Association.

5.      “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
        Development General Conditions for Loans? dated July 31, 2010.

6.      “Operations Manual? means the manual adopted by the Borrower, and approved
        by the Bank that sets out procedures for implementation of the Project, including,
        inter alia, procurement procedures to be followed by LLDA and by LGUs
        (including the special provisions on national competitive bidding procedures),
        reporting requirements, financial management procedures, including audit
        procedures to be followed by LLDA and by LGUs, as such manual may be
        amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;

7.      “Original Loan Agreement? means the agreement entered into between the
        Borrower and the Bank, dated January 26, 2004 (Loan No 7205-PH) for the
        Laguna De Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community Participation Project.
                                        21


8.    “Original Project? means the project described in Schedule 2 to the Original
      Loan Agreement.

9.    “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October 2006 and May 2010.

10.   “Procurement Plan? means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated January 28, 2011 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
