                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                     Report No: 53966-PH




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                         ON A

                   PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                        FOR A

  LAGUNA DE BAY INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND COMMUNITY
     PARTICIPATION PROJECT - ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT

                                   February 14, 2011




Philippines Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.


                                           1
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective February 14, 2011)
                Currency Unit = Philippine Peso
                    Php44.00 = US$1

                         FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1 ­ June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BLGF           Bureau of Local Government Finance
BOD            Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CGC            Complaints and Grievance Committee
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CTRG           Consolidated Technical Review Group
DENR           Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DSS            Decision Support System
EA             Environmental Assessment
EMB            Environmental Management Bureau
ESSF           Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
EUFS           Environmental User Fee System
FARMCs         Federated Association of River Management Councils
GHG            Greenhouse Gas
IPs            Indigenous Peoples
LARC           Land Acquisition and Resettlement Committee
LARRF          Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Restoration Framework
LCE            Local Chief Executive
LdBEM          Laguna de Bay Environment Monitor
LEAP           Laguna de Bay Watershed Environment Action Planning
LGU            Local Government Unit
LISCOP         Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community
               Participation
LLDA           Laguna Lake Development Authority
MDFO           Municipal Development Fund Office
MDFO-PGB       MDFO Policy Governing Board
MEAR           Micro-watershed Environmental Assessment Report
MRF            Material Recovery Facility
NCIP           National Commission on Indigenous Peoples
OM             Operations Manual
PCO            Project Coordination Office
PDF            Project Development Fund
PDP            Public Disclosure Program
PDT            Project Development Team
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PMT            Project Management Team
RC                      River Councils
RIS                     Resource Information System of LLDA
SAL                     Standard Advisory Letter
SPLA                    Sub-Project Loan Agreement.
TSSG                    Technical Services Support Group.




                        Vice President:   James W. Adams, EAPVP
                     Country Director:    Bert Hofman, EACPF
       Sustainable Development Leader     Mark Woodward, EASPS
                    Task Team Leader:     Josefo Tuyor, EASPS
                                 PHILIPPINES
Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community Participation Project -
                              Additional Financing

                                                 CONTENTS

                                                                                                                    Page
 A.   Introduction ....................................................................................................... 1
 B.   Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of $10M ....... 1
 C.   Proposed Changes .............................................................................................. 6
 D.   Consistency with CAS ....................................................................................... 8
 E.   Economic and Financial Analysis ...................................................................... 8
 F.   Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities ................................... 8
 G.   Expected Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 H.   Benefits and Risks............................................................................................ 12
 I.   Financial Terms And Conditions For The Additional Financing ........................ 13
                                    PHILIPPINES

  LAGUNA DE BAY INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND COMMUNITY
         PARTICIPATION PROJECT - ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                  PROJECT PAPER

                             EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                      EASPS
                           Basic Information (Original Project)
Project ID: P070899                           Project Name: Laguna de Bay Institutional
                                              Strengthening and Community
                                              Participation/LISCOP
Team Leader: Josefo Tuyor                     Expected Closing Date: April 30, 2011
Environmental category: B                     Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
Partial Assessment                            Joint IFC:
                                              Joint Level:
                         Basic Information (Additional Financing)
Date: February 14, 2011                       Team Leader: Josefo Tuyor
Country Director: Bert Hofman                 Sectors: General water, sanitation and flood
Sector Manager/Director: Mark Woodward        protection sector (100%)
                                              Themes: Environmental policies and
                                              institutions (29%);Pollution management and
                                              environmental health (29%);Participation and
                                              civic engagement (28%);Water resource
                                              management (14%)
Project ID: P117470                           Environmental category: Partial Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Additional Financing Type: Scale Up
                                              Joint IFC:
                                              Joint Level:
                                  Project Financing Data
[X] Loan [ ] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 10.00
Proposed terms: IBRD Flexible Loan, variable spread, level repayments, with total maturity of
25 years including a grace period of 10 years
                                      Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                           Local         Foreign            Total
Borrower (LLDA)                                      1.68           0.00              1.68
International Bank for Reconstruction and           10.00           0.00             10.00
Development
Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of              0.88           0.00              0.88
Borrowing Country
Total:                                              12.56           0.00             12.56
Borrower:

Responsible Agency:
Laguna Lake Development Authority
Don Hilario Avenue
Club Manila East, Km.24 Manila East Road
Rizal
Philippines
Tel: /Fax: (63-2) 284-4794
ogm@llda.gov.ph; dnnepomuceno@llda.gov.ph, dollynepomuceno@yahoo.com

                           Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY             2011      2012      2013      2014
Annual          0.20      2.00      4.00      3.80
Cumulative      0.20      2.20      6.20     10.00
Project implementation period: Start: May 1, 2011 End: April 30, 2014
Expected effectiveness date: May 31,, 2011
Expected closing date: April 30, 2014
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities                                    [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                   [ X ]Yes [ ]No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                [ ]Yes [X] No
Ref. Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project development objective Ref. Section Bank Response
The development objective of the Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community
Participation (LISCOP) Project, which would remain unchanged under the additional financing,
is to assist the Borrower to improve the environment quality of the Laguna de Bay Watershed.
The Project will assist the Laguna Lake Development Authority (LLDA), local government units
(LGUs) and other stakeholders to improve the environmental quality of the Laguna Lake and its
watershed. This will be achieved through (i) behavioral changes and activities undertaken by
watershed users to improve the environmental quality of the lake and its watershed; (ii)
improvement of planning, regulatory instruments and incentives; and (iii) expansion of
participation of stakeholders in the environmental management of the Laguna de Bay.

The $10 million additional financing would (i) at least double the number of subprojects
implemented by the LGUs and significantly expand the impact of the project in addressing the
serious environmental issues in and around Laguna Lake; and (ii) assist the LGUs in the
rehabilitation of environment and flood control-related infrastructure that were severely affected
by the September 2009 floods that hit the project areas.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. Section Bank Response
The Additional Financing will be used to support the scaling up of priority environmental
subprojects implemented by the LGUs under Component 1 of the LISCOP Project to address
pressing environmental issues in the watershed and the lake itself and to scale up positive
impacts and project coverage. Some 37 initial pipeline subprojects identified in the Lake
Environmental Action Plan (LEAP) will be supported.          In addition, with the recent
unprecedented flooding that severely hit Metro Manila and the neighboring provinces in
September 2009, where LISCOP operates, the Additional Financing can also be used by LGUs
to support the rehabilitation of LISCOP subprojects and other environmental and flood control
infrastructure damaged by the floods, including improvement/enhancement of those that have
been spared by the calamity to make them more resilient.

The following types of subprojects, based on the LEAP developed in each of the 24 micro -
catchment, include:
(i) solid waste management facilities (material recovery facilities with composting and municipal
sanitary landfill) to reduce the amounts of solid waste going to landfills through recovery,
recycling, re-use and composting, and to also address the perennial problem of garbage clogging
waterways and canals exacerbating flooding, as evidenced by the mountains of garbage fished
out from the lake and tributaries at the aftermath of Typhoon Ketsana. Sanitary landfills will also
be supported to manage residual solid waste after recycling and composting;
(ii) water and waste water treatment facilities to address domestic effluent in areas not covered
by the concessionaires as well as wastewater from municipal abattoirs;
(iii) local drainage and flood control and prevention to address local drainage problems and
protect low lying and critical areas from floods and landslides and ultimately protect human lives
and properties;
(iv) slope and river bank stabilization and protection to prevent or reduce soil erosion and
stabilize or protect river banks and riparian environment; and,
(v) natural resource management and environmental improvements/eco-tourism to address
watershed and lake water quality degradation.


Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
The LISCOP Project has triggered four Bank (4) safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP4.01), Forestry (OP4.36), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP4.10) and Involuntary Resettlement
(OP/BP4.12). The same safeguards policies are expected to apply to the proposed Additional
Financing as the same type and nature of subprojects will be supported and there would be no
changes in the original project design. Hence, the existing Environment and Social Safeguards
Framework (ESSF) developed for and applied under LISCOP is expected to be used to address
any safeguard issues during subproject preparation and implementation. The ESSF has proved to
be useful in screening and addressing impacts under the LISCOP Project and the implementing
agency already has built its capacity to implement the ESSF through its Environment and Social
Safeguards Group.
A. Introduction
1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional loan in an amount of US$10 million to the Government of the Philippines
(GOP), for the Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community Participation
(LISCOP) Project, IBRD Loan Number 7205-PH.
2.      The proposed additional financing would help finance the costs associated with
scaling up of priority environmental subprojects implemented by the participating local
government units (LGUs) financed under Component 1 of the LISCOP Project to address
pressing environmental issues besetting the lake and its watershed. In particular, the
Additional Financing would support the implementation of 37 pipeline subprojects
identified in the Lake Environmental Action Plan (LEAP), which was prepared and
completed in each of the 24 micro-catchments in the Laguna Lake under the LISCOP
Project. The Additional Financing would not only expand LGU coverage and increase
project benefits, it would also help address the Philippine Supreme Court ruling in
December 2008 mandating concerned agencies to clean up and rehabilitate the Manila
Bay, which receives water from Laguna Lake through the Pasig River.

3.      In addition, as a response to the recent flooding that severely hit Metro Manila
and the neighboring provinces of Laguna and Rizal, where the project operates, the
Additional Financing can also be used by LGUs to undertake rehabilitation of LISCOP
subprojects and other environmental and flood control infrastructure damaged by the
floods, including improvement/enhancement of existing infrastructure that have been
spared by the disaster to make them more climate-resilient as well as subprojects that will
protect highly vulnerable lakeshore communities against flooding.
4.     The Additional Financing would build on the success achieved in re-orienting the
focus and behavior of the implementing agency, the LLDA, from being essentially a
regulatory body, to an institution capable of catalyzing and supporting LGUs and other
stakeholders to improve the environmental quality of the Laguna Lake and its watershed
as well as in helping LGUs address the impacts of the recent disaster that damaged the
environment and flood control infrastructure. The LLDA is a fully committed partner
which has built its capacity and improved its track record to implement projects and
partnership arrangements with LGUs and other stakeholders over the past years.

B. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of $10M

5.       Original Loan. The original loan of US$5 million for the LISCOP Project was
signed on January 26, 2004 and became effective on April 2, 2004. It finances
Component 1 of the project that supports priority environment and flood control
subprojects identified and prioritized based on each of the micro-catchment LEAP and
which are implemented by the LGUs. It is supported by a co-financing of a US$5 million
grant from the Netherlands Government which finances Component 2 of the project on
institutional strengthening aspects of LLDA, LGUs and other stakeholders. The
development objective of the project is to assist the LLDA, LGUs and other stakeholders
to improve the environmental quality of Laguna Lake and its watershed. More
specifically, the goals are: (i) to achieve behavioral changes and activities undertaken by
watershed users to improve the environmental quality of the lake and its watershed; (ii) to
                                            1
improve planning, regulatory instruments and incentives; and (iii) to expand participation
of stakeholders in the environmental management of the Laguna Lake.
6.      Implementation Performance. The implementation progress of the project has
been satisfactory this past year, after the initial slow start due to the need to get LGU
"buy-in", the need to develop the LEAP in each of the 24 micro-catchments of the lake
identifying environmental issues and management priorities and the initial capacity
constraints at LLDA during the early years of project implementation (see Annex 1).
However, as LGUs' commitments were secured and LLDA's capacity developed, coupled
with the completion of the 24 LEAPs, implementation has improved. Currently, the
project has largely achieved its development objective and its overall implementation has
been rated satisfactory. The disbursement rates of the loan and grant are at 81% and 85%,
respectively, with the remaining loan money already fully committed to subprojects at
advanced stages of completion. By the extended project closing, April 30, 2011, the loan
is expected to be fully disbursed.
7.      The project has complied with all environmental and social safeguard
requirements, and procurement has been carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. The only aspect of the project that needs some improvement is
the financial management system, which has been rated moderately satisfactory mainly
due to the delayed submission of: (i) audited financial reports; and (ii) withdrawal
application and statement of expenditures to the Bank by the Municipal Development
Fund Office (MDFO), the fund conduit. The delays were caused by combination of the
following factors: (i) late submission of liquidation report by LGUs; (ii) liquidation
reports submitted need further corrections or revisions; (iii) lacking documents to support
the disbursement/liquidation submitted; and, (iv) disruption of MDFO operation due to
electrical power connections. An action plan (see Annex 2) to address the weaknesses has
been agreed with LLDA and MDFO. The project's Performance Indicators have also
been largely achieved with some targets having been exceeded (see Annex 3).
8.      Under Component 1, the project's support to the LGUs has led to the upgrading
of 23 out of the 41 LGU-operated open dumps in the Laguna Lake watershed (about
56%). An assessment of 11 material recovery facilities (MRFs) with composting has
shown that these MRFs have diverted some 500 metric tons of solid waste annually,
which would have ended up in open dumps and the lake itself causing pollution and
clogging of tributaries, canals and other waterways, hence exacerbating flooding. A
number of LGUs have also installed wastewater treatment systems for their
slaughterhouses which, historically, have been discharging untreated wastewater into the
lake. LISCOP has supported the implementation of a total of 33 subprojects from 21
(34%) out of the 61 municipalities and cities in the whole Laguna Lake, the majority of
which is on solid waste management. Through its support to subprojects, LLDA has
clearly expanded and improved its relationship with key partners in managing the lake
and the watershed, such as LGUs and river councils which, historically, have been
indifferent to the LLDA's existence as the basin authority.
9.      Under Component 2 financed by the Netherlands grant, LLDA made significant
gains in terms of strengthening its capacity, modernizing its regulatory and planning
instruments through the use and expansion of market-based instruments and improving
its partnership and working relationships with key stakeholders mainly the LGUs. Among
others, LLDA has expanded the application of the environmental user fee system (EUFS)
                                            2
to more than 2,303 industrial firms (baseline: 1,080) exceeding the project target of 1,400
firms, as well as expanding the number of regulated parameters to three, Total Suspended
Solids (TSS), combined TSS/Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and BOD (baseline
parameter: BOD). A particularly noteworthy result of the expansion of the EUFS is the
reduced average industrial BOD loading, from 24.34 to 1.29 metric tons per firm. As of
2008, industries' contribution to total BOD loading in the lake was reduced to only 11%
from 40% in the pre-EUFS era, indicating that firms are shifting to more efficient and
cleaner production technologies, though this is being replaced by domestic discharges
that remain unregulated and which continue to increase due to the rapid urbanization and
increase in population in the lake's watershed and riparian environment. Domestic
discharges now account for about 75% of the total BOD loading in the lake. During the
implementation of the Additional Financing, LLDA, as part of its regular program, will
test the application of the EUFS to households through the LGUs which, if successful,
could be scaled up in the whole lake to address pollution from domestic discharges.
10.     LLDA also continues to undertake the annual public disclosure program (PDP) of
environmental compliance and/or violations by industrial firms and LGUs, which
compels violators to comply with the standards. LLDA also continues to publish the
Annual Laguna de Bay Environment Monitor (LdBEM) which serves as LLDA's report
card on the environmental status and quality of the lake to the stakeholders. The EUFS,
PDP and LdBEM are now mainstreamed into LLDA's regular operation with budget
allocation. The other significant achievements made under Component 2 include the
completion of multi-stakeholder and multi-LGU LEAP in each of the 24 micro-
catchments of the lake, the development of an on-line permitting, monitoring and
enforcement system of LLDA, and the capacity building program for LGUs in terms of
project development, construction and monitoring; financial management, procurement,
safeguards, and environmental management. The project has also supported the capacity
development and organizational maturity improvement/upgrading of the 24 River
Councils (RCs) established by LLDA as key partners in managing the lake and the
watershed, though there has been a change in LLDA's approach in engaging RCs due to
their voluntary nature and also in line with the Clean Water Act provisions. Changes in
the behavior of LGUs, industries and other lake users and watershed stakeholders are also
beginning to be manifested by increased awareness of issues affecting the Lake.
11.     An important development under the project was the reorientation of LLDA
functions from being mainly a regulatory agency, to also playing a catalytic and
financially supportive role in collaborating with LGUs and other stakeholders to address
environmental management issues in the Lake watershed. To the extent that LLDA is
empowered to retain the revenues received from permits and fines for its operations1,
LLDA, under LISCOP, has fostered a program of joint-financing with LGUs for
subprojects addressing sources of pollution and contamination of the Lake. Typically,
LLDA has co-financed 50% of the LGU equity in subprojects, the balance of subproject
costs (averaging around 80%), being financed by the sub-loan and sub-grant funding
channeled through the MDFO.



1
 Currently LLDA retains 100 % of revenues received from user fees and from clearances, permits and
penalties. Revenue collection has increased by 51% over the life of the LISCOP project.
                                                  3
12.     Overall, improvements are beginning to emerge that will contribute to the
environmental improvement of Laguna Lake. Nevertheless, the project's impact on the
lake2 is still modest, given both the very large size of the lake and its watershed and
relatively small size of the project. The Additional Financing will increase project
coverage and bring additional capacity and benefits to the LGUs, however this would not
be enough to address the complex problems in the lake and the Manila Bay, which serves
as the end receptor of all pollutants, both land-based and from the tributaries, including
Laguna Lake. That said, the project is designed as a "learning and innovation" first phase
with the goal being to develop and showcase a multi-stakeholder involvement in lake
management, the piloting of multi-LGU environmental planning and implementation
arrangements in a micro-catchment and to modernize the planning, regulatory and
economic instruments used by LLDA in managing the lake and its watershed.

13.     Parallel, however, with the additional financing and in compliance with the 2008
Supreme Court decision on the clean-up of Manila Bay and tributaries, is the planned
long term program for Laguna Lake-Pasig River-Manila Bay combining integrated water
quality management, urban renewal and slum upgrading, flood control and sewerage and
wastewater treatment systems, which the Bank, other donors and the Government are
jointly assessing for possible financing and implementation.

14.      Rationale for Additional Financing. The proposed Additional Financing would
facilitate the consolidation of the implementation experience gained under the project,
and build on the considerable enthusiasm and support coming from LGUs for partnership
arrangements with LLDA that have catalyzed and supported interventions to strengthen
environmental management of the Laguna Lake watershed. Considerable effort was
given under the original project to develop the LEAP for each micro-catchment, and to
form River Councils that could begin to more comprehensively address the
environmental issues in the 24 micro-catchments of the Laguna Lake. To the extent
priority subprojects for execution have already been identified, the Additional Financing
would provide for a twofold increase in the number of subprojects already executed, and
significantly expand the impact of the project in addressing the serious environmental
issues in and around the heavily populated Laguna Lake.
15.     The rationale for Additional Financing is also based on the plans currently
underway in Government, and to be supported through analytical work under the
Philippine Country Assistance Strategy, to develop a much larger and second phase
program which would more comprehensively address the environmental management
issues spanning the entire area from Laguna Lake, its connection to the Pasig river and
subsequent drainage into Manila Bay. The approach and implementation experience
gained under the LISCOP project, which would be further consolidated with the proposed

2
  Based on the DENR water classification (Department Administrative Order 34), Lagun a Lake is classified
as Class C body of water or good for fishing, but not for drinking (Class A) or for swimming and contact
recreation (Class B). The classification is determined using parameters such as biochemical oxygen
demand, nitrates, phosphates, total dissolved solids and total suspended solids. Nevertheless, the Class C
classification of the lake has been maintained despite the increase in population in the watershed and the
lakeshore areas and the rapid urbanization and industrialization in the Laguna Lake area. Some portions of
the lake actually have good water quality that can qualify as Class B or even Class A with some treatment
particularly in the eastern part. The west bay, however, which is in Metro Manila remains at Class C.
                                                    4
Additional Financing, would provide a valuable underpinning for this much larger
environmental management undertaking.
16.    Proposed Use of Funds. The Additional Financing will be used to support the
scaling up of priority environmental subprojects implemented by the LGUs under
Component 1 of the LISCOP Project to address pressing environmental issues in the
watershed and the lake itself and to scale up positive impacts and project coverage. It will
also contribute to the environmental improvement of the Manila Bay as mandated by the
Supreme Court. Some 37 initial pipeline subprojects identified will be supported.
17.    In addition, with the recent unprecedented flooding that severely hit Metro Manila
and the neighboring provinces where LISCOP operates, the additional loan proceeds can
be used by LGUs to support rehabilitation of LISCOP subprojects and other
environmental and flood control infrastructure damaged by the floods, including
improvement/enhancement of those that have been spared by the calamity to make them
more resilient as well as subprojects that will protect highly vulnerable lakeshore
communities against flooding.
 18.    The Additional Financing would at least double the number of participating LGUs
from 21 at present. Considerable demand exists from LGUs for the Additional Financing
which would continue to be mainly used for the following types of subprojects, based on
their respective LEAP which, apart from addressing environmental degradation of the
lake and the watershed, is also geared at protecting lives and properties in and around the
lake.

       (i) solid waste management facilities (material recovery facilities with
       composting and municipal sanitary landfill) to reduce the amounts of solid
       waste going to landfills through recovery, recycling, re-use and
       composting, and to also address the perennial problem of garbage
       clogging waterways and canals exacerbating flooding, as evidenced by the
       mountains of garbage fished out from the lake and tributaries at the
       aftermath of Typhoon Ketsana. Sanitary landfills will also be supported to
       manage residual solid waste after recycling and composting;
       (ii) water and waste water treatment facilities to address domestic effluent
       in areas not covered by the concessionaires as well as wastewater from
       municipal abattoirs;
       (iii) local drainage and flood control and prevention to address local
       drainage problems and protect low lying and critical areas from floods and
       landslides and ultimately protect human lives and properties;
       (iv) slope and river bank stabilization and protection to prevent or reduce
       soil erosion and stabilize or protect river banks and riparian environment;
       and,
       (v) natural resource management and environmental improvements/eco-
       tourism to address watershed and lake water quality degradation; and,




                                             5
C. Proposed Changes

19.     There would be no change in the project development objective. No significant
changes are also envisaged to the original project design. The institutional and
implementation arrangements of the Additional Financing will remain the same as the
original project. The environmental category also remains unchanged and no new
safeguard policies would be triggered. Minor changes will be made on financial
management arrangements, procurement, and M&E based on the lessons learned from
the original project. The project cost and financing plan will also change. The loan
closing date will be extended by three years to April 30, 2014 to allow the completion of
the new subprojects and the deepening of various planning, regulatory and economic
instruments within LLDA such as the expansion of the EUFS and public disclosure
program, among others.

20.     Financial Management (FM). MDFO shall open and maintain a Designated
Account (DA) in US dollars, in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The
proposed ceiling of the DA is US$1,000,000 and the proposed minimum value of the size
of the withdrawal application is US$200,000. The disbursement methods available under
the loan are the advance and reimbursement. Reporting of actual utilization of the loan to
the Bank is through the submission of the Statement of Expenditures.

21.    Procurement. The procurement arrangements under the Additional Financing
will remain the same as the original project, except the increase in thresholds for the
following based on the lessons learned of the original project and the introduction of
additional procedures for consultant selection:

       (i)     National Competitive Bidding (for works) ­ removal of the
               aggregate amount and increasing the threshold from US$500,000
               to US$2 million;
       (ii)    National Competitive Bidding (for goods) ­ removal of the
               aggregate amount;
       (iii)   Shopping (for simple civil works of small value) ­ removal of the
               aggregate amount method and increasing the threshold from
               US$50,000 to US$100,000;
       (iv)    Community participation ­ removal of the aggregate amount and
               increasing the threshold from US$25,000 to US$50,000; and
       (v)     Introduction of Selection of Individual Consultants (SIC) and
               Single Source Selection (SSS) as additional procedures for
               selection of consultants.
22.     The increase in threshold during the rehabilitation and reconstruction period
following the typhoons and the great flooding that hit the project area is necessary to
permit the Government to mobilize the community organizations to help in the urgent
clearing and rehabilitation of areas and repairs of subprojects affected by the typhoons
and the great flood. The introduction of additional procedures for selection of consultants
is necessary to cover the activities that will be left as a result of the limited exten sion of
the Netherlands grant.

                                              6
23.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The M&E system will be refined based on
the implementation experience of the original project. Among the refinements proposed
is on the M&E arrangements by lodging the monitoring of the progress and attainment of
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), including diagnosis of the problems encountered in
the implementation of component activities, within the respective project component
instead of centralizing these functions with the M&E team lead by LLDA's P roject
Planning and Development Division. This means that Component 1 makes its own
monitoring and analysis of issues and solutions but periodically submits updates of the
status of its activities as well as its own analysis of the issues to the M&E team for
consolidation. The M&E team will then concentrate on the evaluation of the KPIs and
consolidation of the component reports for the M&E report. The refined M&E system
therefore will inherit the organizational structure and processes of the existing M&E with
slight modifications of the functions of the units. In addition, new targets would be added
in line with the increased LGU coverage and additional subprojects that will be
implemented. Finally, two indicators on RCs (indicator nos. 27 and 29) will be dropped
in line with LLDA's shift in engagement strategy with the RCs and in view of the fact
these indicators are lagging behind and are highly likely not to be met because of the
challenges encountered in engaging the RCs. The reasons being the lack of sustained
commitment from RCs due to the voluntary nature of its membership, insufficient powers
for doing river rehabilitation and protection efforts, lack of technical and financial
resources, among others (see Annex 3).

24.     Revised Project Cost and Financing Plan. The Bank loan would, as with the
current project, be used to finance subproject goods, works and construction supervision.
However, whereas under the current project, planning and feasibility studies were
financed through the grant from the Netherlands Government, these costs under the
Additional Financing would be borne by the LGU. The new total project cost is set at
US$12,562,920 where the loan proceeds is US$10,000,000, LLDA share is
US$1,683,540 and LGU counterpart is placed at US$879,380 (Table 1).

                   Table 1. Revised Project Cost and Financing Plan.
Component                       IBRD                 LLDA               LGUs                Total
                              (US$ `000)           (US$ `000)         (US$ `000)          (US$ `000)
1. Co-Managed
Investments for                 9,975.00            879.38              879.38             11,733.76
Watershed Development
2. Strengthening
Institutions and                                    804.16                                  804.16
Instruments
Front-end fees                   25.00                                                       25.00
Total                          10,000.00            1,683.54            879.38             12,562.92


25.     The inclusion of subprojects that respond to the recent disaster would not change
the design of the project as these types of subprojects have been covered and rendered
eligible by the original project (e.g., flood control, slope protection and stabilizati on, river
bank protection, etc.).
                                               7
D.     Consistency with CAS
26.     The project's development objective and the proposed scaled up activities remain
fully consistent and supportive of the Bank's current CAS for the Philippines, which
spans the period from 2010 to 2012. The focus of the Additional Financing on supporting
the scaling up of priority environmental subprojects by the LGU, such as investment in
municipal solid and liquid waste management and on responding to the recent calamity,
supports three (3) Strategic Objectives (SO) of the CAS: SO3 on better public service
delivery; SO4 on reducing vulnerabilities, especially for vulnerable people living around
the lake and waterways; and, SO5 on better local governance through effective
decentralization. The focus of subproject investments on priority environmental
management issues, particularly relating to wastewater treatment and solid waste
management, would support CAS goals both in regard to health, especially for the poor,
as well as mitigate risks such as through flood run-off and waterborne disease for
vulnerable people living in and around the Lake and its waterways. Over the longer term,
the focus of the project on improving the quality of water in Laguna Lake would lead to
significant increases in well being and incomes for the many poor people who depend
upon the lake for drinking, fishing, irrigation, and employment through ecotourism.

E. Economic and Financial Analysis

27.     To the extent that the supplementary loan would be used to finance similar types
of sub-projects as under the current project, economic and financial rates of return would
be more or less the same as those already implemented. Analyses were conducted on a
sample of each of the main types of subprojects under the additional financing for
LISCOP (Annex 4). The economic analysis resulted to an overall economic internal rate
of return (EIRR) of 17 percent with NPV of PhP233.5 million at 12 percent discount rate
and BCR of 1.06. The LISCOP AF is viable from the economic point of view.

28.     The sources of revenues considered in the financial analysis were sales from
recovered non-biodegradable waste (such as bottles, tin cans, steels/metals, hard plastics),
organic fertilizer from biodegradable waste materials (like leftover food, wood, yard
waste, textile), user fees, collection fees from institutional waste and tariffs. Most of the
subprojects were financially viable except for the Flood Control (FC) and Waste Water
Treatment Facility (WWTF) for the Households. The two mentioned subprojects require
high investment costs and also provide high economic benefits. Result of the financial
analysis showed that five out of the seven subprojects have shown financial viability. The
Landfill subproject provided the highest financial internal rate of return of 22 percent
while the subprojects on FC and WWTF for household have rendered non-viable results.
In terms of NPV, the WWTF combined with Water Supply presented the highest NPV of
PhP127.53 million. The Environmental Enhancements/Improvements subproject has the
highest benefit-cost ratio of 1.22. The overall financial viability assessment was not
undertaken since LISCOP is a non-revenue generating project.

F. Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities

29.    Institutional arrangements. The implementation arrangements of the Additional
Financing will remain the same as the original project. LLDA will continue to be the
                                             8
implementing agency, with MDFO as the fund conduit and LGUs borrowing for and
preparing and implementing the subprojects. Likewise, the same procedures would be
used for the selection, approval and implementation of subprojects. Essentially those
procedures are as follows: (i) Subprojects are proposed for funding by LGUs, based on
the priority identified in the micro-catchment LEAP developed and approved under the
current project; (ii) the Consolidated Technical Review Group of LLDA reviews/screens
and appraises LGU proposals as a basis for giving its endorsement to MDFO; (iii)
MDFO approves the proposal (Php25 million and below only needs MDFO-Management
Committee's approval; greater than Php25 million needs approval by the MDFO-Policy
Governing Board); (iv) once approved, the LGU and MDFO sign a subproject loan
agreement as a basis for MDFO providing funding using the loan proceeds through a
combination of loan and grant in accordance with the National Government -LGU cost
sharing formula. LLDA subsequently monitors implementation by the LGU and provides
reports to MDFO and the Bank on implementation progress. MDFO provides Quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports to the Bank and the annual audit for the loan proceeds.
These procedures are detailed in an Operations Manual developed under the current
project.

30.     While the Netherlands grant will no longer be available to support the Component
2 of the project particularly on institutional strengthening and capacity development
activities during the Additional Financing phase in view of its closure last July 31, 2010,
some of the activities will be carried out by LLDA as part of its regular program under its
approved Rationalization Plan. LLDA committed to set aside Corporate Funds collected
from user and fish pen fees to finance these activities.

31.    Safeguards. The environmental category, based on the pipeline subprojects
which are similar to the existing subprojects of the original project, remains unchanged
and no new safeguard policies would be triggered. The Safeguards clearance for the
Additional Financing has been issued by the EAP Safeguards Secretariat on December
22, 2009. The project has an existing Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
(ESSF) composed of the Environmental Assessment (EA) Framework, Indigenous
Peoples (IP) Framework and the Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
(LARR) Framework developed to address any safeguard issues during subproject
preparation and implementation. The ESSF has proved to be useful in screening and
addressing impacts under the LISCOP Project. The EA Framework was used in screening
subproject coverage/non-coverage under the Philippine EIA and the formulation of
appropriate EA instrument (full EA report for category A subprojects and Initial
Environmental Examination report or checklist for category B subprojects) to secure the
environmental compliance certificate from the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources. The implementing agency has already built its capacity to implement the
ESSF through its Environment and Social Safeguards Group. The same ESSF and
safeguards group is to be used under the Additional Financing.

32.    Involuntary resettlement is not expected to occur under the Additional
Financing.There would be minor land acquisition for the proposed subprojects for which
the ESSF has adequate provisions for proper consultation, relocation and rehabilitation


                                            9
and fair compensation of people whose lands and other affected assets will be used or
damaged by the subprojects.

33.     Some parts of the Laguna de Bay watershed are inhabited by indigenous peoples
(IPs) particularly the "Dumagats" and "Remontados". In particular, the IPs are located in
the mountains of Tanay, Rodriguez, Antipolo, Taytay, Pililla, Morong, San Mateo,
Cardona, Teresa, Jala-jala and Binangonan, all in the province of Rizal. The ESSF has
included appropriate measures to ensure that IPs, if affected by the project, are seriously
and inclusively taken into consideration at the various phases of the subproject and that
their free and prior informed consent (FPIC), as required under the Philippines
Indigenous Peoples Rights Act, is secured. The framework also ensures maximum IP
participation in the planning and implementation of the subproject in LGUs/areas where
they are present. Under the LISCOP project, only one subproject (Tanay subproject) has
affected the IPs positively since the IPs themselves are the beneficiaries of a project of
their choice. The IP Framework was useful in guiding the LGU and other stakeholders in
ensuring the IPs were consulted and considered in subproject design and implementation
and that the FPIC was secured.

34.     Procurement. Procurement under the proposed Additional Financing will follow
the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
World Bank in May 2004, and revised October 2006 3 and the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the World Bank in
May 2004, and revised October 2006. The procurement arrangements under the proposed
Additional Financing will remain the same as in the original project, except for the
increase in thresholds for NCB for works, shopping for simple civil works of small value
and community participation and the introduction of additional procurement procedures
for the selection of consultants.

35.     LLDA has a Procurement Unit (PU) with a sufficient number of trained and
qualified staff who can handle the supervision of procurement under the project following
agreed procedures and which continues to exercise reasonably good supervision in the
processing of procurement by the LGUs, as indicated by the fairly good quality of LGU
procurement cases which were subjected to Bank's prior and post reviews. In addition, a
construction supervision management (CSM) team comprising of LLDA engineers is in
place to check and verify the quality of works. Nevertheless, while there is good
procurement capacity at the LLDA, there are identified risks on procurement at the LGU
level such as inadequate capacity to handle procurement and weaknesses in terms of
preparation of estimates and technical specifications and construction supervision. To
mitigate the above risks, it was agreed that the same staff level at the PU and the CSM of
LLDA will be maintained throughout the implementation period. Accordingly
consultants will be hired for the preparation of the detailed engineering plans and
technical specifications for the subprojects.



3
 The Bank's Anti-Corruption Guidelines and revisions made to the Procurement Guidelines on cross-
debarment would also apply to this additional financing loan.


                                                 10
36.     Financial Management (FM). An update of the FM assessment was conducted
in line with the proposed Additional Financing to ensure that the existing FM
arrangements are still adequate to provide reasonable assurance that the proceeds of the
loan are used for the purposes intended. Results of the review indicated that the current
FM system of the project meets the FM requirement as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. The
Project has an adequate project FM system that can provide reasonable assurance of
accurate and timely information on the status of the Project. The assessed FM risk of the
Project is considered moderate. The main significant inherent risk of the project pertains
to the varying FM capacity of the new participating LGUs.

37.     FM Action Plan. An FM action plan (see Annex 2) has been agreed with LLDA
and MDFO to address or mitigate the persistent FM weaknesses encountered by the
project. This includes FM capacity building activities to new LGUs and measures to
ensure timely (i) closing of accounting records; (ii) submission of the financial statements
for audit by the Commission on Audit; and (iii) submission of the audit report to the Bank
before the due date.

38.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The project's M&E system has improved
and is now firmly established within LLDA, with the Project Planning and Development
Division (PPDD) taking the lead and the active involvement of Component I, Component
II and the Community Development Division in the process. The progress of activities is
adequately reported. However, there are still weaknesses, which include, among others:
(i) the continued inability of the M&E to document and analyze operational issues and
constraints; (ii) the generally poor quality of the data, analysis and presentation of the
status of the KPIs; and, (iii) the delayed collation of data. These weaknesses will be
addressed in the Additional Financing by lodging the documentation of the progress and
status of the KPIs and analysis of issues and constraints at the component level rather
than centralizing them at the PPDD to avoid duplication and to also ensure timely
reporting, analysis of issues and action. The PPDD concentrate in the consolidation of
reports from the components into an M&E report.

G.     Expected Outcomes

39.    The proposed Additional Financing will help to both consolidate and expand the
substantial achievements of the past 5 years of the project in refocusing and strengthening
LLDA's operations, particularly in regard to its partnerships with LGUs in environmental
management of the large Laguna Lake watershed.
40.     Importantly, with the Additional Financing, the project will help to further
demonstrate practical solutions to the two most threatening environmental challenges
confronting all residents of the Laguna Lake watershed, namely solid w aste management
and wastewater treatment.         The Additional Financing will also allow further
mainstreaming of regulatory, planning and economic instruments within LLDA,
improving engagement with LGUs and other stakeholders as LLDA's partners in
managing the lake and its watershed and piloting the EUFS to households in case LLDA
finds a willing LGU to undertake the piloting.



                                            11
H. Benefits and Risks

41.     Benefits. The Additional Financing for the project, and its extension by three
years would have important benefits both in terms of achieving a twofold increase in the
number of subproject implemented to improve environmental management in the Laguna
Lake watershed, and in further strengthening and consolidating the operations of LLDA.
As noted previously, under the project, LLDA has reoriented its focus from being
primarily a regulatory body to being more proactive in supporting subprojects and
activities of LGUs and other stakeholders concerned with improving the environmental
management of Laguna lake and its surrounding watersheds. A related benefit would be
the institutional experience gained by LLDA in collaborating with LGUs, other
government agencies and the private sector to address long-overdue environmental issues
across a large area and encompassing multiple agencies, industries and other
stakeholders. To the extent that LLDA is the only authority in the Philippines with such a
mandate, the experience gained under the LISCOP project will be invaluable in the
planning for the much larger program currently under discussion involving Laguna Lake,
and its connections though the Pasig River and Metro Manila to Manila Bay.

42.   Risks. The proposed Additional Financing has minimal risk to the Bank and the
government. The project design, activities and outcomes are strongly supported by
Government, and project management capacity is well established.
43.    The main risks and the corresponding mitigating measures have been identified
and summarized in Table 2.


                         Table 2. Main risks and mitigating measures.

                                Likelihood   Impact if
                                 that risk     risk
            Risks                 occurs      occurs                  Mitigation measures
Delay in project start up due       M           H        - Secured DENR commitment to provide the
to budgetary cover issue                                 cover under its budget ceiling and for DENR
                                                         to prepare the funding strategy for submission
                                                         to the NEDA-ICC as part of the AF
                                                         submission
Slow project implementation         L           M        - Secured commitment from LGUs for 37
due to the changes in LGU                                pipeline of subprojects which are currently
officials and LGU project                                under preparation of which 5-7 subprojects
management teams as a                                    ready for implementation during the first year
result of the 2010 elections
                                                         - conduct massive IEC for the incoming local
and capacity constraints of
                                                         chief executives
new participating LGUs
                                                         - As done under the original loan, LLDA will
                                                         continue to build the capacity of the LGUs
                                                         with regards to procurement, FM, safeguards,
                                                         project monitoring and other specialized
                                                         training needs of LGUs
                                                         - LLDA, MDFO and LGUs to closely work
Slow disbursement of the            M           M
                                                         and follow up with the Auditors of the

                                                 12
loan proceeds because of the                     Commission on Audit.
new Government requirement
                                                 - Reduce/limit the number of tranches/fund
to pre-audit LGUs, MDFO
                                                 releases to the LGUs to limit the number of
and LLDA prior to releases
                                                 pre-audit that has to be done.
of project funds
                                                 - LLDA, which was created by law under
LLDA distracted from              L       L
                                                 Republic Act 4850, as amended by
carrying out its functions and
                                                 Presidential Decree 813 of 1975 and Executive
responsibilities because of the
                                                 Order No. 927 of 1983, is seeking clarification
conflicting and overlapping
                                                 from DENR on the institutional and
mandates with the River
                                                 partnership arrangement arrangements with
Basin Control Office (RBCO)
                                                 RBCO.
of the DENR created under
                                                 -LLDA's authority over the Laguna Lake was
Executive Order 185
                                                 upheld recently by the Office of the
                                                 Government Corporate Counsel (Opinion No.
                                                 247 s. 2009).


L = Low; M = Moderate; H = High


I.   Financial Terms And Conditions For The Additional Financing


44.     The government has selected an IBRD Flexible Loan in US Dollars, variable
spread, level repayments, with total maturity of 25 years including a grace period of 10
years. Payment dates are January 1st and July 1st of each year.




                                          13
                                                    ANNEX 1: Performance Ratings 2004-2009
               Philippines: Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community Participation Project (LISCOP)



                      PSR        PSR        ISR       ISR        ISR       ISR        ISR       ISR       ISR       ISR        ISR       ISR        ISR
                     6/29/04   12/22/04   6/20/05   12/27/05   6/15/06   12/14/06   3/15/07   9/18/07   6/17/08   12/23/08   6/19/09   12/02/09   06/23/10
Development             S         S          S         S          S         S         MS        MS        MS         S          S         S          S
Objective Rating
Overall Implementation S          S         S          S         S          S        MU        MS        MS         MS         S          S          S
Progress
Component 1             S         S         U         MU         S          S        U         MS        MS         MS         S          S          S
Component 2             S         S         S          S         S          S         S         S         S          S         S          S          S
Financial               S         S         S         MS         S          S        MS        U         MS         MS        MS         MS         MS
Management
Project Management      S         S         S         MS        MS         MS        U         MS         S          S         S          S          S
Counterpart Funding                         S          S         S          S         S         S         S          S         S          S          S
Procurement             S         S         S          S         S          S        U         MS        MS          S         S          S          S
Monitoring &           Not       Not        S          S        MS         MS        MU        MS        MS         MS        MS          S          S
Evaluation            Rated     Rated




                                                                          14
          ANNEX 2: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangement
      Philippines: Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community
                         Participation Project (LISCOP)
                                 Additional Financing

1.      Scope of review - An update of the financial management assessment was carried
out at the Laguna Lake Development Authority (LLDA) with the objective of ensuring
that there is in place an adequate financial management (FM) system that satisfies the
Bank's OP/BP10.02 requirements for the proposed Additional Financing for the Laguna
de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community Participation (LISCOP or Project).
According to the requirements of OP/BP 10.02, the borrower and the project
implementing entities should maintain financial management systems ­ including
accounting, financial reporting and auditing ­ adequate to ensure that they can provide
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures. The
review was carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines under Financial
Management Practices in World Bank-Financed Investment Operations. The review
included (a) updating of the assessment carried out in 2003 for the Project on the FM
system of LLDA and the Municipal Development Fund Office (MDFO) as fund conduit
for the Local Government Units (LGU), and the inherent FM risks in the country; (b)
review of the results of the FM supervision; and (c) review of compliance with the
financial covenants under the original loan.

2.      Overall conclusion ­ Overall, the current FM system of LLDA and MDFO meets
the financial management requirement as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. The Project has an
adequate project financial management system that can provide reasonable assurance on
accurate and timely information on the status of the Project.

3.      The financial management risk of the Project before the mitigating measures is
considered substantial but could be reduced to moderate after continuing the financial
management arrangement for the original loan, regular Bank supervision and the
proposed mitigating measures described below are implemented and have shown
effective impact. The main significant inherent risk of the Project is the weak capacity at
the LGU (the main beneficiaries of the project). The mitigating measures implemented by
LLDA and MDFO under the original loan and shall be also carried out under the
additional financing are as follows:

           Conduct orientation on financial management to the participating
           LGUs on financial management, procurement and disbursements.
           Submission of monthly statement of receipts and disbursement of
           funds by the concerned LGUs as verified by their respective auditors.
           Submission of annual Statement of Sources and Application of Funds
           by all the LGUs audited by the Commission on Audit with the
           covering audit opinion on the fairness in presentation of the financial
           statement and the validity and propriety of the reported disbursements.



                                            15
              LGUs will be required to deposit counterpart fund requirement prior to
              release of the project funds.
              Maintenance of separate books of accounts for the project at the
              MDFO and submission of annual audited project financial statements,
              which shall include the balance sheet and consolidated statement of
              sources and application of funds and the notes to the financial
              statements including audit observations and recommendations.

FM rating of LISCOP - The FM system of the LISCOP, which has been rated
moderately satisfactory, was found to be reliable to account and generate accurate
financial information. LISCOP has been submitting the quarterly IFRs in accordance with
the financial covenants under the original loan. There were no outstanding reports for the
project although there were delays in submission of the 2008 audited project financial
statements that were traced to delays in the submission of the audited reports by the
LGUs and the re-organization that took place at MDFO following the closing of the
LOGOFIND project. COA has issued clean opinion on the Special Account of the project
and a qualified opinion on the project financial statements due to improper presentation
of the negative balance of PhP 9.074 million in the Advances from Program Support
Account (PSA) in the Consolidated Statement of Sources and Application of Funds.

Risk Analysis

4.     A summary of the financial management assessment risk ratings is provided in the
Table below.
                                                                                                         Condition of
     Category of Risk          Risk          Risks Mitigating Measures In Place               Residual   Negotiations,
     (Issues/Factors)          Rating                                                          Risk        Board of
                                                                                                         Effectiveness
                                                                                                          (Y/N?)
Inherent risk                   H                                                                 S

Country level
Perceived high corruption in    H       1. Strengthening of the internal audit functions in       S           N
the country                                government agencies is currently in progress.
                                        2. The Bank has initiated addressing this through
                                           its grant on Strengthening the Internal Audit
                                           (IA) with the Philippine Anti Graft Commission
                                           as its implementing agency. A Generic Internal
                                           Audit Manual (GIAM) aligned with the
                                           international standards has been developed
                                           through the IDF grant. AusAID on the other
                                           hand, supported the development of the
                                           National guidelines on Internal Control System
                                           (NGICS). Harmonization of the GIAM and
                                           NGICS is currently being supported by AusAid
                                           through PEGR.
Entity
No significant risk at the      M       1. MDFO has assigned a dedicated FM staff for             M           N
LLDA. Inadequate staff at               the project..
MDFO which affect the
timeliness of reports
preparation and submission.
  Project

                                                      16
                                                                                                               Condition of
     Category of Risk              Risk          Risks Mitigating Measures In Place                 Residual   Negotiations,
     (Issues/Factors)              Rating                                                            Risk        Board of
                                                                                                               Effectiveness
                                                                                                                (Y/N?)
Weak capacity at the LGU             S      1. Conduct orientation on financial management to           S           N
level..                                        the  participating    LGUs       on   financial
                                               management, procurement and disbursements.

 Control risk
 Budget
Delayed release of Budget           H       . Close monitoring and follow up from DBM of                S
                                            requests for Notice of Cash Allocation (NCA) and
from Department of Budget
                                            Special Allotment Release Order (SARO).
and Management.
 Accounting
Delayed preparation and              S      Maintenance of separate books of accounts for the           M
                                            project shall be required to facilitate monitoring of
submission of reports.
                                            funds and the preparation of the financial reports.
 Internal controls
Internal controls at the LGUs        S      1. Submission of monthly statement of receipts and          M
are generally weak.                            disbursement of funds by the concerned LGUs.
                                            2. Submission by all LGUs of annual Statement of
                                               Sources and Uses of Funds audited by the
                                               Commission on Audit with the covering audit
                                               opinion on the fairness in presentation of the
                                               financial statement and the validity and
                                               propriety of the reported disbursements.
 Funds flow
LGUs failure to provide the          L      LGUs will be required to deposit counterpart fund           L
adequate counterpart funding                requirement prior to release of the project funds.
                                            Based on the experience of the original project,
                                            there was no LGU that has failed to provide the
                                            counterpart fund.

 Financial reporting
Risk of inaccurate reporting        M       The project will continue to submit interim                L
                                            financial reports on a quarterly basis.
due to non-compliance with
certain accounting policies
and procedures.
 Auditing
 There is no significant risk in     L      The audit of COA is                                         L
 the audit of COA.
Overall control risk ­               S                                                                 M

Overall FM Risk                      S                                                                 M
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), L (Negligible or Low Risk)


Financial Management Arrangements for the Project

The financial management arrangements for the additional financing will follow those of
the original loan which are found to be effective.

5.     Internal Controls ­ The project shall follow the internal controls policies and
procedures found in the NGAS, Government Audit and Accounting Manual (GAAM),
COA and DBM memoranda and circulars. The project will also continue to use the

                                                           17
Project Finance manual containing the FM policies and procedures for the project. The
following requirements shall be implemented:
        Maintenance of separate books of accounts for the project and
           submission of annual audited project financial statements, which shall
           include the balance sheet and consolidated statement of sources and
           application of funds and the notes to the financial statements including
           audit observations and recommendations.
        Maintenance of a Designated Account of the Project in a commercial
           bank acceptable to the Bank. A Peso project bank account shall also be
           opened solely to pay for Peso expenditures under the Project.
        Unaudited quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFR) shall be
           submitted 45 days after the end of each quarter to the Bank.
        Monthly submission of liquidation of funds downloaded to LGUs.

6.     External Audit - The external audit of the Project shall be carried out by COA.

7.      Financial Reporting ­ There are no outstanding financial reports due for the
Project. The reports that LLDA/MDFO shall be required under the Project are as follows:

       a. Unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) within 45 days after the
          end of each calendar quarter.
       b. Annual audited project financial statements and management letter
          reflecting the auditor's findings and recommendations which are due
          to the Bank no later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.

8.      Funds flow/Disbursement arrangement for the additional financing. The
funds flow for the additional financing will follow the same arrangement as the original
loan of LLDA.

MDFO shall open and maintain a DA in US dollars, in a duly authorized government
depository bank. The ceiling of the DA shall be changed as well as the minimum value of
the size of the withdrawal application. The disbursement methods available under the
loan are the advance and reimbursement methods. Reporting of actual utilization of the
loan to the Bank is through the submission of the Statement of Expenditures on a
monthly basis.

9.      Financial Covenants. The financial reports to be submitted to the Bank under
this Project, which shall include the original loan, are as follows:

       a. Unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) within 45 days after the
          end of each calendar quarter.
       b. Annual audited project financial statements and a copy of the
          management letter reflecting the auditor's findings and
          recommendations, which are due to the Bank no later than 6 months
          after the end of each fiscal year.


                                          18
10.    Condition for loan negotiation. There are no conditions for loan negotiation for
FM.

11.      Supervision Plan. FM implementation review mission visit shall be undertaken
twice a year during project implementation to ensure that the loan proceeds are used for
the purpose it was granted. The frequency of the FM implementation review may be
revised depending on the FM risk rating of this Project and FM performance rating in any
given year during project implementation. The assigned FM Specialist shall determine
the scope of the particular supervision based on his professional judgment. It may
include: (1) review of the continuous maintenance of adequate FM system by LLDA and
MDFO; (2) review of selected transactions, where deemed necessary; (3) follow up of
timeliness of FM reporting and actions taken on issues raised in previous review
missions; (4) review of financials reports of the project; and (5) review of compliance
with the financial covenants. In addition, the FM implementation review will include
desk review of the quarterly IFRs, and audited financial statements and management
letter submitted to the Bank.

12. The following set of actions has been agreed with the LLDA and the MDFO to
address the persistent weaknesses in the project's financial management and bring it to
satisfactory level:


                      Agreed Action                          Responsibility   Timetable/Status
1. Conduct workshop and capacity building activities on      LLDA/MDFO          Before sub-
   financial management to representatives of Local                               project
   Government Units to facilitate accurate preparation and                    implementation
   timely submission of liquidation reports.
2. Promptly submit annual project audited financial          LLDA/MDFO            Submitted
   statements on or before the due date of June 30 each                           August 31,
   year.                                                                       2010, but with
                                                                                  significant
   a. Intensive follow up on the submission of liquidation      LLDA            improvement
       reports by Local Government Units so that                                 compared to
       liquidations are submitted to MDFO by February                          previous year.
       28, 2010;
   b. Close the accounting records by March 15, 2010;           MDFO
       and                                                      MDFO
   c. Submit the financial statements to COA by March
   31, 2010 to facilitate early completion of the audit.

3. Promptly submit quarterly financial monitoring reports    LLDA/MDFO        FMR submitted
             th
   starting 4 quarter of 2009.                                                promptly from
                                                                              4th qtr 2009 to
                                                                               3rd qtr 2010,




                                              19
                               ANNEX 3: Project Performance Indicators
          Philippines: Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community
                             Participation Project (LISCOP)
                                           Additional Financing

    Outcome Indicator           Baseline       Original End of   Achievement         Targets by end
                                (2003)         Project Target    under the           of Additional
                                               (July 31, 2010)   Original Project    Financing
                                                                 (as of              (April 30, 2014)
                                                                 January2011)
    #1. At least 10             BOD loading    10 percent        15 percent          10 percent
    percent reduction in        (827.56MT      (744.80MT)        (698.37MT)          (744.80MT)
    pollution loading for
    regulated parameters
    #2. At least 30             507            30 percent        91 percent          91 percent
    percent increase in                        (659)             (971)               (971)
    compliance by
    enterprises
    #3. All LGUs in at least    0              All LGUs in 10    All LGUs in 24      All LGUs in 24
    10 of the micro-                           micro-            micro-              micro-
    watersheds have                            watersheds        watersheds          watersheds
    adopted multi-                                               adopted LEAP        adopted LEAP
    stakeholder micro-
    watershed planning
    as part of their
    municipal
    development
    planning process
    #4. At least five (5) of    0              5 subprojects     33 subprojects      50 subprojects
    the micro-watershed
    interventions that are
    implemented result in
    measurable
    reductions in
    important
    environmental
    pressures4
    #5. At least 30                            30 percent        300 percent         300 percent
    percent increase in         411 (249       535 (324 men      1644 (1080 men      1644 (1080 men
    the number of men           men and 162    and 211           and 564             and 564 women)
    and women from              women)         women)            women)

4
 Reduction in environmental pressures include reduced pollution loading, reduced soil erosion and lake
sedimentation and reduced garbage deposited in waterways.

                                                    20
Outcome Indicator       Baseline   Original End of   Achievement        Targets by end
                        (2003)     Project Target    under the          of Additional
                                   (July 31, 2010)   Original Project   Financing
                                                     (as of             (April 30, 2014)
                                                     January2011)
community and
stakeholder groups
that are involved in
watershed planning
and management
Component 1: Co-
managed micro-
watershed
environmental
interventions
#6. Monitoring and      None       M&E               M&E framework      M&E framework
evaluation framework               framework &       & system in        & system
set up and in use                  system in place   place              improved and in
                                                                        use
#7. MIS                 None       Completed         Completed          Completed
benchmarking
completed
#8. Multi-stakeholder   0          24                24                 24
planning process
(Lake Environment
Action Planning-LEAP)
conducted in 24
micro-watersheds
#9. Number of micro-    0          20                38                 50
watershed sub-
projects identified
and FS completed
#10. At least 20 sub-   0          20                33                 50
projects approved
with adequate time
for their
implementation
within the project
duration
#11. Number of SPLAs    0          20                22                 35
signed
#12. More than 80       0          20                33                 50
percent of sub-
projects that are
approved for funding
are implemented and
completed


                                        21
Outcome Indicator       Baseline     Original End of   Achievement        Targets by end
                        (2003)       Project Target    under the          of Additional
                                     (July 31, 2010)   Original Project   Financing
                                                       (as of             (April 30, 2014)
                                                       January2011)
Component 2:
Strengthening
institutions and
instruments
#13. LLDA has           None         New structure                        Sustain
                                                       New structure
implemented the new                  implemented                          implementation
                                                       implemented
structure and                                                             of new structure
                                                       based on
completed its re-                                                         based on the
                                                       approved
engineering program                                                       Rationalization
                                                       Rationalization
as envisioned in the                                                      Plan
                                                       Plan
LIDO
#14. Data               None         Data              100 percent        Data
management systems                   management        completed          management
improved                             system                               system in use
                                     completed
#15. Laguna de Bay      0            Total of 5        5 LdBE Monitors    7 LdBE Monitors
Environment (LdBE)                   publications      published          published
Monitor published
annually
#16. Modified           None         Modified EUF      Modified EUF       Modified EUF
Environmental User                   Formula           Formula            Formula adopted
Fee (EUF) formula                    adopted           adopted
officially adopted
#17. EUF parameters     1            3                 3 (BOD, TSS,       3 (BOD, TSS,
expanded                                               TSS/BOD)           TSS/BOD)
#18. Number of          1,000        1,400             2,182              2,482
establishments
covered by EUF
increased by 300-400
#19. 85-90 percent of   0            85-90 percent     79 percent         At least 85
Loan proceeds                                                             percent
disbursed
#20. 16-25 percent      55 million   25 percent        126 percent        25 percent
increase in revenue                  increase          increase           increase
from EUF system                      (P68.75m)         (P124.70m)

#21. Revenues           0            P25m              P11m               P37m
reinvested in
environmental
projects through PDF
& other instruments
by LGUs & the private


                                          22
Outcome Indicator        Baseline   Original End of   Achievement        Targets by end
                         (2003)     Project Target    under the          of Additional
                                    (July 31, 2010)   Original Project   Financing
                                                      (as of             (April 30, 2014)
                                                      January2011)
sector
#22. Operational         0          Guidelines        Guidelines         Guidelines
guidelines for                      developed and     already            adopted and
expansion of EUF to                 adopted           developed and      sustained
new enterprises and                                   adopted
their collection
adopted
#23. Public disclosure   0          2                 3                  5
of industry and LGU
performance occurs
at least twice
#24. Measures to         None       PMEPPP            PMEPPP has         PMEPPP
upgrade permitting,                 officially        been adopted       implemented
monitoring,                         adopted
enforcement, policy
and planning
procedures (PMEPPP)
officially adopted
#25. Infrastructure      None       Infra structure   Infra              Infra
strategy adopted by                 Development       Development        Development
LLDA                                Strategy          Strategy for       Strategy adopted
                                    adopted           LLDA Board
                                                      approval
#26. Operational         None       Operational       Operational        Operational
guidelines for EUF                  guidelines for    guidelines for     guidelines for
expansion to                        EUF expansion     EUF expansion      EUF expansion to
households and                      to                to                 households and
regulation of water                 households and    households and     water use
use developed                       water use         water use          regulation
                                    regulation        regulation         adopted
                                    adopted           adopted
#27. Number of RC        0          10 RC offices     Only 1 RC has      Dropped
offices established                 established       established an
                                                      office
#28. Annual              0          5 conferences     5 conferences      7 conferences
Conference/ Learning
Forum conducted
#29. Capacity of 24                 Average           Average            Dropped
RCs substantially                   maturity index    maturity index
expanded by at least                scores of 24      scores of 24 RCs
3 levels                            RCs moved up      3.51
                                    by 3 to 7.59


                                          23
Outcome Indicator       Baseline   Original End of   Achievement        Targets by end
                        (2003)     Project Target    under the          of Additional
                                   (July 31, 2010)   Original Project   Financing
                                                     (as of             (April 30, 2014)
                                                     January2011)
#30. Public             None       2 Surveys         Baseline survey    A 3rd survey
Perception Survey on               Conducted         conducted in       conducted by
effectiveness of IEC                                 2005 and the       2013
programs conducted                                   2nd in 2009;
at least twice by end                                Analysis of
of project                                           results of 2009
                                                     survey available
                                                     by 15 Feb 2010
#31. Number of          0              -             37                 50
watershed
management-related
SB resolutions
approved and/or
enforced




                                           24
             ANNEX 4: Economic and Financial Analysis of Subprojects
      Philippines: Laguna de Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community
                         Participation Project (LISCOP)
                                   Additional Financing


1.     The Additional Financing for LISCOP basically supports the component on Co-
Managed Micro Watershed Environmental Interventions using the demand­driven
approach. The participating LGUs have identified 7 types of individual priority
subprojects such as Material Recovery Facility (MRF), Environmental Improvements/
Enhancements, Landfill, Waste Water Treatment Facility (WWTF) for Slaughterhouse,
WWTF for Households, WWTF with Waterworks, and Flood Control (FC) Facility. To
date, LLDA has identified 37 subproject proposals in the pipeline. These subprojects
have been included in the respective Lake Environment Action Plan (LEAP) for each of
the 24 micro-catchment.

2.     The period of analysis for both the financial and economic analysis of the
subprojects is 15 years based on the average economic life of the facilities. Project costs
and benefits used the fixed exchange rate of 1US$ to PhP48.50. The financial analysis
has used the current treasury bill rate of 4.2 percent as opportunity cost of capital while
the economic analysis has used the discount rate of 12 percent.

3.     The viability indicators used are the Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of
Return (IRR), and Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR). The quantifiable benefits derived from
each of the interventions were identified and provided in the Table 4.1.

          Table 4.1 Benefits Derived from Subprojects Under LISCOP AF.
                     Subprojects                              Benefits
          Material Recovery Facility         Sales from recovered non-
                                             biodegradable waste and organic
                                             fertilizer from compost, collection
                                             fees from institutional wastes, carbon
                                             financing, avoided cost on medical
                                             expenses due to air-borne diseases.
          Environmental      Enhancements/   Revenues from entrance fees and use
          Improvements                       of facilities, avoided cost due to
                                             damage on flooding and
                                             sedimentation.
          Landfill                           Revenues from collection fees from
                                             institutional waste, carbon financing,
                                             avoided cost of medical expenses due
                                             to air-borne diseases.
          Flood Control                      Avoided cost on damage to properties
                                             and agricultural crops, medical
                                             expenses due to water-borne diseases.
          Waste Water Treatment Facility     Revenues from sales of captured

                                             25
         for Slaughterhouse                methane, collection fees from use of
                                           facilities.
         Waste Water Treatment Facility    Service fees for sewer system,
         for Households                    environmental user fee (EUF), other
                                           revenues (e.g. connection fees,
                                           penalty for late payment, charges for
                                           installation and repairs), avoided cost
                                           of medical expenses due to water-
                                           borne/air-borne diseases.
         Waste Water Treatment Facility    Revenues from water sales, service
         with Water Supply                 fee from sewer system, EUF, other
                                           revenues and avoided cost on medical
                                           expenses due to water-borne/air-borne
                                           diseases.

Financial Analysis

4.     Results of the financial analysis showed that five out of the seven subprojects
have shown financial viability (Table 4.2). The Landfill subproject provided the highest
Financial IRR (FIRR) of 22 percent while the Flood Control (FC) subproject and WWTF
for household have rendered non-viable results. In terms of NPV, the WWTF combined
with Water Supply presented the highest NPV of PhP127.53 million. The Environmental
Enhancements has the highest benefit-cost ratio of 1.22.

         Table 4.2. Financial Viability Indicators by Type of Subproject.
                Subproject           IRR (%)        NPV@4.2%,        BCR
                                                    over 15 years,
                                                  (In Million PhP)
      Material Recovery Facility         20              8.91        1.07
      Environmental                      18             28.68        1.22
      Enhancements/Improvements
      Landfill                           22              5.61        1.21
      Flood Control                 Not Viable             -           -
      Waste Water Treatment              15              2.85        1.10
      Facility for Slaughterhouse
      Waste Water Treatment         Not Viable             -           -
      Facility for Households
      Waste Water Treatment              15            127.53        1.18
      Facility with Water Supply

Economic Analysis

5.     To determine the economic viability of the subprojects, the financial prices were
converted to economic prices using the parameters set by NEDA under its Investment
Coordination Committee (ICC) Project Evaluation Procedures and Guidelines. For a
developing country like the Philippines, the economic opportunity cost of foreign
exchange (or the shadow exchange rate) is often higher than the official or market

                                          26
exchange rate. The ICC guidelines call for a foreign exchange premium of 20 percent .
Hence, the shadow exchange rate (SER) of 1.2 for tradable component of material inputs
was used. On the other hand, the economic opportunity cost of labor (or the shadow
wage rate) for unskilled workers is often taken to be less than the project wage rate and
the ICC guidelines suggest a shadow wage rate of 60 percent for unskilled labor.

6.     All prices are expressed at 2009 current level, the period when the analysis was
conducted. The same viability indicators (such as NPV, IRR and BCR) are used in the
economic cost-benefit analysis.

7.      Table 4.3 presents the economic viability of the various interventions. The MRF
subproject reflected the highest Economic IRR (EIRR) of 37 percent. The WWTF with
Water Supply provided the highest NPV of PhP52.29 million. The highest BCR was
realized by the subproject on Environmental Enhancements.

8.     Overall, the project yielded an EIRR of 17 percent, with net present value of
PhP233.5 million and BCR of 1.06. The LISCOP AF is viable from the economic point
of view.

              Table 4.3. Economic Viability Indicators by Type of Subproject.
                Subproject          IRR (%)       NPV@12%,           BCR
                                                 over 15 years,
                                                (in Million PhP)
      Material Recovery Facility      37             11.28           1.24
      Environmental                   36             29.70           1.78
      Enhancements/Improvements
      Landfill                        36              2.95           1.60
      Flood Control                   24             12.99           1.57
      Waste Water Treatment           24              2.51           1.49
      Facility for Slaughterhouse
      Waste Water Treatment           16              8.21           1.05
      Facility for Households
      Waste Water Treatment           20             52.29           1.44
      Facility with Water Supply
                  Overall             17             233.5           1.06


9.     The analysis has shown that the interventions are economically viable, but there
are few subprojects which failed from the financial standpoint. FC subproject for
example, is a non-income generating subproject but has huge positive environmental
impact and has equally significant economic benefits. This type of subproject is worth
pursuing and would need the Government's assistance for its sustainability.

10.     Along with the subprojects is the implementation of Component 2, the
Strengthening of Institutions and Instruments. This intervention will provide the non-
quantified benefits like the continued institutional development and capability building

                                           27
that will empower the implementers (i.e., LLDA, LGUs, and river councils) to sustain the
efforts initiated under this project.

11.    Investment Decision Criteria. In prioritization of subprojects, it is not advisable
to use IRR or BCR. The alternative with the highest (non-negative) NPV is chosen
because the NPV criterion maximizes the net benefits. Hence in this particular analysis,
the highest priority can be accorded to WWTF with Water Supply reflecting the highest
ENPV of PhP52.29 Million, followed by the subproject on Environmental Enhancements
with ENPV of PhP29.70 million.




                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                                 120°                              124°
                              BULUCAN PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0     100       200    300
                 CENTRAL LUZON                                                                                PHILIPPINES                                           20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20°

                                                                                  LAGUNA DE BAY INSTITUTIONAL                                                                     CORDILLERA
                                                                                STRENGTHENING AND COMMUNITY                                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                      REGION
                                                                                     PARTICIPATION PROJECT                                                                                                        Tuguegarao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAGAYAN
                                                                                                                                                                                        ILOCANDIA                VALLEY
                                                     MARIKINA                                                                                                                                           San Fernando     P h        i l i p p i n e
                                                                                                                               MICRO-WATERSHED                                                            Baguio City
                                                                                                                                BOUNDARIES                          16°                                                                 S e a              16°
                                                                                                                               LAGUNA DE BAY
                                                           RIZAL PROVINCE                                                       WATERSHED                                                 CENTRAL      San Fernando
                        Quezon City
                                                                                                                                                                                           LUZON
                                                                                                                               RIVERS                                                        MANILA Quezon City
                       N AT I O N A L                                                                                          REGIONAL CAPITALS                                     Area of map, left
              MANILA
                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                     BICOLANDIA
                        C A P I TA L        MANGAHAN                                                                           MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                              SOUTHERN                            Legaspi City
                                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                               TAGALOG
                        REGION                                                                                                 REGION BOUNDARIES




                                                                     S
                                                                           TANAY



                                                                    BARA
                                                           MORONG                                                                                                                                                                            EASTERN
                                       TAGUIG                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL                        12°                                                                      VISAYAS       12°
              Manila                                                                                                             BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tacloban City
               Bay
                                                                                                                          0         5        10                                                             Iloilo City
                                                                           PILILLA                                                                                                                             WESTERN      Cebu City
                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS                                                                       VISAYAS CENTRAL
                                                                                          SANTA       SINILOAN                                                                                                         VISAYAS
                                  PA




                                                                                          MARIA                                                                                                                                 Butuan
                                NLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTHERN    City
                                                       ANGONO                                                                                                                                                       MINDANAO CARAGA
                              NTI




                                                                           SOUTHERN                                                                                                                           Iligan City Cagayan
                                                                                                                                                                    8°                                    WESTERN         de Oro City 8°
                            MU




                                                                                                                                                                                                         MINDANAO
                                                                           TA G A L O G                                                                                                                    Cotabato City
                                                   Laguna                                              PANJIL                                                                                                                    Davao
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zamboanga             City
                                                                              JALA-                                                                                                                                         SOUTHERN
               CAVITE                               Bay                       JALA                                                                                                        AUTONOMOUS REGION                MINDANAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                          OF MUSLIM MINDANAO MINDANAO
              PROVINCE                                                                                            CALIRAYA                                          M A L AY S I A                                                          Celebes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sea
                          BIÑAN                                                                                                                                                                  120°                              124°
                                        CABUYAO
                                                               LAGUNA                                                                                                100°
                                                                                                                                                                                CHINA     110°                120°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N O R T H PA C I F I C
                                                                                                                                             QUEZON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OCEAN
                                                               PROVINCE                                PAGSANJAN                                                             LAO                                                                            20°
                                                                                                                                                                    20°
                                                                                     PILA                                                   PROVINCE                        P.D.R.               South
                           SAN CRISTOBAL                                                                                                                                                         China                             Philippine
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                                     THAILAND                                        Manila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                        VIETNAM
                                                      LOS BAÑOS                                                                                                                CAMBODIA                     PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                    10°                                                                                     10°
                                                                    CALAUAN            SANTA CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                                           Gulf of
                                                                                                                                                                          Thailand
                                                SAN JUAN                                                                                                                                                                                          PALAU
                                                                                                                                                                                             BRUNEI

                                                                                                                                                                               M A L AY S I A
                                                                                                                                                                                 SINGAPORE                                                                   0°
                                                                                                                                                                    0°
                                       BATANGAS
                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P.N.G.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Java Sea
                                        PROVINCE                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
AUGUST 2003




                                                                                                                                                                                                     I N     D    O       N E       S   I     A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 31938
                                                                                            on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                         INDIAN                                               TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Arafura Sea
                                                                                            judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or    10°                                                                                     10°
                                                                                            acceptance of such boundaries.                                               OCEAN                                       Timor Sea
                                                                                                                                                                     100°                 110°                120°                  130° AUSTRALIA 140°
