RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY               Report No. P-725
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KOREA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
June 11, 1969



INTEIrNATION.AL BLAK FOR RECONSTI-h'CTION AiND DEVELOPiiENT
REPORT AND RECOhliENDATION OF THE P.RESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE KOREA DEVELOPIENT FINANCE CORPORATION
1WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF K01?EA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $20 million to the
Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), to be guaranteed by the
Republic of Korea.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The rapid industrialization of the Korean economy has created
an unsatisfied demand for industrial finance on reasonable terms. KDFC
was established in April 1967 with the assistance of the Bank Group to
provide urgently needed long-term finance to the private sector. Its
initial capitalization, including investments by IFC and foreign
private investors and a loan of $5 million from the Bank, was completed
in February 1968. KDFC mnade its first investments in June 1968. The
full amount of the first Bank loan is expected to be comr,mitted by the
end of August 1969. The proposed $20 million loan is expected to
provide KDFC with sufficient foreign exchange resources to meet its
projected commitments up to mid-1971.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washivngton
between May 20 and 22, 1969. The Borrower, KDFC, was represented by
its President, ivr. C.H. Kim. The Government was represented by
MIr. K.S. Choi, Counselor, Korean Erabassy, and 21r. J.Y. Sun, Third
Secretary, Korean Enibassy.
4.        The proposed loan would be the third Bank loan to Korea,
bringing the total amount of Bank lending to $70 million. Korea has
received four IDA credits for a total of $43.2 million. In the next
few months I expect to submit a recommendation for a Bank loan of about
$20 million for a third railway project which has recently been appraised.
5.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Korea as of May 31, 1969:



-2-
Loan or                                             Amount (US $ million)
Credit No.   Year      Borrower         Purpose     Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
25        1962  Republic of Korea   Railway            13.9      Nil
110        1967  Republic of Korea   2nd Railway        11.0      0.9
529        1968  KDFC                Industry      5.0            4.4
S-4        1968  Republic of Korea   Highway
Studies           3.5       2.9
6001/      1969  ULIA                Irrigation   45.0           45.0
1511/      1969  Republic of Korea   Education     _    1.8      14.8
Total (less cancellations) now outstanding     50.0  43.2
Total undisbursed                                             68.o
1/ Not yet effective
6.        The first railway project has been completed and the other
projects are progressing satisfactorily.   Disbursenents are on schedule.
IFC has invested $700,000 in IDFC; an equity investment of about
$0.3 million and a $1.4 mnillion loan by IFC for a silk reeling project
have been approved recently. IFC is considering a $3.8 million invest-
ment in equity and loan to a paper mill.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:            Korea Development Finance Corporation
(KDFC)
Guarantor:          Republic of Korea
Amount:             Various currencies equivalent to
$20 million
Purpose:            To enable KDFC to finance the foreign
exchange cost of specific projects
undertaken by private industrial enter-
prises in Korea.
Amortization:       The initial amortization schedule
provides for repayment over 15 years,
in semi-annual payments beginning
November 15, 1971 and ending May 15,
1986, subject to change in order to
conform substantially to the aggregate
of amortization schedules for sub-loans
and investments for which withdrawals
from the loan account are made.
Interest Rate:      61½p percent per annum



- 3 -
Commitment Charge: Three-fourths of one percent per annum
Prior Approval      All loans for projects requiring more
of Projects:        than $300,000 in foreign exchange and
all equity investments are subject to
the Bank's prior approval. Loans for
projects requiring less than $300,000
"tiould not require the Bank's prior
approval subject to an aggregate limit
of '`5 million.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Appraisal of Korea Development Finance
Corporation" (DB-49a) dated June 5, 1969 is attached.
9.       'llanufacturing has been the driving force behind Korea's
phenomenal economic growJth; it accounted for nearly one-quarter of
Korea's GNP and for two-thirds of Korea's total exports in 1968.   The
growth rate of manufacturing is considerably higher than the growth
rate of any of the other sectors and amounted to alnost 29% in 1968.
During the last few years, capital goods industries have expanded more
rapidly than consumer goods industries although the latter are still
predominant. Large-scale enterprises with a labor force of more than
200 accoun-t for more than half of the manufacturing output.
Manufacturing enterprises are predominantly privately owned.
10.       This rapid expansion of the Korean econonm has created a strong
demand in the private industrial sector for medium-term and long-term
finance, and especially for foreign exchange resources. Besides KDFC,
the only financial institutions in Korea providing medium-term and long-
terra industrial finance are the Korean Reconstruction Bank and the
MIedium Industry Bank, both Goverment-owned. However, the Government
has stated its intention that KDFC would be the principal source of
industrial financing for the private sector.   Over the past twTelve
rmionths KDFC's operations have been gathering momentum and both the
number and experience of its professional staff have been building up.
There is a strong dernand for its services, and there appears to be
little doubt that it would be able to commit the proposed Bank loan of
$20 million writhin two years from July 1969.
11.       When KDFC's financing was completed in February 1968, IFC
made an equity investment in KDFC of won 192.5 million ($702,000
equivalent at the exchange rate obtaining at that time) and KDFC
received a loan from the Government of won 2,025 million (equivalent
of US$7.5 million at that time) in addition to loans from U.S. AID
and the Bank of $5 million each. KDFC at present has no other debt.
12.       As of Piarch 31, 1969, KDFC had access to total resources
amounting to $24.4 million equivalent.   They consisted,at the present



rate of exchange, of share capital resources and retained earnings
anounting to about $7.2 million equiialent, the Government loan of
$7.2 million equivalent, and the two loans totalling 4$10 million from
the U.S. AID and the Bank.
13.       As of June 5, 1969, KDFC's total commitments for loans,
debentures and share investments amounted to $5.8 million equivalent.
Of that amount, commitments for foreign exchange loans amounted to
$3.6 million, of which $O0.5 mnillion is to be drawn from the AID loan,
and $3.1 million frcm the first Bank loan.
14.       IDFC is well managed and competently staffed.   Sound
procedures have been set up, the quality of KDFC's appraisals is good
and, although its present portfolio is still small, the qu.ality of
KDFC's project supervision is of a high standard. In view of the
prospective volume of bu.siness, the professional staff needs to be
increased, and KDFC's manage;luent continues to recruit and train
personnel.
15.       IlTFC's financial position is satisfactory.  In 1967 and 1968
net income was derived almost entirely from interest on bank deposits
awJaiting disburserment agcainst past and fu.ture commitments. Net incae
in 1967 and 1968 amounted to won 107 million ($0.38 million) and
won 436 million ($1.56 million) respectively.   KDFC has not yet paid a
dividend and all earnings have been retained.
16.       The first Bank loan to KDFC provided for the Bank's commit-
ment fee to be charged onl on amounts credited to the loan account, a
concession that was made becau.se IKFC was then a newr institu.tion.  For
the proposed loan the Bank's standard policy on commitment charge
TJould be appliad..
PART IV - LEGAL I1STRUHMNTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korean
Development Finance Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Korea and the Banc, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreem;lent
and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distribu.ted to the Executive Directors separately.
18.       The draft Loan and Guarantee Ag,reements conform substantially
to the pattern of agreements for loans to development finance companies.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.       The economic report entitled "The Current Economic Position
and Prospects of the RepubLic of Korea" (EAP-4a) was circulated to the
Executive Directors on March 19, 1969. Further updated infornation on



- 5 -
the performance of the Korean economy is contained in the "Report and
Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a proposed
Credit to the Republic of Korea for an Education Project" (P-699), dated
May 14, 1969, which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 15, 1969.
20.       The Korean economy continued its very rapid growth in 1968,
when, based largely on expansion in the manufacturing sector, GNP
increased by 13%. Exports continued their strong rising trend,
particularly exports of manufactured goods which have increased by over
50% per annum in recent years. However, largely because of the high
import component of Korea's manufactured products, imports also increased
rapidly, and the deficit on goods and services account has continued to
expand. Also, although gross domestic savings are increasing in relation
to GNP, the portion of gross capital formation financed by external
capital was over 40% in 1968 and is expected to increase further this
year. A substantial portion of this is being met by short- and medium-
term foreign debt and, while the debt service ratio was only 7.4% of
exports of goods and services in 1968, it is likely to increase to
20% in 1970. The Korean authorities announced at the Consultative Group
meeting in April their intention to impose stricter controls over the
inflow of short- and medium-term capital and to limit service on medium-
and long-term debt to 15% o:F foreign exchange earnings.
21.       The Government intends to carry out a careful review of its
investment program and has asked the Bank to help it re-examine a
proposed steel project and to recommend the most economical and efficient
way of meeting Korea's requirement for steel. Since the Government
evidently desires to pursue sensible economic policies, and particularly
to limit foreign borrowings to reasonable amounts, the underlying
strength of the economy should result in the emergence of a satisfactory
balance of payments position. Therefore, Korea can be regarded as credit-
worthy for this loan, which will contribute to the further expansion of
the vigorous manufacturing sector along sound and productive lines.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGRE31ENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECUOIENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Attachment                                 Robert S. McNamara
President
June 11, 1969



