Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13834
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2709-HU)
DECEMBER 23, 1994
Energy and Environment Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Forints per US$)
Average Annual
1986   45.8
1987   47.0
1988   50.4
1989   59.1
1990   63.2
1991   74.8
1992   79
1993   92
1994   105.1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AEEF      -          Energy Supervision Institute
CMEA    -            Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ECEC      -          European Community Energy Center
EEO       -          Energy Efficiency Office
ERR       -          Economic Rate of Return
FE        -          Foreign Exchange
FRR       -          Financial Rate of Return
GDP       -          Gross Domestic Product
IpM       -          Ministry of Industry
LRMC    -            Long Run Marginal Cost
NBH       -          National Bank of Hungary
OEGH      -          National Energy Authority
PCR       -          Project Completion Report
USSR      -          Union of Soviet Socialist Republics



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 23, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Hungary
Second Industrial Energv Conservation Project (Loan 2709-HU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Hungary - Second Industrial Energy
Conservation (Loan 2709-HU) prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. The Borrower
prepared Part II.
The project supported the continuation of the Government of Hungary's strategy for
reducing the energy consumption of productive enterprises through the modernization of energy intensive
industrial processes, the manufacture of energy saving and energy monitoring equipment, and the
strengthening of national institutional capacity to implement energy conservation measures.
The loan financed subproject investments consistent with these objectives. Although some
of the subprojects were in enterprises that subsequently became insolvent in the transition to a market
economy, the median economic rate of return of all investments was 39%. Even counting only the direct
benefits from energy savings, the average payback period was three years. The institutions supporting
this project functioned effectively, and the Government is proposing legislation to establish a National
Energy Center to continue the analysis and implementation of energy conservation measures.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional
development as substantial.
The PCR provides a comprehensive analysis of project implementation, including a
detailed analysis of financial and economic returns for all subprojects.
No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Loan 2709-HU1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . ..........................................ii
A.  Background .............................................i
B.      Project Objectives  ..................
(a)     NBH Energy Rationalization Facility  ...................iii
(b)     Institutional Strengthening ..........................
C.      Institutions Involved in Energy Conservation   ......................  iv
(a)     National Energy Authority (OEGH) ............             ........           Iv
(b)     Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF) ...................    iv
(c)     Energy Efficiency Office (EEO) ......................    iv
(d)     National Bank of Hungary (NBH) ......               .........  ......   iv
D.      Implementation Experience
(a)   NBH Energy Rationalization Facility.                                           v
(b)  Institutional Strengthening.                                                    v
E. Results ...........  vi
F.   Sustainability .             ..........................................  vi
G.      Findings and Lessons Learned    ..............................    vii
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ......1......... 
A.      Project Identity  ...........                ..............................    1
B.      Background  .            ..........................................                            I
C.      Sector Development Objectives ...............................    3
D.      Policy Considerations .....................................    3
E.      Institutions Involved in Energy Conservation   .....              ............ .               3
(a)     National Energy Authority (OEGH)   ..................    3
(b)     Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF)  ..................    4
(c)     Energy Efficiency Office (EEO) .....................    5
(d)     National Bank of Hungary (NBH) ....................    6
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization._I



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
F.    Project Objectives and Description ............................                                                        6
(a)       NBH  Energy Rationalization Facility   ..................                                    6
(b)       Institutional Strengthening  .........................                                       6
G.    Project Design and Organization  ............................                                                         7
H.  Project Implementation ....................                                                                             9
(a)       NBH  Energy Rationalization Facility   ...................   9
(b)       Institutional Strengthening  .........................    10
I.        Project Results   .......               .......... ..                   ......................    12
J.        Project Sustainability   .......                ........ ..                 ....................    12
K.        Bank Performance  .......                   ............                   ....................    13
L.        Borrower Performance  ......                    ......... ..                  ...................    14
M.        Project Relationship  .......                 ......... ..                  ....................    14
N.        Project Documentation  and Data   ...........                           ..           ................    14
0.        Findings and Lessons Learned   ............                           ..           .................    15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                              .........  16
A.        Introduction, Background  ..................................                                                     16
B.        Implementation  and Result of the Project No. HU-2709  ...............   17
C.        Evaluation  of the Program, Lessons Learned  ......................   19
PART  Im: BASIC  DATA  SHEET  ......                            .................................    21
1.        Related Bank Loans .......................................    21
2.        Project Timetable  ........................................    22
3.        Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .....................   23
4.        Project Results.  .........................................    24
5.        Status of Covenants.  ......................................   26
m,        Mission Data    ..........................................    27
7.        Use of Bank Resources .....................................    28
BORROWER'S  ANNEXES   ..........................................                                                                     29
Table 1 .              ........................................................  29
Table 2 .             ........................................................  30
Annex I .......................................................    31
PCR FILE
1.        AEEF Project Completion Report, February 1993.
This report was prepared by Roger Heath (Principal Chemical Engineer, IENIM) and David
Caplin (Consultant).



i
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan 2709 - HU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Industrial Energy Conservation
Project in Hungary, for which Loan 2709-HU in the amount of US$ 25 million was approved on May
29, 1986. It became effective on August 22, 1986 and was closed on June 30, 1993 in accordance
with the original time schedule. The loan was disbursed to the extent of US$ 20.0 million. The last
disbursement was made on August 1, 1993. US$5.0 million was canceled.
2.    The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by staff of the
Industry and Mining Division, Industry and Energy Department, and was based substantially on
information provided by the Borrower. The Bank received Part II from the National Bank of
Hungary.
3.    Preparation of the PCR was started in November 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan, and Guarantee Agreements; Subloan Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; consultants' reports; and personal consultation
between Bank staff and their Hungarian counterparts.






ii
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan 2709 - HU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Background
1.    In the post World War II period, Hungary became, like other Eastern European countries,
an intensive consumer of energy. By 1983, when the Bank made its first loan to Hungary, a
national energy action plan had been initiated and had been running for about three years. The main
elements of this plan were: (a) maintenance of the production capacity of domestic energy resources,
and (b) promotion and implementation of an effective energy demand management program. This
program was achieved mainly by: (a) increasing energy prices to all sectors (except to households
and public services); (b) a system of permits for energy consumption; (c) improved inspections of
energy using equipment, (d) promotional campaigns; and (e) the establishment of a line of credit in
the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) for energy rationalization investments. The World Bank's
first project in Hungary was, in fact, to support this program.
2.    At the time of the first Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification Project (Loan
23171, 1983, particular attention was being paid to energy pricing, where the Government's policy
was to bring all energy prices to economic levels. Producer prices for petroleum products had
already been raised above their economic costs and the producer price of electricity was above its
long-run marginal cost (LRMC). Natural gas producer prices were higher than the economic cost on
a fuel oil equivalent basis, except for sales to the chemical industry, where its use, both as a fuel and
a feedstock, remained subsidized. However, coal prices and electricity tariffs for households remained
substantially below their LRMCs. It was intended to address these remaining pricing issues through
components of a number of Bank supported projects in the energy sector which were in the process of
implementation.
3.     The first project was intended to provide support for: (a) four major programs in energy
diversification and conservation; (b) technology development through pilot plant trials; (c) institution
building, mainly through the establishment of the Energy Efficiency Office (EEO) and the carrying
out of subsectoral studies in energy conservation; and (d) provision of foreign exchange (FE)
requirements for the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility, a credit line giving support to industrial
enterprises for small energy conservation projects. By 1986, it was apparent that most of the main
elements of this first project were proving successful, and that, in particular, a large unsatisfied
' For full details see: Hungary, Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation
Project, Loan 2317-HU, Project Completion Report of May 26, 1993.



iii
demand existed for funds to support the NBH Energy Rationalization credit line, which by then had
been fully committed. It was therefore decided to undertake a second project to give further support
to the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility and to continue strengthening the institutions involved in
energy conservation.
4.     The Bank supported the Government's strategy of modernizing energy intensive industrial
processes as one measure for restraining the growth of energy consumption. The Bank's lending had
the following objectives; (a) increasing foreign exchange earnings; (b) reducing foreign exchange
expenditures through selective import substitution; (c) facilitating technology transfer; and (d)
promoting industrial restructuring.
B.    Project Objectives
5.    The Project objectives were
(a) to contain Hungary's energy import costs by reducing energy consumption of industrial
and other enterprises and by greater use of domestic energy resources, and thus save
convertible foreign exchange; and
(b) to promote the development of appropriate policies, technologies and institutional
framework to help further strengthen the country's ongoing energy rationalization
program.
6.     The project consisted of two components:
(a) NBH Energy Rationalization Facility The project provided financing for the continuation
of the energy rationalization program financed under the NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility, and was intended to enable NBH to continue to make foreign exchange available
for imports from convertible currency areas to allow optimization of the design of energy
conservation projects. The Project provided a line of credit of US$24.5 million
equivalent for financing the foreign exchange costs of:
(i) industrial and other enterprises for eligible energy saving and background industry
subprojects (production of energy efficient equipment and materials, and energy
monitoring instruments); and,
(ii) energy monitoring equipment required by enterprises and institutes to strengthen their
ability to monitor energy use and to carry out energy audits.
(b) Institutional Strengthening The Project also provided financing of US$0.5 million for the
Energy Efficiency Office established under the first project (EEO) to purchase energy
monitoring equipment, computer hardware and software for setting up a data base on
national energy use, and for carrying out promotional activities, studies and training
programs in Hungary and abroad for selected staff from institutions concerned with
energy conservation, and energy managers from selected enterprises.



iv
C.    Institutions involved in Energy Conservation
7.    There were four principal institutions actively involved in this project. In addition, all major
manufacturing enterprises had an officer in charge of energy conservation matters. The four
institutions were:
(a) National Energy Authority (OEGH) OEGH, headed by a deputy minister, was part of
the then Ministry of Industry (IpM) - this is now the Ministry for Industry and Trade, and
was responsible for coordination of the overall energy policy and programs, including
energy conservation. It consisted of the Energy Planning, Technical, Regional Planning
and Main Energy Departments.
(b) Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF) This is an operating agency of IpM and was set up
in 1969, amalgamating the functions of several earlier agencies in the field of energy; it
had at that time 460 professional staff. About one third of its costs were financed from
the Govermnent's budget and the remainder from revenue derived from services provided
to industry. Its two main departments were:
(i) The Safety Department, responsible for safety aspects of energy-producing and
consuming activities, setting standards and issuing licenses for the manufacture and
installation of boilers, and carrying out inspections of critical industrial plant and
equipment;
(ii) The Energy Management Department, responsible for the supervision of energy use
and the monitoring of energy conservation projects. It was later reorganized and
extended its activities until the transition to a market economy occurred. Since this
transition its responsibilities have been reduced and it is now likely to be absorbed by
a projected Energy Management Center.
(c) Energy Efficiency Office(EEO), which was set up in 1984 within the AEEF under an
agreement with the Bank under Loan 2317-HU, was responsible for promoting energy
conservation programs, coordinating the activities of all agencies concerned with energy
rationalization, organizing training and technical assistance (including energy audits), and
initiating R&D programs. It has now been closed down.
(d) National Bank of Hungary (NBH , which functioned as the central bank of Hungary, was
also the main commercial and development bank of Hungary. Coordination and
monitoring of the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility was the responsibility of a small
unit directly under the Managing Director for Industry, while appraisal and supervision
was distributed among the various credit departments of NBH. When, in 1987,
commercial and development operations were transferred to the newly formed credit
banks, control of the loans made under the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility was also
transferred to these new institutions.



v
D.    Implementation E:xperience
8.    (a) NBH Energy Rationalization Facility  The implementation of this component should be
viewed in the light of the economic environment prevailing in Hungary at the end of the
decade of the 1980s and the start of the 1990s, when the collapse of the CMEA and the
major political and economic crises in the USSR led to the disappearance of about one-
third of Hungary's markets and a deepening domestic economic crisis. The managements
of most Hungarian enterprises were faced with an uncertain future, not only as regards
the viability of their companies, but also, with the radical political changes which
occurred within Hungary, uncertainty as regards their own future as managers. In fact,
four of the enterprises with subprojects being financed by the credit line were forced to go
into liquidation. The economic crisis led to a lack of interest in investment of any kind,
and, in the case of this Project, of a reduction in applications for financing from the
credit line. When the situation began to stabilize, a second factor arose which made the
use of the credit line comparatively unattractive. As part of a bilateral aid package,
Germany had made a grant (known as "Coal Aid"), to the Hungarian Government of DM
50 million to buy coal from various sources for sale on the local market. The Hungarian
Government then assigned (in August 1991) HUF 1.0 billion from the proceeds of these
sales to a revolving fund managed by the Hungarian Credit Bank to finance energy
conservation projects, on terms which were much more attractive to the potential
borrowers than those offered by the credit line2. As a consequence, at loan closing,
about US$5 million of the credit line remained unutilized.
(b) Institutional Strengthening The steps, recommended by Consultants under Loan 2317, to
make EEO more effective were implemented under the Project, and were completed by
1987. For several years thereafter EEO performed well in assisting the Government in the
implementation of its energy conservation programs. However, by end 1992, the
Hungarian authorities decided the to withdraw budget funds from the EEO and to close it
down in April 1993. The reasons adduced for this course of action were:
(i)  Government programs were focussing more on the use of indirect measures, such as
energy pricing, taxation etc;
(ii) direct support by the Government was no longer considered essential in the climate
of severe budget constraints which prevailed at the time;
(iii) several other agencies were by then providing the kind of support which had been
formerly provided through EEO, and that the European Community (EC) Energy
2 Eligibility criteria for "coal aid" funds, administered by one of the commercial banks,
were the same as for the Project. However, interest on the subloans is only 75% of the
prime rate plus a 3% bank charge (subloans are in forints), and the subloan finances local as
well as foreign expenditures. In contrast, the World Bank subloans are equal to the Bank's
interest rate to NBH plus a 30% markup to cover administrative, and exchange rate risk
costs.



vi
Center(ECEC), was about to be established;
(iv) the apparent loss of effectiveness of the institution, due to a variety of reasons,
including loss of key staff.
E.    Results
9.    The table in Part III, Section D, summarizes the results of the energy savings investments
financed under the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility. For each subproject, the table shows the
planned and actual capital costs in HUF and the amount of the World Bank loan (covering foreign
exchange costs), in US$ and equivalent HUF. The table also gives the estimated annual energy
savings achieved by each subproject, as well as the estimated FRR (as at September 1993) and ERR
(as at January 1994). The investment cost of the 29 subprojects undertaken amounted to HUF2,226.9
million, compared to a planned investment cost of HUF2,193.5 million, representing an overrun of
only 1.5%. Of the subprojects completed and implemented, the lowest ERR reported was 12.2 % ,
at the Tolna Spinning factory, which was only partially implemented, and the highest for direct
energy and related cost savings was at Hajdusag Sugarmills, where an ERR of 208.7% was reported.
T;he median value for ERRs (the value where there are as many projects below as above), for all
subprojects was about 39%, and the ERR for the overall project is likely to be considerably higher
than this figure. Energy savings attributed to all the subprojects was 5.473 million GJ, compared to a
planned figure of 3.945 million GJ. However, these totals include the indirect savings attributable to
sale and use of energy saving materials and equipment, produced by background industry subprojects
financed by the loan. Separating out the effects of these subprojects from the totals, the total direct
energy savings are 1.7 million GJ , for a capital cost of HUF1,311 million. This is equivalent to an
investment of US$ 570 per ton of oil equivalent saved (at the 1989 exchange rate of US$1 =HUF
59.1) , which is reasonable. However, in the majority of cases the non-energy related benefits were
appreciable, and are reflected in the generally acceptable FRRs and ERRs.
F.    Sustainability
10.   These subprojects were appraised and implemented when both international and domestic
(producer) prices for energy had fallen to more or less their current levels (although domestic energy
prices were increased during the implementation period); it is unlikely that significant further falls
will occur in the future. The ERRs and FRRs, presented in the table in Part III, Section D, show that
the actual results achieved, even with international energy prices far below their 1970s maxima,
make the subprojects well worth while, as long as current product prices are at least maintained.
Were energy prices to rise in the future, this would, of course, increase the justification for
continuing to operate these energy - efficient units. The wise policy pursued by IpM and AEEF of
ensuring that energy management capability should be a permanent feature of all large and medium-
scale industrial enterprises should also help to ensure the sustainability of these energy conservation
projects as well as providing for the identification of new ones.
11.   The sustainability of the institutional effort is less certain. EEO has been closed down.
Whether, with the loss of EEO, energy conservation in other sectors, such as the household and
public sectors, will continue to receive adequate stimuli remains to be seen. (In the period between
1985 and 1992, energy consumption in the public sector rose by 24% and in the household sector by
5.5%). Further institutional changes are in the offing. Legislation before the Hungarian Parliament,
dealing with the electricity and gas industries, is expected to establish a National Energy Center, one



vii
responsibility of which will be to encourage energy conservation in all sectors of the economy. If this
legislation is passed, it is likely that AEEF will be split up, with its Safety Department possibly being
taken over by another Ministry, while the Energy Management Department would be absorbed in the
new National Energy Center. The effect of these changes on the sustainability of the energy
conservation effort, particularly in the current economic environment of low energy prices, cannot at
this time be assessed. However, the management of AEEF believes that AEEF will provide the basis
for the new organization to be set up under the Energy Bills, and that the responsibilities of the new
office will include, inter alia, many of the existing activities of AEEF, including energy conservation.
G.    Findings and Lessons Learned
12.   For the first five years, the project functioned well - evidence of the efficiency and experience
of the two main project entities - NBH and AEEF. EEO also performed well for about four years.
Then, a combination of circumstances contributed to the closing down of EEO.
13.   At the same time, the appearance of more competitive financing sources (including 'Coal
Aid") led to a drastic fall off in demand for funds from this credit line, although overall demand for
finance for energy conservation investments remained surprisingly high, particularly in view of the
difficult economic situation prevailing in Hungary at the time.
14.   Sustainability of the projects financed, in enterprises which have survived the economic
downturn, does not seem to be in doubt. Whether the institutional setup (established during a time of
central direction of the economy) will remain the most appropriate under free market conditions
remains to be seen.



HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan 2709 - HU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
1.        Project Name:    Second Industrial Energy Conservation Project
Loan Number:    2709 - HU (effective August 22, 1986)
RVP Unit:        ECA
Country:         Hungary
Sector:          Industry
Loan Amount:    US$25,000,000
B.    Background
2.    When Hungary became a Bank Member Country in the early 1980s, it was found to be, like
other Eastern European countries, an intensive consumer of energy. This was due in part to: (i) the
important role played by industry in the economy (accounting for about one-third of GDP); (ii) the
predominance of energy intensive subsectors such as Chemicals and Metallurgy (which together
accounted for about one-third of the gross value of industrial production); and, (iii) the use of
processes and equipment which were, by modern standards, inefficient, particularly as far as energy
consumption was concerned. Other constraints on industrial efficiency included: (i) capacity
shortages; (ii) too wide a product composition in many subsectors; (iii) shortage of investment capital
(particularly of foreign exchange: (iv) subsidized prices for many fuels prior to the early 1980s; and
(v) the prevalence of barter agreements with other CMEA countries, most of which supplied products
of low quality which were more or less uncompetitive, either in price or quality, with products
manufactured in Western industrialized economies. By the end of the 1970s, the Hungarian
authorities had come to realize that the industrial sector had become increasingly uncompetitive and
that there was a need to reduce production costs. Energy consumption, in particular, had been
increasing in direct proportion to GDP and energy supplies were becoming short.
3.    By 1983, when the Bank made its first Energy Conservation and Diversification loan to
Hungary (Loan 2317-HU), a national energy action plan had been initiated and had been running for
about three years. The main elements of this plan were: (a) expansion, or at least, maintenance of



2
the production of domestic energy resources (coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear power); and, (b)
promotion and implementation of an effective energy demand management program. This program
was achieved mainly by: (a) increasing energy prices to all sectors (except to households and public
services); (b) a system of permits for energy consumption; (c) improved inspections of energy using
equipment; (d) promotional campaigns; and, (e) the establishment of a line of credit in the National
Bank of Hungary (NBH) for energy rationalization investments. The World Bank's first project in
Hungary was, in fact, to support this program.
4.    This first project was intended to provide support for:
(a) four major programs in energy diversification and conservation : (a) substitution of
indigenous coal for heating oil and imported coking coal; (b) substitution of coal for oil in
the Alumina Industry; (c) substitution of natural gas for oil; and, (d) energy conservation
in petroleum refining;
(b) technology development: (a) coal combustion trials; (b) pilot production of metallurgical
coke from brown coal; and (c) fluidized bed pilot plant;
(c) institution building, mainly through the establishment of the Energy Efficiency Office
(EEO) and the carrying out of subsectoral studies in energy conservation; and,
(d) provision of foreign exchange (F.E.) requirements for the NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility, a Credit Line giving support to industrial enterprises for smaller investments in
energy conservation and diversification. It was originally intended that this component
would provide finance for 62 small scale industrial energy conservation projects,
identified during appraisal and estimated to require F.E. of US$29 million.
5.     Although, by the time that the loan agreement was signed, a number of industrial
managements sponsoring projects in the list had become impatient and had found alternative sources
of finance, the demand for funds from the Facility during the implementation stage of the project
proved to be greater than estimated by Bank staff (and much nearer to the estimates developed by
NBH staff). Among the reasons for this were that (a) the Facility represented one of the few sources
of foreign exchange which could be used by industrial enterprises to improve the efficiency of their
current operations; and (b) the energy conservation promotional campaigns already being undertaken
in Hungary were influencing the attitudes of industrial managements towards investments in this area.
6.     When the program to substitute coal for oil in the alumina industry was canceled, the funds
were reallocated to the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility, which was already developing a queue
of unrequited project proposals; as other components were completed and were found to have surplus
funds, these surpluses were also reallocated to the Facility, which finally ended up with an allocation
of US$64.3 million for 66 subprojects, a sum which did not exhaust further demand for the Facility.
7.    The energy savings attributable to this component were estimated at the time of appraisal to
amount to about 8.4 Pj per annum; the actual savings achieved amounted to about 15.5 Pj per
annum. The estimated ERR at the time of appraisal for the subprojects in the original list was a very
high 41 %. Calculations have been made of the actual ERRs obtained for the list of projects actually
implemented under the Facility, assuming a crude oil price of US$20 per barrel, which was the pre-
Gulf Crisis ruling price. On this basis, the actual ERR obtained for the entire list of projects
supported by the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility was 38.6%.



3
C.    Sector Development Objectives
8.    The Government's energy policy, when this second industrial energy conservation project was
undertaken, remained essentially the same as in the previous years, viz; to reduce the growth in
energy consumption (and hence restrain energy sector investment) through its energy demand
management policies, using price mechanisms and priority credit allocation to energy rationalization
as the main instruments for inhibiting growth in energy consumption. Expansion of nuclear power
and a smaller increase in coal production also remained priorities.
9.    Industry accounted for 47% of total final energy consumption; an integral part of the
Government's strategy in making industry more competitive was the reduction in specific energy
consumption in energy intensive industrial processes. This was to be achieved by the replacement of
major process units in industries using obsolete processes (e.g. iron and steel, cement and fertilizers)
and retrofitting in industries using more modern processes.
D.    Policy Considerations
10.   The Govermnent's strategy of modernizing energy intensive industrial processes and
restraining the growth of energy consumption formed part of its overall policy, which the Bank
supported, of carrying out a comprehensive program of structural adjustment in the economy. The
Bank's lending had the following objectives; (a) increasing foreign exchange earnings; (b) reducing
foreign exchange expenditures through selective import substitution; (c) facilitating technology
transfer; and (d) promoting industrial restructuring.
11.   Particular attention was being paid to energy pricing, where the Govermnent's policy was to
bring all energy prices to economic levels. Producer prices for petroleum products had already been
raised above their economic costs and the producer price of electricity was above its long-run
marginal cost (LRMC). Natural gas producer prices were higher than the economic cost on a fuel oil
equivalent basis, except for sales to the chemical industry, where its use, both as a fuel and a
feedstock, remained subsidized. However, coal prices and electricity tariffs for households remained
substantially below their LRMCs. It was intended to address the remaining pricing issues through
subsequent Bank supported projects in the energy sector (the main energy pricing agreements came
with the Energy Development and Conservation Project (Loan 3055-HU) and the Second Structural
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3347-HU)).
E.    Institutions Involved in Energy Conservation
12.   The Hungarian authorities had long recognized the importance of a sound institutional
framework for the promotion and implementation of energy conservation. There were four principal
institutions actively involved in this project. In addition, all major manufacturing enterprises had an
officer in charge of energy conservation matters. The four institutions are described below.
National Energy Authority (OEGH)
13.   OEGH, headed by a deputy minister, was part of the then Ministry of Industry (1pM), and
was responsible for coordination of the overall energy policy and programs, including energy
conservation. It was staffed with 30 professionals and was divided into four main departments:



4
(a) The Energy Planning Department which was responsible for preparing   and monitoring
energy plans;
(b) The Technical Department which was concerned with safety matters as well as the
introduction of energy saving technologies;
(c) The Regional Planning Department which developed gas pipelines and district heating
systems; and,
(d) The Main Energy Department which dealt with energy management of large enterprises
and major subsector studies.
Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF)
14.    This is an operating agency of IpM and had, at the time of appraisal, 460 professional staff.
It was set up in 1969 and absorbed the functions of several institutions in the energy field. About one
third of its costs were financed from the Government's budget and the remainder from revenue
derived from services provided to industry. Its two main departments were:
(a) The Safety Department, responsible for safety aspects of energy-producing and
consuming activities, setting standards and issuing licenses for the manufacture and
installation of boilers, and carrying out inspections of critical industrial plant and
equipment;
(b) The Energy Management Department. responsible for the supervision of energy use and
the monitoring of energy conservation projects. It has three main divisions, responsible
for: (a) Planning and Information (monitoring the availability and distribution of energy
supplies, maintaining a data base for all energy rationalization projects, and receiving
annual energy balances from some 4,000 industrial and agricultural enterprises, which
form the basis of the national energy balance); (b) Regional Energy Control ( through the
six regional AEEF offices, administering the regulations covering industrial energy use
(including compliance with prescribed efficiency standards), issuing licenses for energy
use which specify maximum consumption levels, and administering the system of penalties
for energy consumption exceeding the targets. This Division is also responsible for the
technical appraisal of subprojects submitted by enterprises for financing through the NBH
Energy Rationalization Facility, as well as the monitoring implementation and project
completion reports for energy conservation projects); and (c) Technical Matters (carrying
out energy audits and providing assistance to enterprises for investigating technical
problems, particularly in combustion processes and power distribution and usage). This
Department also runs the World Bank Coordination Office.
15.    During the period of project implementation (and after) the organization and functions of
AEEF were extended with the establishment of units for nuclear, gas and oil safety engineering, a
safety engineering laboratory and increased activities in standards setting. By the early 1990s,
however, political and economic changes had created an impact on the organization and scope of
activities of AEEF. With the transition to a market economy, many regulations, particularly relating
to energy management, were annulled, and the activities performed by AEEF, in its capacity as a
regulatory authority were reduced. Regulations in the field of reactive power management have been



5
abolished, public lighting and district heating have been deregulated, the number of licenses in the
field of fuel use has been significantly decreased, while the function of load management has become
the responsibility of the utilities concerned. On the other hand, new duties have emerged with the
move to a market economy. For instance, a new unit has been set up to deal with energy
management problems encountered by local governments. As a result of these changes, the numbers
of units and employees of AEEF have been reduced, and 339 people are now employed.
16.   The current organization of AEEF consists of three departments: (a) Deputy Director,
Energy (with a staff of 62). Reporting to him are the Energy Planning & Information Department,
the Energy Management Department (consisting of the Energy Rationalization Division and the
Local Government & Energy Efficiency Division) and the Licensing Division; (b) Deputy Technical
Director (with a staff of 191). Reporting to him are the Quality Control Division, the Boilers &
Pressure Vessels Department, the Regional Offices, the Gas and Oil Equipment Department, the
Electrical Equipment Department ( and its Testing Division), the Electrical Control Department, the
Material Testing Laboratory Department and the other laboratories; and, (c) Deputy Director
Economics (with a staff of 45) to whom reports the Administration Department.
Energy Efficiency Office (EEO)
17.   The EEO was estabished in January 1984 under an agreement with the Bank under Loan
2317-HU, established within AEEF with the EEO Director reporting directly to the Director for the
Energy Management Department, and was intended to have the following functions:
(a) to organize promotional campaigns to motivate the industrial and other users in energy
conservation and diversification;
(b) to organize training programs for the staff of AEEF and other specialized agencies and for
engineers, energy coordinators and energy managers at the enterprise level in cooperation
with existing specialized technical institutions and universities;
(c) to organize, and assist in providing to interested enterprises, technical aspects of energy
conservation, including energy audits, and help them in the preparation of economically
viable investment programs;
(d) to promote awareness of existing financial channels assist in the selection, appraisal, and
supervision of, subprojects for the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility and for other
sources of finance;
(e) in close association with other specialized agencies, to initiate research and development
on energy conservation technologies and the execution of demonstration projects;
(f) to coordinate the activities of all agencies concerned with energy rationalization.
18.   The scope of activities and build up of personnel for the EEO had been agreed after a study,
financed under the first loan, carried out by PA Management Consultants from the United Kingdom.
However, since much of the EEO's development had been slower than expected, it was decided to
strengthen its capabilities under the terms of this second loan, and various covenants (relating to



6
training, provision of necessary resources for EEO's proper functioning etc) which were agreed to
this effect, had to be implemented by March 1987.
National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
19.   NBH functioned as the central bank of Hungary, was also the main commercial and
development bank of Hungary. Coordination and monitoring of the NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility was the responsibility of a small unit directly under the Managing Director for Industry,
while appraisal and supervision was distributed among the various credit departments of NBH. When,
in 1987, commercial and development operations were transferred to the newly formed credit banks,
control of the loans made under the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility was also transferred to these
new institutions.
F.    Project Objectives and Description
20.   The SAR defined the Project objectives as
(a) to contain Hungary's energy import costs by reducing energy consumption of industrial
and other enterprises and by greater use of domestic energy resources, and thus save
convertible foreign exchange; and
(b) to promote the development of appropriate policies, technologies and institutional
framework to help further strengthen the country's ongoing energy rationalization
program.
21.   The project consisted of two components:
(a) NBH Energy Rationalization Facility The project provided financing for the continuation
of the energy rationalization program financed under the NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility, and was intended to enable NBH to continue to make foreign exchange available
for imports from convertible currency areas to allow optimization of the design of energy
conservation projects. The Project provided a line of credit of US$24.5 million
equivalent for financing the foreign exchange costs of:
(i) industrial and other enterprises for eligible energy saving and background industry
subprojects; and
(ii) energy monitoring equipment required by enterprises and institutes to strengthen
their ability to monitor energy use and to carry out energy audits.
(b) Institutional Strengthening The Project also provided financing of US$0.5 million for
EEO to purchase energy monitoring equipment, computer hardware and software for
setting up a data base on national energy use, and for carrying out promotional activities
and training programs in Hungary and abroad for selected staff from OEGH, AEEF,
EEO and energy managers from selected enterprises.



7
G.    Project Design and Organization
22.    On the first project, initial difficulties had been encountered because: (a) there was
unfamiliarity with the procedural and organizational requirements in procurement, due to the fact that
only one foreign trade organization (inexperienced in the Bank's procurement guidelines) had been
used for international procurement; this agency was in any case unfamiliar with the sub-borrowers'
needs; (b) many of the subprojects which had been identified at appraisal were implemented by the
enterprises prior to loan effectiveness using locally available equipment, since the enterprises,
(because of their projects' short payback periods), were unwilling to delay implementation until the
procedures inherently associated with Bank loans had been completed. The initial shortcomings in the
project pipeline caused by these dropouts had led to the inclusion of new projects which were not as
far advanced in preparation as those which they replaced; and, (c) NBH lacked experience in
appraisal of background industry projects (particularly in market assessment).
23.   These problems were addressed in the second project. Responsibility for implementation
activities (particularly procurement) was transferred to the beneficiary enterprises themselves, with
assistance from foreign trade organizations selected by the enterprises, and with project
implementation arrangements being reviewed by AEEF during the appraisal of each subproject. Of
greater impact was the decision to establish a Coordination Office in AEEF to ensure that
procurement would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and to advise the parties
concerned how to minimize procurement problems and delays by, as far as possible, using
standardized tender and contract documents.
24.   The Government introduced additional measures to encourage enterprises to undertake
comprehensive energy audits and energy savings investments, thus ensuring the rapid filling up of the
project pipeline. These measures included: (a) the carrying out of comprehensive audits and timely
implementation of energy saving measures became factors in judging the performance of enterprises'
managers; (b) provision of higher bonuses for employees and managers who identified opportunities
and implemented energy savings investments; (c) an income tax credit at an annual rate of 4% of
outstanding loan amounts for energy saving investments; (d) a lower accumulation tax (at 8%) for
energy savings investments, compared to 18% on other investments, (provided that at least 30% of
the investment were to be financed from the enterprise's own resources); and (e) a system of penalty
fees to be levied for too low boiler efficiencies, or if energy efficiency improvements already
identified had not been implemented.
25.   In order to encourage the establishment of background industry projects and their efficient
appraisal, construction permits were to be issued only for buildings adhering to the stricter building
codes which had been introduced in 1985, and additional financing was to be made available to cover
any higher initial costs which might be incurred. Credit was to be made available for the financing of
energy efficient home appliances. After technical assistance had been provided to NBH on appraisal
techniques under the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan 2397-HU), NBH agreed to
continue to apply this methodology for appraisal of all background industry projects (whether
financed by the Bank loan or from other sources) and to submit the first two background industry
subprojects financed by this loan to the Bank for review.
26.   NBH and AEEF had amply demonstrated their appraisal competence on the first project. A
free limit of US$1.5 million for each subproject could therefore be established with confidence. For



8
projects above that size, NBH would submit to the Bank an application for approval together with:
(a) a description of the beneficiary and an appraisal of the project; (b) the proposed terms and
conditions of the subloan; (c) a list of goods and services to be financed by the Bank loan; and, (d)
procurement methods to be adopted.
27.   The eligibility criteria for the acceptance of subprojects were set as follows;
(a) all subprojects financed by the Bank loan would first have to be acceptable to NBH. With
the exception of the provision of energy monitoring equipment, all subprojects would
have to meet the following criteria:
(b) beneficiaries would have to have a sound financial position, enabling them to contribute at
least 15% to the project's cost from internally generated cash or equity increases , and to
maintain, during project implementation and for five years thereafter, a debt to equity
ratio of not more than 65:35, a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 and a current
ratio of at least 1.3;
(c) the subprojects should be aimed at direct energy saving, greater use of domestic energy
resources, or in the case of background industry projects, production of energy efficient
materials and equipment;
(d) for all subprojects, except background industry subprojects (for production of energy
efficient equipment and materials, and energy monitoring and control equipment), at least
50% of estimated benefits should be from direct energy savings and reduced energy costs.
This was considered an important change from the first project, where applications for
many possible subprojects showed appreciable savings in addition to energy costs; and
(e) the subprojects should have an economic rate of return of at least 20% and a financial rate
of return of at least 15%.
28.   As a result of the revised incentives and conditions outlined above, NBH had built up a
potential project pipeline of some 200 subprojects, of which about half (with a total cost of about
HUF 4.5 billion and a foreign exchange requirement of US$50 million) were being considered for
possible financing under the project. In the event, 28 projects were financed by the loan, with a total
cost of HUF 2.2 billion, including a F.E. cost of US$19.5 million. The subprojects were drawn from
a broad spectrum of Hungarian industry and utilities suppliers, including electricity distribution
(introduction of ripple control), metallurgy (two projects), textiles (three projects) , paper making,
brewing, rubber manufacture, town's gas production etc. Two radio stations installed DCC
modulation systems to cut power from short wave transmitters at the moments in a broadcast when
data is not actually being transmitted. Of particular interest was the relatively large number of low-
investment energy saving projects supported in the domestic sugar industry; eleven subprojects, out of
the total of twenty nine, were implemented in the sugar mills, (mostly for the introduction of
automatic process control in order to economize on energy consumption) with a total investment cost
of HUF 323 million, representing about 15% of the total investment supported by the Project. The
sugar industry projects showed very considerable non-energy related benefits: better and more
uniform product quality; improved sugar extraction and hence lower unit raw material usage; and,
decreased manpower requirements. In fact, the management of one of the larger sugar mills



9
attributed its success in finding a reputable foreign buyer for the mill to the process modernization
financed under the Project.
29.   Besides the provision of financing for EEO of energy monitoring equipment etc to the value
of US$0.5 million, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would implement the
necessary measures, by March 31 1987, for the full development and operation of EEO, following
review with the Bank of the findings and recommendations of the consultants' study on the detailed
role of EEO, and how its responsibilities would be supported and coordinated with other related
ministries and institutes. This study had been commissioned under the first energy rationalization
project, but its completion had been delayed, and was not in fact implemented until this second
project was under way.
H.    Project Implementation
NBH Energy Rationalization Facility
30.   The implementation of this component should be viewed in the light of the economic
environment prevailing in Hungary at the end of the decade of the 1980s and the start of the 1990s,
when the collapse of the CMEA and the major political and economic crises in the USSR led to the
disappearance of about one-third of Hungary's markets and a deepening domestic economic crisis.
The managements of most Hungarian enterprises were faced with an uncertain future, not only as
regards the viability of their companies, but also as regards their own future as managers following
the radical political changes which occurred within Hungary,. This uncertainty led to a lack of
interest in investment of any kind, and, in the case of this Project, of a reduction in applications for
financing from the credit line. None-the-less, by July 1990, the loan amount had been fully
committed against approved subproject applications.
31.   However, when the situation began to stabilize, a second factor arose which made any
further use of the credit line comparatively unattractive. As part of a bilateral aid package, Germany
had made a grant (known as "Coal Aid"), to the Hungarian Government of DM 50 million to buy
coal from various sources for sale on the local market. Under an agreement with the German
Government, the Hungarian Government then assigned (in August 1991) HUF 1.0 billion from the
proceeds of these sales to a revolving fund managed by the Hungarian Credit Bank to finance energy
conservation projects, on terms which were much more attractive to the potential borrowers than
those offered by the Project credit line. Although eligibility criteria were the same as for the Bank
credit line, interest rates were set at only 75% of prime rate, and were thus significantly lower than
the Bank credit line, set at the rate to NBH plus a 30% markup to cover administrative costs and
exchange rate risks. In August 1991, applications were invited for loans utilizing the Coal Aid funds,
and after that date there was, of course, little interest in using the more expensive Bank funds for
industrial energy conservation projects.
32.   Although the funds available from the Second Industrial Energy Conservation loan had been
almost fully committed within four years of loan effectiveness, the committed funds included US$
3.1 million to finance a subproject at the Tiszantul Electric Power Company, if a study, then
currently under preparation, were to show that it was worthwhile to proceed with that project. By
1992, after a long period of uncertainty, it was decided not to proceed with this component and there
was no opportunity to replace it before the loan closed. Since the demand for funds from the credit



10
line had been supplanted by that time by Coal Aid, the loan was closed with about US$5 million
unutilized.
33.   There were only a few problems with the supply of equipment for the subprojects. There
were some delays in the supply of equipment for the enamel firing technology at the Iron Foundry
and Furnace Production Factory and for the energy supply system at the Lenin Metallurgical Works;
After a series of failures, the flue gas utilization equipment, installed at Richards Fine Cloth Mill, was
shut down and has not been restarted. the supplier refused to repair the equipment since he contested
responsibility for the failure. At the Matravidek Sugar Mills, the microprocessor controlling the
automatic system broke down after the end of the guarantee period; new units must be purchased for
the system to be operated.
34.   In addition, four of the subprojects suffered because of economic and technical problems
encountered by the enterprise as a whole:
(a) SENIOR VAC KNITWEAR COMPANY A combined coal/waste boiler was not
installed because the use of oil proved to be more economic than that of coal; there was
also a decline in the demand for the company's products;
(b) RICHARDS FINE CLOTH MILL ( which also had problems with the equipment supplied
for its flue gas utilization system). Due to other technical problems, the company has
gone into liquidation and production is being scaled down.
(c) DIGITAL-COMP The company, which had purchased energy-monitoring instruments, has
gone into liquidation. However, energy savings resulted from the use of the instruments,
and has been shown in the section on results (par 39 below) in terms of benefits accruing
to the national economy.
(d) LENIN METALLURGICAL WORKS (which also suffered from delays in equipment
supply). The company has gone bankrupt, but was obliged to repay the loan.
35.   In the latter two cases , the equipment installed functioned as planned, and the failure of the
investment to deliver the planned savings was due to the failure of the enterprise as a whole. In the
other 25 subprojects, installed equipment functioned as planned, and no other significant problems
emerged during the implementation phase of the Project.
Institutional Strengthening
36.   Three training operations were carried out as part of the institution building component:
(a) Training in modern methods of gas supplying activities and measuring practices at
Budapest Gas Works (Consultant - Coplanam - GAZ Metro International Ltd. 5 persons
for 2 weeks in Canada; 7 persons for 1 week in Canada)
(b) Energy rationalization in the food industry; sterilization of meat pastes and ready-to-eat
foods at Globus Budapest Cannery (Consultant - MEU - Campden. 6 persons trained in
the U.K.)



11
(c) Further development of the EEO. (Consultant W.S. Atkins. Training of 16 persons for I
week in the U.K.)
37.   The steps, recommended by the Consultants, to make EEO more effective had been
implemented by 1987; for several years thereafter EEO performed well in assisting the Government in
the implementation of its energy conservation programs. Among its activities were:
(a) training, mainly through the organization of study tours abroad;
(b) demonstration energy audits (carried out jointly with MEU, W.S. Atkins, PA Consultants,
staff of the Energy Audit Groups and AEEF) in a hospital, a textile finishing plant, a
paper mill and a glass factory. EEO's staff then trained energy managers in many
Hungarian industrial enterprises and arranged a further 16 study tours abroad for key
personnel;
(c) the encouragement of energy conservation throughout Hungary by its promotional
activities which included, not only the conventional use of seminars and demonstration
projects for industrial managers, but also a campaign aimed at housewives and children,
and which included television spots, school lectures, a comic book for children, all of
which featured a comic character personifying the benefits of energy savings, particularly
in the household sector;
(d) the dissemination of the idea of third party financing and the organization of seminars to
give Hungarian experts the opportunity to study the operation of existing energy service
companies;
(e) support (with international consultants) for energy audits in the Hungarian food industry
and in two major cities - Pecs and Miskolc;
(f) preparation of studies on: (a) utilization of agricultural wastes for energy production; (b)
public acceptance of energy saving projects; and, (c) assessment of renewable energy
sources in Hungary.
(g) organization of a conference with ENEA (Italy) on "The Rational Use of Energy".
38.   This is an impressive list of activities. However, by 1992, the energy rationalization program
was focussing more on the use of indirect measures, such as energy pricing, taxation etc; at the same
time, direct support by the Government was no longer considered essential in the climate of severe
budget constraints which prevailed at the time, and it was decided to withdraw budget funds from
EEO and to close it down. It was also claimed that a number of other agencies were by then
providing the kind of support which had been formerly provided through EEO, and that the then
European Community (EC) Energy Center (ECEC), was about to be established cooperatively by the
EC Energy Directorate and IpM, with funding from Phare and IpM. An additional factor which
seemed to have influenced the Hungarian authorities in deciding to close down EEO was the apparent
loss of effectiveness of the institution as the EEO Director approached retirement age and the
difficulty of replacing a number of key staff that had left for more lucrative jobs in the private sector.



12
I.     Project Results
39.   The table in Part III, Section D, summarizes the results of the energy savings investments
financed under the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility. For each subproject, the table shows the
planned and actual capital costs in HUF and the amount of the World Bank loan (covering foreign
exchange costs), in US$ and equivalent HUF. The table also gives the estimated annual energy
savings achieved by each subproject, as well as the estimated FRR and ERR as at January 1994.
The investment cost of the 29 subprojects undertaken amounted to HUF2,226.9 Million, compared to
a planned investment cost of HUF2,193.5 million, representing an overrun of only 1.5%. Of the
direct energy saving subprojects completed and implemented, the lowest ERR reported was 12.2 %,
at the Tolna Spinning factory, which was only partially implemented, and the highest at Hajdusag
Sugarmills, where an ERR of 208.7% was reported. The median value for ERRs (the value at which
there are as many subprojects with a lower and higher value) for all subprojects was about 39%, and
the ERR for the overall project is likely to be considerably higher than this figure. Energy savings
attributed to all the subprojects was 5.473 million GJ, compared to a planned figure of 3.945 million
GJ. However, these totals include the indirect savings attributable to sale and use of energy saving
materials and equipment, produced by background industry subprojects financed by the loan.
Separating out the effects of these subprojects from the totals, the total direct energy savings are 1.7
million GJ, for a capital cost of HUF1,311 million. This is equivalent to an investment of HUF
790, or about US$ 13 per GJ saved (at the 1989 exchange rate of US$1 = HUF 59.1), which is
equivalent to an investment of US$570 for an annual saving of one ton of oil equivalent. This implies
a payback period of about three years, which is a reasonable result. However, in the majority of
cases the non-energy related benefits were appreciable, and are reflected in the generally acceptable
FRRs and ERRs.
J.     Project Sustainability
40.   These subprojects were appraised and implemented when both international and domestic
(producer) prices for energy had fallen to more or less their current levels (although domestic energy
prices rose somewhat in the implementation period); it is unlikely that significant further falls will
occur in the future. The ERRs and FRRs, presented in the table in Part III, Section D, show that the
actual results achieved, even with international energy prices far below their 1970s maxima, make
the subprojects well worth while, as long as current product prices are at least maintained. Were
energy prices to rise in the future, this would, of course, increase the justification for implementing
such energy conservation projects. As regards the sustainability of the enterprises initiating these
measures, this depends on a wider number of factors than the energy savings and other cost reduction
benefits of the Project. These wider issues were dealt with under the Industrial Restructuring Projects
(Loans 2700 and 2834) implemented over the same period as the Second Energy Conservation
Project. The legacy of the wise policy pursued by IpM and AEEF of ensuring that energy
management capability should be a permanent feature of all large and medium-scale industrial
enterprises should also help to ensure the sustainability of these energy conservation projects as well
as providing for the identification of new ones.
41.   The situation as regards institutional capability is a little less clear. Experience drawn from
many energy conservation projects and programs (whether Bank supported or independently mounted)
has demonstrated that institutional capability is one of the most important factors in ensuring an
effective and sustained effort in energy conservation. J.J. Mulckhuyse has written " ....both in



13
developed and developing countries with the right price structure energy conservation was not and is
not initiated by industry, in transport or by individuals at home without a carefully designed energy
efficiency program and the creation of one or more national energy conservation foci"3. The first
two Hungarian energy conservation projects supported the establishment and development of EEO as
one of the means of strengthening AEEF. EEO's primary functions were to take the lead in
implementing government programs and to coordinate all agencies involved in industrial energy
conservation and diversification, as well as to establish a data base on national energy use, and to
carry out promotional activities and training programs.
42.   EEO functioned as planned until 1992, and did good work for most of the period. By that
time, major political changes had taken place, with a new government committed to the establishment
of a market economy; as a consequence, the energy conservation program was focussing more on the
use of indirect measures, such as energy pricing, taxation etc, while direct support by the Government
was no longer considered essential in the climate of severe budget constraints which prevailed at the
time. The decision was therefore taken to close down EEO. Other agencies were by then providing
(or in the case of ECEC, about to provide) the kind of support which had been formerly given by
EEO, which by then was not as effective as it had been in earlier years. While most of the tasks of
EEO were planned to be taken over by ECEC, the rest of EEO's former energy conservation
activities were taken over, in April 1993, by AEEF which has continued to be the spearhead in
identifying, appraising and ensuring the implementation of energy activities in industry. Whether,
with the loss of EEO, energy conservation in other sectors, such as the household and public sectors,
will continue to receive adequate stimuli remains to be seen. (In the period from 1985 to 1992,
energy consumption in the public sector rose by 24% and in the household sector by 5.5%).
Considerable changes occurred over the Project period in the relationships between the enterprises and
the Government agencies involved in energy conservation that resulted in a weakening of the ability
of the Government to implement enterprise level strategies as represented by the energy conservation
program. Further institutional changes are in the offing. Legislation before the Hungarian
Parliament, dealing with the electricity and gas industries, is expected to establish a National Energy
Center, one responsibility of which will be to encourage energy conservation in all sectors of the
economy. If this legislation is passed, it is likely that AEEF will be split up, with its Safety
Department being possibly taken over by another Ministry, while the Energy Management
Department would be absorbed in the new National Energy Center. The management of AEEF are
confident that the responsibilities of the new office will include (besides some new activities) many of
the existing functions of AEEF, including the collection and analysis of energy statistics, as well as
energy conservation and saving. The effect of these changes on the sustainability of the energy
conservation effort, particularly in the current economic environment of low energy prices, cannot at
this time be assessed. Experiences in a number of other countries has shown that the promotional and
information services of Energy Centers, whether public or private sector operated, do have significant
effects on increasing the rate of implementation of energy conservation measures.
K.    Bank Performance
43.   In contrast to the estimates made at the time of the appraisal of the first energy rationalization
project, when the future price of crude oil had been grossly overestimated (thus materially
3J.J. Mulckhuyse: Experience with the Promotion of Energy Efficiency in Developing
Countries. Washington, 10/31/90.



14
contributing to an overestimate of the economic savings likely to be achieved by the project), Bank
staff's estimates of future crude oil prices proved to be quite close to those that actually ruled during
the loan disbursement stage of this second project. Probably because of too infrequent supervision
missions, the loss of effectiveness of the EEO, and the changed views of the authorities on its role
were not identified early enough for the Bank to have discussed and influenced Government action so
as to try and avoid a hiatus in the activities and services provided by the EEO.
44.   The Project benefitted from the excellent long term relationship established between the Bank
and the concerned institutions dating form the inception of the first project (Loan 2317), and
culminating in the Energy Conservation Component of the Energy Development Project (Loan 3055).
L.    Borrower Performance
45.   The EEO initially worked well and enthusiastically undertook the functions which the
Consultant's report proposed should be assigned to it. For reasons explained above, it did not
function as well towards the end of its existence, and the Hungarian authorities ceased to provide a
budget for its continued existence after 1992. However, increased activity in the field of promotion
of energy conservation by other institutions, particularly by AEEF itself, seems to have maintained
the interest and demand for energy conservation projects, particularly from the industrial sector.
Although demand for the utilization of credits from the NBH Energy rationalization Facility began to
taper off in 1992, this was because of the cheaper funds which became available from the "Coal Aid"
bilateral arrangement with West Germany, for which 93 applications had been received before the end
of 1992, by which time 33 subloan agreements had been signed, with commitments of HUF 617
million.
46.   During the early stages of the first project, it became apparent that the project Coordination
office which had been set up within IpM was not functioning well. As a consequence the role of
AEEF was enlarged to include most of the implementation supervision functions previously assigned
to the Coordination Office. This arrangement worked very well and was continued in this second
project. Both AEEF and NBH ( later the individual credit banks who took over the credit functions
from NBH in 1987) functioned in an exemplary manner during this project, demonstrating the
experience they had garnered during the first project. AEEF in particular became the spearhead
organization for energy conservation in Hungary, playing a major role in all aspects of energy
conservation from setting consumption norms, through project identification and design, technical
appraisal, implementation supervision and ex post performance evaluation. In spite of the difficult
economic situation which prevailed in Hungary throughout the latter years of the implementation of
the project, only three of the enterprises which were granted loans went into liquidation. This is a
tribute to the assiduity of NBH and the credit banks in their examination of credit worthiness of
enterprises applying for funds from the credit line.
M.    Project Relationship
47.   The excellent relationships, established during the first Energy Rationalization Project,
between Bank staff and the Borrower's staff, were maintained with all project entities.
N.    Project Documentation and Data
48.   The Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents adequately covered all aspects of the project.
An efficient review of project implementation has proved possible because of the well maintained files



15
in AEEF and NBH. However, some detailed information relating to the activities of the EEO has not
been traced, since only some of the EEO files were retained after its disbandment.
0.    Findings and Lessons Learned
49.   For the first five years, the project functioned well - evidence of the efficiency and experience
of the two main project entities - NBH and AEEF. EEO also performed well for about four years.
Then, a concatenation of circumstances (the Director's approaching retirement, the virtual cessation
of central direction in the economy, and the establishment of a Government not only dedicated to a
freely competitive economy, but lacking resources to provide budgets for many centrally owned
institutions) contributed to the closing down of EEO.
50.   At the same time, the appearance of more competitive financing sources (including 'Coal
Aid") led to a drastic fall off in demand for funds from this credit line, although overall demand for
finance for energy conservation investments remained surprisingly high, particularly in view of the
difficult economic situation prevailing in Hungary at the time.
51.    Sustainability of the projects financed, in enterprises which have survived the economic
downturn, does not seem to be in doubt. Whether the institutional setup (established during a time of
central direction of the economy) will remain effective and appropriate under free market conditions
remains to be seen.



-16-
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction, Background
52.  In the end of the 1980s, social changes influencing the Hungarian economy in a
decisive way occurred. The former mostly Comecon oriented planned economy had to be
replaced by an economy that is based on market forces and also able to stand their impacts
through economic restructuring, privatization, and the modernization of the management
system of the economy.
53.   Energy is one of the basic production factors of the economy, its efficient use is one
of the indicators of the state of development of the economy. The energy intensity of the
Hungarian industrial production exceeds that of the industrially developed states in a great
extent. Although the changes of the energy intensity in the second period of the 1980s were
positive, these changes in the energy consumption were due to the significant fall in the
economic performance of the country. GDP grew moderately till 1987, then after a
stagnation till 1989 decreased significantly, and fell approximately to the level of 1980 by
1992. Total energy consumption became steadily decreasing after the increasing trend till the
year 1987. Total energy consumption in 1992 (25.2 M tons of oil equivalent) was
approximately 23% lower than in the year 1987, and is equal to the consumption in 1974.
(See Annex Table 1.)
54.   The lower level of energy efficiency is basically a consequence of the weakness of the
economy to produce income coupled with the still high proportion of material and energy
intensive sectors (See Annex Table 2), the still existing outdated technologies and the
production of the outdated products, as well as the external judgement undervaluing the
quality and international price of Hungarian products.
55.   The Hungarian energy supply has long been based on two basic sources: barely the
half of it is represented by the domestic production, the second half is import. The
predominant proportion of the import comes from the CIS countries that in one hand led to
the introduction of measures limiting energy use, in the other hand to the dependence on the
sources of supply. As a consequence, important tasks of the Hungarian energy management
included the reduction of the specific energy demand of the industrial and agricultural
products, the reduction of the growth rate of industrial and communal energy consumption,
as well as the substitution of - as much as possible - renewables for imported high cost
energy sources. The loan agreement of the second industrial energy conservation project was
signed in 1986 on the basis of the results and positive experiences gained during the
implementation of the World Bank financed so called First Energy Conservation and
Diversification Program (Loan Number HU-2317). The 24.5 MUSD Part A of the
25 MUSD total loan amount was to support projects resulting in energy saving and reduction
of the energy intensity of production. Part B of the program, with an amount of 0.5 MUSD,



-17-
served the financing of the consultant services to the further development of the Energy
Efficiency Office and the setting up a data base on national energy consumption, as well as
trainings in the field of energy management and energy audits.
B.   Implementation and Result of the Project No. HU-2709
Part A
56.   According to the project appraisal of the year 1986, approximately 40-50 projects
were planned to be financed from the available sum of 24.5 MUSD. The list, as well as
financial, energy saving and economic indicators of the 29 projects implemented that were
financially closed and technically reappraised, is shown in Annex 1 with short evaluating
notes.
57.   Summarized financial and energy saving data of the energy saving subprojects of this
part of the program are shown in groups containing subprojects resulting in direct energy
saving and background industry subprojects in Table 1. The latter group includes subproject
No. 121 of Annex 1 "Updating isolation technology of refrigerators in the Jaszbereny
Refrigerator Plant," subprojects No. 135 and 149 instrument procurement subprojects, as
well as subproject No. 159 of the Budapest Gas Works updating its measuring instruments.
58.   According to the data of the above table, the total investment costs barely exceeded
the planned one and the actual energy saving was approximately 40% higher than the planned
one. (The total energy saving of 5.5 PJ/year was comprised of 11.6 thousand tons/year of
fuel oil, 73.3 million cubic meter/year of natural gas, 4.3 thousand tons/year of domestic
coal and 209.3 GWh/year of electricity).
59.   Annex 1 includes the planned and actual FRR and ERR values. The actual values
were calculated in two different ways: with actual domestic prices of fuels and with
international prices of fuel oil multiplying them with the oil equivalents of the actual fuel
savings.



-18-
Table 1: Completed, Financially Closed, Technically
Reappraised Energy Saving Projects of Part A
Capital Cost
World                   Saved
Total    Bank Loan                Energy
th HUF     th HUF       USD        GJ/year
Direct energy saving projects (25)
- planned                      1,873,378    898,524   18,129,093   1,658,613
- actual                       1,915,077    918,780   16,013,072   1,501,858
Background industry projects (4)
- planned                       320,102     199,490    3,275,000   2,286,800
- actual                        311,735    220,764    3,475,133   3,971,830
Total (29)
- planned                      2,193,480   1,098,014   21,404,093   3,945,413
- actual                       2,226,812   1,139,544   19,488,205   5,473,688
(Cost elements that were taken into account in the calculations of ERR and FRR values are
included in the Remarks to Annex 1.) It an be concluded that the minimal values as
determined by the Loan Agreement - ERR = 20%, FRR = 15% - were exceeded in the case
of all prospering and surviving companies, except for the subproject No. 105 when
calculating these values with the domestic fuel prices. (Due to economic problems
independent from the energy saving projects and problems arising as a consequence of
company reorganizations, companies were not able to provide the data necessary to the
calculation of the rates of return for subprojects No. 12, 89, and 156.) The impact of energy
price rise that took place in order to narrow the gap between domestic and international
prices in the interim period is reflected by the fact that the ERR and FRR values calculated
after the implementation of the projects significantly exceed the planned ones in the case of
several subprojects.
Part B
60.   Part B was implemented according to the original plans, and the available sum of
0.5 MUSD was fully disbursed according the following:
Further development of the Energy Efficiency Office;
Updating gas supply and measuring practice at Budapest Gas Works; and



-19-
-     Updating sterilization method of meat products at Globus Cannery
The Environmental Impact of the Program
61.   All energy saving subprojects have positive environmental impact since the
environmental pollution associated with the use of fuels will not occur due to energy saving.
The environmental impact of energy saving projects is predominantly characterized by the
change of the air quality. On the basis of the saving of different fuels, the reduction of the
air pollution is calculated for Part A by using specific emission values (kg emission /GJ
energy use) and is shown in Table 2.
Table 2
l          l    SO2         NO.         CO       solid        CO2
Emission Reduction
Energy Saving   GJ/year                            kg/year
solid fuels      132,683     273,327     21,229     13,268     61,034    11,689,372
liquid fuels    610,234      390,550     36,614     18,307     18,307    45,157,316
gaseous fuels    2,616,619    20,933    200,255     78,499        -      137,372,000
electricity    2,114,152    4,346,697    363,634    274,954    773,780    190,273,000
| Total         5,473,688    5,031,507    621,732    387,028    853,121    384,491,688
Institutions Involved in the Implementation of the Program
62.   During the first energy conservation project supported by the World Bank, the
institutional, organizational structure was set up that enabled the successful implementation of
the second project too. The organization of the program, its technical coordination, control,
and the reporting duties were performed by the State Authority for Management and Safety
under the supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The financial-financing tasks
were the duties of the commercial banks under the control of the National Bank of Hungary.
The cooperation of the participants during the implementation of the project was problem
free and successful, that formed the basis of the successful implementation of the project.
World Bank staff was very helpful during the implementation, the relationship and
cooperation was undisturbed.
C.    Evaluation of the Program, Lessons Learned
63.   Evaluating the results of the project No. HU-2709, it can be concluded that despite of
the general economic recession, all the beneficiary companies survived except for 2, and the
energy saving of the projects financed is sustainable. The transfer of the banking system into



-20-
a two tier one through the foundation of commercial banks did not cause any difficulty in
financing the projects.
64.  Initially, there was no problem with filling up the loan amount of Part A with projects
of proper efficiency, since in order to fulfill the energy rationalization tasks of the period
before proposals with proper economic efficiency were available as a result of market
research in the field. Despite this, the available amount of Part A couldn't be committed
fully till the closing date of the project. 5 MUSD remained undisbursed, as a consequence
of launching a new program financing energy saving - the so called "German Coal Aid" -
with much more attractive interest conditions.
65.   The soft loan from the German Coal Aid is very popular. This is an indicator of the
fact that there is still a demand for energy rationalization projects. Despite of the proper
lending policy of the World Bank, this loan became uncompetitive during the period of 1991-
1993, due to the more favorable interest rate of the German Coal Aid for the companies.



21
PART III: BASIC DATA SHEET
1.    Related Bank Loans
Loan Number        Loan Title           Year of Approval         Loan Amount   Status
l__________________  ___________________     (U S$     m illion)
2317-HU            Industrial Energy    1983                109                 Completed
Diversification and
Conservation Project
2511-HU            Fine Chemicals       1985                73                  Completed
Project
2700-HU            First Industrial     1986                100                 Completed
Restructuring
Project
2834-HU            Second Industrial    1987                150                 Completed
Restructuring
Project
2966-HU            Technology           1988                 50                 PCR being
Development Project                                         prepared
3020-HU            Third Industrial     1989                140                 ongoing
Restructuring
Project
3055-HU            Energy               1989                110                 ongoing
Development Project
3347-HU            Second Structural    1991                250                 ongoing
Adjustment Loan



22
2.   Project Timetable
Item                 Planned Date                Actual Date
Project Brief and Issues Paper   12 /30/85              12/30/85
Preappraisal/Appraisal      11/18/85                    11/18/85
Loan Negotiation            04/25/86                     04/25/86
Board Approval              05/29/86                    05/29/86
Loan Signature              06/17/86                    06/17/86
Loan Effectiveness          08/22/86                    08/22/86
Loan Closing                06/30/93                    06/30/93
Last Disbursement           01/08/93                    06/30/93



23
3.     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ Million)
Bank Financial Year       Estimated                Actual              Actual % of
and Semester           Cumulative             Cumulative             Cumulative
1987
12/31/86               0.2                    2.2                    1100
06/30/87                1.4                    2.2                   157
1988
12/31/87               3.1                    5.4                    174
06/30/88                5.6                   6.1
109
1989
12/31/88                8.4                   11.1                   132
06/30/89               11.4                   14.2
125
12/31/89               14.2                   15.6                   110
06/30/90               17.0                   17.6
104
1991
12/31/90               19.0                   20.6                   108
06/30/91               20.8                   20.9                   101
1992
12/31/91               22.4                   21.4                   96
06/30/92               23.6                   21.4
91
1993
12/31/92               24.6                   21.4                   87
06/30/93               25.0                   21.4                    86
Special Account
Recovery (07/27/9)3                                 20.0                    80



24
4.         Proiect Results
Subproject                                  Capital Cost                     World Bank             Energy            FRR          ERR
Loan                 Saved
MHUF       MHUF          USL             GJIyew          %            %
000
Dunausuroe Papormil                         Pbwnnd             59.8        39.8    0.8d7              110.700         80.0        100.0
Boiler Modrnization                         Actual              3.4        39.8    0.793              129, 200        28.4          57.2
Radio Jeezbereny                            Plasd              39.1        28.9    0.633               34,100         15.0          15.0
DCC modulation system                       Actual             39.0        28.4    0.032               34,100         59.8          18.1
Radio Solt                                  Plarwd             87.3        49.3    1.080              147,800         33.2          34.0
DCC modulation eystrnm                      Actual             07.8        48.8    1.014              147800          83.0         42.8
Petohaz Su.egrmil                           Ptlwad             13.6         8.0    0.173               12,600         17.7          17.7
Proc_e modernization                        Actual             13.8         8.0    0.173               17,100         25.1         31.2
SENOR Vec Knitwr                            Plawnd             84.0        83.0    1.348               49,400         23.9         23.9
Wate fing boier etc                         Actuat             83.4        81.8    0,538               39.200
Budaptat Elbcrbity Work; Ripb0 cont ol      Panned            805.4       249.5    4.288              108,100         16.5
Actual            803.8       270.0    4.288              153,500         37.4         44.9
kon Foundry A Furnace                       Plannd             45.0        35.0    0.es                80,o000        22.0         42.8
Production Factory; Enamel fring technology  Actual            52.1        31.8    0.e04               8s,100         5a.2         47.8
Boc. Bew-ery                                Pbnnrd             50.2        37.5    0.781               72,000         18.3          18.3
Hop Soilr                                   Actual             43.6        37.5    0.721               83,500         28.6         53.5
E,cri Sugarmil                              Plrmed              9.6         8.8    0.139               20,500         30.0
Automation of ugw bo9ng                     Actual             10.5         8.8    0.138               11,900         33.2        107.2
Petohaza Sugermil                           Pktnnd             44.5        28.4    0.521               29,200         20.2         26.1
Automatic procre oontrol                   Actual              41.4        28.2    0.487               29,000         20.3         19.0
Matreaidk Sugermi&                          Ptwand             78.8        50.4    1.038               57,800         20.1         20.1
Automatic procw control 12 pro,ectsl        Actual             79.4        50.0    1.038               e5,300         32.4         34.5
Ritharde Fine Clth MiN                      Planned             7.3         3.0    0.089               18.200         28.0         31.3
Fle g- host utilizatn                       Actua               8.7         3.3    0.089               1S,000
Strv rSugrmilb                              Planned            20.3        14.4    0.301               17,900         21.8         21.8
Proces. automation                          Actua              20.9        14.7    0.273               20,000         25.8         24.3
Tohc Spinning Factory                       Ptanned             7.5         5.3    0.112               21,500         42.5         42.5
Dyeing waste water heat utilization         Actual             1 1.         5.5       0.107             7,300         18.0          12.2
To,u Tya Factory                            Planned            82.4        19.7    0.380              181,300         32.3         34.3
Hot watr wyetem modwrnization               Actua              78.8        19.7    0.401              158,700         20.0         28.9
Tutu Rubber Factory                         Plkwwd             35.8         3.8    0.044               30,60         31.8         34.1
lNVy gyhaza);CAM sstetm                     Actual             32.8         2.7    0.044              130,000         86.4         89.3
Budapeet Canaizat.on Work; Biogoc Utilization    Planned      198.3        71.2    1.500               29,000         22.4         24.0
Actual            208.0        80.9    1.495               23,000         24.9          17.0
Jatzbercny Refrigerator Plnt; New refrigerator    Planned     127.0        95.7    2.024            1,388,000         67.5         71.8
sulation technology                        Actual             154.5        98. 2    1.803           1,701,000         32.7         32.7
Petohaza Sugemirl                          Plannad             15.4        10.3    0.223               18,600         25.7         20.5
Crysta9izetion toutmation                  Actual              18.8        10.4    0.219               15,000         22.3         23.2
Budapeet Geewortks                          Pbanrd            110.1        72.4    1.414              193,700         33.8        5s. 1
presure regulator ining                    Actual             130.9        72.4    1.349              193,700         37.8         55.8
State Authority for Energy Safety;lnetrumants  Pbanned         42.4        28.5    0.801               12,000         25.0         25.0
Actual             35.9        31.8    0.475
DIGITAL COMP                               Planned             17.3        10.3    0.210             525,000          30.0         42.7
Inatrum.e.t                                 Actual             17.3        10.3    0.209              254,700           .         208.8
Haidusag Sugermille                        Planned             54.3        32.4    0.491               48,800         25.8         36.5
Sug- boiing ejtomation                     Actual              81.4        29.8    0.491               39,900         20.9         20.5
Hadusag Sugermille                          Planned            12.4         7.1    0.149               12,700         27.0
Cantifuga modernization                     ActualI             9.2         8.9    0.138               12,700        142.8        208.7
Lenin Metajrbg,al Wovk                      Planned           188.8        17.8    0.315              320,700         28.1         44.3
Energy upply systam modernization          Actual             170.8        18.8    0.306
Ercei Sugurmilas                           Planned             18.0        12.2    0.244               2e,900         22.5
Aulometion (Stage 2)                        Actual             18.8        12.1    0.224               35,700         31.8         39.3
Budepetw Geeworks                           Planned           133.4        65.0    1.251              381,800         27.3
IneOumentabon                               Actual            104.1        82.0    1.188            2,01d,100



25
Subproject                               Capital Cost                    World Bank           Energy            FRR         ERR
Loan                Saved
MHUF       MHUF        US4            GJ/yw            .          %
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       ~~~~    ~  ~   ~  ~ ~   ~ ~  ~  ~  ~~000 _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Kaosvw Sugwm                             P d                50.0       32.9    0.27              59,000         41.3        52
Prac:s oonol                             Acal               50.5       30.7    0.519             90,000      130           12139
* Too high to meesure



26
5.    Status of Covenants
Covenant    |        Subject of Covenant           Deadline      Status]
GA       Implementation of development         March      Complied
4.02(a)(ii)   and operation of Energy              31,1987       with
Efficiency Office after review
of consultants' study.
GA 4.02(b)   Review progress with Bank in         December    Complied
energy rationalization program    31, 1988         with
and future prospects for energy
savings.
GA 4.01(b)    Maintain Coordination Office           n.a.       Complied
throughout project                                 with
implementation.
GA       Development of training program   December    Complied
4.02(a)(i)   by EEO.                              31, 1986       with
LA 3.04    Use agreed eligibility criteria         n.a.      Complied
and appraisal methodologies and                    with
limit subloan size to US$4
million in foreign exchange.
LA 3.03    Use Coordination Office to              n.a.       Complied
assist in procurement and                          with
ensure use of standardized
procurement documents.
the project
LA 4.01    Maintain agreed reporting and           n.a.       Complied
auditing requirements and on-                      with
lending arrangements.                                      l
LA 4.02(b)   Use subloan repayments surplus         n.a.       Complied
to finance other energy                            with
rationalization projects.
Notes:  * CA- Guarantee Agreement
LA - Loan Agreement
PA - Project Agreement



27
6.   Mission Data
Month/Year    No. of    Days   Specialization
Persons jin
_ _ _ _ _   | _ _ _ _Field
Identification and                        1         7          Eco.
Preparation
Appraisal                  11/85          7        15     Eng. Eco. FA.
Supervision 1               7/86          1         3          Eng.
Supervision 2              10/86          1         3          Eng.
Supervision 3               6/87          2         3       Eng. Eco.
Supervision 4               9/88          2         3        Eng. Eco
Supervision 5               6/90          3         8      Eng. FA. Eco
Supervision 6              10/92          1         3          Eng.
Project Completion         12/93          1         5          Eco.



28
7.    Use of Bank Resources
Stage of               Year              Number of            Number of           Specialization            Rating
Project Cycle                                Persons            Staff-weeks          Represented4             Status
Preparation/            FY86                   6                   50.4             Eng. Eco. F.A.
Preappraisal
Appraisal             FY86                   7                   28.8            Eng. Eco. F.A. Leg.
Negotiation            FY86                   4                    4.9            Eng. Eco. F.A..Leg
Supervision
1                  FY85                   4                   0.8                Eng.Eco                  1
2                  FY87                   9                   11.0               Eng. Eco.                1
3                  FYS8                   a                   6.5                Eng. Eco.                1
4                  FY89                   4                   4.1                Eng. Eco.                1
5                  FY90                   3                   4.5                Eng. Eco.                1
6                  FY91                   1                    1.4                 Eng.                   1
7                  FY92                   4                    2.7               Eng. Eco.                1
a                  FY93                   2                    1.6                Eng.Eco                 1
Project Completion
Report               FY94                   3                    7.0                Eng. Eco.
Eng. Eco.
_____ ____ _____ __   _ _____ ____ _____ _   __ _____ ____ _____   ___ _____ ____ ____E ng.    E co.
4
Eng .Engineer
Eco .Economist
F.A .Financial Analyst
Leg .Legal expert



- 29 -
BORROWER'S  ANNEX                              Table 1.
HUNGARY - ENERGY BALANCE BY SOURCES & MAIN ECONOMIC INDICATORS
/Pi/
1980.    1985.    1990.       1991.   1992.   1993.
1.    Domestic production    632,2    703,6    603,4    593,5   563,7  555,8
1.1.  Coal                      290,7    263,1    188,2    178,8   151,6  132,8
1.2.  Oil and oil products   102,0    105,0          94,6      91,0    96,1   96,8
1.3.  Natural gas and LPG    224,1    254,8    169,8    171,1   161,5  172,0
1.4.  Electricity                 1,3      66,3    139,1    139,2   141,2  139,7
1.5.  Others                     14,1      14,4      11,7      13,4    13,3   14,5
2.    Imports                   691,7    705,3    724,7    620,1   537,1  592,2
2.1.  Coal                       91,0    113,1       65,2      90,6    48,3   49,9
2.2.  Oil and oil products   301,2    347,1    330,9    247,7   281,9  318,0
2.3.  Natural gas               134,0    137,0    217,3    208,2   172,2  199,6
2.4.  Electricity                85,4    108,1    111,3        73,6    34,7   24,7
2.5.  Others                      0,1        -         -         -        -       -
3.    Changes in stock and
exports                   63,4      85,0      83,9      34,1    43,8  81,0
4.    Domestic consumption  1260,5   1323,9   1244,2   1179,5  1057,1 1067,0
5.    Gross domestic product
(At constant 1981 prices)  751,0    819,4    834,5    749,4   715,7             -
(At constant 1991 prices)        -         -         -    2515,0  2885,6 3502,6
Preliminary data



- 30 -
BORROWER'S  ANNEX                             Table 2.
HUNGARY - DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SECTORS
/PJ/
1980.     1985.    1990.      1991.   1992.   1993.
Mining                           41,8      42,1      36,8      35,1    13,6    13,5
Electricity industry              5,7       6,9       8,4       8,2    14,3    14,1
Metallurgy                      167,9    157,4    123,8        95,8    78,3    80,3
Engineering industry             58,7      55,7      45,5      35,3    24,2    26,5
Construction material                                                            34,9
industry                         68,1      58,5      54,6      41,8    32,3   156,5
Chemical industry               188,6    191,6    160,4    142,7   155,7    27,0
Light industry                   50,0      45,6      38,3      30,0    25,7       0,9
Other industries                  3,B       2,4       1,3       0,9       -      41,8
Food industry                    52,1      53,8      56,0      54,3    44,5
INDUSTRY                        636,7    614,0    525,1    444,1   388,6   395,5
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY            35,6      25,4      18,2      12,1      8,7      9,1
AGRICULTURE, SYLVICULTURE,
WATER MANAGEMENT                 98,5    102,0       88,1      76,3    54,8    46,7
TRANSPORT, POST, TELECOMMUNI-
CATION                           88,7      78,5      65,1      58,5    49,4    45,6
MATERIAL INOUSTRIES             859,5    819,9    696,5    591,0   501,5   496,9
Other consumers                 101,5    128,4    142,5    168,3   159,5   165,6
Households                      299,5    375,6    405,2    420,2   396,1   404,5
NON MATERIAL INDUSTRIES:        401,0    504,0    547,7    588,5   555,6   570,1
TOTAL:                         1260,0   1323,9   1244,2   1179,5  1057,1  1067,0
*   Preliminary data



- 31 -
BORROWER' S
ANNEX 1



- 32 -
Remarks to Annex 1.
The rates of return ERR and FRR were calculated as
follows:
In the case of ERR investment costs don't include
interests, taxes and duties and the incremental operation
costs don't include interests, depreciation and wage
taxes.
In the case of FRR investment costs don't include
interests and the incremental costs of the projects don't
include interests and depreciation.
There were no > payable subsidies. 9 of the projects have
been supported by soft loans from the State Development
Bank, that were credits with preferential conditions.
Incremental costs did include both the value of energy
saving and other benefits of the projects (reduction of
maintenance and labour costs, material saving, reduction
of faulty products etc.) in the level of the enterprise
and of the national economy.
International prices of LFO are as of December 7, 1993.



ENERGY SAVING SUBPROJECTS
HU-2709
Pate I
SUBPROJECT                                CAPITAL      WORLD BANK          ENERGY      FRR        ERR       NOTES AND SHARES OF
COST          LOAN              SAVED                           FUELS IN TOTAL SAVINGS
IN 1992
TH.HUF   TH.HUF        USD      GJ/YEAR
002
Papermill of Dunaujv&ros                                                                                          The sustainability of energy
Modernization of spent lye regeneration                                                                           saving is closely related to
boiler                           Planned;         59580    39780      867000    110700    59.95        100.00    the volume of the at present
Actual:         63392    39780       792938    129184    28.39         39.48    suspended cellulose production
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                   57.21    FO: 100 %
006
Radio J&zzber6ny                                                                                                  The amount of saved energy is
Establishment of DCC modulation system                                                                            equal  to the planned one. ERR
Planned:        39096    28874       633000      34090    15.04        15.04    and FRR is higher than planned
Actual:         38958    28402       631700      34090    59.55        46.27    due to higher energy prices.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                   16.07    EL: 100 %
007                                                                                                                                                       to
Radio Solt                                                                                                        The amount of saved energy is
Establishment of DCC modulation system                                                                            equal to the planned one, ERR
Planned:        67311    49301    1080400    147581    33.17          34.03    and FRR is higher than planned
Actual:         67759    48843    1014473    147581    83.56           66.71    due to higher energy prices.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                  42.61    EL: 100 %
010
Petohaza Sugarmill                                                                                                The actual direct energy sa-
Modernization of initial product crystallization                                                                  ving is bigger than the plan-
Planned:        13552      8007      173000      12622    17.65       17.65    ned one. thus its share in the
Actual:         13551      8006      173408      17053    25.11       31.24    total cost saving is bigger.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                  31.15    FO: 100 %
012
SENIOR VAc  Knitwear                                                                                              The combined coal-waste boiler
Waste firing boiler. steam heated mycock                                                                          has not been set up.the pro-
expander                         Planned:         83995    62974    1348000        49400    23.93       23.93    duction of the companv is less
Actual:         83387    61812       535577      39240        -          -       than half compared to 1990.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                     -      N.a.
020
Budapest Electricity Works                                                                                        Both the energy saving and the
Ripple control                                                                                                    reduction of the demand for
Planned:       605385   249473    4266420    108090         16.48        -       peak electricity producing ca-
Actual:        603768   269953    4266424    153502    37.42           61.16    pacity is bigger than planned.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                   44.87    EL: 100 X



Page 2
SUBPROJECT                               CAPITAL      WORLD BANK         ENERGY      FRR        ERR       NOTES AND SHARES OF
COST          LOAN             SAVED                          FUELS IN TOTAL SAVINGS
IN 1992
TH.HUF   TH.HUF       USD      GJ/YEAR
042
Iron Foundry and Furnace Prod. Factory                                                                         The project of the at present
Updating enamel firing technology                                                                              Hungarian-German joint venture
Planned:        45000    35000      605458      59983    22.01        42.87    operates as planned, the ener-
Actual:         52090    31844      604170      68053    56.22       56.22    gy saving is sustainable.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                47.59    NG: 95.5 X  EL: 4.5 X
050
Bocs Brewery                                                                                                   The energy saving is sustain-
Installation of an energy-saving hop                                                                           able. the results of the pro-
boiler                          Planned:        50200    37480       780841      72000    18.34       18.34    ject are higher than planned.
Actual:         43605    37480      720730      83515    28.60       28.60
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                53.45    NG: 100 X
051                                                                                                                                                     1
Sugarmill of Ercei                                                                                             The project has been implemen-           >,
Automatization of sugar-boiling station                                                                        ted in 2 steps. This subpro-             4:
Planned:         9600      6600     138629      20542    29.99         -       ject is closely related to the
Actual:         10500      6551      138068     11864    33.00       33.17    subproject No. 158.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                               107.13    FO: 100 X
053
Petohaza Sugarmills                                                                                            The subproject is related to
Installation of automatic process control                                                                      subprojects No.10 and 123.The
Planned:        44508    28415      521400      29214    20.24       26.05    company at present is a Hunga-
Actual:         41447    28229      467048      29030    20.29       22.95    rian-Austrian joint venture.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                18.99    FO: 100 S
057
Sugarmills of Hatravid6k                                                                                       The subproject has a joint
Automatic control of  sugar production                                                                         bank contract with subproject
Planned:        37431    23455      426733      29172    20.07         -      No.59.Rates of return are cal-
Actual:         38432    22419    1035791       29609    32.43       36.91    culated for the joint contract
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                34.46    FO: 100 %
059
Sugarmills of Matravidek *                                                                                     The subproject has a joint
Automatic control of sugar production                                                                          bank contract with subroject
Planned:        41415    26897      609056      28440    20.07       20.07    No.57.ERR. FRR and USD value
Actual:         41012    27559            0     35725       -          -       is shown at subproject No.57.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                   -      FO: 100 X



Page 3
SUBPROJECT                               CAPITAL      WORLD BANK          ENERGY      FRR        ERR      NOTES AND SHARES OF
COST          LOAN             SAVED                           FUELS IN TOTAL SAVINGS
IN 1992
TH.HUF   TH.HUF        USD     GJ/YEAR
089
Richards Fine Cloth Mill                                                                                        Due to technical problems the
Utilization of flue gas heat                                                                                    operation of the equipment has
Planned:         7262      2992       68942      18170    28.64       31.29    stopped.Company is in liqui-
Actual:          8732      3314       69328      17991       -          -      dation, production decreasing.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                   -       N.a.
093
Sugarmills of Sdrvar                                                                                            The strbproject operates prob-
Automatic control of sugar boiling                                                                              lemfree, energy saving is so-
Planned:        20297    14397       300805      17898    21.79      21.79    mewhat bigger than planned.
Actual:         20912    14685       272964      19992    25.84      29.53
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 24.34    FO: 100 X
105
Spinning Factory of Tolna                                                                                       The lesser than planned energy
Utilization of dying waste water heat                                                                           saving is due to decreasing
Planned:         7500      5300      111600      21505    42.53      42.53    production and the changing                  u
Actual:         11605      5528      106658       7264    17.89      19.15    demand for dying.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 12.16    NG: 100 %
109
Taurus Tyre Factory                                                                                             The lower level of the rates
Updating hot water system                                                                                       of return is the consequence
Planned:        82430    19743       380000    161319    32.30       34.30    of  decreasing production.
Actual:         78759    19742       401391    158740    20.02       20.57
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                28.90    NG: 100 %
111
Taurus Rubber Factory NyiregyhAza                                                                               The opportunities for energy
Installation of a CAM system                                                                                    saving have been underestima-
Planned:        35800      3600       43600     30627    31.80       34.06    ted during the planning.
Actual:         32808      2660       44060    130024    86.39       86.39
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 69.33    EL: 4 %  FO: 96 X
116
Canalization Works of Budapest                                                                                  The utilization method of the
Utilization of biogas                                                                                           sludge has been changed com-
Planned:       196270    71180    1499854        28969    22.40      24.00    pared to the original plans.
Actual:        206030    80940    1494854         2325    24.89      25.70    High additional benefits.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 16.99    EL: 100 %



Page 4
SUBPROJECT                                CAPITAL      WORLD BANK          ENERGY      FRR        ERR       NOTES AND SHARES OF
COST          LOAN             SAVED                           FUELS IN TOTAL SAVINGS
IN 1992
TH.HUF   TH.HUF        USD     GJ/YEAR
X    %t
121
Refrigerator Plant Jaszbereny                                                                                    Background industry subproject
Updating isolation technology of refrigerators                                                                   for the production of energy
Planned:       127000    95700    2024000   1368000    67.53           95.41    saving refrigerators.
Actual:        154474    96174    1603151   1701000    32.74         141.61
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 164.47    EL: 100 %
123
Petohaza Sugarmill                                                                                               Subproject closely related to
Automatization of crystallization (final                                                                         subproject No.10 , with this
product)                         Planned:         15400    10300       223008      16553    25.72       20.52    the augar producing technology
Actual:         16815    10444       219486      15044    22.33       24.79    has been fully updated.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                  23.18    FO: 100 %
124
Gas Works of Budapest                                                                                             Energy saving results are as
40 bar pressure regulator, AMEX foil                                                                             planned.
lining                           Planned:       110050    72350    1414000    193700    33.80          56.10
Actual:        130860    72350    1349124    193700    37.57          50.04
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                  55.76    NG: 76 %  EL: 24 X
135
State Authority for  Energy Safety                                                                               The equipments are utilized
Procurement of instruments                                                                                       according to demand. Results
Planned:        42400    28500       601140      12000    25.00       25.00    cannot be calculated.
Actual:         35887    31818       475287       -          -          -
ERR with international LEO prices:                                                                    -       N.a.
149
DIGITAL-COMP                                                                                                     Although the company is under
Procurement of instruments                                                                                       liquidation. the energy saving
Planned:        17290    10290       210000    525000    30.00        42.70    can be calculated on the level
Actual:         17290    10290       208551    254700        -        91.15    of the national economy.
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 266.78    NG:51 t  FO:21 t C:28 X
152
Sugarmills of Hajdusag                                                                                            It is advisable to consider
Automatization of sugar boiling                                                                                   the results of the subproject
Planned:        54250    32400       491200      48782    25.80       36.50    together with subproject 154.
Actual:         61400    29800       491200      39922    20.86       20.86
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                  20.50    FO: 100 t



Page 5
SUBPROJECT                               CAPITAL       WORLD BANK         ENERGY       FRR        ERR       NOTES AND SHARES OF
COST          LOAN              SAVED                           FUELS IN TOTAL SAVINGS
IN 1992
TH.HUF   TH.HUF        USD     GJ/YEAR
154
Sugarmille of HajdusSg                                                                                           It is advisable to consider
Modernization of final product centrifuge                                                                        the results of the subproject
plant                            Planned:        12446      7106      148578      12724    26.96         -       together with subproject 152.
Actual:          9223      6920      135737      12724   142.84    142.84
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 206.73    FO: 100 %
156
Lenin Metallurgical Works                                                                                        The company is bankrupt, the
Updating energy supply system                                                                                    Hungarian Credit Bank obliged
Planned:       166600    17800       315000    320686    28.07          -       the company to repay the loan.
Actual:        170764    18759       305624       -          -          -
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                    -       N.a.
158                                                 -
Sugarmille of Ercsi                                                                                              The second step of subproject
Automation 2nd stage                                                                                             No. 51.
Planned:        18000    12200       244000      26880    22.47         -
Actual:         18768    12060       223816      35710    31.82       32.00
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                  39.26    FO: 100 X
159
Gas Works of Budapest                                                                                             The rates of return are so
Procurement of measuring instruments                                                                             high. that they couldn't be
Planned:       133412    65000    1251000    381800    27.30          44.30    calculated .(There was no year
Actual:        104084    82482    1188144   2016130          -           -      with negative profit.)
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                    _       NG: 100 %
163
Sugarmills of KapoavAr                                                                                           The actual energy saving is
Microprocessor controlled automation                                                                             much higher than planned.
Planned:        50000    32900       627429      58966    41.30       56.24
Actual:         50500    30700       518503      89976   102.97      112.16
ERR with international LFO prices:                                                                 121.91    FO:96.5 %  EL: 3.5 X
TOTAL:               29         Planned:      2193480  1098014   21404093   3945413
Actual:       2226812  1139544   19488205   5473688



