Documeof
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
i>.9V   )-//K'
Report No. 6091-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
May 9, 1986
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name        Forint (Ft)
US$1.00         -   Ft 47.80
Ft 1.00         =   Us$0.021
(as of December 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                  - 42 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)              = 35.315 cubic feet (cu.ft)
1 metric ton (ton, t)           = 1,000 kilograms or 2,205 pounds
1 kilocalorie (kcal)            = 3.968 British Thermal Units (Btu)
= 4.1868 kilojoules (kJ)
I British Thermal Unit (Btu)   = 0.2929 x 10-3 kilowatt-hour (kWh)
= 0.2520 kilocalorie (kcal)
1 Megacalorie (Mcal)            = 1,000 kcal
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)  = 10,200 Mcal = 40.5 million Btu
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AEEF     -     Energy Supervision Institute
bbl      -     barrel
CMEA     -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON)
EEO      -     Energy Efficiency Office
EGI      -     Institute of Energy
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
IpM      -     Ministry of Industry
LRMC     -     long run marginal cost
mtoe     -     million tons of oil equivalent
MAT      -     Hungarian Aluminium Corporation
MVMT     -     Hungarian Electric Power Trust
NBI      -     National Bank of Hungary
NFO      -     National Planning Office
OEGH     -     National Energy Authority
OKGT     -     Hungarian National Oil and Gas Trust
p.a.     -     per annum
R&D      -     Research and Development
tpy      -     tons per year
FISCAL YEAR
January t to December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Nati,nal Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:        Hungarian People's Republic
Beneficiaries:    Enterprises and Ministry of Industry
Amount:            US$25.0 million equi:alent
Terms:             Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at standard
terms
Relending
Terms:          Loan proceeds will be onlent (a) to the Government
for US$0.5 million equiivalent for 15 years,
including a grace period of 3 years; and (b) to
sub-borrowers for US$24.5 million equivalent for a
maximum maturity of 12 years, including a grace
period not exceeding 3 years. The onlending
interest rate will be at least equal to the Bank's
variable rate plus a 30% mark-up. NBH will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The Project aims to: (a) contain Hungary's energy import
bill both by reducing energy consumption and by greater
use of domestic energy, and thus help save convertible
foreign exchange; and (b) promote the development of
appropriate policies, technologies and institutional
framework to further strengthen the country's ongoing
energy rationalization program. The Project will also
help improve investment efficiency through technology
transfer. The Project consists of two components: (1)
supp-,t to NBH energy rationalization facility for
financing of about 40-50 energy saving subprojects and
equipment to Improve monitoring of energy use and to
carry out energy audits; and (2) institution
strengthening.
Project Benefits  The investments are expected to have high financial and
and Risks:        economic returns, and in total would save about 195,000
tons of oil equivalent (toe) of energy per annum (p.a.)
Thb document has a restficted distbution and may be used by r%IpI -- o .y in te pwfonname
of their officl duties, Its contents may not otherwie be discihe without Wotld Rank authoration.



- ii -
by 1994 at full operation. Over its economic life, the
Project would generate a total net foreign exchange
saving of US$66 million (in December 1985 US dollars) in
net present value at a 12X discount rate. The Project
would also result in significant non-quantifiable
benefits by strengthening the local capabilities in
national energy management. Project risks are limited
mainly to a possible lack of demand for energy
conservation investments, if energy prices were to stay
at low levels in the future. The risk of slow build-up
of demand is, however, mitigated by a large potential for
economic energy saving in Hingary, and a large pipeline
of potential subprojects already identified by NBH. In
addition, a conservative estimate of a 7-year
implementation period has been used for the Project.
Estimated Costs:a/
Local     Foreign       Total
--US$ million equivalent-
NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility h/                               39.0         19.6         58.6
Institution Strengthening                     0.2          0.4          0.6
Base Cost                               T7           20.0         57
Price Contingency                             9.8          5.0         14.8
Total Project Cost                       9.5S        2.0         7T:.
al   Including US$9.1 million in duties and taxes.
I/ This facility operates as a line of credit for financing of energy
saving subprojects and energy monitoring equipment.
Financing Plan:                              iocal       Foreign       Total
- US$ million equivalent--
IBRD                                          -           25.0         25.0
NBH                                          34.0          -           34.0
Beneficiary Enterprises                      14.8          -           14.8
Government                                    0.2          -            0.2
Total                                   49.0         25.0         74.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY       87    88    89    90       91    92    93
US$ million equivalent   -
Annual:                           1.4   4.2   5.8    5.6   3.8   2.8   1.4
Cumulative:                       1.4   5.6  11.4   17.0  20.8  23.6  25.0
Economic Rate of Return: 30 percent.



- iii -
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.*  INTRODUCTION .......I..................*.................. 1
II. ENERGY SECTOR AND POLICY 1..............                          I
A.  Domestic Energy Resources                                    I
B.   Historical Energy Consumption and Production                2
C.   Final Energy Consumption Pattern                            3
D.   Energy Demand and Supply Balance                            3
E.   Energy Plan and Policies ............................,.    4
Fe  Energy Pricing                                               5
G.   Energy Sector Organization                                  6
R.   Bank's Role and Project Justification .......7
III. ENERGY CONSERVATION IN INDUSTRY           ..........             7
A.   Industrial Energy Consumption and Potential for Energy
Conservation                                             7
B.   Institutions Involved in Energy Conservation                9
1.  National Energy Authotity ............. ...........  10
2.  Energy Supervision Institute         .....................  10
3.   Energy Efficiency Office         .........................   ll
4.  National Bank of Hungary          .........................  11
C.   Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification
Efforts         ............................   13
D.   Performance Under the First Industrial Energy
Diversification and Conservation Project ....... -..  16
IV.  THE PROJECT   ..........................................   18
A.    Project Objectives                                        18
B.    NBH Energy Rationalization Facility                       18
1.  Objectives and Scope                                  18
2. Eligibility Criteria ......................       .   19
3.  Free Limit and Maximum Subloan Size o.o.ve......      E9
4* Project Status   .......................      .        20
C.    Institution Strengthening                                 21
D.   Environmental Aspects                                      21
This report was prepared by Messrs. S. K. Agarwal (mission leader), R.
Ghozali and R. Heath (Industry Department) and Ms. Mangosing-Koeppen
(EMENA), based on an appraisal mission in November/December 1985. Mesdames
E. George, M. Greaves and A. Johnson provided word processing assistance;
secretarial support was provided by Ms. S. Rajput.



- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS ..............................................       21
A.  Implementation Arrangements and Schedule ...........          21
B.  Reporting and Auditing Requirements  .... "........           22
VI.  CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT                                                      23
A.    Project Capital Cost .                                      23
B.    Financing Plan                             ...........      24
C.    On-lending Arrangements                 ......... ...*. ****** ...........    25
De   Procuirement  ........... ..    ...........................  26
E.    Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan       ...........    27
VII. PkOJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .......                                28
A.    Project Benefits ....                                       28
B.    Project Risks                                               31
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS                                                  31
ANNEXES
2-1 Summary Energy Balance
2-2 Comparison of Domestic and International Prices of Energy
3-1  Organization Chart of the Institutions Involved in
Energy Rationalization
3-2 National Bank of Hungary - Financial Statements (1980-84)
6    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7-1 NBH Energy Rationalization Facility Component--Preappraised
subprojects
7-2 Economic Energy Prices
7-3 Economic Analysis of Total Project
7-4 Foreign Exchange Savings
8    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Hungarian People's Republic (the
Government) has requested a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent to
finance the Second Industrial Energy Conservation Project (the Project).
The Project aims to contain Hungary's energy import costs by reducing ener-
gy consumption per unit of output and by greater use of domestic energy,
and to further promote the institutional set-up for the development of the
country's energy rationalization program. The Project will also help
improve investment efficiency through technology transfer.
1.02      Energy demand management is central to Hungary's efforts to
reduce investment needs in the energy supply sector and to contain energy
imports. The Bank's support of che Government's energy rationalization
program under the ongoing Industrial Energy Diversification and Conserva-
tion Project (Loan 2317-HU) (first project) has provided assistance for
strengthening of relevant institutions in energy conservation activities,
and contributed to finaneing of energy conservation and diversification
subprojects. The proposed Project would continue to support the Govern-
ment's energy rationalization program. The Project consists of two comple-
mentary components: (a) support through credits from the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH) for small energy saving subprojects of industrial and other
enterprises, and for equipment for enterprises and technical institutes to
monitor energy use and to carry out energy audits (the NBHR Energy Rationial-
ization Facility Component); and (b) assistance for further strengthening
of institutions, including the full development and operation of the Energy
Efficiency Office (EEO), for coordinating overall energy conservation acti-
vities (the Instituticn 9tcengthening Component). The Project would be a
vehicle for continuing the Bank's dialogue with the Government on its
energy rationalization program, including institutional arrangements for
energy audits, and project selection and evaluation procedures.
1.03      Total financing requirements for the Project are estimated at
US$74.0 million. Of this, US$25 million or 34% of the total financing is
in foreign exchange, which will be covered by the proposed Bank loan of
US$25 million.
II. ENERGY SECTOR AND POLICY
A.   Domestic Energy Resources
2.01      Hungary's energy resources consist mainly of coal, natural gas
and oil. Coal reserves amount to about 715 million tons of oil equivalent
(mtoe) consisting of 230 mtoe of lignite, 275 mtoe of brown coal, and 210
mtoe of black coal. With the exception of the lignite deposits at



-2-
Buickabrany and Torony, all coal basins are bein8g mined.  Coal production in
1984 amounted to 6.5 mtoe. The low quality of Hungarian coal and increas-
ingly difficult mining conditions present a serious constraint to greatly
increased production. Proven oil reserves amount to about 20 million tons
and natural gas reserves to 90 mtoe, of which 15 mtoe consist of low heat
value gas. There is an 80% probability that 130 million tons of oil and
325 mtoe of gas could be added to the resource base. Domestic production
of oil and gas is insufficient to meet demand; in 1984, 74% of oil and 37%
of gas requirements were imported, mainly from the USSR. Other energy
resources include hydroelectricity (0.9 mtoe), low-temperature geothermal
water (1.3 mtoe), firewood (0.6 mtoe), and agricultural crop residues (0.5
mtoe). Despite the limited potential impact on total energy supply of
these resources, their exploitation can produce valuable savings in
imported energy, and is being encouraged by the Government through its
energy rationalization program. Significant uranium deposits exist in
southern Hungary, which are mined for export to the USSR.
B. Historical Energy Consumption and Production
2.02      Hungary consumes annually about 30 mtoe of energy.  The country
is heavily dependent on imported energy; about 45% of its total energy
supply in 1984 came from imports--mostly from the USSR.
2.03      Driven by the need to meet the increasing energy requirements of
the capital and energy-intensive industrial base, and protected initially
from the 1973 oil shock by the low-cost energy supplies from the USSR,
energy consumption and imports grew between 1970 and 1978 at an annual
average rate of 4.0% and 6.6Z, respectively. In 1976, the Bucharest formu-
la which sets prices of energy (and other commodities) traded within the
Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) countries was amended to
allow prices to be set equal to a 5-year moving average of prices in the
convertible area. I/ Following the balance of payments crisis of 1979-80
and limits to the supply of Soviet oil and gas at concessionary prices, the
Government recognized the need to contain energy consumption and imports,
and to reorient investment needs in the energy sector for meeting energy
demand. In 1980, the Government Initiated an effective energy demand
management program mainly by increasing energy prices except for households
and public services, by providing incentives for energy conservation and
interfuel substitution, and through awareness and promotional campaigns.
Helped by a shift in the structure of industrial output, the Government was
successful in bringing down the growth of gross energy consumption to only
0.6% p.a. during 1980-84 compared with 2.3% p.a. of real growth in GDP
during the same period. The import dependence for energy declined from
51.4% in 1980 to 45.3% in 1984. The gross energy consumption in 1984 at
30.3 mtoe was only 2.5% more than in 1980. As a result, the energy inten-
sity-energy consumption per unit of GDP--declined at an average rate of
about 1.6% p.a..  However, partly due to an unusually cold and long winter,
I/   This has recently been changed to a 3-year moving average of prices,
calculated from prices during the past five years, but excluding the
highest and lowest prices. In addition, crude oil and natural gas
imports above 1981 levels are priced at international equivalent.



-3-
the estimated gross energy consumption of 30.9 mtoe for 1985 is about 2.1%
higher than In 1984.
2.04      Primary energy production increased during the 1970s to reach a
peak of nearly 16 mtoe in 1978. Increases in oil and gas production
between 1970 and 1978 more than offset the decline of 22% in coal produc-
tion. In recent years, coal production has further declined on account of
financial, geological and manpower constraints in the coal subsector. Gas
production was reduced to absorb gas imports from the USSR contracted
before the decline in the country's energy consumption, but more recently
It has been allowed to increase in response to the Government's interfuel
substitution program (now nearly complete) to replace the more expensive
fuel oil. With the commissioning of the first two nuclear power units at
Paks in 1983 and 1984, domestic energy production in 1984 had almost
recovered to its 1978 level.
C.   Final Energy Consumption Pattern
2.05      After allowing for internal consumption and losses in energy
conversion (power generation, oil refining, and boilers), the final energy
consumption in 1984 amounted to 22.7 mtoe, equivalent to a per capita con-
sumption of 2.1 toe, which is substantially below the average for East
European economies. Nevertheless and despite a sustained decline through-
out the 1970s, Hungary's intensity of final energy consumption (1.1 toe per
$1,000 GDP in 1984), though lowest among the Eastern European economies,
continues to be substantially higher than that of most industrial market
economies. The breakdown of final energy consumption by sector and fuel
type is suamarized in the table on the following page.
2.06      Industry accounts for about 47% of total final energy consumption
(mainly solid fuels, natural gas, process heat and electricity), and house-
holds a further 29% (primarily solid fuels, petroleum products, natural gas
and district heat). The other sectors (agriculture, transport and ser-
vices) account for the remaining energy use (24%).  In 1984, oil products
accounted for the largest share of final energy consumption (27%), natural
gas (20%), district heat and process steam (19%), solid fuels (18%) and
electricity (13%). Virtually all of the purchased heat is generated either
at power stations or in centralized steam raising facilities in urban
industrial areas and is piped to industrial, communal and domestic users in
the locality.
D.   Energy Demand and SupPlY Balance
2.07      Actual and projected energy balances for 1970-2000 are shown in
Annex 2-1. As energy intensity of GDP continues to decline as a result of
the Government's energy conservation efforts, gross energy consumption is
projected to increase only 1.4% p.a. during 1985-2000 compared with a pro-
jected growth in GDP of about 2-2.5% p.a. during 1985-90 and at a somewhat
higher rate during the 1990s. Energy production is projected to increase
steadily in the future to reach 23 mtoe by the year 2000, or 46% above its
1984 level. Most of this increase would come from nuclear electricity when
the two units each of 440 MW are completed at Paks in 1986 and 1987, and
from four similar additional units during the 1990s. Oil and gas produc-
tion can be maintained near current levels until 1990, but would decline



-4.
Dogry },-Setora fre*        of Final amrd r 0mw    - 1984
.lIt& Typeollture                                    ds  Otber /  Total    2
o0al, oe &
Iquetttes          1.49      0.06       0.05       2.28    0.22      4.10   18.1
GsoUne              0.90       0.12       O.07       0.72    0.25      2.06   9.1
Diesel 01 & Other
Middle Distillates   0.42    1.06       0.87       0.73    0.37      3.45   15.2
Heavy iel Oil       0.22       0.02        ml        'n      0.28      0.52   2.3
Natund Gas          2.85       0.16       0.08       1.01    0.35      4.45   19.6
Purchased Heat      2.91       0.12       0.12       0.76    0.41      4.32   19.0
Electricity         1.59       0.22       0.14       0.59    0.31      2.85   12.6
Otber               0.32      0.02        on 0.44    0.15              0.93   4.1
Total          10.70       1.78       1.33       6.53    L34    22.68  100.0
=                                                        -~SAM  rf~  MCM
Percent (2)    47.2       7.8         5.9       28.8    10.3    100.0
ra: Not memnigful.
a/ Iblxdes servis and ra-enawy use.
Scmwe: &ney Suervision Institute (AMeF).
thereafter as reserves are depleted. Coal production is to be maintained
near its current levels until 1990 through further investment in coal
mining, and would expand towards -he end of the century as the low cost
Bukkabrany lignite deposits are exploited for power generation. Production
of renewables is expected to double but would still contribute only about
2% of total gross energy consumption at the end of the century due to
limited biomass resources and the low quality of geothermal water.
Hungary's dependence on inpotted energy is expected to decline to 40% of
consumption by the end of the century.
E.   Energy Plan and Policies
2.08      In response to the adverse impact of rising energy prices and
imports on the balance of payments, the Government began to implement a
comprehensive two-pronged energy action plan in the late 1970s to reduce
the rate of growth in energy demand and to expand, or at least maintain,
production of domestic energy. The main policies of the national energy
action plan were the following: (a) promotion and implementation of an
effective energy demand management program. This was achieved primarily
by increased energy prices except for households and public services, sup-
ported by a line of credit for energy rationalization investments (both
energy conservation and interfuel substitution), a system of permits for
energy consumption, improved inspections of energy using equipment and
other facilities and awareness and promotional campaigns; and (b) expansion
or at least maintenance of the production of domestic energy resources,
especially of coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear power.



-5-
2.09      While the Government has succeeded in recent years In reducing
the growth In energy consumption and hence in cutting down energy sector
investment through its energy demand management policies, its plans to
expand domestic energy production have been only moderately successful,
mainly due to difficulties in underground mining in Hungary and the low
quality of coal. The Government's energy policy for the Seventh Five-Year
plan (1986-90) will remain almost unchlanged from the previous plan
(1981-85). Energy demand management will continue to have high priority,
and the price mechanisms and priority credit allocation to energy rational-
ization will be the main instruments for restraining growth in energy con-
sumptlon. Expansion of nuclear power and a smaller increase in coal
production will also remain priorities.
F. Energy Pricing
2.10      Two sets of energy prices are in force in Hungary--producer
prices are those paid by the productive sectors (industry, agriculture,
etc.) and consumer prices are those paid by households and public institu-
tions (schools, hospitals, etc.). Realizing that the most effective
measure to encourage energy efficiency is to set energy prices at levels
that reflect their economic opportunity costs, the Government has pro-
gressed significantly in moving producer prices closer to economic levels,
It is, however, only recently that the Government could increase energy
prices to households, which are still well below their economic levels.
Comparative energy prices--domestic prices and economic costs--are summa-
rized in Annex 2-2.
2.11      Producer prices of petroletum products are higher than their
economic costs. Electricity producer prices are about 127% of the long-run
marginal cost (LRMC). Natural gas producer prices except for feedstock and
fuel for the chemical industry are higher than the economic cost on a fuel
oil equivalent basis; the price of natural gas for the chemical industry is
about 92% of its economic cost. Brown coal prices are about 80% of LRMC.
On the other hand, energy prices lor households and public institutions,
with the exception of gasoline, have long been mainteined at levels sub-
stantially below their economic costs. In January 1985, the Government
increased energy prices to households by 30% for petroleum products, 25%
for natural gas and coal, and 16%-33% for electricity. As a consequence of
these increases and the fall in international prices of energy, prices of
natural gas and petroleum products are now 90%-108% of their economic
costs, and gasoline is priced at 316% of its economic cost. Despite the
recent increases, coal prices and electricity tariffs for households still
remain substantially below their LRMCs.
2.12      The Bank is actively assisting the Government in implementing its
policy for bringing all energy prices to economic levels. A gas utiliza-
tion study being carried out under the ongoing Petroleum Project (Loan
2398-HU) will review natural gas prices in relation to the economic cost of



-6-
supply. Under the proposed power project, the Government has agreed to a
cash generaticn covenant for the Hungarian Electric Power Trust (MVMT).
which would lead to electricity tariffs remaining close to their LRMC, and
a LRMC pricing study to develop the necessary information to enable the
Government to draw up a detailed strategy for eliminating current distor-
tions in electricity prices. Under the same project, the Government has
agreed to complete an energy pricing study by January 31, 1987 under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank. This study would assist the Govern-
ment in formulating and implementing a comprehensive energy pricing strate-
gy aimed at achieving efficient energy demand management, conservation,
production and utilization. After exchanging views with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of the study, the Government would take all
necessary measures to keep energy producer prices in line with their
economic costs. The Government recognizes that at present the prices
charged to producers are above or close to economic costs for oil products
and natural gas but below economic costs for coal. Understandings were
reached that in m.king future price adjustments, the Government would take
these factors into consideration. It is also developing measures for
addressing issues related to coal production and pricing.
G.   Energy Sector Organization
2.13      The energy sector is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Industry (IpM). Within the Ministry, the National Energy Authority (OCEGH)
supervises and coordinates energy sector activities, including the imple-
mentation of the energy conservation and diversification program. The
Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF), under OEGH, is responsible for super-
vision of energy audits, inspection of equipment, and technical and econo-
mic evaluation of energy saving projects. The institutions responsible for
the energy conservation program are described in Chapter III.
2.14      Other Government agencies are also Involved in the formulation of
energy policy and the regulation of energy sector enterprises. As part of
its mandate for preparing indicative national five-year and annual develop-
ment plans, the National Planning Office (NPO) influences the aggregate
investment in the sector and the selection of major projects, and monitors
project implementation. The National Office for Materials and Prices, in
consultation with the economic ministries and interests concerned, regu-
lates energy prices and sets producer and consumer energy prices with the
approval of the Council of Ministers. Through the State Develo^-ment Bank,
the Ministry of Finance provides financing for investments decided at the
government level. Other investments (including those for energy conserva-
tion and diversification) initiated by the enterprises themselves are
financed through internal resources and NBH.
2.15      The National Technology Development Committee promotes new tech-
nologies and, in selected cases, provides financing. There are alpo a
number of design and R&D institutes operating on a commercial basis which
are active in the energy sector. More important among these Institutes
are: (a) Institute of Energy (EGI) for the design and development of
energy systems and equipment; (b) Institute of Combustion for the design of
boilers and furnaces; and (c) Institute for Energy Research, which is
involved mainly with developments in the electric power sector. The main
energy supply institutions are: (i) the Hungarian National Oil and Gas



Trust (OKGT), whose activities cover oil and gas exploration, production,
oil refining, and marketing of petroleum products and gas distribution;
(ii) MVMT for electric power generation and distribution; (iii) seven coal
mining companies; ana (iv) the municipalities involved in district heat
supply systems.
H.   Bank's Role and Project Justification
2.16      Bank's Assistance Strateg.  Bank assistance to Hungary has
focussed on supporting the country s efforts in effecting its program of
structural adjustment in the economy. Bank lending has had the objectives
of: (a) increasing convertible foreign excbange earnings; (b) reducing
foreign exchange expenditures through selective import substitution, parti-
cularly in the energy sector; (c) facilitating technology transfer; and (d)
promoting industrial restructuring. Non-lending objectives have focussed
on project selection and design, economic and sector policy dialogue, and
trsining.
2.17      Past Lending for Energy Conservation.  The proposed Project would
be the fourth in the energy sector and second for energy conservation. The
first Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation Project (Loan
2317-HU), approved in 1983, aimed at reducing unit industrial energy con-
sumption, improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the major energy-
consuming industries, reducing imported energy requirements through substi-
tution of imported fuel oil by domestic energy sources, and strengthening
the country's industrial energy rationalization program through development
of the institutional framework. After initial delays in the implementation
of some components of the project, due to the need for Hungary to adapt to
the Bank's procurement procedures, and in the recruitment: of consultants,
the project is now proceeding well; more details on the Implementation of
this project are given in Chapter III.
2.18      Project Justification.  The proposed second industrial energy
conservation project would support the Govvrnment in sustaining its efforts
to use energy demand management as the principal tool to contain energy
imports to alleviate Hungary's balance of payments problems, and to reduce
investment needs of the energy sector. It would provide continued assis-
tance for: (a) achieving overall energy savings through energy conservation
investments, and improving investment efficiency through technology trans-
fer, and (b) further strengthening of institutions, especially the full
development and operation of the Energy Efficiency Office (EEO) for coordi-
nating the energy conservation activities. The Project would be a vehicle
for continuing the Bank's dialogue with the Government on its energy ratio-
nalization program, including institutional arrangements for energy audits,
projecet selection and evaluation procedures.
III. ENERGY CONSERVATION IN INDUSTRY
A.   Industrial Energy Consumption and Potential for Energy Conservation
3.01      As noted earlier, industry accounts for 47X of total final energy
consumption. The recent consumption pattern by major industries is given



-8-
in the table below. In the period 1975-80, industrial energy consumption
increased from 9.7 mtoe per year to 11.3 mtoe, an average growth of 3.0%
p.a. while industrial output rose by 4.2% p.a. As a result of the Govern-
ment's energy conservation program, industrial energy consumption declined
during 1980-84 at a rate of 1.2% p.a. while industrial output grew by 3.1%
p.a. The metallurgical, chemical and building materials subsectors are
ma4or energy consumers, together accounting for 68% of industrial energy
consumption in 1984.
Hungary - Energy Consumption in Industry
(mtoe)
X of Ž'tal
1975      1980      1984          in 1984
Mining                      0.46      0.61       0.60           5.6
Metallurgy                  3.24      3.32       3.17          29.6
Engineering                 0.76      0.86       0.82           7.6
Building Materials          1.25      1.35       1.20          11.2
Construction                0.37      0.41       0.30           2.8
Chemicals                   2.13      2,94       2.90          27.1
Light Industry              0.66      0.71       0.64           6.0
Food Industry               0.77      0.86       0.86           8.0
Others                      0.07      0.21       0.23           2.1
Total                  9.71     11.27      10.72         100.0
-          ,=__
Memo Items:   Average Annual Growth Rate (2 p.a.)
1975-80        1980-84
Energy Consumption in Industry           3.0            -1.2
Industrial Output                        4.2             3.1
Source: AEEF, Central Statistical Office, and mission estimates.
3.02      A large part of the Hungarian industry was established prior to
1973 when design and investment decisions were not only influenced by low
energy prices but also by the lack of convertible foreign exchange. As a
result, many of the industries were based on technology and equipment from
CMEA countries with energy intensities much higher than those of competing
technologies and equipment from convertible currency markets. Therefore,
the specific energy consumptions in major segments of the industry are sig-
nificantly higher than for industries in Western Europe--examples of these
industries, accounting in aggregate for about 4 mtoe p.a. of industrial
energy consumption, are iron and steel, cement, one of the two major refin-
eries, and large sections of the fertilizer industry. Since the mid 1970s,
there has been an increasing use of international technology and equipment
in new energy-intensive projects, such as one of the two major refineries,
the petrochemical industry, and new nitrogen fertilizer capacity. The



- 9 -
specific energy consumptions of these new industrial plants compare well
with those in Western Europe.
3.03      For industries based on obsolete equipment and technology, the
potential for energy conservation is substantial. In some sections of the
fertilizer, steel and cement industries, tip to 40% saving in total energy
use is possible, although to achieve the full energy savings, major process
units would need to be replaced. For the more modern inOjstries, while the
scope for energy conservation is somewhat limited, significant savings can
still be achieved. Recent studies and experience show that even for modern
installations, detailed energy audits can identify economically attractive
investments to achieve 10%-20% in overall energy savings. Indicative con-
servative estimates of the potential for energy savings in major industry
subsectors are given in the table below.
Hungary - Energy Conservation Potential by Industry
Energy
Industry             Consumption in 1984          Potential Saving
Subsectors_    (mtoe)                           Percent   Amount (mtoe)
Metallurgy                   3.2                  20             0.64
Engineering                  0.8                  10             0.08
Building Materials           1.2                  20             0.24
Chemicals                    2.9                  20             0.58
Light Industry               0.6                  11             0.07
Food Industry                0.9                  16             0.14
Total                      9.6                  18             1.75
Source: Mission estimates based on AEEF data on specific energy
consumptions for major industries.
3.04      As summarized above, the aggregate potential annual energy
savings are estimated at about 1.75 mtoe or 18% of the total industrial
energy use. These estimates are based on specific energy consumption data
in selected industries and on studies carried out in other countries on
industrial energy conservation. The potential for energy savings is parti-
cularly high in subsectors such as metallurgy (0.64 mtoe p.a.), chemical
industries (0.58 mtoe p.a.), and building materials (0.24 mtoe p.a.).
B. Institutions Involved in Energy Conservation
3.05      Since the mid-1970s, Hungary has recognized that an appropriate
institutional framework is important for the promotion and implementation
of an active energy conservation and diversification program, and has
developed a sound institutional framework for this purpose. An organiza-
tional structure of the institutions responsible for energy conservation
is given in Annex 3-1. The role of various institutions active in energy
conservation is described on the following page.



- 10 -
1. National Energy Authority (ONGH)
3.06      ORGH, headed by a deputy minister, is part of the Ministry of
Industry (IpM). It is responsible for coordination of the overall energy
policy and programs, including energy conservation. OEGE has 30 profes-
sional staff working in four main departments: (a) the Energy Planninag
Department is responsible for the preparation and monitoring of 1nnual, and
medium- and long-term energy plans. This department works very closely
with AEEF, which provides most of the detailed data needed for such plan-
ning; (b) the Technical Department is concerned with both safety matters in
the energy industries and the introduction of energy-saving technology and
equipment; (c) the Regional Planning Department is responsible for the
development of gas pipelines and district heat distribution systems; and
(d) the Main Energy Department deals with the energy management of large
enterprises. It is involved in major subsector studies for energy conser-
vation potential such as those recently financed by the Bank in the refin-
ery and steel industries under Loan 2317-HU.
2. Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF)
3.07      This is an operating agency of IpM and works closely with OEGM.
It has about 460 professional staff. About 34X of AEEF's annual operating
costs are financed from the Government's budge and the remainder is
financed from own revenues derived from services provided to the industry.
AREF has two main departments. The Safety Department is responsible for
safety aspects of energy-producing and consuming activities, setting stan-
dards and issuing licenses for the manufacture and installation of boilers,
and carrying out inspections of critical industrial plant equipment. This
department is important to energy conservation activities since its region-
al offices have considerable knowledge of the enterprises they serve
through visits by safety inspectors. These inspectors are to be trained in
energy conservation techniques so that they can effectively monitor annual
energy audits carried out by the enterprises (para 3.23).
3.08      The Energy Management Department is primarily responsible for the
supervision of energy use and the monitoring of energy conservation pro-
jects.  It has three main divisions:
(a) The Planning and Information Division receives annual energy
balances from some 4,000 industrial and agricultural enter-
prises, which form the basis of the national energy balance
and of medium- and long-term energy plans. The division
also monitors the availability and distribution of energy
supplies, and maintains a data base for all energy conserva-
tion and diversification projects.
(b) The Regional Energy Division with the six regional offices
of AEEF (i) administers the regulations covering industrial
energy use, including compliance with the prescribed effi-
ciency standards of major energy-consuming equipment;
(ii) issues licenses for energy use which specify maximum
consumption levels; and (iii) administers the system of
penalties for energy consumption exceeding the targets. The
energy rationalization unit of the division is responsible



- 11 -
(i) for the technical appraisal of subprojects submitted by
the enterprises for financing through the NBH energy
rationalization facility, and (ii) in association with
AEEF's regional offices, for monitoring implementation and
project completion reports for energy conservation projects.
(c) The Technical Division provides assistance to enterprises
under contracts for investigating and recommending solutions
to technical problems, particularly in combustion processes,
and power distribution and usage. The division also carries
out energy audits upon request by enterprises, and manages a
number of research programs of interest to OEGH in the
energy sector.
3.09      AEEF is a competent organization.  It was responsible, on behalf
of NBH, for the technical and economic appraisal of all energy conservation
and diversification subprojects financed by NBE including those under Loan
2317-HU, and has performed well.
3. Energy Efficiency Office (ERO)
3.10      EEO was formed within AERF in January 1984 under an agreement
reached with the Bank under Loan 2317-EU. It is responsible for promoting
energy conservation programs and coordinating the activities of all agen-
cies concerned with energy conservation and diversification. In addition,
EEO has functional responsibilities for related training, technical assis-
tance to enterprises and institutions (particularly energy audits), and
initiating R&D programs. Although EEO has been active in promotional and
training work, its development for other aspects has been slower than
expected, largely due to the need for extensive consultation with other
interested ministries and institutes to ensure that EKO will be able to
function efficiently without duplication of functions among various organi-
zations. Details on how EEO will relate to other interested organizations
and how it will promote energy conservation at the enterprise level are
being evolved in an ongoing study by consultants (para 4.10).
4. National Bank of Hungary (NBE)
3.11      NBH, which will be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan, func-
tions as the central bank of Hungary. In addition, it is the main commer-
cial and development bank of Hungary, providing short- and medium-term
working capital and investment credits to other banking institutions, state
enterprises and cooperatives. It is also responsible for establishing and
administering credit policies of the banking system, which are reviewed
annually by NBH and NPO to reflect changes in monetary policies and help
facilitate the implementation of the national five-year development plans.
At present the high priority areas for financing are: export-oriented
industries, efficient import substitution, energy conservation, material
saving/recycling, and technological innovation.
3.12      NBa's balance sheets and income statements indicate a strong
financial position (Annex 3-2). At the end of 1984, NBH had assets total-
ling Ft 789 billion (US$16.5 billion), 70% of which consisted of outstand-
ing loans to banks and enterprises. Liabilities consisted essentially of



- 12 -
fixed and sight deposits from banks and enterprises, which are required to
maintain their banking accounts with NBH, including all their reserves.
Profits have fluctuated between Ft 7.5 billion and Pt 10.5 billion during
1980-82, but have subsequently increased steadily to reach a record high of
Ft 15 billion in 1984. The overall financial position of NBH is sound
largely due to: (a) its role as the central bank; (b) its close monitoring
of subborrowers' finances by controlling borrowings and holding borrowers'
accounts; and (c) its excellent credit recovery record. Total funding for
the Project from NBH's own resources would be about US$34.0 million, equiv-
alent to only 0.2% of the total 1984 portfolio, and annual disbursements
would be about 1.5% of annual profits, assuming project funds are disbursed
over seven years.  NBH assigns high priority to financing of investments
included in the Project, and would not have any difficulty in meeting Its
obligations under this Project as well as other ongoing Bank projects.
3.13      NBH has a total staff of about 6,400, including 2,800 at head-
quarters in Budapest and about 3,600 in its 19 regional offices, 64 local
branches and 2 banking subsidiaries in Hungary. It operates six represen-
tative offices and two banking subsidiaries abroad. The President of NBH
is its chief executive and is assisted by the Board of Management composed
of a First Deputy President and Deputy Presidents together appointed by the
Council of Ministers, Managing Directors appointed by the President, and
non-executive members elected by officials of the Ministry of Finance act-
ing as representatives of the State. All industrial financing operations
(except the food industry) are grouped under one Deputy President.
Appraisal procedures and supervision of ongoing projects have been
strengthened under the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan
2397-HU), and are considered satisfactory.
3.14      While coordination and monitoring of the energy rationalization
facility of NIH is the responsibility of a small unit directly under the
Managing Director for Industry, appraisal and supervision is distributed
among the various credit departments of NBH. These departments, however,
have delegated the technical appraisal and supervision to AEEF. These
arrangements are considered satisfactory. Borrowing enterprises are
required to present to NBH their quarterly financial statements (including
a balance sheet, income statement, and statement of retained earnings), and
all invoices and other evidence of payments required for disbursements and
investment control. NBH staff also perform physical inspections, normally
quarterly, and for large investments, sometimes monthly.
3.15      The Government has decided to reform the banking system in
Hungary to create a two-tier and competitive banking system to enhance the
role and effectiveness of credit and other aspects-of the financial
sector. This is to be achieved by separating the central banking function
of NBH from its commercial credit functions, the introduction of various
monetary control instruments including a flexible interest rate policy, and
the establishment of new financial institutions and banks. During 1986,
the Government is to take measures to enhance the autonomy of the credit
sections of NBH, with the objective of completing their full institutional
separation from the central bank in 1987. The transfer of responsibilities
for commercial banking from NBH to the new commercial banks will require a
reformulation of past loan agreements between the Bank and NBH. This will
be undertaken before the new arrangements come into force.



- 13 -
C.   Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification Efforts
3.16      As noted earlier, the Government began to realize in the late
1970s that the economy could no longer sustain the level of investment
needed to meet the rapidly growing demand for energy or the associated
increase in energy imports, and that structural adjustment was required in
the energy sector. In December 1980, the Government initiated a major
action program for energy demand management emphasizing energy conservation
and interfuel substitution for implementation during the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1981-85). The principal instruments of this energy action program
were: (a) reform of energy prices (paras 2.10-2.11); (b) priority credits
for retrofitting investments for conversion of the capital stock for energy
conservation and/or interfuel substitution; (c) regulation of energy con-
sumption at the enterprise level, and tightening of technical standards for
energy using equipment and thermal insulation of buildings; (d) research
and development in energy utilization and conservation; and (e) awareness
campaigns to promote energy conservation.
3.17      Under the energy action plan, enterprises are required to monitor
regularly their energy use and undertake detailed analysis of energy
losses and of specific energy consumption of manufacturing processes to
identify measures and retrofitting investments to improve efficiency of
energy use. Major energy using enterprises are also required to obtain
permits from AEEF for the consumption of energy, specifying the quantity of
each fuel they are permitted to use. The permit system is monitored by
AEEF's boiler inspectors who have to carry out a statutory boiler safety
inspection each year. Prior to issuing a permit, AEEF: (a) reviews the
energy balance prepared by the enterprise and identifies possibilities for
energy efficiency improvements; (b) determines whether boilers are operat-
ing at their specified efficiency norms; and (c) checks whether the enter-
prise has taken the necessary steps to implement energy efficiency measures
already identified.
3.18      Energy Rationalization Program during the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1981-85). As part of the energy demand management program, the Government
established a credit facility in NBH to finance energy rationalization
investments initiated by enterprises. Some 1,761 projects with a total
investment cost of about Ft 27.7 billion (US$580 million) have been
approved during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) up to June 30, 1985 for
energy conservation, interfuel substitution, production of energy saving
materials and equipment (the so-called "background industry" projects), and
fuels' upgrading. A summary of these energy rationalization investments is
given on the following page.



- 14 -
(1981-85)
I     rvetment (in Ft biom)
of iarc=h
State Loans   Energy    Eeg
No. of           mi         and      Saving    Substituted
Tet    Total  Credit   Grnts    ('000 toe)  ('000 toe)
Erl savi8g                    391       5.63   3.27     1.32       385           -
Reductixi of oe caxumption
in itayl iit                  4       2.09   0.36     1.56        61            -
1aergy efficient products      48       4.44   2.72     1.41       565b/         -
Energy substittim            1,309      8.01   2.17    3.57         83c         745d/
Fuels    edrg                   9       7.     6.52     0.06
Total               1,761     27.67  15.04    7.92
a/ Credls approved up to June 30, 1985.
h/ Pbotitil indirect ePnr  savirgs frm tbe use of eergy efficient products.
c Energy saigs arisin frim differences in t*e obstn effieienc of fnels.
d/ Mit of eergy sustiuted was fuel and beatixg oil by natural gas and to a smll extent by
woal and electric pxer.
e/ Fuels' upgrading projects were maLnly alned at improirg the quaity of oawl,  nfacturfg of
bckiettes, and prodxtioa of light petroleum products frnm lr value efinery streams.
Source: AM.
3.19      Past investments are expected to (a) save about 529,000 toe in
direct energy, and 565,000 toe in indirect energy arising from the use of
energy efficient products; (b) replace about 745,000 toe of more expensive
fuel oil and heating oil by natural gas and to a smaller extent by coal;
and (c) improve the quality of coal (by washing), and expand production of
briquettes and light petroleum products. The total investment of Ft 27.7
billion up to June 30, 1985 is 85% higher than the original target of
Ft 15 billion set in 1980, as the pipeline of subprojects initated by the
enterprises turned out to be stronger than anticipated. These investments
were financed through the NBH energy rationalization facility (54%), loans
from the State Development Bank and State contributions (29%), and
internally generated funds of enterprises (17%). A large share of the
investments (61.4% of funds committed and approved until June 30, 1985)
financed from the NBH credit window has been oriented toward production and
improvement of import substituting fuels (coal mining, briquette manufac-
turing and light petroleum products) and production of energy efficient
products. Energy conservation and fuel substitution projects accounted for
22% and 14%, respectively, of the NBH credit.
3.20       Proposed Energy Rationalization Program during the Seventh Five-
Year Plan (1986-90). Since energy conservation represents the single most
effective tool for reducing Hungary's dependence on imported energy, effec-
tive energy demand management will remain at the core of the Government's
structural adjustment program in the energy sector during the Seventh Five-



- 15 -
Year Plan (1986-90). The Government now considers the program for energy
substitution of oil by natural gas complete. Substitution of oil by coal
may encounter technical difficulties due to the low quality of indigenous
coal- in some cases. Moreover, at today's low energy prices, interfuel
substitution (of oil by natural gas and coal) projects are marginal at best
(pars 3.29). Therefore, interfuel substitution investments will not be
given priority in financing from the NBH credit window. The fuels'
upgrading projects, which are conventional and large, will be financed
directly by the Government outside the NBH energy rationalization
facility.
3.21      The Government's plans call for a total investment of about
US$375 million during 1986-90 for energy rationalization projects to be
initiated by the enterprises themselves for retrofitting investments in
energy conservation, greater use of biomass and geothermal energy, waste
heat utilization, and selected background industry projects for production
of energy efficient products. Foreign exchange needs in convertible cur-
rency are expected to be about US$130 million or 35% of the total invest-
ment during 1986-90. The energy rationalization investments will be
financed mainly from the NBH credit window and enterprises' own funds. The
state loans and contributions will be lower at about US$60 million compared
with US$165 million during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), and will be
limited principally to energy saving projects by public institutions, whose
operations are financed from the government budget. Upon completion, the
overall program is expected to result in total energy savings of about
715,000 toe p.a., equivalent to about US$79 million p.a. at a fob oil price
of US$15/barrel (bbl).
3.22      The Government's energy rationalization program for the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1986-90) focussing on energy conservation is reasonable,
and is expected to remain economically efficient, despite the recent vola-
tility and decline in world energy prices. Energy saving subprojects to be
financed out of the NBH energy rationalization facility will be initiated
by individual enterprises themselves based on subproject profitability.
Therefore, the decision to undertake a subproject will first depend on its
attractiveness to the enterprise concerned and second on its economic and
financial viability as evaluated by NBH and AEEF. The minimum economic
rate of return for an energy saving subproject to be eligible for financing
under the Bank loan will be 20%, and a similar criteria is used by NBH for
other subprojects (para 4.03). Therefore, the investment program to be
financed from the NBH credit window is flexible, and will be adjusted as
necessary in view of the developments in world energy prices. The overall
credit amount to be made available by NBH will depend on finding good and
economically viable energy conservation projects. If international energy
prices were to fall further and stay at low levels, it may take longer to
find suitable subprojects with acceptable economic rates of return, as some
projects become marginal. Large energy saving and fuel upgrading projects
will be financed by the Government outside the NBH credit window.
Consequently, the risk of misallocation of resources from the NBH energy
rationalization facility is minimal.
3.23      Hungary has a legislation requiring all enterprises to carry out
energy audits. This legislation, however, has not been fully enforced, and
energy audits undertaken in many cases, especially by the small- and
medium-size enterprises, have not been comprehensive. In the future, AEEF



- 16 -
will provide further training to its inspectors in energy auditing tech-
niques to enable them to review enterprises' energy audits, and identify
problem areas during their regular visits to these enterprises. Training
will be coordinated by EEO. Initial training of trainers and other staff
is currently provided by consultants under Loan 2317-HU. EBO will also
intensify its promotional campaigns to improve awareness of industry and
households on the potential for and benefits of energy savings, and will
coordinate assistance for energy auditso The Project will support the
efforts of EEO and AEEF to improve energy audits.
3.24      As part of its energy demand management program, the Government
has introduced the following additional measures to encourage enterprises
to undertake comprehensive energy audits and energy saving investments:2/
(a) Carrying out of comprehensive energy audits and timely implementation
of energy saving measures will now be a factor in judging the performance
of enterprises' managers. (b) Provision of higher bonuses to employees and
managers for identifying opportunities and implementing energy saving
investments aimed at energy conservation, and for improvements in operating
practices. To this effect, the Government has allocated Ft 50 million for
bonuses in 1986 compared with Ft 50 million for the entire 1981-85 period.
(c) An income tax credit at an annual rate of 4% of outstanding loan
amounts for energy saving investments. (d) Lower accumulation tax at a
rate of 8% for energy saving investments compared with about 18% on other
investments, provided at least 30% of the investment is financed from the
enterprise's own resources. (e) A system of penalty fees if the boiler
efficiency is too low or if energy efficiency improvements already
identified have not been implemented.
3.25      To encourage the use of more energy efficient products, construc-
tion permits are to be issued only for buildings adhering to stricter
building codes introduced in early 1985, and additional financing will be
made available to cover higher costs resulting from the use of more expen-
sive energy efficient building materials. The Government also plans to
make credit available for financing of energy efficient home appliances.
D.   Performance Under the First Industrial Energy Diversification and
Conservation Project
3.26      The first project (Loan 2317-HU) with a loan of US$109 million
was signed in July 1983 and became effective in August 1983 (para 2.17).
It was also the first Bank operation in Hungary. The project comprised
four principal components: (a) institution building; (b) support for NBH
energy rationalization facility; (c) support for four main activities in
energy diversification and conservation, i.e., substitution of domestic
coal for imported coal and heating oil, substitution of natural gas for
oil, substitution of domestic coal for oil in the alumina industry, and
energy rationalization and conservation in the petroleum ref'Lning industry;
and (d) technology development.
2/   Incentives for implementing energy saving measures and investments
will be provided to enterprises based on achieved energy savings
compared with targets.



- 17 -
3.27      The overall project performance has beea gererally satisfactory.
Although delays were encountered initially due primarily to factors related
to a new borrower and to teething problems with procurement procedures, the
project is now proceeding well. Due to initial delays, disbursement for
the overall project has been slow-US$38.1 million as of end-April 1986
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$89 million. In May 1985, part
of the loan proceeds were reallocated to increase the size of the NBH
energy rationalization facility component from US$26.1 million to US$43.9
million to accommodate the increased emphasis on energy conservation
investments and to utilize cost savings in other project components. As of
end-December 1985, the US$43.9 million amount allocated to NBH energy
rationalization component had been fully committed. The performance under
the NBS credit facility and the institution-building components is
described in detail below.
3.28      Subprojects financed from the NBH energy rationalization facility
under the first project are now expected to be completed by end-1987 or 18
months behind schedule. As of end-December 1985, 56 subprojects had been
approved, representing a total investment of US$142 million.  Of these 22
subprojects had been completed by end-January 1986. Disbursement for the
energy rationalization facility component as of end-April 1986 amounted to
US$9.3 million. Delays were due primarily to the following reasons: (a)
many of the subprojects identified at appraisal (November 1982) were imple-
mented by the enterprises prior to loan effectiveness using local equip-
ment; the enterprises were unwilling to delay implementation since they
wished to take advantage of the subprojects' quick pay-back periods even
though this meant the use of suboptimal technology; (b) the initial short-
falls in the project pipeline caused by the above led to the inclusion of
projects not as far advanced in preparation as the projects considered at
appraisal; and (c) procedural and organizational problems in procurement.
For international procurement, NBH was using only one foreign trade organi-
zation (NIKEX), which is specialized in heavy machinery and was unfamiliar
with many of the subborrowers' needs. The proposed Project includes
arrangements to minimize delays in procurement (para 5.02).
3.29      A summary analysis of the 56 subprojects financed under the Bank
loan and results of their economic evaluation are given in Project File,
Reference A. They are expected to result in (a) direct energy saving of
about 95,000 toe p.a.; (b) substitution of about 21,000 tons of expensive
fuel oil by low cost coal, gas and power; (c) potential indirect energy
savings of about 355,000 toe at the level of consumers based on their use
of energy efficient materials and equipment of the background industry
projects; and (d) upgrading of refinery and other fuels and expansion of
briquettes' production. The appraisal and monitoring of subprojects by
NBH, except the market and economic analyses of the background industry
subprojects, have generally been satisfactory (para 4.05).  The economic
evaluation of the energy conservation and interfuel substitution subpro-
jects financed under Loan 2317-HU, at today's low energy prices (assuming a
crude oil pri^,e at US$15/bbl and remaining constant at this level in the
future) shows that while energy saving subprojects will continue to have
satisfactory economic rates of return (ERRs), most interfuel substitution
subprojects may not realize the economic benefits estimated at the time of
their appraisal if the crude oil prices were to stabilize at US$15/bbl and
stay at that level throughout the economic life of the subprojects. For



-                ~~~- 18  -
the 37 energy conservation subprojects financed under Loan 2317-HU, ERRs
for two subprojects are estimated at 9x-10%, for eight subprojects between
13% and 19%, for 25 subprojects between 20% and 51%, and for the remaining
two subprojects at more than 100%, On the other hand, for the seven inter-
fuel substitution subprojects, ERRs are now estimated to be as follows:
one subproject--negative ERR, one subproject--zero ERR, two subprojects-9%
and 10%, two subprojects--14% and 15%, and one subproject is expected to
have an ERR of 24%. Among the eight background industry subprojects
financed under the first project, while one subproject is estimated to have
a 16X ERR, the remaining seven subprojects are expected to yield ERRs
between 26% and 75Z.
3.30      The institution building component included:  (a) energy conser-
vation studies for the petroleum refinery and iron and steel industries;
(b) technical assistance for the establishment of EEO to take the lead in
implementing government programs and coordinating all agencies involved in
industrial energy conservation and diversification activities; (c) train-
ing; and (d) laboratory equipment for monitoring energy use. The subsector
energy conservation studies have been completed. -EEO, formed in January
1984, has been active in organizing promotional campaigns for energy saving
and training in energy conservation techniques. However, the study being
carried out by consultants to assist the Government in determining the
detailed role of EEO and its relationship with other institutes and govern-
ment entities concerned with energy conservation has suffered delays (para
3.10). This study is now expected to be completed by September 1986, and
EEO is expected to beccme fully operational by March 1987 (para 4.10). The
other parts of the institution building comsponent are proceeding satisfac-
torily. The proposed Project will provide continued support to strengthen
the institutional framework for the Government's energy conservation
program.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The Project objectives are to: (a) contain Hungary's energy
import costs both by reducing energy consumption of industrial and other
enterprises and by greater use of domestic energy resources, and thus help
save convertible foreign exchange; and (b) promote the development of
appropriate policies, technologies and institutional framework to help
further strengthen the country's ongoing energy rationalization program.
The Project will also help improve investment efficiency through technology
transfer. The Project will comprise two components: (a) NBH energy
rationalization facility, and (b) institution strengthening,
B. NBH Energy Rationalization Facility
1. Objectives and Scope
4.02      The Project will provide financing for continuation of the energy
rationalization program financed under NBH energy rationalization facili-
ty. The NBH credit facility encourages the implementation of energy con-



- 19 -
servation projects initiated by the enterprises themselves, and complements
the larger energy conservation projects that are initiated by the Govern-
ment at the ministerial level. It is thus a key element in the Govern-
ment's program for energy demand management. The Project will enable NBH
to continue to make foreign exchange available for critically needed
imports from convertible currency areas to allow optimization of the design
of energy conservation projects. The Government recognizes that for many
such projects, imports from convertible currency areas of up-to-date
instruments, control and automation equipment lead to significant benefits
through better monitoring and control of energy use, and higher direct
energy savings, and thus help promote technology transfer. The Project
will provide a line of credit of US$24.5 million equivalent to NBH energy
rationalization facility for financing of foreign exchange costs of (a)
industrial and other enterprises for eligible energy saving and background
industry subprojects; and (b) energy monitoring equipment required by
enterprises and institutes to strengthen their ability to effectively
monitor energy use and carry out energy audits.
2. Eligibility Criteria
4.03      As noted in Chapter III, during the Seventh Five-Year Plan
(1986-90), the Government plans to emphasize investments in projects for
energy saving, including those using biomass and geothermal energy, for
financing under NBH energy rationalization facility. All energy saving
subprojects financed by the Bank loan would first have to be acceptable to
and approved by NBH. All subprojects, other than for energy monitoring
equipment, would also need to meet the following eligibility criteria: (a)
the beneficiaries should have a sound financ!al situation enabling them
to contribute at least 15% to the project's cost from internally generated
cash or equity increases, and to maintain, during project implementation
and for five years thereafter, a debt to equity ratio of not more than
65:35, a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 and a current ratio of
at least 1.3; (b) the subprojects should be aimed at direct energy saving,
greater use of domestic energy resources, or in the case of background
industry projects, production of energy efficient materials and equipment;
(c) for all subprojects, other than background industry subprojects, at
least 50% of estimated benefits should be from direct energy savings and
reduced energy costs; and (d) the subprojects should have an economic rate
of return of at least 20% and a financial rate of return of at least 15%.
4.04      Enterprises and technical institutes to be eligible for financing
of energy monitoring equipment from the NBH credit facility, would have
trained staff, organization and plans enabling them to carry out energy
audits, monitor energy use, and make full use of equipment and instruments
to the satisfaction of OEGH.
3.   Free Limit and Maximum Subloan Size
4.05      Free Limit.  NBH is a large financial institution with substan-
tial past experience in providing investment credit. Under Loan 2317-HU,
NBH has demonstrated satisfactory competence in appraisal of energy saving
subprojects of all sizes. The project appraisal capabilities of NBH have
been further strengthened through technical assistance provided under the
Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan 2397-HU). On the other



- 20 -
hand, difficulties were encountered in the market and economic analyses of
background industry subprojects by NBH under the first project. During
appraisal of the proposed Project, the Bank has discussed and agreed with
NBH on a detailed appraisal methodology for the background Industry as well
as energy saving subprojects. The free limit for subprojects will be
US$1.5 million in foreign exchange. Rowever, the first two background
industry subprojects, regardless of size, would be reviewed by the Bank.
An estimated 25% of subprojects by number and 50% by amount would be above
the free limit, thus requiring the Bank's review and approval. During
negotiations, NBH has confirmed its intention to continue to apply the
agreed methodology for appraisal of all background industry and energy
saving subprojects financed from resources other than the Bank loan.
4.06      For energy saving and background industry subprojects above the
free limit, the application by NBH of a subloan for the Bank's approval
would include (a) a description of the beneficiary and an appraisal of the
investment project, including evaluation of its technical, economic and
financial viability carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank; (b) the proposed terms and conditions of the subloan including
the schedule of amortization; (c) a list of goods and services to be
financed under the Bank loan; (d) the method of procurement of the goods
and services; and (e) such other information as the Bank may reasonably
request.
4.07      Maximum Subloan Size. NBH may onlend for indiv'dual subprojects
up to US$4 million in foreign exchange. Where justified, exceptions to
this ceiling could be made, with the prior approval of the Bank. This
limit is based on the experience under the first project. However, the
average subloan size is still expected to be about US$0.5 aillion in
foreign exchange.
4.   Project Status
4.08      The revised incentives and conditions for financing of energy
saving subprojects during the Seventh Five-Year Plan were announced by the
Government in January 1986. As a result, by mid-April 1986, NBH had built
up a potential pipeline of some 200 subprojects with a total estimated
investment cost of about US$105 million.  During negotiations, NBH present-
ed a list of 116 subprojects with a total estimated cost of about US$95
million, including over US$50 million in foreign exchange, which are being
prepared/considered by NBE for possible financing under the Project
(Project File, Reference B). This list is, however, tentative as each
subproject upon submission of application for financing will have to be
evaluated by NBH for its technical, economic and financial viability in
accordancc with the agreed eligibility criteria. Nevertheless, based on
this large pipeline of potential subprojects, N1H will be able to
select subprojects with high ERRs and to ensure speedy utilization of the
proposed Bank loan.
4.09      During appraisal in November/December 1985, a small number of
subprojects requiring foreign exchange were reviewed by the Bank. The
costs and benefits of the eight subprojects that were foui 4 eligible for



-  21  -
financing under the Project, are shown in Annex 7-1. The total capital
cost of the eight subprojects is estimated at about US$24 million with
US$3.8 million in convertible foreign exchaage. They are all expected to
have high ERRs ranging between 26X-80X.
C.   Institution Strengthening
4.10      The Project will provide financing for EEO in an amount of US$0.5
million for energy monitoring equipment, computer hardware and software for
setting up a data base on national energy use, and for carrying out promo-
tional activities and training programs in Hungary and abroad for selected
staff from OEGH, AEEF,-EEO and energy managers of selected enterprises. As
noted in para 3.30, the full development and operation of EEO will follow
the consultants' study on the detailed role of EEO and, in particular, on
how its responsibilities will be supported by and coordinated with other
related ministries and institutes. The consultants' interim report has now
been completed and is being reviewed by the Government. The final report
is to be completed by September 30, 1986, and the recommendations then
considered by the Government. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government will: (a) implement the necessary measures by
March 31, 1987, for the full development and operation of EEO, following
review with the Bank of the findings and recommendations of the consult-
ants' study; and (b) review with the Bank by December 31, 1988, the
progress achieved in its energy rationalization program and in the role of
EEC and its relationship with other related institutions and agencies, and
the prospects for future energy savings.
D.   Environmental Aspects
4.11      Experience under Loan 2317-RU has shown that the energy conserva-
tion projects in general are either environmentally neutral or have a posi-
tive impact by decreasing effluent discharges. No environmental issues are
thus expected under the proposed Project. Industrial environmental regula-
tions in Hungary have been extensively reviewed by the Bank under Loans
2317-RU and 2511-HU and are considered satisfactory.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
A.   Implementation Arrangementsa'nd Schedule
5.01      The subprojects will be prepared by the enterprises themselves
with assistance, as necessary, from local design and research institutes.
AEEF will carry out the technical and economic appraisal of the subprojects
in accordance with the methodology agreed upon with the Bank. Evaluation
of the financial health of enterprises and coordination of the overall
appraisal of subprojects will remain the responsibility of NBa.
5.02      Most of the subprojects are small and consist of modifications to
existing facilities rather than large-scale new production facilities. The
subprojects can therefore be satisfactorily implemented by the enterprises



- 22 -
using either their own staff or local organizations for design and con-
struction work, and assistance from vendors for the installation of
imported equipment. Project implementation arrangements will be reviewed
by AEEF during appraisal of subprojects, and NBH will provide close super-
vision and monitorii.g during implementation. International procurement
will be carried out by the beneficiary enterprises themselves with assis-
tance, if required, from foreign trade organizations selected by the enter-
prises, and satisfactory to NBR. The Government has, however, recently
established a Coordination Office in AEEF to ensure that procurement will
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and to advise
enterprises and foreign trade organizations on how to minimize procurement
problems and delays. During negotiations assurances have been obtained
that: (a) NBH will use the Coordination Office in AEEF as its agent for
assistance in international procurement; (b) the Government will maintain
the Coordination Office with adequate staffing throughout the
implementation of the proposed Project; and (c) NBH will ensure that for
procurement of all equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank loan,
enterprises and foreign trade organizations will use standardized tender
and contract   cuments satisfactory to the Bank.
5.03      The funds are expected to be committed to some 40-50 subprojects
over 42 months. The Project will finance subprojects approved by NBH and/
or submitted to the Bank for approval until June 30, 1989. Since these
subprojects comprise modifications to existing facilities rather than
large-size new production facilities, they are expected to have an average
implementation period of about 24 months. It is therefore expected that
about half of the subprojects will be completed by June 30, 1989 and the
balance by June 30, 1991, to give an overall implementation period of 5 1/2
years for the Project. However, capital cost estimates, financing plan,
disbursement schedule, estimates of project benefits, and the closing date
are based on completion of the overall Project by December 31, 1992 imply-
ing a 7-year implementation period based on the Bank's experience as
reflected in the standard profile for disbursement.
5.04      As noted in para 4.10, EEO is expected to be fully operational by
March 31, 1987. The consultants' study on EEO will also serve as a major
training and demonstration exercise to AEEF and EEO in energy auditing
techniques. Based on experience gained during the demonstration energy
audits and findings of the consultants' study, EEO will by December 31,
1986 develop a training program for selected staff from OEGH, AEEF, EEO and
energy managers of enterprises in energy auditing techniques in Hungary and
abroad, for review with the Bank and implement it in consultation with the
Bank. Assurance was obtained during negotiations on the above.
B. Reporting and Auditing Requirements
5.05      NBH will submit to the Bank semi-annual project progress and
procurement status reports within 45 days after the end of each semester on
the overall Project including the subprojects under implementation. NBH
will also prepare a completion report on each subproject six months after



-23 -
its completion; such completion reports will be made available to the Bank
for review during supervision missions. This would be in addition to an
overall completion report on the entire Project to be prepared within six
months after the loan closing date for the Project.
5.06      NBH will keep separate project acco'ints, and provide to the Bank,
within five months after the end of each fiscal year, the project accounts,
including withdrawals from the special account and withdrawals made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank in accordance with appropriate accounting principles con-
sistently applied. Enterprises receiving subloans under the Bank loan
would submit to NBH, within five months after the end of each fiscal year,
the audit reports on their overall annual financial results and position.
NBH will ensure that the enterprises' audits are acceptable to the Bank.
The enterprises' audited financial statements will be retained by NBH, and
will be reviewed on a selective basis by the Bank during supervision
missions. One such auditor, the General Banking and Trust Company in
Hungary, has been proposed by the Government, and has been assessed by the
Bank as acceptable. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations on
the above reporting and auditing requirements. The reporting and auditing
requirements under Loan 2317-HU have been met satisfactorily.
VI. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A.   Project Capital Cost
6.01      Total financing required for the Project is estimated at US$74
million equivalent, of which US$25 million or 34% of the total represent
expenditures in convertible currencies (direct foreign exchange). The
capital cost estimates are summarized in the table on the following page.
6.02      The capital cost estimates were developed using the Bank loan
amount of US$25 million equivalent for financing the direct foreign
exchange cost of the Project, of which US$0.5 million is for the institu-
tion strengthening component and US$24.5 million for the NBH energy ratio-
nalization facility component for financing of energy saving and background
industry subprojects. Based on the analysis of similar subprojects
financed under Loan 2317-HU, the average total foreign exchange content for
all subprojects to be financed under the loan is estimated at about 33% of
total cost. Capital costs of individual subprojects will be established on
a case-by-case basis as the subprojects are appraised by NBH. The base
cost estimates are in December 1985 prices. Price escalation for foreign
costs is based on forecasts of international inflation of 7.2% in 1986,
6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.0% in 1989, 7.1% in 1990 and 4.0% in 1991 and
thereafter. Price escalation for local costs is based on forecasts of
domestic inflation of 7.0% in 1986 and 1987, 6.8% in 1988, 6.6% in 1989,
6.5% in 1990 and thereafter. The cost estimates include about 60 man-
months of foreign consultant services for engineering and training. The



- 24 -
cost estimates are based on the standard implementation and disbursement
profile for industrial projects in the EMENA Region which indicates an
average implementation period of 7 years.
CaDital Cost Fstimates
Forit iflhUn           UBS$ Idion        % of Total
loa   fore     Total  localf           Tbtal  Base Cost
NBH Emgy Ratinnalza a
FacUity Convcmet /I
Equipnent, Materlals & Spares    598    789   1,387   12.5    16.5    29.0   49.0
Freiht, Inurance & Hadlrg      57     43     100    1.2    0.9      2.1       3.6
Duties an TmEs                349      -     349    7.3     -       7.3      12.3
ilceimng, agEneerizg
& oonmAtancy                 48     62     110    1.0     1.3    2.3        3.9
Civil Works & Cbntr8ction     703     19    722   14.7      0.4    15.1      25.5
anlssiOning                  110    24      134    2.3     0.5     2.8       4.7
SubtotLal                 1,865    937   2,802   39.0    19.6    58.6      99.0
Euipt nt& Spares                -     14      14    -       0.3     0.3       0.5
Trainitg & Oonsultancy         10      5      15    0.2    0.1      0.3       0.5
Subtotal                   10    19       29    0.2      0.4     0.6       1.0
Ttal Pse Cost                 1,875    956   2,831   39.2    20.0    59.2    100.0
Price Obtingency (25%)        469    239     708    9.8     5.0    14.8      25.0
ToCta Project Cost            2,344  1,195   3,539   49.0 b/ 25.0   74.0    125.0
a/ Tis facility operates as a line of credit for financirg of ensrg savin subprojects nat
eneiy monitorirg eqipnt. The tndicative bmk&iwn of costs into catngois (edpinpnt,
frelght, egineerng, costruction and           ) is based on exprienc for sbojects
ualer loan 2317-iU.
b/ Inciutng Us$9.1 million in duties ant twxes. Daties are estmaed at 15% of the value of
imported goods and services, arA aoualaation taes are estimated at 8 of iiwesb't "st.
B.   Financing Plan
6.03       The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million would meet 100% of the
foreign exchange cost (direct convertible currency) and 34% of the total
financing required. The proposed financing plan is summarized in the
following table:



- 25 -
FinancinA Plan
(ian US million)
Local        Foreign         Total
NBH Energy Rationalization Facility
IBRD                                    -             24.5          24.5
NBH                                    34.0            -            34.0
Enterprises                            14.8            -             14.8
48.8          24.           =7
Institution Strengthening
IBRD                                                   0.5           0.5
Government                              0.2            -             0.2
=0.2         7-i.5           =. 7
Total Financing                        4.0            25.0          74.0
6.04      Beneficiary enterprises are expected to contribute on average
about 20% of total Project cost from their internally generated funds. NBH
will provide long-term loans in aggregate of about US$34.0 million to
enterprises for energy saving subprojects. The financing plan for each
subproject will be determined by NBH during appraisal of subprojects.
C.   On-lending Arrangements
6.05      The proposed Ban' loan of US$25.0 million equivalent will be made
to NBH at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for 15 years, includ-
Ing 3 years of grace. NBH will onlend: (a) US$0.5 million equivalent to
the Government for the institution strengthening component; and (b) US$24.5
million equivalent to beneficiary enterprises, at an interest rate at least
equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus a 302 mark-up
(comprising the NBH processing and administrative costs and a risk-bearing
premium to cover the foreign exchange risk). However, NBH loans are made
at the prevailing commercial interest rate in Hungary, currently at 13%.
NBE's standard commercial rate is positive in real terms since domestic
inflation is about 7% p.a. The interest rate charged by NBH on subloans
for local costs will be the prevailing commercial rate. Subloan to the
Government will be for 15 years including a grace period of 3 years.
Subloans to beneficiary enterprises will have a maximum maturity of 12
years, including a grace period not exceeding 3 years. Subloan repayment
periods of the beneficiary enterprises are, however, expected to range
between 5-10 years including the grace period. Subloan repayments surplus
over the Bank loan repayment requirements of NBH would be utilized
exclusively by NBH to finance energy saving and background industry subpro-
jects in accordance with eligibility criteria established under the Project
(para 4.03). Loans from NBH's own sources will carry the same interest
rate and repayment terms. Onlending to the Government and beneficiary



- 26 -
enterprises will be under subsidiary loan/subloan agreements on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Signature of the subsidiary loan agree-
ment between NBH and the Government, under terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Dank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
D.   Procurement
6.06      Procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized below.
Total
Procurement Method          Project
ICB        LCB a/    Other       Cost
- =:i7n US$ m;i1lion)--- 
Equipment & materials                8.0        13.4       17.8        39.2
(8.0)                (14.0)       (22.0)
Engineering & licenses                -          0.5        2.4         2.9
(1.6)       (1.6)
Civil works, construction            0.6        15.5       6.2         22.3
& commissioning                   (0.6)b/                (0.6)b/     (1.2)
Training & consultancy                -           -         0.5         0.5
(0.2)       (0.2)
Duties and Taxes                     -           -          9.1         9.1
Total                        8.6                   364 6.0      74.
(8.6)                (16.4)       (25.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
from the Bank loan.
a/   Local competitive bidding.
b/   Erection and commissioning costs associated with equipment packages.
6.07      As noted earlier, procurement will be carried out by the enter-
prises with assistance, if required, from the foreign trade organizations
selected by the enterprises and satisfactory to NBH. NBH will use the
services of the Coordination Office recently established in AEEF as its
agent to ensure that international procurement is carried out in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines and to minimize procuremen- prob,lems and
delays. All equipment and services to be financed from the Bank loan will
be from sources eligible under the Bank's guidelines. Equipment and



- 27 -
materials financed by the Bank loan will be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) for all contracts estimated to cost US$1 million
or -ore, and through ICB or limited international bidding (LIB) for other
contraLts at the discretion of the enterprises. All procurement will be
according to procedure.s consistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Hungarian suppliers will compete for equipment contracts but are not
expected to successfully bid for contracts amounting to more than US$1.5
million in aggregate, since the equipment to be financed by the Bank is
generally either not available in Hungary or oa too long delivery periods.
Under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of
preference of 15 or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, in
bid comparison. Exceptions to ICB and LIB will be made for (i) equipment
proprietary to the process design; and (ii) items for which the supply is
critical for efficient project implementation. The aggregate of all
equipment contracts under the Bank loan to be procured under procedures
other than ICB and LIB is not expected to exceed US$4.0 million
equivalent. All bidding packages for equipment and material estimated to
cost US$1 million or more each will be subject to prior Bank review, and
are expected to result in the Bank's prior review of 15% of the total value
of all contracts. This is considered satisfactory in view of the agreement
by NOR that the enterprises will use the standardized procurement
documentation developed under Loans 2317-HU and 2511-RU, the satisfactory
experience with procurement supervision exercised by NBH in Bank projects,
and the agreement with NBa to use the Coordination Office established in
AEEF to advise enterprises and foreign trade organizations on procurement
matters (para 5.02). The balance of the contracts (below US$1 million
each) will be subject to post review by the Bank. Engineering and
consultancy services financed by the Bank will be contracted in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment, works, and services not financed by
the Bank will be procured under prevailing local procedures, which are
acceptable and provide for efficient and economic procurement. To avoid
delays in project execution, the Bank loan will retroactively finance up to
US$200,000 of eligible expenditures incurred after April 1, 1986 for
advance payments for engineering and equipment for approved subprojects.
6.08      Assurance has been obtained that a subloan by NBR to a benefi-
ciary enterprise will not be used to cover expenditures incurred more than
90 days (a) before receipt by the Bank of information relating to a free
limit subloan following its approval by NBH; and (b) in the case of sub-
loans above the free limit and for the first two background industry sub-
projects, before receipt of the request to the Bank for subproject
approval.
E.   Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
6.09      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is summarized in the
table on the following page.



- 28 -
Bank Loan Allocation
(in US$ dillion equivalent)
1.   NBQ Energy Rationalization Facility
Component - equipment, licensing
& consultant services                              24.5
2. Institution Strengthening Component -
equipment, training and consultant
services                                            0.5
Total
6.10      The proposed Bank loan will cover (a) 1002 of foreign expendi-
tures for directly Imported goods; (b) 100% of local expenditures for
ex-factory goods; (c) 1002 of foreign expenditures for manufacturing
licenses, consultancy services and training. To facilitate disbursements,
a special account (revolving fund) will be established in US dollars at NBH
with an authorized allocation of US$2.0 million. Disbursements will be
against full documentation except for training and contracts valued at less
than US$50,000 equivalent each, which would be against statements of expen-
diture; disbursements against statements of expenditure are expected to
total less than 10% of the total loan amount. Documents in support of
statements of expenditure will be retained by NBH and made available to the
Bank for review during Project supervision.
6.11      Documentation to be submitted by NBER to the Bank, prior to a
request for authorization to make withdrawals from the loan account or pay-
ments out of the special account in respect of expenditures for a subpro-
ject on account of a free limit subloan, would include: (a) a suFmary des-
cription of the beneficiary and of the appraisal of the subproject includ-
ing evaluation of its technical, economic and financial viability in accor-
dance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; (b) a list of goods and
services to be financed under the Bank loan; (c) the method of procurement
of the goods and services; and (d) terms and conditions of the subloan,
including the amortization schedule.
6.12      Disbursement Schedule.  The Project is assumed to be completed by
December 31, 1992. The Bank loan will be completely disbursed by June 30,
1993, in accordance with the disbursement schedule given in Annex 6, which
has been estimated using the standard disbursement profile for industrial
projects in the EMENA Region. The loan closing date will be June 30, 1993.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits
7.01      The proposed Project will contribute to the Government's objec-
tive of structural adjustment in the energy sector. It will assist Rungary



- 29 -
in achieving overall energy savings, and thus reduce investment needs in
the energy sector, and the energy import bill. The physical Investments
will also help improve investment efficiency through technology transfer to
Hungary. NBH's selection procedures for subprojects will be'improved
through appropriate eligibility criteria. The use of economic and
financial rates of return calculations by NBH in its project appraisals
will help reinforce the soundness of the Investment decision making process
in Hungary. While the benefits of the institution strengthening component
are not quantifiable, they are expected to be substantial for the long-term
development of Hungary's energy rationalization program. It will help in
improving the monitoring of energy use and energy audit capabilities, and
in strengthening the role of EEO in energy conservation.
7.02      The Bank loan would make foreign exchange available to NBH for
financing of small energy saving subprojects. It is expected that about
40-50 subprojects will be financed. Since all of the individual subpro-
jects to be financed under the loan are not yet identified, an ex ante
quantification of their economic impact is difficult. However, the
experience under Loan 2317-HU indicates that on average, annual energy
savings of 3 toe per US$1,000 of investment can be conservatively
expected. On this basis, the overall energy savings in 1994, when all
subprojects financed under the loan are expected to be in full operation,
are estimated at about 195,000 toe p.a., valued at US$24 million in
constant December 1985 dollars based on a crude oil price of US$15/bbl (FOB
Rotterdam). The benefits of the proposed Project would essentially be from
direct energy savings in fuel oil, coal, power, and the utilization of
waste heat, biomass and waste materials.
7.03      Details of the economic analysis for the preappraised subprojects
are shown in Annex 7-1.  The costs and benefits are expressed in December
1985 terms. A subproject is assumed to be implemented over two years with
an economic life of 12 years after completion. Economic capital costs were
derived after eliminating taxes and import duties and price contingencies
from the financial capital costs. Economic prices for fuels are estimated
from international prices in the world convertible currency trade since
imports of energy into Hungary from CMEA countries at prices determined
under the Bucharest formula are limited in quantities, and all imports in
excess of such quotas have to be paid for in hard currencies and at world
prices (para 2.03).
7.04      In view of the current fluidity in the world oil market and to
keep the analysis simple, the basq c'ase economic analysis is based on an
average crude oil price of US$15/bbl iFOB Rotterdam) in 1985 US$ terms,
which is further assumed to remain codstant throughout the Project economic
life. Prices of petroleum products were derived from the crude oil price
assuming constant product to crude oil price ratios over the projection
period. Transport costs to the Hungarian border and from there to base
storage were added to derive average factory/consumer gate values. The
economic value of natural gas was estimated on a fuel oil equivalent basis
in calorific terms. For brown coal (calorific value of 3,000 kcal/kg), a
LRMC of production of US$25/ton was used as its economic price, which is



- 30 -3
about 60% of the price of imported steam coal from Poland (calorific value
of 6,940 kcal/kg). Hungary currently imports onlv marginal quantities of
brown coal and briquettes. For power, a LRMC of US43.7JkWh was used based
on the latest calculations by Bank staff. Calculations of economic prices
of fuel are detailed In Annex 7-2.
7.05      The base case economic rates of return (ERRs) for the 8 preap-
praised subprojects eligible for financing are expected to range between
26%-80% (Annex 7-1). Assuming a total energy saving of 195,000 toe
expected from all subprojects to be financed under the loan, and including
cost of the institution strengthening component, the base case overall ERR
for the total Project is estimated to be 30%, as shown in Annex 7-3. The
net present value of foreign exchange savings in convertible currencies
after foreign debt service, assuming a 12% opportinity cost of capital, is
estimated at about US$66 million in December 1985 US dollars (Annex i-4)
from the total Project. This reflects the fact that energy conservation
projects by their nature tend to result in high economic benefits with
small investments, since -rany such investments aim at energy saving,
recovering waste heat, upgrading surplus low-value products or substituting
high cost fuels with waste biomass products. The results of sensitivity
analysis for different prices of crude oil and assuming they remain at that
level throughout the Project economic life are summarized in the table
below.
rude oil Price
Rotterdam             Amd mic Rate
us$/  US$      US$/     of Return
bbl  ton       ton       (ERR,)
Base Cae                15  110        122         29.7
Resuts of Sensitivty
10   73        85         19.3
18  132       144         35.1
20   147       159        38.5
22  161        173        46.1
7.06      Results of the sensitivity tests to different crude oil prices
indicate that the Project will remain economically viable even if the crude
oil price (fob) were to decline to US$10/bbl and remain constant at that
level throughout the economic life of the Project.  Under the agreed
eligibility criteria for subprojects, no subproject will be eligible for
financing under the Project unless it is estimated to have an economic rate
of return of at least 20%.



- 31 -
B.   ProJect Risks
7.07      The technical and financial risks to the Project are considered
moderate. The physical investments concern mostly existing plants and com-
mercially proven technologies and represent relatively limited investments
at the enterprise level. Most of the subprojects are aimed at the reduc-
tion of energy costs in existing installations and do not involve increases
in production or sales. They, therefore, do not create any additional mar-
ket and financial risks. The main Project risk is limited to the possible
lack of demand for energy conservation investments if energy prices were to
continue to decline and stay at low levels in the future. However, in view
of the large potential for energy saving, energy conservation -investments
in Hungary even at today's low energy prices are expected to be in most
cases economically attractive. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that it may
take longer to find suitable subprojects with economic rates of return of
at least 20% to be eligible for financing under the Project. This risk is,
however, mitigated by the large potential for economic energy saving in
Hungary, and the large pipeline of potential subprojects already identified
by NBR. In addition, a conservative estimate of a 7-year implementation
period has been used for the Project,
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following major assurances and agree-
ments have been obtained:
A.   From the Government, that it will:
(a)  implement the necessary measures by March 31, 1987, for the
full development and operation of EEO, following review with
the Bank of the findings and recomendations of the consul-
tants' study (para 4.10);
(b) review with the Bank by December 31, 1988, the progress
achieved in its energy rationalization program, and in the
role of EO and EEO's relationship with other related insti-
tutions and agencies, and the prospects for future energy
savings (para 4.10);
(c) maintain the Coordination Office throughout project imple-
mentation (para 5.02); and
(d) cause EEO to develop a program for training by December 31,
1986 for review with the Bank and implement it in consulta-
tion with the Bank (para 5.04).
B.   From NBH, that it will:
(a) use the eligibility criteria described in paras 4.03 and
4.04, and carry out appraisal of subprojects in accordance
with the methodology agreed upon with the Bank (para 4.05);



- 32 -
(b) apply US$1.5 million in foreign exchange as a free limit for
subprojects, and furnish to the Bank for approval the first
two background industry subprojects regardless of size (pars
4.05), and limit the maximum subloan size to US$4 million in
foreign exchange (pars 4.07);
(c) use the services of the Coordination Office to assist it in
international procurement, and ensure that subborrowers use
standardized tender and contract documents satisfactory to
the Bank for procurement of all equipment and materials to
be financed by the Bank (para 5.02);
(d) maintain the reporting and auditing requirements described
in paras 5.05 and 5.06;
(e) follow the onlending arrangements described in para 6.05;
and
(f) use subloan repayments surplus over the Bank loan repayments
of NBH to finance energy saving and background industry
subprojects in accordance with the eligibility criteria
established under the Project (para 6.05).
8.02      Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBR and the
Government under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para 6.05).
8.03      On the basis of the above assurances and agreements reached, the
Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent to NBH at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate for 15 years including 3 years
of grace. The Hungarian People's Republic will be the Guarantor of the
Bank loan to NBH.
Industry Department
Mhay 1986



- 33 *
.WE 2-1
HUNGAURY  - S     ICOU N IUSRirAL 1L3310  CONSUVATIOW PROJ8CS
Suarv Inergy Slace
1970    1978    1980    1984    1985    1990    2000   1984    1990
----   hatul -        -___    i    -Projected -   -2t------
Production
Coal                            8.985   6.994   6.808   6.503   6.183   6.792   7.939  21.5   20.1
Oil & Natural Gas Liquids       2.072   2.622   2.645   2.702   2.754   2.660   1.475   8.9    7.9
Natural Gas                     2.904   5.890   4.991   5.318   5.719   S.410   4.309  17.6   16.0
Hydro & Nuclear Electricity    0.027   0.038   0.031   0.92S   1.508   2.614   8.548   3.0    7.8
Others                          0.333   0.343   0.331   0.325   0.391   0.422   0.843   1.1    1.3
Subtotal                   14.3T1- 13.I0   14.806  1S.773  16.555  17.898  Z3.15    2.!  5MT
Imorts
Coal & Solid Fuels              2.449   2.037   2.133   1.860   2.707   2.618   1.803   6.1    7.7
Crude Oil                       3.972   8.159   7.218   6.323   6.658   6.246   7.424  20.9   18.5
Oil Products                    0.157   1.732   1.710   1.494   1.717   1.342   1.405   4.9    4.0
Natural Gas                     0.163   0.969   3.139   3.070   3.218   4.379   4.262  10.2   13.0
Electricity (Net)               1.052   1.239   2.000   2.405   2.550   2.459   2.319   8.0    7.3
Subtotal                    8.493  14.136  16.199  15.152  16.8S0  17.044  I7.213  SO.1 -3OT
Less
Exports                         0.752   0.595   1.041   1.436   2.492   1.218   2.037   4.8    3.6
Stock Increase                  0.590  -0.081   0.443  -0.776   0.000   0.000   0.000  -2.6    0.0
Subtotal                    1342   0.514   T 4W   Ik TE            i rTIT   T.W    TiT T1T
Gross Domstic Consumtion    21.472  25    29.521  30.265  30.913  33.724  38.290 100.0  100.0
Ldes: Losses in Energy
Conversion and Distribution    4.871   6.758   6.841   7.582   7.728   8.445  10.852
Final Consumption              16.601  22.751  22.680  22.683  23.185  25.279  27.438
Import De2endence (Z)          36.1    45.9    51.4    45.3    46.4    46.9    39.6
Source:  AESF/National Energy Authority (ONE), and Boak estimates.
Industry Department
January 1986



AINNE 2-2
HUNGARY - SECOND lNSTRW. EW6Y COISEATION P
Comarison of Domstic esd International Prices of grna
(Warcb 1986)
Domestic Price
Domestic                Econodic/       As K of
Prie                     Cost      Economic Cost
-Tvg'r                  (USS)
A.  Ene   Prices t, Priucti1v  Sectors (Producer Prices)
Petroleum Pvoducts (ton)
Gasolin               25,709        538         170             316
Gas Oil               10,938        229         1U2             126
Fuel Oil               6,660        139         101             138
Residual fuel Oil      5,740        120          93             129
Latural Gas ('O0 cub.a)
Power                  3,893         81          72 C/4         113
Chemicals              3,140         66          721Ff           92
Other Industry         4,090        86           72             119
SC=  Coal (ton)               945         20           25             80
Electricity (Hb)            2,250         47           37             127
S.   Smer  Prices to Households and Puwblc Services (Cosuxsr Prices).
Petroleum Products (ton)
Gasoline              25,709        538         170             316
Heating Oil            8,000        167         18S              90
LPG                    8,600        180         182              99
Natural Ga  ('000 cub.m)   3,745          78          72 f)          108
Brown Coal (ton)              293          6          25              24
Electrlicity (Mgh)          1,250         26          47              55
ftLee   National Planning Office and Mission estimates, based on average
FOB Rotterdam prices for Warch 1986.
/   Based on exchuse rate prevailing at the ties of appraisals  US$1.0 a
It 47.8.
/   Economic costs fer petroleum products aer  Rotterdam spot prices plus
US$12/ton for freight and handling- to base storage In Hungary. For
brown coal, the economdc price is the long-run marginal cost (LRIC) of
production in Hungary. For electriclty, the economie cost is LRMC
plus distribution cost.
cl   tstimted on a fuel oil equivalent basis assuming a crude oil price of
US$15/bbUL
Industry Department
April 1986



*  -I4                    l
w ~~~~~ I  *
~~1---
'4___



- 36 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
National Bank of Hungary - Income Statements, 1980-84
(Blllion Forints)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984
Income a/
Interest Earned                  41.5     45.3      51.9     54.2     61.1
Commissions Charged               4.6      5.2       5.2      6.3      6.9
Fees, Charges and Others          0.5      0.3       0.3      0.4      0.7
Total Income                46.6     50.8     57.4      60.9     68.7
Expenditures a/
Expenditures on Money
Circulation                     0.6      0.7       1.0      0.9      2.1
Interest                         35.0     37.9      47.3     45.4     49.4
Commissions                       0.2      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.9
Administrative Cost and
Other Costs                     0.9      1.2       1.1     11       1.2
Total Expenditures            36.7     40.3     49.9      47.9     53.6
Profit                         9.9     10.5       7.5     13.0     15.1
a/   Amounts in foreign currencies are translated at exchange rates
applicable at the time of transfer.
Source: NBH.
Industry Department
January 1986



-37-                                   ANNEX 3-2
IUNGAUY - SECOND INDUSTIIAL 11ENGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
lational Bank of Marv -  1alne Sheets. 198-84
1980      1981       1982       1983      1984
Asset*
cold, Currency, Forelgn
ItSh an    RolWing. and
sight Ascounts               78.4       65.1       38.9       78.5     116.6
Advances, Loaes and Credits
Nadium and Lomg-term:
nsa                          152.6     162.2      170.6      170.5     188.9
lanterpriess                 188.7     189.3      185.7      186.7     185.4
State Budget                 23.7       26.7       31.7       32.4      25.7
subtotal        ;TO           37E;        W         3.         n
Short-term Credltst
laka                          19.2      24.8       37.4       33.7      44.6
Enterprises                   92.0     103.8      114.3      120.4     137.8
state Budget                   0.6       0.3        0.9        1.0       0.8
Subtotal            iT.8       1W.!      I=         155T       1ur
Other Assets                    26.4      27.3       52.6±1    62.6a/    64.0a/
1MF Quota                        -         -         15.5       22.1      25.5
Total Assets          M6 !:7               r".      7U7 9     71IT
Liabiliti.  an  Euity
Term Depoeits:
Ibnks                       219.8      225.2      297.8     291.7      342.5
tnterprisee                   88.5      91.0       46.1       41.1      37.3
state Budget                   1.'       1.8        1.9        7.0      12.7
Subtotal            3W.       1T 3             4    .          W! T
Sight Deposits and Othert
Banks                        82.8       84.7       68.2      82.1       56.2
£nterprisee                   67.4      70.0       79.6       78.S      66.2
State Budget                  12.6       6.0        8.7        9.6      22.2
Other                         10.6      10.5       10.9       10.8      12.3
Subtotal            T7ynT    T17T        Tffr       T18. X    n7T
Notes and Colns                 72.7      81.3       87.3       97.8     1O8.8
DI?  Depolts                    -         -         12.2       46.8      72.2
Other tiabilities                7.7       9.3       17.0       19.0      26.9
Equltys
Authorized CapLtal             6.0       6.0        6.0        6.0      to.Ob/
Reserves                       2.3       3.4        4.4        4.5       6.9
Profite                        9.9      10.5        7.5       13.0      15i1
Subtotal                        M ir  -             i5:       -*Mr
Total Liabilities and
Equlty                      581.6     599.7      647.6     707,9      789.3
Iftcludeg It 19.1 bllion, Pt 17.5 billlon and Ft 16.1 billion In 1982,
1983 and 1984 respectlvely in receivables from the State to cove; losses.
from devoluation.
bI ln April 1984, authorized and Issued capital wa increased to Ft 10
billion.                                                               I
Sources NUS.
Industry Department
January 1986



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Estimate'd Disburs'emen't'S Sch'e'du-le f"or- 'Bank' L'oain
(US$ million)
Bank                    Disbursements         Cumulative      Cum. Disbursement
Fiscal Year               During Semester      Disbursements       As X of Total
1987
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1986        0.2                   0.2                 1
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1987        1.2                   1.4                 6
1988
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1987        1.7                   3.1                12
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1988        2.5                   5.6                22
1989
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1988        2.8                   8.4                34
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1989        3.0                  11.4                46
1990
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1989        2.8                  14.2                57
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1990        2.8                  17.0                68
1991
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1990        2.0                  19.0                76
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1991        1.8                  20.8                83
1992
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1991        1.6                  22.4                90
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1992        1.2                  23.6                94
1993
July 1 - Dec. 31, 1992        1.0                  24.6                98
Jan. 1 - June 30, 1993        0.4                  25.0               100
Industry Department
March 1986



- Energi lstionalisstion FacilitZ CoMponen
Preapratsed fub-roWects
project Coat
Of Which                       net       perating Ctost                      ctue Oil                 Paybeck
foreign      Annual          SneTay       (SeIVie)        iplementation        10                 Perio  (peat.)
Type of                     Total           Cochanga      Energy          Saved        per anne.         ftriod         Prica et    Il      With CT4QV Oil VOW
sesm               ~~~Subpojnect             (ft. million)   (it. million)   Savings           (too)      (Vt mdilion)        (amoths)       UsiSbb         L    Prc   at PISIte
I.  Pet. Nitrogen        Waste heat utitlluation            72.2              4.0         441 Nob 451    1,792             0.7               24            16        so             1.4
Works                                                                                 39,921 t
of coal
2.  Papiriperl           Doller replacement
Walaloat Paper                                          48.8             27.6         6,718 t         6,444            0.4               12            73        78             1.4
Co.                                                                                   of P.O.
3.  Pakel State Patm    Production of blobrlquettea         16.3              4.5         1,198 t         31814            0.3               12             28       34             3.4
fft.. hay and corn                                              of V.O.                        310 WAh
4.  FurnIture Pifg.       ProductIon of blobriquettea         3.4              1.1        250 t             247            0.3               12             29       34             3.3
Co.                  from waste wood                                                  of P.O.                       9mmii
S.  Porestry Noed        Use of waste chopped vood
Processing Co.       for heating                        18.5              1.1         3,120 t         1.086            3.7                6            62        76             1.6
of P.O.
6.  Ikmngarian Post      Reduction In power mae              38.9             27.2        12,189 Huh      ).551           (0.5)              32             so        70            1.3
at Solt
7.  Ihangoaian Post      aeductIon to power use             24.S             16.8         2,907 mm          st20          (0.7)              12             32       29             3.1
at Joeebereny
S.  mmN                  hadlo frequency control atelte  910.0               91.4         123 KW           bI              4.1               60 bat         26 46    23             3.0
Total                   1,132.6            lot.?
US*23.7 mdillion U0S$1.8 million
I Wflh - 106 watt-hsours.
bI Rduction to peake load by 123 MW as well as reduc;ion In required Investments. The project aine at instatllng a celntral audio frequency Control system and control euater to
regulate power consamptlon at houeeholds level. As a result * about 123 KW vili be shifted from peak conaseption to of f-peak. The central audio frequency cyatem mill be
Lnstalled Ln two yearsr, whIle inetailation of coottor muter. In the hiousehold residence. will be carried out over 5 years. The tank toan will providsf figancing for for*Wg
aitchange needed foir the cenitral epatea. 
BR188 calculstLolas exclude fuel savings accruing from shititng 123 PU load from peak to off-peak.
tndustry DeWtetent
April 1986



- 40 -
ANNEX 7-2
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Energy Prices
(in December 1985 US$/ton, unless otherwise stated)
Economic energy prices of petroleum products are based on an
assumed price of crude oil at US$15/bbl or US$110/ton FOB Rotterdam.
Economic price of natural gas has been estimated on a fuel oil equivalent
basis. They are assumed to remain constant throughout the Project economic
life. For local brown coal and power, their long-run marginal cost of
production have been used. The resulting economic prices are summarized
below.
aasEort frm  Aerage Total
rnqsport tD            Border to     Factory/
e al ,   sian         GIF       Ebse         0*w"Wr
_ _         PBorder   'H ry y                  Fre Gate
Crude il          110         10         120         2            1
Fu,el0il           82         10         92          2             94
GasOil             132        10         142         2            144
RPsidual Fl
Oil                62         10         72         2              74
LOCal Brai Coal     -          -          -         -            (25 b/
Natural Gas
- per MM--                                          -               2.53
- per '000 ai.n     -          -          -         -              72.4
Parr ( U   Ad*@     -          -          -         -               3.7 b/
a/ Based on an assumed crude oil price of US$15/bbl.
b/ Long-run marginal cost of production.
Industry Department
April 1986



HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Total Project
(in thousands of December 1985 US$)
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993  1994-2000
Incremental Benefits                               1,419    5,440   10,880   16,083   19,631   22,233    23,652
Incremental Costs
Operating                                       140      536    1,072    1,585    1,934    2,190        2,330
Capital                   3,107    8,803   11,910   11,392    7,767    5,696    3,107
Net Benefits                   (3,107)  (8,803) (10,631)  (6,488)   2,040    8,803   14,590   20,042    21,321
Economic Rate of Return =    29.7%
Net Present Value of
Incremental Net
Benefits, Discounted
at 122                   X  US$38 million
Industry Department
March 1986



- mum 
(in dwwnOf              i Us)
1996   1987 I   6    1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   199S1   1999               MDI0 Rl
F o.e1w  (ap1ta1 B1ttuwm    200  2,90D  5,300  5,800  4,800  3,400  2,200    40D
Iatemet 3rm   an IMm
1081!,                       94'   315    633  1,063  1,38   1,527  1         1,491  1,      1,153    976    799    622      445    269      90
Icon                                                   2,060  2,080  2,06D  2,080  2,090  2,80  2,080  2,08D  2.08D   2,080  2,060  2,12D
lbtal (Atf .Me              294  3,215  5,933  6^3  8,D66  7J,07  5,687  3,971  3,409  3,233  3,056  2,879  2,702   2,525  2,349  2,210
blask
WD Loan Dianomwat             200  2,90D  5,300  5,800  4,800  3,40   2,200    400
Oa1 lpot &vlb                              1,419  5,440 10,890 16,083 19,631 22,233 23,652 23,623 235  23,652 23,652  23,652 23,652
7T*al lnflos                200  2,900  6,719  11,240 15,680 19,483 21,831  22,633 23,652 23,652 23,652 23,652 23,652  23,652 23,652
Sbvihip                     (94)  (315)   786  4,377  7,414 12,476 15,984 1,S662 20,j43 20,419 20,596 20,773 20,950  21,127 21,303 (2.210)
nht presEt Vl=  of 89t
W.a"uUos1 at lZ        - LUT66 .11km
!,  Tnelwlr desplsE  fee.
4z11 1996



- 43 - 
ANNEX 8
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Performance Under the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility
Component, Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation
Project (Loan 2317-HU)
B.   List of Proposed Subprojects
Industry Department
April 1986



