D_cument af
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4319-HU
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.0 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
May 12, 1986
[This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985       March 1986
Currency Unit   =        Forint (Ft)
US$l            =        Ft 49.90             Ft 46.0
Ft I            =        US$0.020             US$0.022
An exchange rate of Ft 47.8  =  $1 was used in the appraisal report.
Hungarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AEEF      -    Energy Supervision Institute
bbl       -    barrel
CMEA      -    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON)
EEO       -    Energy Efficiency Office
EGI       -    Institute of Energy
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
IpM       -    Ministry of Iiidustry
LRMC      -    long run marginal cost
MTOE      -    million tons of oil equivalenit
KAT       -    Hungarian Aluminum Corporation
MVMT      -    Hungarian Electric Power Trust
NBH       -    National Bank of Hungary
NPO       -    National Planning Office
OEGH      -    National Energy Authority
OKGT      -    Hungarian National Oil and Gas Trust
p.a.      -    per annum
R&D       -    Research and Development
tpy       -    tons per year



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:      Hungarian People's Republic
Beneficiaries:  Enterprises avd Ministry of Industry
Amount:         US$25.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Fifteen years, including three years of grace at standard terms
Relending
Terms:          Loan proceeds will be onlent (a) to the Government for $0.5
million equivalent for 15 years including a grace period of 3
years; and (b) to sub-borrowers for $24.5 million equivalent
for a maximum maturity of 12 years, including a grace period
not exceeding 3 years. The onlending interest rate will be at
least equal to the Bank's variable rate plus a 301 mark-up.
NBH will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect
Description:    The Project aims to:  (a) contain Hungary's energy import bill
both by reducing energy consumption and by greater use of
domestic energy, and thus help save convertible foreign
exchange; and (b) promote the development of appropriate
policies, technologies and institutional framework to further
strengthen the country's ongoing energy rationalization
program. The Project will also help improve investment
efficiency through technology transfer. The Project consists
of two components: (1) support for the NBH energy
rationalization facility for financing about 40-50 energy
saving sub-projects and equipment to improve monitoring of
energy use and to carry out energy audits; and (2) institution
strengthening.
Project Benefits
and Risks:      The investments are expected to have high financial and
economic returns, and in total would save about 195,000 tons
of oil equivalent (toe) of energy per annum (p.a.) by 1994, at
full operation. Over its economic life, the Project would
generate a total net foreign exchange saving of $66 million
(in December 1985 US dollars) in net present value at a 121
discount rate. The Project would also result in significant
non-quantifiable benefits by strengthening the local
capabilities in national energy management. Prcject risks are
limited mainly to the possible lack of demand for energy
conservation investments, if energy prices were to stay at
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
low levels in the future. The risk of slow build-up of demand
is, however, mitigated by a large potential for economic
energy saving in Hungary and a large pipeline of potential
subprojects already identified by NBH. In addition, a
conservative estimate of a 7-year implementation period has
been used for the Project.
Estimated Costs: a/                             Local    Foreign      Total
---US $ Million     -
NBH Energy Rationalization Facility b/           39.0      19.6        58.6
Institution Strengthening                         0.2       0.4         0.6
Base Cost                                        39.2      20.0        59.2
Price Contingency                                 9.8       5.0        14.8
Total Project Cost                               49.0      25.0        74.0
a/  Including $9.1 million in duties and taxes.
b/ This facility operates as a line of credit for financing energy saving
subprojects and energy monitoring equipment.
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign      Total
--U AS $ Million --
IBRD                                              -        25.0        25.0
NBH                                              34.0       -          34.0
Beneficiary Enterprises                          14.8       -          14.8
Government                                        0.2       -           0.2
Total                                        49.0      25.0        74.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY     1987     1988    1989      1990      1991     1992     1993
---- us $ Million
Annual               1.4      4.2     5.8       5.6      3.8       2.8      1.4
Cumulative           1.4      5.6    11.4      17.0     20.8      23.6     25.0
Economic Rate of Return:  30 percent.
Appraisal Report: No. 6091-HU dated May 9, 1986



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to National Bank of Hungary (NBH), with the guarantee of the Hungarian
People's Republic for the equivalent of US$25 million to help finance a second
industrial energy conservation project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, incliding 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
$24.5 million would be onlent to enterprises for a maximum maturity of 12
years including 3 years of grace and $0.5 million would be onlent to the
Government for 15 years including three years of grace at an interest rate
equal to at least the Bank rate plus a 30Z mark-up which includes a fee for
the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
PART I: THE ECONOMY -'
2.       Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
No. 4174-HU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-KU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Economic Mission visited Hungary in June 1985. Its findings have been
distributed to the Executive Directors (Report No. 5951-HU dated March 12,
1986). Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when,
as in other socialist countries in Eastern Europe, planning was based on
physical targets and central administrative directives. Since 1968, reform of
the economic system has been pursued to increase efficiency both by
strengthening the influence of market forces on enterprise activities, and by
developing a system of "economic regulators" through which the State can
indirectly guide overall economic activity.
4.       In the period 1978-80, Hungary embarked on a program of adjustment in
two phases. First, the authorities placed priority on external stabilization
in order to restore balance of payments equilibrium and come to grips with a
large burden of external debt. Second, in late 1978, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to the structural economic reforms which had been
initiated in 1968 but largely suspended since the early 1970s. While the
objectives of both external stabilization and structural adjustment were
embraced simultaneously, stabilization remained the main preoccupation at
least through 1983. More recently, however, the authorities have acknowledged
that sustained balance of payments equilibrium can be facilitated by an
accelerated pace of structural adjustment to improve competitiveness and
generate export-led growth. Consistent with this, the Hungarian authorities
have been designing a series of economic reforms which are more wide-ranging
Substantially identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Power
Project (P-4301-HU) circulated to the Executive Directors on May 1, 1986
for consideration on May 20.



than any taken to date; implementation of some of these reforms began in 1985
but the full package is scheduled to be carried out within the current
(1986-90) Five-Year Plan period. During 1985 the external account again has
become strained; the major challenge before the authorities in the next few
years, therefore, will be to manage domestic demand while continuing the
needed liberalization of the economy through the reform process (paras.
17-19).
Structural Features of the Economy
5.       The "Socialist" sector, comprising state enterprises, state farms
and agricultural cooperatives, accounts for nearly 90% of GDP in Hungary.
Although private activity has been evident for some time in trade and service
activities, it is most important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings constitutes a large share of the total.
6.       The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are:  (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (41Z in
1984, with 39% of total employment), compared with most developing countries;
(b) a predominance of heavy industry in total industrial output (67% in
1984), reflecting an emphasis common to many socialist countries; (c) a
relatively large proportion of the labor force employed in agriculture (22%
in 1984) compared to industrial market economies; there is, in fact,
significant scope for growth of labor productivity and further shifts of
labor out of this sector; and (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign
trade (about 411). Hungary's dependence on trade makes it vulnerable to
fluctuations in international trade and prices, and is a principal argument
in favor of reforms aimed at increasing the adaptability of the economy to
changes in world markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. The
importance of industry in total production also implies that Hungary's
overall prospects for growth and balance of payments equilibrium depend on
the ability to compete in foreign markets. While manufactures constitute a
major share of total exports (64X in 1984), they are more significant with
respect to exports to countries belonging to the Council of Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA). Agricultural commodities and raw materials represent
major shares of exports to convertible currency markets (about 301 and 351,
respectively).
7.       Hungary's labor force declined by 0.31 p.a. during the period
1975-84. There is a growing perception of a labor shortage in Hungary, which
has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt modern techniques to raise
labor productivity, and shift labor into the more efficient activities.
The Stabilization Program, 1978-84
8.       Hungary's external account imbalance peaked in 1978 with a $1.2
billion trade deficit. The burden of foreign debt in convertible currencies
reached $7.6 billion (46% of GDP), in contrast to only $1.1 billion in 1970.
These developments resulted in large part from rapid increases in investment,
delays in adjusting domestic prices (especially for energy), and deterio-
ration in international terms of trade. The stabilization program started in
1979 has relied mainly on cuts in investment to curb domestic absorption and
on restraint of convertible currency imports.



- 3 -
9.       The controls on domestic aggregate demand resulted in a steady
improvement in the balance of convertible currency trade, which shifted into
surplus by 1980. However, the concurrent rise in interest rates and
deterioration of banking confidence in Eastern Europe caused a financial
crisis in the convertible currency account in 1982, when the withdrawal of
short-term credits during the first quarter of the year reduced reserves to
barely one month of convertible currency imports of goods and services. In
1983 and 1984, the Government successfully regained external liquidity and
rebuilt depleted reserves by two means. First, the stabilization program was
strengthened after 1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrange-
ments lo, which were successfully implemented, resulting in the generation
of $0.3 billion surpluses in the convertible currency current account in 1983
and 1984 (equivalent to about 8X of convertible currency merchandise
imports). Second, the improvement of the external account restored the
confidence of the international capital markets in Hungary, leading to an
increasing availability of loans from commercial banks. Medium and long term
capital inflows from commercial banks during the 1983-85 period totalled
about $6.9 billion, including $1 billion raised through World Bank
cofinancing.
10.      Thus, Hungary's determined pursuit of its stabilization objectives
has contributed to its restored access to external loans and has enabled debt
servicing obligations to be met. Nevertheless, the emphasis on restriction
of demand has entailed costs in terms of GDP growth, which was only 1.8Z per
year on average between 1978-84, in contrast to 5Z in the 1970s. -'
Resumption of Economic Reform
11.      While adopting stabilization measures, the Government resumed
systemic reforms to make enterprises more responsible for production and
investment decisions and to ensure that these decisions reflected
market-based signals ("economic regulators"-prices, taxation, wage policy
and interest rates) rather than central directives. The ultimate intention
of the reforms is to raise the overall efficiency of the economy by
increasing the enterprise managers' concern for profitability, and by
shifting resources to their more productive uses.
12.      The main elements of reform between 1980-84 were the following:
(a) A major change in the system of pricing was instituted in 1980 to
link certain domestic prices to export prices in convertible
currency markets, thereby reducing the scope of "cost-plus"
price-setting. Unadministered (free market) pricing has since been
extended to about half of industrial output (excluding food
processing);
An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in
December 1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was
approved in January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently
contemplated.
2/  Total GDP growth includes the effect of customs duties and valuation,
which declined by 52 annually from 1978-84.



- 4 -
(b) The system of wage regulation was revised in 1983 to allow greater
wage differentials and thereby more closely link rewards to
performance;
(c) Legal provision was made in 1982 to facilitate the establishment of
new enterprises and business associations as a means to stimulate
competition;
(d) In 1982-83, measures were-adopted to permit the issuance of bonds by
firms, thus increasing the scope for reallocation of investment
resources.
13.      Although each of these reform elements represented a significant
break from past practice, they did not result in increasing substantially the
profit-mindedness of enterprises. The limited effectiveness of the 1980-84
phase of reforms indicated that partial modifications in only certain aspects
of the economic system would not change the behavior of firms as long as
managers could bargain with authorities over enterprise-specific regulations,
and a lack of genuine competition precluded the discipline of the market. At
the same time, there appeared a conflict between the desire to decentralize
economic decision-making for purposes of efficiency, on the one hand, and the
urgency of managing domestic demand for external balance, on the other, which
appeared to call for the maintenance of administrative controls. Yet another
source of tension underlying the reform process has been the official
commitment to minimize the social costs of adjustment, in particular by
containing consumer price inflation.
Expanded Reform Program (1985-90)
14.      The experiences of 1978-84 underlined the need to make longer-term
structural adjustments to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the
economy. Thus, external equilibrium could be achieved through more dynamic
export performance without sacrificing growth of output. Highest priority in
the 1986-90 Plan has therefore been given to increasing the competitiveness
of the country's manufactures in the convertible currency market and to
reducing imports of energy and raw materials. Raising the levels of
convertible currency exports will call for greater efficiency in production
and improved product quality; both objectives depend on an upgrading of the
country's industrial capital stock, much of which is outdated and based on
technologies which use relatively high levels of energy, labor and other
inputs. As the economic performance in 1985 has been disappointing, (paras.
17-19), there is a need both for a more flexible macroeconomic management and
to move urgently towards systemic economic reform, to promote external
balance with growth.
15.      To meet these requirements, the authorities launched a more
extensive phase of economic reforms in 1985. The current stage of reform is
planned to continue the transition to a market-based setting of prices and
wages; a further increase in competition among enterprises; improvement of
their financial discipline and control; and fostering the mobility of
productive resources, through an integrated package of policy actions (see
Part III).



16.      To increase competition, both foreign and domestic, measures
intitiated in 1985 focus on allowing greater freedom of entry and exit in
industrial and trading operations, and on liberalizing foreign trade. The
development of a competitive environment will tend to enhance financial
discipline and autonomy of enterprises. Further actions to realize this
objective center, first, on the introduction of a new self-management system
which limits direct state intervention in enterprise decision-making.
Second, the fiscal code has been revised to make taxation more predictable
and objective and allow enterprises greater discretion in the use of profit
reserves. Whereas the tax reforms also serve to encourage the reallocation
of productive resources, institutional changes in the banking system and
financial intermediation are to be the direct vehicles for carrying out this
redistribution. These changes will also permit monetary instruments to be
used more effectively for macroeconomic adjustments, thereby reducing the
excessive reliance on fiscal interventions which tend to penalize profitable
firms.
Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects
17.      Performance in 1985.  While the above efforts were being initiated,
in 1985 the economy experienced a severe slowdown. This development
reflected the adverse effects of the harsh winter; a poor performance of
exports to the convertible currency area, accompanied by deterioration in
terms of trade; and a slowdown in aggregate investment. GDP is estimated to
have declined by 0.5% in 1985, in contrast to a growth of 2.6% in 1984.
Preliminary figures indicate that output of the manufacturing sector fell by
about 0.8% and construction output by 7%. Agricultural production also
declined by 5.3%, largely as a result of a 7% drop in livestock production.
18.      The current account in convertible currencies showed a deficit of
about $0.5 billion in 1985, a disappointing development after two conserutive
years of current account surpluses. At the same time, the current account
balance for non-convertible currency trade moved from a perennial deficit to
a surplus of about $0.4 billion in 1985. The sharp rise of foreign exchange
reserves in 1985 ($0.9 billion), combined with reserve increases in the
previous two years, brought total convertible currency reserves to over 6
months of imports by the end of 1985. This high level of reserves gives the
Government considerable room for maneuver in managing its external balances,
but provides no grounds for complacency.
19.      While facing strains in its convertible currency account, since 1983
Hungary has had also to cope with stagnating or declining supplies of the
favorably-priced oil and raw materials imports from socialist countries and
deteriorating terms of trade in nonconvertible currency transactions. In
addition, lines of credit to finance trade deficits in nonconvertible
currency have been curtailed. Hungary has been required to increase exports
to the nonconvertible currency area and to reduce its debt, which amounted to
about $1.3 billion at end-1985. Nonconvertible currency exports in real
terms increased by more than 7% p.a. during the 1982-85 period, which has put
pressure on supplies of merchandise which could be directed to convertible
currency markets.



- 6 -
20.      External Debt.  In December 1984, Hungary's total convertible
currency debt was $8.8 billion (of which $7.4 billion was medium- and
long-term), representing about 43Z of GDP. This debt again rose in 1985,
reaching a record level of $12.0 billion by December, which was partially
offset by the $0.9 billion increase in reserves mentioned above. Government
policy aims at lengthening the average debt maturity and limiting the
expansion of short-term borrowing. The maturity structure of medium and long
term debt has improved considerably since 1982; nevertheless, about half of
this debt will mature within 3 years, calling for continuing careful debt
management.
21.      Hungary's convertible currency debt service in 1985 amounted to $3.0
billion. The debt-service ratio t- has risen from 41Z in 1984 to 56X in
1985. The sharp rise in the debt service ratio in 1985 reflects several
factors unique to 1985. First, about $300 million in debt service payments
were amortization of debt due after 1985, and were part of the Government's
efforts to develop a more favorable debt structure. Excluding these early
payments brings the convertible currency debt service ratio down to 51X.
Second, as noted above, export performance was poor in 1985. Third,
borrowing increased sharply as Hungary sought to take advantage of the
favorable terms available in international capital markets to build up
reserves and restructure its debt. While Hungary may prepay debt in the
future, it does not plan to increase net borrowing in the medium term. The
developments in 1985 highlight the importance of improved export
performance. The main thrust of the economic reform effort is to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, which should lead to more
rapid export growth. As the economic reform program takes hold, the
convertible currency debt service ratio is expected to decline to 30-35% by
the end of the decade.
22.      Medium-term Outlook.  Weak external demand for Hungarian exports,
combined with policies aimed at curbing aggregate domestic demand, will
probably keep GDP growth for 1985-90 at an average rate of about 2-2.5% p.a.
Growth of consumption-and that of total domestic absorption--are to be held
below the growth of output. Since Hungary's population is approximately
stationary, even this low growth of consumption would permit some improvement
in per capita living standards. Government policies aim at reversing the
fall in investment, with a moderate growth of gross domestic investment
(about 3% annually) projected for the rest of the 1980s. The authorities
have adopted an annual inflation ceiling of 5Z for the 1986-90 period to
protect real wages--a target which could, however, constrain the progress of
economic reform and macroeconomic adjustmcnt.
23.      Bank projections indicate that it may be possible to ease the
restrictions of the stabilization program toward the end of the decade,
although some restraint on aggregate demand will have to be maintained to
ensure positive current account balances. The favorable impact of the
economic reforms on the country's economic growth path will become more
apparent toward the end of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to
' Amortization plus interest payments on medium and long term convertible
currency debt, divided by exports of goods and services. The total debt
service ratio for both convertible and non-convertible debt was about
302 in 1985.



-7-
be the leading beneficiary of the reforms and to grow at an average rate of
about 3X during 1986-90. A lower average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (2-2.5Z).
24.      External Capital Requirements.  Bank projections for the 1986-90
period indicate that Hungary's annual amortization of its convertible
currency medium and long term debt will average about $1.6 billion (including
repayments to the IMF). If stabilization efforts continue to be successful
and further deficits in the current account can be avoided, gross medium and
long term capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.5 billion
per year. The Bank expects to provide some of those capital needs with the
remainder financed by commercial banks.
Assessment of Country Performance
25.      The policy dialogue at both the macro and micro levels between
Hungarian authorities and the Bank has been fruitful. Notwithstanding the
difficulties currently facing Hungary's economy, the high level of reserves
and the Government's record in stabilizing the economy and managing its
external finances in the early 1980s provide grounds for cautious optimism
regarding the macroeconomic situation. The overriding issue at the present
time concerns the conflicts in policy objectives which the Government faces
in the short run: namely, the pressures to protect real wages and planned
investment levels, as against the need to implement an active exchange rate
and trade policy to help improve the country's external accounts further,
liberalize pricing, restrain aggregate demand, and institute flexibility in
economic management. The Government officials have indicated that they are
prepared to take appropriate action if the conditions underlying the 1985
performance prove to be more than transitory. Although the anticipated
growth rate for the economy for the rest of the decade is relatively low, the
economic reform program to which Hungary is committed should strengthen its
growth path during the 1990s. In sum, give- the country's performance to
date in managing aggregate demand and its continued resolve to achieve
external balance and pursue needed systemic reforms, Hungary is considered
creditworthy for additional Bank lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY "
26.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$992.4 million for sixteen loans (including six 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture,
energy and transport.
27.      The Hungarian Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention
on structural adjustment in the producti-:e sectors: agriculture, industry,
energy and transport. The Bank concurs with this selection of priorities and
is supporting Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-based
lending aimed at export generation; import substitution, particularly in the
energy sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant
upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through more
Substantially identical to Part II of the President's Report for the
Power Project (P-4301-HU) circulated to the Executive Directors on
May 1, 1986 for consideration on May 20.



efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality;
and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of enterprise
activities and encourage more efficient industries to produce components.
28.      The Hungarian Government is also looking to the Bank to assist them
in expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect, the
Bank was a successful catalyst in mobilizing six commercial cofinancing
syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan in 1983 for the Grain Storage and Mechanization and the
Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation projects; a 385 million
Eurodollar loan and a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1984 for
the Industrial Export and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects; and a 300
million Eurodollar loan and a $120 million equivalent Japanese yen loan in
1985 for the Integrated Livestock, Fine Chemicals and Transport projects. The
Bank's participation in these syndications under the new cofinancing
arrangements amounted to $30 million and $8.8 million equivalent,
respectively, for the first two projects, $35 million and $12.2 million
equivalent, respectively, for the next two projects, and $36 million and $14
million equivalent for the last two projects. In all these cofinancing
operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms over the most recent
Hungarian borrowings and to introduce the country to commercial banks from
which it had not borrowed previously.
Bank Lending Strategy
29.      The Bank expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned
economic and sector work covers energy, industry, agriculture, financial
sector and foreign trade. The Bank has already reviewed the coal and power
subsectors, the industrial sector, the chemical subsector and the transport
sector. These sector studies are providing policy inputs for the Bank's
dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced in the Hungarian economy to increase the impact
of market forces and enterprise autonomy. Discussions have already been
initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the Bank drew the
Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using interest rebates
as an incentive system. Following subsequent discussions the authorities
eliminated the system of interest rebates starting January 1, 1984. Training
through EDI was initiated with a first course on the financial and economic
evaluation of projects, held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two
procurement seminars and a seminar on grain inflow-outfKow analysis to
determine storage requirements have also been held in Budapest. They were
received with much interest by the Hungarian authorities who requested
further cooperation in this area.  Consequently, an EDI seminar on structural
adjustment was held in mid-January 1985 in Budapest, and a further
procurement seminar in June 1985.
30.      The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14% of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in 1990, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 9Z by that time.



31.      Hungary has signed the Articles of Agreement of IDA and IFC on
April 29, 1985. IFC is exploring possible investments in Hungary. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1986.
PART III: ENERGY CONSERVATION IN INDUSTRY
The Energy Sector
32.      Domestic Resources.  Hungary's energy resources consist mainly of
coal, natural gas and oil. Coal reserves amount to about 715 million tons of
oil equivalent (mtoe) consisting of 230 mtoe of lignite, 275 mtoe of brown
coal, and 210 mtoe of black coal. With the exception of the lignite deposits
at Bukkabrany and Torony, all coal basins are being mined. Coal production
in 1984 amounted to 6.5 mtoe. The low quality of Hungarian coal and
increasingly difficult mining conditions present a serious constraint to
greatly increased production. Proven oil reserves amount to about 20 million
tons and natural gas reserves to 90 mtoe, of which 15 mtoe consist of gas
with low heat value. There is an 80% probability that 130 milliorn tons of
oil and 325 mtoe of gas could be added to the resource base. Domestic
production of oil and gas is insufficient to meet demand; in 1984, 741 of oil
and 371 of gas requirements were met by imports, mainly from the USSR. Other
energy resources include hydroelectricity (0.9 mtoe), low-temperature
geothermal water (1.3 mtoe), firewood (0.6 mtoe), and agricultural crop
residues (0.5 mtoe). Despite the limited potential impact on total energy
supply of these resources, their exploitation can produce valuable savings in
imported energy, and is being encouraged by the Government through its energy
rationalization program. Significant uranium deposits exist in southern
Hungary, which are mined for export to the USSR.
33.      Sector Organization.  The energy sector is under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Industry (IpM). Within the Ministry, the National Energy
Authority (OEGH) supervises and coordinates energy sector activities,
including the implementation of the energy conservation and diversification
program. The Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF), under OEGH, is responsible
for the supervision of energy audits, the inspection of equipment, and the
technical and economic evaluation of energy saving projects. The main energy
supply institutions are: (i) the Hungarian National Oil and Gas Trust
(OKGT), whose activities cover oil and gas exploration, production, oil
refining, and marketing of petroleum products and gas distribution; (ii) the
Hungarian Electric Power Trust (MVMT) for electric power generation and
distribution; (iii) seven coal mining companies; and (iv) the municipalities
involved in district heat supply systems.
34.      Other Government agencies are also involved in the formulation of
energy policy and the regulation of energy sector enterprises. As part of
its mandate for preparing indicative national five-year and annual plans, the
National Planning Office (NPO) influences the aggregate investment and the
selection of major projects in the sector and monitors project
implementation. The National Office for Materials and Prices, in
consultation with the economic ministries and interests concerned, regulates
energy prices and sets producer and consumer energy prices with the approval
o' the Council of Ministers. Througa the State Development Bank, the
Ministry of Finance provides financing for investments decided at the
government level. Other investments (including those for energy conservation



- 10 -
and diversification) initiated by the enterprises themselves are financed
through internal resources and the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
35.      The National Technology Development Committee promotes new
technologies and, in selected cases, provides financing. There are also a
number of design and Research and Development (R&D) institutes operating on a
commercial basis which are active in the energy sector. Most important among
these institutes are: (a) the Institute of Energy (EGI) for the design and
development of energy systems and equipment (b) the Institute of Combustion
for the design of boilers and furnaces; and (c) the Institute for Energy
Research, which is involved mainly with developments in the electric power
sector.
36.      Energy Production and Consumption.  Hungary consumes annually about
30 mtoe of energy. The country is heavily dependent on imported energy;
about 45% of its total energy supply in 1984 came from imports, mostly from
the USSR.
37.      Driven by the need to meet the energy requirements of the capital
and energy-intensive industrial base, and protected initially from the 1973
oil shock by the low-cost energy supplies from the USSR, energy consumption
and imports grew between 1970 and 1978 at an annual average rate of 4.0% and
6.6%, respectively. Production of primary energy increased during the 1970s
to reach a peak of nearly 16 mtoe in 1978. In 1976, the Bucharest formula
which sets prices of energy (and other commodities) traded within the Council
for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) countries was amended to allow prices
to be set equal to a 5-year moving average of prices in the convertible
area. -   Following the balance of payments crisis of 1978-80 and limits to
the supply of Soviet oil and gas at concessionary prices, the Government
recognized the need to contain energy consumption and imports, and reorient
investment needs in the energy sector for meeting energy demand. Thus, in
1980, the Government initiated an effective energy demand management program
by increasing energy prices except for households and public services,
providing incentives for energy conservation and interfuel substitution, and
launching awareness and promotional campaigns (see para. 41 below).
Consequently, the growth of gross energy consumption decreased to only 0.6%
per year during 1980-84 compared with 2.3% per annum of real growth in GDP
during the same period. As a result, the energy intensity--energy
consumption per unit of GDP--declined at an average rate of about 1.6% per
annum. However, partly due to an unusually cold and long winter, the
estimated gross energy consumption of 30.9 mtoe for 1985 is about 2.1% higher
than in 1984.
38.      Energy consumption net of own consumption and losses of energy
conversion industries in 1984 amounted to 22.7 mtoe, equivalent to a per
capita consumptiorn of 2.1 toe which is substantially below the average for
Eastern European economies. Nevertheless and despite a sustained decline
throughout the 1970s, Hungary's intensity of final energy consumption (1.1
'This has recently been changed to a 3-year moving average of prices
calculated from prices during the past five years, but excluding the
highest and lowest prices. In addition, crude oil and natural gas
imports above 1981 levels are priced as international equivalent.



- 11 -
toe per $1000 GDP in 1984), though lowest among the Eastern European
economies, continues to be substantially higher than that of most industrial
market economies. Industry accounts for about 47% of total final energy
consumption (mainly solid fuels, natural gas, process heat and electricity),
and households for a further 29% (primarily solid fuels, petroleum products,
natuxal gas and district heat). The other sectors (agriculture, transport
and services) account for the remaining energy use (24%). In 1984, oil
products accounted for the largest share of final energy consumption (27%),
the next largest products are natural gas (20%), district heat and process
steam (19%), solid fuels (18%) and electricity (13%). Virtually all of the
purchased heat is generated either at power stations or in centralized steam
raising facilities in urban industrial areas and is piped to industrial,
communal and domestic users in the locality.
39.      As energy intensity of GDP continues to decline as a result of the
Government's energy conservation efforts, gross energy consumption is
projected to increase by only 1.4% per annum during 1985-2000 compared with a
projected growth in GDP of about 2-2.5% per annum during 1985-90 and at a
somewhat higher rate during the 1990s. The Government projects energy
production to increase steadily in the future to reach 23 mtoe by the year
2000, or 46% above its 1984 level. Most of this increase would come from
nuclear electricity when the two units each of 440 Mk are completed in Paks
in 1986 and 1987, and from four similar additional units during the 1990s.
Hungary's dependence on imported energy is expected to decline slightly to
40% of consumption by the end of the century.
Industrial Energy Conservation
40.      A large part of the Hungarian industry established prior to 1973 was
influenced by low energy prices and a lack of convertible foreign exchange.
It was based on technology and equipment with high energy intensity resulting
in significantly higher energy consumptions than for industries in Western
Europe.
41.      In response to the adverse impact of rising world energy prices in
the 1970s, the adjustments in the Bucharest pricing formula in 1976, and the
balance of payments crisis in late 1970s, the Government initiated in
December 1980 a major action program for energy demand management emphasizing
energy conservation and interfuel substitution, for implementation during the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85). The principal instruments of this energy
action plan, in addition to increases in energy prices, were (a) priority
credits for retrofitting investments for conversion of the capital stock for
energy conservation and/or interfuel substitution; (b) regulation of energy
consumption at the enterprise level, and tightening of technical standards
for energy using equipment and thermal insulation of buildings; (c) research
and development in energy utilization and conservation; and (d) awareness
campaigns to promote energy conservation.
42.      Under the energy action plan, enterprises are required to monitor
regularly their energy use and undertake detailed analyses of energy losses,
specific energy consumption and manufacturing processes to identify measures
and retrofitting investments to improve efficiency of energy use. Major
energy using enterprises are also required to include plans for energy saving



- 12 -
in their overall annual plans and to obtain permits from the Energy
Supervision Institute (AEEF) for the consumption of energy, specifying the
quantity of each fuel they are permitted to use.
43.      To encourage energy conservation and diversification investments,
the Government established a credit facility in NBH to finance energy
rationalization investments initiated by enterprises. Some 1,761 projects
with a total investment of about Ft 27.7 billion ($580 million) have been
approved during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) up to June 30, 1985, for
energy conservation, interfuel substitution, production of energy efficient
products (thermal insulating glass, window fittings, energy efficient home
appliances, etc., the so-called "background industry" projects), and fuel
upgrading.
44.      The results of the above energy conservation program have been
satisfactory. Whereas in the period 1975-80 industrial energy consumption
increased by 3.0% per annum, compared with a 4.2% rise in industrial output,
in 1980-84 industrial energy consumption declined by 1.2% per annum, while
industrial output grew by 3.1% per annum.
Plans and Policies
45.      During the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90), the Government plans to
rely on the following policy instruments to promote energy conservation:
adjustments in energy prices to reflect their economic opportunity cost
levels, continuing to make credit available for energy rationalization
investments, providing income tax credits for energy conservation investments
and bonuses to enterprises for energy saving, more rigorous inspections of
consumers' facilities, and awareness and promotional campaigns.
46.      For the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90), the Government plans to
allocate about $375 million for energy rationalization investments to be
initiated by the enterprises themselves for retrofitting investments in
energy conservation, greater use of biomass and geothermal energy, waste heat
utilization, and selected background industry projects for production of
energy efficient products. Interfuel substitution investments will no longer
be given priority in financing from the NBH credit window. Foreign exchange
needs in convertible currency are expected to be about $130 million or 35% of
the total investment during 1986-90. The energy rationalization investments
will be financed mainly from the NBH credit window and enterprises' own
funds. The state loans and contributions will be lower at about $60 million
compared with $165 million during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), and
will be limited principally to energy saving projects by public institutions,
whose operations are financed from the government budget. Upon completion,
the overall program is expected to result in total energy savings of about
715,000 toe per annum, equivalent to about $79 million per annum at a f.o.b.
oil price of $15/barrel (bbl).
47.      The Government's energy rationalization program for the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1986-90), focussing on energy conservation, is reasonable,
and is expected to remain economically efficient, despite the recent
volatility and decline in world energy prices. Energy saving subprojects to
be financed out of the NBH energy rationalization facility will be initiated



- 13 -
by individual enterprises themselves based on their profitability, and
reviewed by NBH and AEEF to establish their economic and financial
viability. Therefore, the investment program to be financed from the NBH
credit window is flexible and will be adjusted as necessary in view of the
developments in world energy prices. Consequently, the risk of misallocation
of resources from the NBE energy rationalization facility is minimal.
48.      Hungary has legislation requiring all enterprises to carry out
energy audits; it has not, however, been fully enforced and energy audits
undertaken in many cases, especially by the small and medium-size
enterprises, have not been comprehensive. In the future, AEEF would provide
further training to its inspectors in energy auditing techniques in
coordination with the Energy Efficiency Office (EEO), which was established
within the AEEF in 1984 to help implement the first industrial energy
diversification and conservation project (Loan 2317-HU). Initial training of
trainers and other staff is being provided by foreign consultants under Loan
2317-HU. Moreover, EEO will intensify its promotional campaigns to improve
awareness of the industry and households on the potential and benefits of
energy savings, and will coordinate assistance for energy audits.
49.      To encourage enterprises to undertake comprehensive energy audits,
the Government has introduced the following additional measures: (a)
provision of higher bonuses to employees and managers for identifying
opportunities and implementing energy saving investments aimed at energy
conservation, and for improvements in operating practices; (b) the carrying
out of comprehensive energy audits and timely implementation of energy saving
measures will now be a factor in judging the performance of enterprise
managers. To encourage energy saving investments, following energy audits,
the Government provides the following incentives: (i) an annual credit in
income taxes of 4% of outstanding loan amounts for energy saving investments;
(ii) lower accumulation tax at a rate of 8% on investments for energy saving
compared with about 18% on other investments if at least 30% of investment
costs are provided by the enterprises' own resources; in addition, it has
introduced a system of penalty fees if the boiler efficiency is too low or if
energy efficiency improvements identified earlier have not been implemented;
and (iii) making credit available for financing energy efficient home
appliances. Moreover, to encourage the use of more energy efficient
products, construction permits are to be issued only for buildings adhering
to stricter building codes introduced in early 1985 and additional financing
will be made available to cover higher costs resulting from the use of more
expensive energy efficient building materials.
50.      The aggregate potential annual energy savings are estimated at about
1.75 mtoe or 18% of the total industrial energy use. These estimates are
based on specific energy consumption data in selected industries and on
studies carried out in other countries on industrial energy conservation.
The potential for energy savings is particularly high in subsectors such as
metallurgy (0.64 mtoe per annum), chemical industries (0.58 mtoe per annum)
and building materials (0.24 mtoe per annum).



- 14 -
Energy Pricin
51.      Energy Pricing.  The prices charged to producers for petroleum
products, natural gas, and electricity are at or above their economic cost.
Coal prices are substantially below economic cost. Energy prices charged for
households, with the exception of gasoline, have long been substantially
below their economic costs. Consumer energy prices were increased in January
1985 for petroleum products, natural gas, coal and coal products and
electricity. As a consequence of these increases and the fall in
international prices, the prices of natural gas and petroleum prices for
household consumers are now at or above economic cost. Household coal and
electricity prices are still below their economic costs.
52.      The Bank is actively assisting the Government in implementing its
policy for bringing all energy prices to economic levels. A gas utilization
study being carried out under the ongoing Petroleum Project (Loan 2398-EU)
will review natural gas prices in relation to the economic cost of supply.
Under the proposed power project, the Government has agreed to a cash
generation covenant for the Hungarian Electric Power Trust (MVMT), which
would lead to electricity tariffs remaining close to their LRMC and a LRMC
pricing study to develop the necessary information to enable the Government
to draw up a detailed strategy for eliminating current distortions in
electricity prices. Under the same project, the Government has agreed to
complete an energy pricing study by January 31, 1987, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. This study would assist the Government
in formulating and implementing a comprehensive energy pricing strategy aimed
at achieving efficient energy demand management, conservation, production and
utilization. After exchanging views with the Bank on the conclusions and
recommendations of the study, it would take all necessary measures to keep
energy producer prices in line with their economic costs. The Government
recognizes that at present the prices charged to producers are above or close
to economic costs for oil products and natural gas and below economic costs
for coal. Understandings were reached that in making future price
adjustments, the Government would take these factors into consideration. It
is also developing measures for addressing issues related to coal production
and pricing.
Institutions Involved in Energy Conservation
53.      Since the mid-1970s, Hungary has developed a sound institutional
framework to promote an active energy conservation and diversification
program. The following are institutions responsible for energy conservation.
54.      National Energy Authority (OEGH).  OEGH, headed by a deputy
minister, is part of the Ministry of Industry (IpM). It is responsible for
coordination of an overall energy policy and programs, including energy
conservation. OEGH has 30 professional staff working in four main
departments.
55.      Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF).  This is an operating agency of
IpM and works closely with the OEGH. It has a professional staff of about
460. About 30% of AEEF's annual operating costs are financed from the
Government's budget and the remainder is financed from own revenu.Les from



- 15 -
services provided to industry. AEEF has two main departments. The Safety
Department's inspectors are to be trained in energy conservation techniques
to monitor effectively the annual energy audits carried out by the
enterprises. The Energy Management Department is primarily responsible for
the supervision of energy use and the monitoring of energy conservation
projects. AEEF is a competent organization. It was responsible, on behalf
of NBH, for the technical and economic appraisal of all energy conservation
and diversification subprojects financed by NBH, including those under Loan
2317-HU, and has performed well.
56.      Energy Efficiency Office (EEO).  EEO was formed within AEEF in
January 1984 to help implement Loan 2317-HU, and to promote the energy
conservation programs and coordinate the activities of all agencies concerned
with energy conservation and diversification, including related training,
technical assistance to enterprises and institutions (particularly energy
audits), and initiating R&D programs. Although EEO has been active in
promotional and training work, its development for other aspects has been
slower than expected. Due to the need for extensive consultation with other
interested ministries and institutes to ensure that EEO will be able to
function efficiently without duplication of functions among various
organizations, a study is being carried out by consultants to determine the
role of the EEO in the energy conservation program.
The Borrower
57.      The National Bank of Hungary (NBH), which will be the borrower of
the proposed Bank loan, combines its functions as the central bank of Hungary
with that of a commercial and development bank, providing short and medium
term working capital and investment credits to state enterprises, banking
institutions and cooperatives. It is responsible for establishing and
administering credit policies of the banking system, in coordination with the
National Planning Office (NPO). The Government has decided to reform the
banking system in Hungary and to create a two-tier, competitive banking
system so as to enhance the role and effectiveness of credit and other
aspects of the financial sector. This is to be achieved by separating the
central banking function of NBH from its commercial credit functions, the
introduction of various indirect monetary control instruments including a
flexible interest rate policy, and by the establishment of new financial
institutions and banks. The Government is taking measures to enhance the
autonomy of the credit sections of NBH, with the objective of completing
their full institutional separation from the central bank by the beginning of
1987.
58.      The transfer of responsibilities for commercial banking from NBH to
the new co nnercial banks will require a reformulation of current and past
loan agreements between the Bank and NBH. This will be undertaken before the
new arrangements come into force.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
59-      The proposed Project would be the fourth in the energy sector.  The
first project, the Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation Project
(Loan 2317-HU), approved in 1983, aimed at reducing unit industrial energy



- 16 -
consumption, improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the major
energy-consuming industries, reducing imported energy requirements through
substitution of imported fuel oil by domestic energy sources, and
strengthening the country's industrial energy rationalization program through
the development of the institutional framework. After initial delays in the
implementation of some components of the project, due to the need for Hungary
to adapt to the Bank's procurement procedures, and in the recruitment of
consultants, the project is now proceeding well. The second project, the
Petroleum Project (Loan 2398-HU), aims at arresting the decline in domestic
oil and gas production through a series of priority investments in
exploration, field development, rehabilitation and enhanced oil recovery, and
at strengthening the capabilities of the National Oil and Gas Trust (OKGT) in
the overall management of the sector. Although beset by initial teething
problems in procurement which have now been resolved, implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily. The third project, the Power Project, which is
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in May 1986, aims at
providing a vehicle for the Bank's dialogue on the issues of electricity
planning, pricing, and enterprise autonomy; rationalizing the fiscal system
in line with the economic reforms already being implemented for enterprises
in the competitive sectors; promoting the efficiency, autonomy and financial
viability of MVMT; and effecting technology transfers.
60.      The proposed second industrial energy conservation project would
support the Government in sustaining its efforts to use energy demand
management as the principal tool to reduce investment needs of the energy
sector, and contain energy imports to alleviate Hungary's balance of payments
problems. It would provide continued assistance for achieving overall energy
savings through energy conservation investments, improving investment
efficiency through technology transfer and further strengthening of
institutions, particularly the full development and operation of the Energy
Efficiency Office (EEO), to coordinate the energy conservation activities.
The Project would be a vehicle for continuing the Bank's dialogue with the
Government on its energy rationalization program, including institutional
arrangements for energy audits, project selection and evaluation procedures.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
61.      The project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1985 and
prepared by the National Bank of Hungary and the Ministry of Industry. The
project was appraised in November/December 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington on April 23 to 25, 1986, with a delegation consisting of
representatives of the National Bank of Hungary and led by Mr. Czipper,
Deputy Minister of Industry. A staff appraisal report entitled "Second
Industrial Energy Conservation Project" (6091-HU), dated May 9, 1986 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map
showing Bank projects in execution (IBRD 17361R) is attached.
Project Description
62.      The project's overall objectives are:  (i) to contain energy import
costs by reducing energy consumption per unit of output in industrial and



- 17 -
other enterprises, and by promoting a greater use of domestic energy
resources, thus effecting foreign exchange savings and to improve investment
efficiency through technology transfer; and (ii) to promote the development
of appropriate policies, technologies and institutional framework to
strengthen the country's energy rationalization program.
63.      The project will comprise two components:  (a) the NBH energy
rationalization facility component; and (b) an institution strengthening
component.
64.      The NBH Energy Rationalization Facility.  The project will provide a
line of credit of $24.5 million equivalent to the NBH Rationalization
Facility for the financing of direct foreign exchange costs of (i) industrial
and other enterprises for eligible energy saving and background industry
subprojects and (ii) energy monitoring equipment required by enterprises and
institutes to enable them to monitor energy use and carry out energy audits
more effectively. It has been agreed that to benefit from the proposed Bank
loan for energy saving and background industry subprojects, enterprises
would have to meet the following eligibility criteria: (a) contribute at
least 15Z of the project cost from internally generated resources or equity
increases; (b) maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of not more than 65:35, a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 and a current ratio of at least 1.3.
It has also been agreed that: (i) subprojects eligible for financing would be
mainly for direct energy savings, greater use of domestic energy resources
and in the case of background industry projects, for the production of
energy-efficient equipment and materials; (ii) for all subprojects other than
background industry subprojects, at least 50% of the subproject's estimated
benefits will be derived from direct energy savings and lower energy costs;
(iii) subprojects will be required to have an economic rate of return of at
least 20% and a financial rate of return of at least 15S. Enterprises and
technical institutes requesting financing of energy monitoring equipment from
the NBH credit facility will be required to have the trained staff,
organization and plans necessary to carry out energy audits and monitor
energy use.
65.      The Institution Strengthening Component.  The project would provide
$0.5 million to the Energy Efficiency Office (EEO) for energy monitoring
equipment, computer hardware and software for data processing, promotional
activities and training programs in Hungary and abroad for selected staff of
the OEGH. AEEF, EEO, and other institutes and enterprises. A study by
consultants on the functions of EEO and its position in the existing
institutional framework for energy conservation is underway. The study is
now expected to be completed by September 30, 1986. An interim report of the
consultants has been received and is being reviewed by the Government. The
Government has agreed that (a) following a review of the findings and
recommendations of the study, it will implement necessary measures, by
March 31, 1987, for the full development and operations of the EEO; and
(b) it will review with the Bank by December 31, 1988 the progress achieved
in its energy rationalization program, the role of the EEO, and the prospects
for future energy savings.



- 18 -
Proiect Cost and Financing
66.      The total project cost including contingencies, taxes and duties is
estimated at $74.0 million equivalent. It includes $9.1 million in duties
and taxes. The direct foreign exchange cost is estimated at $25.0 million or
34Z of the total project cost. Annual price contingencies were calculated at
7.21 in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 71 in 1989, 7.1% in 1990 and 41 in 1991
and thereafter for foreign costs; 7% in 1986 and 1987, 6.8% in 1988, 6.61 in
1989 and 6.5Z in 1990, and thereafter for local costs.
67.      The proposed Bank loan of $25 million would finance about 341 of the
total financing and 1001 of the direct foreign exchange costs. The balance
of the funds needed would be provided by NBH ($34.0 million or about 461 of
total cost), the beneficiary enterprises ($14.8 million or 20% of total cost)
and the Government the balance ($0.2 million).
Onlending Arrangements
68.      NBH would on-lend $24.5 million to the beneficiary enterprises at an
interest rate at least equal to the Bank's variable rate plus a 301 mark-up
which includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NBH. This
rate is expected to be positive in real terms, taking into account the
projected rate of domestic inflation of about 7% per annum. Subloans to
beneficiary enterprises will have a maximum maturity of 12 years, including a
grace period not exceeding three years. Subloan repayments surplus over the
Bank loan repayment requirements of NBH would be exclusively utilized by NBH
to finance energy saving and background industry subprojects in accordance
with eligibility criteria established under the project. About $0.5 million
would be passed on to the Government (Ministry of Industry) for institution
strengthening of the EEO for 15 years, including three years grace at an
interest at least equal to the Bank's variable rate plus 301. The conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBH and the Government would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Status of Project Preparation
69.      Following the announcement in January 1986 of revised incentives and
conditions for financing of energy saving subprojects during the Seventh Plan
period, the potential pipeline for energy saving investment credit has
increased. NBH has presented during negotiations a tentative list of 116
subprojects with a total estimated cost of $95 million, including over $50
million in foreign exchange, for possible financing under the Project.
Project Implementation
70.      NBH will be responsible for coordination of the overall appraisal of
the subprojects and for the evaluation of the financial health of the
enterprises. AEEF, on behalf of NBH, will carry out the technical and
economic appraisal of the subprojects in accoirdance with the methodology
agreed with the Bank. Since most of the subprojects are small and are mainly
modifications to existing facilities instead of large-scale new production
facilities, the subprojects can be satisfactorily implemented by the
enterprises concerned using either their own staff or local organizations for



- 19 -
design and construction work, with the assistance from the vendors for the
installation of imported equipment. The subprojects will be prepared by the
enterprises themselves with assistance, if necessary, from the domestic
design and research institutes. To ensure effective coordination of
procurement, the Government has recently set up a Coordination Office within
AEEF.
71.      The project appraisal capabilities of NBH have been demonstrated
satisfactorily in the Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation
Project (Loan 2317-HU) and have been further strengthened in the technical
assistance component of the Industrial Export and Restructuring Project (Loan
2397-HU). Therefore, NBH would be allowed to approve subprojects costing
less than $1.5 million in foreign exchange without the Bank's prior review
and approval. The maximum subloan size will be $4 million in foreign
exchange. However, since there are some improvements needed in the appraisal
methodology used by NBE for the background industry subprojects, the first
two background industry subprojects, regardless of size, would be reviewed by
the Bank. The Bank has agreed with NBff on a detailed appraisal methodology
for both background industry and energy saving projects. NBH has also
confirmed its intention to apply the agreed methodology and eligibility
criteria to the appraisal of all background industry and energy saving
subprojects financed from resources other than the Bank loan. The project
will finance subprojects approved by NBH and/or submitted to the Bank for
approval by June 30, 1989. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1992. The consultant's ongoing study will also serve as a major
training and demonstration exercise to AEEF and EEO in energy auditing
techniques. Based on the experience gained during the demonstration energy
audits and on the findings of the consultant's study, EEO will develop and
discuss with the Bank by December 31, 1986 the training program id energy
auditing techniques, to be financed by the project, for the staff of OEGH,
AEEF, EEO and for energy managers of enterprises.
Procurement
72.      All equipment and services to be financed under the Bank loan would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equipment and materials will
be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for all contracts
estimated to cost $1 million or more, and through ICB or limited inter-
national bidding (LIB) for other contracts at the discretion of enterprises.
Exception to ICB and LIB will be made for equipment proprietary to the design
process and items for which the supply is critical for efficient project
implementation. The enterprises will use the services of the Coordination
Office (para 70), as needed, to ensure that procurement is carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines and to minimize procurement problems and
delays. All bidding packages for equipment and material estimated to cost
over $1,000,000 each would be subject to prior Bank review and are expected
to result in prior Bank review of 152 of the total value of all contracts.
This is considered satisfactory since NBH will use the standardized
procurement documentation developed under the Fine Chemicals Project (Loan
2511-HU), and because of the satisfactory experience with procurement
supervisions exercised by NBE in Bank projects. The balance of the contracts
below $1,000,000 will be subject to post review by the Bank. Engineering and



- 20 -
consultancy services financed by the Bank will be contracted in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Equipment, works and services not financed by the Bank
will be procured under prevailing local procedures, which are acceptable to
the Bank. International procurement will be carried out by the beneficiary
enterprises with assistance if required from the foreign trade organizations
selected by enterprises and satifactory to NBH. Procurement arrangements are
as follows:
Procurement Method         Total Project
ICB       LCB a/       Other        Cost
in US$ million
Equipment & materials          8.0       13.4          17.8         39.2
(8.0)                   (14.0)      (22.0)
Engineering & licenses          -         0.5           2.4          2.9
(1.6)       (1.6)
Civil works, construction      0.6       15.5           6.2         22.3
& commissioning           (L.6) b/                 (0.6) b/    (1.2)
Training & consultancy          -           -           0.5          0.5
(0.2)       (0.2)
Duties and taxes                            -           9.1          9.1
Total                      8.6       29.4          36.0         74.0
(8.6)                   (16.4)      (25.0)
Note: a/ Local competitive bidding.
b/ Erection and commissioning costs associated with equipment
packages.
Reporting and Auditing
73.      NBH will submit to the Bank semi-annual project progress and
procurement status reports within 45 days aftvr the end of each semester on
the overall project, and NBH will also prepare a completion report for each
subproject six months after its completion, will keep separate project
accounts and provide the Bank within five months after the end of each fiscal
year, the audited project accounts, including withdrawals from the special
account and withdrawals made on the basis of statement of expenditures.
Audited financial statements and project accounts of the enterprises will be
retained by NBH, and will be reviewed on a selective basis by the Bank during
supervision missions.
Disbursements
74.      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100% of
foreign expenditures or l00S of local expenditures, ex factory, for goods, and
lOOZ of foreign expenditures for consultants, training and licenses. In order
to expedite disbursements, a revolving fund of $2 million would be
established. This amount would be maintained in a special account with the
NBH. Retroactive financing of up to $200,000 would be provided for eligible



- 21 -
expenditures incurred after April 1,1986 to cover advance payments of
engineering and equipment for approved subprojects. The proposed loan would
be disbursed over a seven-year period. The loan closing date would be
June 30, 1993.
Environmental Impact
75.      There are no environmental issues expected under the proposed
project. Experience under the first project indicates that energy
conservation projects are generally either environmentally neutral or have a
positive effect in decreasing effluent discharges. The subprojects will be
required to conform to industrial environmental regulations in Hungary, which
have been extensively reviewed by the Bank under Loans 2317-HU and 2511-HU,
and are considered satisfactory.
Benefits and Risks
76.      The benefits of the project would essentially be from direct energy
savings in fuel oil, coal, power, and the utilization of waste heat, biomass
and recycled materials. Over its economic life, the net present value of
foreign exchange savings from the project is estimated at $66 million in
December 1985 dollars and at a 12X opportunity-cost of capital. The project
will help reduce investment needs of the energy sector and the cost of
imported energy. The physical investments will also help improve the
efficiency of investments through technology transfer. The base case economic
rate of return for the entire project is estimated to be 30X. In view of the
current fluidity in the world oil market, the base case economic analysis is
based on an average crude oil price of $15/barrel (FOB Rotterdam) in December
1985 dollar terms, which is assumed to remain constant over the project
economic life of 12 years. At full operation the project is expected to
effect savings of 195,000 toe per year, or $24 million in constant December
1985 dollars. The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that the project
will remain economically viable even if oil prices decline to $10/bbl and
remain constant at that level throughout the economic life of the project.
The project would also result in significant non-quantifiable benefits in
improving the monitoring of energy use and energy audit capabilities, and in
the expeditious and full operation of the EEO and in strengthening its role in
energy conservation.
77.      The technical and financial risks are considered moderate since the
physical investments envisaged concern the reduction of energy costs on
existing plants and installations with commercially proven technologies and
relatively limited investments at the individual enterprise level. There are
therefore no additional market and financial risks. The main risks concern
mainly the possible lack in demand for energy conservation investments due to
further declines in energy prices. However, in view of the large potential
for energy saving and the substantial pipeline of potential subprojects, these
risks are considered acceptable. This risk has further been minimized by a
conservative estimate of a 7-year implementation period for the Project.



- 22 -
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
78.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 12, 1986



ANNEX I
23  -                                                   (Page  1)
MUSCAt?               - SOIAL INDICATORS AT S
HUAr                                RUEuN:CE amour (VtGUSAo AUrA7 L
MOST                    CMOS? NECUT ESTI PAIS) lb
19.olb     197a1b : rSIAYThb      NMACST COUES             A? icAm
AMA           SQ?. ut)
TOTAL      9e41                                     93.0 934*
KOCULrUWAL                         71.4       48.        43.4
GM  CPM IwT  (on)                      ..         ..      2130.0               ..                   1102.9
USES OASBWTI 113 CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS ur OIL iQUIVALENMT    1334.0     2070.0     2463.0             41* .1                  69".3
rooms m vimL Sflfl
POULATION.EiI0-YNA  CNOSANDS)   9944.0    10337.0    104".0
URBA  POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)      40.1       47.9       S3.                43.4                    74.7
PULATION PRoECtIONS
POnILAYO  ts YM  2000 CMILL)                            10.7
STATONIRY POILAYTIo  CMILL?                             31.0
PoULIO        na                                         1.
POPULATION NNSUt
pta SQ. MQ.                     107.3      111.1       115.0              42.3                   140.8
Pt SQ. la. Am. LAND             139.8      130.4       142.7              4.4                    322.2
POPULATION AGE STRIICTRZ (I)
0-14 YIS                        25.3       20.8        21.7              24.4                    21.3
15-44 ItS                        63.6       67.6       45.2               65.4                    66.6
65 AS AU                          9.0       11.5        12.9              10.0                    32.0
POATION GUM          (C)
TOTAL                             0.7        0.3        0.3                0.8                     0.3
URBAN                            1.5        2.1        1                 1.8                     1.3
CUnD  SIaR1 un CPU TaOUS)          14.7       14.7        11.9              19.0                    13.3
CEDE OAT EATS CDPU TIOU5)          10.2       1I.4        13.9              10.5                     0.9
COSS NRUCTION EaS                   1.0        1.0        0.9                1.2                     0.9
TAMILY PLRANI
ACaFIOS. AHEt. (TN0S)             ..        49.0 IC   711.8 /c
USER5 (C OFr HARR= WOEN)          ..        47.07;    77.0 7-.t            .                      71.1
*     OF Or 0 PRWD. PU CAPITA
( 1969-71-LW0)                     53.0       91.0       147.0             109.4                   107.2
PER cArT sUPY or
CALORIC C or RSQUIENTS)         119.0      127.0       134.0             133.2                   132.9
PaoZrus (GRAN MX DAY)            B4.0       91.0       91.0    5     5     o.o                   101.0
or UI I AII  . AND PC1`5K       36.0       39.0        46.0 /a           53.8                    61.4
C12. (ICA   1-4) 06A7334A3          3.6        2.         1.0                1.3                     0.4
Lug CrISC  AT aIm  (YXARS)         68.4       6S9        69J.9             49.                      75.3
tRAT MEt?. RATS (C    OOS)         47.6       33.9       19.0               19.4                     9.9
ACCES TO SAn VATS (IDO)
TOTAL                            22.7 js    34.4 4      4   I b.
UR7A                              ..        65.0        83.
RURL                              ..        10.4       * 42.8 2l.
ACCESS TO Uci  DuSPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATO)
TOTAL                             ..        27.2       53.3 I/h
URBa                              ..        50.1       72.6 a.
RWRAL                             ..         6.Z       30.4..
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN          720.0      310.0      400.0 lh          348.7                   533.2
POP. PE NURSI  Pr                 330.0 /i    30.0        30.0            130.7                    IG6.8
POP. PR HOSWTAL RED
TOTAL                           140.0      120.0       110.0             44.4                    120.9
URBAN                            80.0 1I   140.0      130.0 Is          109.0                   143.2
Rumus                             ..         ..         ..             13576.7                   774.8
ADMISSIONS      WSIlTAL 351        ..         20.5       214 Jh             16.4                    17.8
AVRI SIZ OF IIOUSM
TOTL                              3.1        3.0        2J /b
URU                              ..          2.7        2.7 7.
RURAL                            ..          3.2        3.07K
AVIRMU  0. OP PEJAUWROOM
TOTAL                             2.4        2.0        1.5 lb
URBAN                             ..         1.9        1.57.
RURAL                             ..         2.0        1.47.
nAC=rACB OF DIILISS WIII ELECT.
TOTAL                            74.6       91.7       98.1 /h
URBAN                             ..        94.4       99.1 7.
RURAL                            *'         87.4       94.97*



- 21i4-                                                     ANNEX I
(Page 2)
i,ia   WYEth                  ~~~~~~CyOS RIE? INjTC,
ADJUSTED  NOWUS? RATIOS
P11mhZ;  TOTAL                    101.0        97.0       100.0               104.3                     101.2
MALI                   102.0        95.0       100.0                98.1                     102.1
FUGUE                  100.0        97.0       100.0               97.5                      102.4
EONUDZmI OTAL                      23.0        63.0        73.0                59.7                      17.1
MILE                    21.0        71.0        74.0                70.5                      10.3
VUAL                    34.0        55.0        72.0               74.9                       14.1
VOCATIONAL (I 01 SEMMARY)            30.         73.6        74.l                32.3                      1NA
PUP EL-TEAEI RaTI
PRImy                              24.0         15.0        15.0               12.2                      16.7
s9YIUm                             11.0         26.0        19.0               16.0                      11.6
PASsmin  CASITWIUMD POP               3.3        23.2       106.5                97.3                     3".3
RAIO ECEIVIRU/TUOSAD POP            22.         244.8       261.3               429.6                    1093.2
TV RIdrIVsslU sD PO                  10.4       171.1        262.2              286.6                     491.3
SPPEA   ("DAIT 0555AL
IUT?) CIRWATIU
PER ISUD  POPLATION                143.6       213.3       248.9               363.1                     320.4
CIDfGAIIL AT!USAMICDitTA             14.0         7.7         6.4                12.9                       3.3
TOTAL LaE POC (TWOs)               4777.0      5031.0      5196.0
FSL& CllEt)                        36.4        42.0        42.7                47.3                      36.2
AEClU    (Pusam                   38.7        25.2        20.3 li             17.3                       6.2
INDSSTEM (FPRI?)M                  34.3        44.4        42.9                A2.                       37.7
FancIPATIS RE (Pns!) 
TOTAL                              47.5        46.7         45.6               51.1                      46.0
UALZ                               63.1         58.2        57.4               54.7                      59.5
INALZ                              33.7         39.7       40.0                44.0                      32.7
IWUO C DDIIDCr RTO                    0.7         0.7         0.7                 0.7                       0.7
fIRR 01 FILITAS INCOME
suctrv at
ECISE   3 OF MOW SEIOLDS           12.1 /k      k1.3        10.6 A
RISES? 20101 RUISUOLDS             33.5 W        3          12.3A              4*3.1
LOUIS 202 0  ROUXIOLDS              9.4         9.97K      10.5                 ..                        5.4
LOUIS? 40107 WUSZOLDS              23.6 7      2z4. 7k     26.2                 ..                       16.4
-.Z CU ftU WM w
-     S       -.                                  ..          ..                  ..                        ..
LEVEL (1155 PEE    CI)
m.                                  .. . ..
ESTITD   .RELATV  PRS??IC
LEVELs (115 PE CAPITA)
1115AM                              .......-
naL                                 ........
NOT APPLUCDL
S OTIS  
/s   The group averges for each Sndicator era populaCio-welghted aritb_tic  _sae. Coverage Of coutri
among the indLcatora depends on availability of data nd La not niforms.
/b   Unleaotemum notod, "Data for 19W" refer to any yer be_ten 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betweea
1969 and 1971; nd data for "foat Reat neOtce" beween 1951 nd 133.
2c  VoWs of reproductive ag  (17-49) using ora1 coatr acptivee; /d 1966, woe on f raprodottiie age  - la
than 45 pears;  Jc 1977; /f W_an ef reproduetive ags le  thia  40 year ,  a Pemace"tg of o-inpi"d
dwueling.;  lh lI-0S    /I Iii;  Li 1978; /k Prcentege of tcom  r eceed k  the roepective percent of
the popaltatrfn. and dEn refer to years Ji2l  1972 and 1977.
JUE.S 19eS



-25-                                                  ANNEX I
(Page 3)
DEFINiTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noun: Although the data afr drawn from sourcen erally judgd the most authontative and reliable. it should also be noted that they may not be mncriAtionAlly
compa rable becuse Of ihe lack of standardized deflmtniom and eoncepts used by different countnes in colkcting the data. The data Are. nonesheles useful mo
deicnbe orders f magnutude. indicate trends, and charactenze certain major differeinces between counne.s!
The refere ce groups me (1) the same country group of tbe subjct country and 12) a country group with somewhat higher average income thin the country
groupofrte subject country (tcept for -High IncomeOil Exporten"group where "Middle Income North Afrcaand Middle East" is chosen becIuswofstringer  |
,oio-culturail armies). In the refrence group date the averag are populauon wetghted mnthmneuc means for each indicalor and shown only when majority
of the countnrin a group h data for that sndicator Since the covege ofeountnesamong the ndicator depends oitde availability of dat .nd s not uniform.
caution must be esercised im retingaverag   of one indicator to another These averge are only ueful in comparng the value o one indicator at  umei amoang
Lhe country and reference groupsI
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crud 5rnh Rate (per  oeusandD-Number of live births in the year
Toral-Total surface area compnsing land area and inland waters;   per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cr&de Death Rte (per tihead) -N umber or deaths in the year
Agriculrurei-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year popultion: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   eros Repreducie. Rate-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually fivc-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by same conversion nethod as World       Ihi,fp PMng--Aecepters  Anua (rheusnds)-Annual num-
Bank Atilas (l1 981-83 basis); 198 3 da ta.                       ber of accepton of birth-con ral devices under auspicos Or national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Far//y Psasnliu-lers (percent ofasrted mwnem)-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms or oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are genrally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
esotl Popa/teu. Mid- Yew (rhousandr)-As or July 1: 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
UIdeRul f FeedProdutdeu PerCapte (1969-71 - 100-index of per
ourban Pepoluta  (perent of  urbana-Ratmo of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; diFferent definitions of urban areas may affect compar- exldsailfedndedfoagcutr.Fdcmoiis
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       excludes animal feed and seed for agricuature. Food commofities
include prirnary commoditttes (c-8- sugarcane instead ofrsugarJ
Pepulation Project/em                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popudlation is year 2000-The projection of population for 2000    excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetabls fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beet  livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 190. these parameters   on national average producer price weights 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               hr Capita Supply of Caloric (perem ofequireneur-Comnput-
Stationary popadtion-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replnement level.                                         waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenrum-Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after tI'e net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimurn allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remnains at mplace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                         75 grans of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populaion Denity                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Poein Supply  on. A-niand Puls-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agriculrural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Populion Age Strucure (pereenti-Children (0-14 years). work-      Child (an 1-4) Deatk Rate (per thousand)-N umber of deaths of
ingage(I5-64years), and retired(65 yearsand over)as percentage    children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data denved
Popultion Growth Rase (percent-roral--Annual growth rates of      from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
PopaiWon Gowh Rate (percent)-urha-Annual growth rates             Life Expectany at Binh (yearsJ-N umber of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for aDl peopic



- 26-                                       -    ANNEX I
(Page 4)
at the time of of its birth wer to sty the same throughout its lire:  Pwrmtacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 ad  1993 data.                                    rolled in primary and secondary lewis divided by number of
bf_e Mevty Rate (per theaW-Number of infants who die    teachen in ite corrsponding levds.
before raching one year of age per thousand live birhs in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 19B3 data.                              CONSUMPIlON
AccSJ     Sar 5Wer Ww(puceato 1    d1dw-E    L aris. eMf     Pbasewger Cas (per Ihad p.sAnd.in-Passenger cars com-
prs-Number or people (total. urban and runl) with reasonable  primc motor can seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
acces to safe water supply (includes trated surface wate  or  ances. hearses and militay vehicles.
untrated but unconminatd water such as that from prtctd      RUe. RlecWie (per t-enw popu_itew)-All types of receivers
borehol spings and snitary welb) as pcmas of thir r pec-     for radio bradcsts to genri  public per thousand of population.
tie populations. In - urban a   a public fountain or sndpost  exlud  un-licessed receivers in countries and in years when
lcated not more than 200 meles from. house may be coDUdend   registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years nay
as being within reasonable access of that house In rural     not be comparabs  inc most countries abolisbed icensing
reasonable aes would imply that the housewife or members of the
houihold do not hnLve to spend a disprnrtiort part of the daey  7Receinr (PMr        u t-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching tbe  have to pnda                                to aeni  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Acces te Ezeta Dipd (pefcew N_t   -           -         _    receiven in  untres and in yeas when reg tion of TV sets was
and vwel-Number or people (totaL urban, and rural) served by  in
excrets disposa     peetags of the  respecve populations.            - Cb         (per th.sm__jppalieq)-Shows the aver-
Excrt dispoal may include the collection and dis poL with or  age ciraulation of daily general intenst newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human creta and wastewater by war-    ped    publiction devoted prmarily to recording gneral news.
borne systms or the ume of pit privies and tmilar instltions.  It is consided to be -daily' if it appeas at kast four times a week.
Ppe_ua par PkIbpde.-Population divided by number of prc-     Cisv Aal AffeaiAes  per Capqt per Y _r-Based on the
tising physicians qualified frorn a medical school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Pp.hi. pr Nwei  P cw-PopulAtion divied by number of          drive-in ciemas and mobile unit.
praticing male and fekm    grduate nurss, assisnt nures,.
practcal nurso and nurung auxuiliaus                         LOR  FORCE
P o    ,ir Har    AW-4MW   iM11--ptipulaton                  ToW L_lk Fwwf (shJeml Economically active persons. in-
(totel. u eran and ruld) d-ietd, by ris   respwi.v p number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
(osital, ubs advairable i vipubdicad bprivar resetivdpen lird  students. etc.. covering population of all ags. Definitions in
hospital bed savailabtaloin p c . Hogntal an Sis      ts     various countries arem    compaable 1960.1970 and 1983 dtaL
pemaently staffed by at lst one physicia  Establishments proy-  Fnmd E'percew)-Femnale labor fore as percentage of total labor
iding pnncipaly cusodial care are not inled. RuRa hopitals.    force.
however. imclue heath and medical cntenot permanently sffed  Agrk_uwr (perrue)-Labor fome in rarming. forestry, hunting
by a physid   (but by a medical assistant, nurs. midwife etc.)    and fishing as perentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acommodation and provide a limited rne  data.
of medical faclitie5                                         Iml.stry (percear)-Labor rorce in mining, construction. manu-
A.i'du   r p  eHosptl Ded-Totid number of admissions to or   facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharge from hospitals divided by the number of bedLs      force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
H SGPavk4.vfiu Rae (perces)-W  m,mf&.  idfeiml-4articipa bon
HOUSIIYG                                                     or activity rates are cmputed as total, mal and female labor force
.Ave   She of  Nausem  (persu per a Il)-.II   ed.L wise.     as pernages of total, male and female population of al ages
aaidwu-Ahouseholdconstsofagroupofindividualswboshare         rectivly. 1960. 1970. and 1983 datL Thes are based on ILOs
living quarrs and their ma  meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the populto  and
may not be induded in the household for stattical purpos.     ong time trnd. A few estimates de from national soures.
AeW  Na_iber of Pmo. pe Reoom-4ew   wise, md eu-             Eceae_d DepeaKy RAdo-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural   65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
ocrupied conventional dweling  respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied partm                INCOME DISTRMUTION
Peceae of DueBag  wth Eecr'kity-4aas, when em  rsosi-        Poecagef . ta Dispeae lme (both in casb a" kiai)-
Conventional dwelings with elctricity in lving quarters as percen-  Accrting to percntile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urbaL and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4lael  Ew'vg        Rtioes                                  The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
PruIvy scool - total. mak ardfa j a4rss total. ma            level. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female carollment of al ags at the prmary  vel as percntages of  EWat Ahme 1 1brerry iscer Lewdl (SS per capi) _-wim
respective prinary school-a  populations While many countries  and rm*F-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
are rflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esm    Readve Pbesy, Iim1.m Leld (USS per capitsl-wrban
educalion. gross enrolment may exceed 100 pemnzt since some  ani ruviJ-Rural relative poverty incore level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stadard prinmary-school  averag per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
agc                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secodvy school - toa, male and feade-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requie at last four years of approved pr-  Esp               Blow Abaobwre P,vf  luy rnw Level (per-
mary insrucion; provides geeral, vocational. or teacher trainung  e         nwW- *, Percent of population (urban and rural
instrctions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 yea of a; correspond-  who are absolute poor.'
ence course are generlly excludae
Vocational EG,rolmi (peren of secondary)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tionts jnclude technicaL indual or other program which operte       Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepndently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 27 -
ANNEX I
(Page 5)
93.03J Se km                                             10.7 millIon (mld-1983)                               11.0 Ur sq km
lute OF growth: 0.231 (from 1970 to 113)              2zo.S per sq bkmo arable land
POPuJLATlON timRuiIIf3tS1l'CS 119131                                            CALr
Crude  irtn rate (r 1 .00)                           11.9                      Pepaltmon per  htician fle)                             47
Crude deatL rate (Par 1.000)                         13.9                      PopulatIon per h"pital  be  019811 
Infant mertality (per 1.000 live birthsi             19.0
t of priwvae tmc. highet 20 Prcent                   22.3                      fIL~ Mm                  e
lgest 4U prent 2..2                                       s ote  by toeiS of r          ien
S  ena  b  slIest 105 of entrs
3SC Is     POw   uATn   iwtIeans                                                rt  o    sav    ta
X of population - urbn                               a3.8 a                    s of pulation - ur9Zn 99
-rural                              e3 L a                                       rural                                97.6
Calorle Intake a   of requtramnts                    34.0                      Adult literacy rate S (M192                             96.9
Per capita protein intake (g.)                      105.3                      Priary sch-ol  nrollant X ClUS                          97.0
au  pa tarraTull izf: SLaM29
caOSS amTICs   POSIET TO 1S4                                                  mIA   SW OF        T      r      ?    i
uS in.                                     mtL               mis                aS                 M
GP at r'tbet Prices                   20.4             100.0                    6.2                3.2                2.1               2.6
Gross  opstic Znvesnnt                 1.2              uS.s                    6.9                z.2               -4.2              -2.7
Gross Omstic Saving                   5.               20 .                   10.                 5.7               32.                6.2
REsourte tlence                        0.6               3.2
E.ports of Goods. UFS                  2.3              4e                      9.'6               6."                5.2               S:S
moerts oF GoodRs. FS                   7.7              27.7                    7.1                .9                4. S               0.1
OUTPUT taSa ICntC SO
luerLabor forrs '14                                                      -A- ftrLabo ir n
FtLnW.                                              ma.                    3 .                                 -x- x
Agriculture             1G               2.5          17.2                 1.072                 21.7            3.26                 79.1
Inustry (ncl. constr.) 401               3.4           332.                 1.903                38.6             4.483               106.6
Services                 309             6.4            28.?                I96                   39.7            5.265                "91
anllocated a             13              Li            iLl
rTtal/Averaee       9               20.4           100.0                4.940                100.0           4*.130 a             ilC.o ei
COVERNWal FItWE
(F Bill-)
{Fa Rn mn            S  Cef
Current *ReltS            s72.9       53.3            59.0
Current Ependitures        517.7       52.9             52. 7
Current Surplus             55.2        S5.6            6.2
Capital Expenditures        58.7        6.0              7.0
External assistance nert)
IL  Percntage of occu led dwellings.
AZ ilord Mank Atlas *tmDdolooy. All oter conversions to dollars In this table ae at the avengo crcial gxtane rate prevailine
during the priod covered.
fL  Activg ceuners.
a-  CuStees duties ae  valuation differeons  tiei  are not allocated by sector sn_ considerable fluctuation.  There is tius a distortion
titroduced into tie interpretation of deta on structurl change In the ecroe.
Li Excludsing alloated.
not applicale                                                                                E1l1
Not available                                                                                February 25. 1986
1486ft4)



- 28 -
ANNEX I
(Page 6)
tCttQ ~        ~           ~           a               anT               am              nitan                               n
Billion porinta outstanding and period
KMew, sod Cu  itieNS292.2                                           317.0           312.3            3181.            401.5            421.2              443.5
Bt Credit to PubliC Soctor                         425.0           447.4            499.1            519.7            546.5            175.2               u.a2
BHak Credit to Private Sector                       1.5            14.1            107.2            119.9            2lI.5            154.3              1n.M
I Percentoeo  or laoga  natfr  I
"easy and Qusi UtaC  01s 1 of UW                    4 .4           4*.1              45.9             45.7            *47.              41.0               45.J
Genrl Price linus (197B * Us)                      114.1            124.2           135.6            141.5            111.5            162.3              176.5
Awa1l Petrern         Cht     In:
C _mer Price InhiC                                   4.5             5.9              9.1              4,4              5.9              7.                 5 .3
Balm  eredit to Pt*lic SCttar                       14.5             9.0              5.5              5.1              n.e              :.s                2.3
Ma   cret to Prieto sKtor                           14.3             15.3            13.9              11,5            11.4             15.1               15.4
mAftontLAt paean loers luaaAglL               Trade In              Trade in
im          12U                                                                          lkb,.  't            -it1Xzs
exorts of Gs               i           ,194.0    e,oaa.a  Ot078.8    8.1355l   Fuels. etCctric enweg                         25.8        0.7       53.10      20.2
marts oer GoBs                        1,65.1    5,575.1       5412.10   5,022.5   l1w asterials, Bml-fln1ished
atn-factor SCruice  (Met)              lJh          AM            its        4Ll        produCts   spare  erts              82.9       23.4    1,572.5       33.6
asasrce Gap lieficit a -I               -27.0       414.0       410.0 O      40.0 e   ltchinery. transport oint
other caltal e11d4                1,651.1       43.5      407.9       12.3
interast PYIts t                     -1.119        -12.0       454.0       -719.7    tiiuftttured c_oueawr goos             512.1       17.3      002.5       13.4
Workers' _IAttaies                                                                        Aericulturol sceds              -JIL         .LL 1Z24Ma   7 L
Other Factr 'B%yonts (not)              211.5       222.0       206.0       101.0             Total                       3.7644       210.0    4,9i1.9      10.01
nat Tr.nfarus                           .4.         .J1S         ELI        .L
Blenc  e  Current Account              -197.5      -31 2.        36.0       271.3   'rMtt r           fla    1  les
rtwiu- and Lena-Tar  Capital                                                         Public daSt. incl. guaranteed                                            s.3
ASlots LL                           -110        -150         -0.0      -151.9       (of smith:  covewtible ctrorncyl                                     17.4)
Liaftlities                        1.119         251.0       154.0    1.814.3   ttuouranteed private gast
Tnfows                          (2.0251    II.11 .t1   11,49.01)  (2,U15.71         Total outstaniing NW dilburSod                                      5.2
Outflows                         (-916)      (-9401)    (21.0  1-1.42.4)
91.t-TeY Captal                                                                     sDvTti       r BATS ME I4'
Aslts fl                             -57         -2         -465.0      -291                                                                              - 
Liabilities Li                      -422        -U5l.0       553        -534 1
Pulic laSt. tne. a sratntee                                            25.9
other ltaw n.e.l. a                       ..       221S          52         430           fon-ewarnteeg private gtaO
Inroese In Baserva  (-tncreasel         4,1        all         -779.0      -746.3             To 1                                                          25.9
35X.:LOSA                                                                       !1-  t                                      ):
*S 2.00 * 47.347 fortntS
Ft. 1.00 a 50.21                                                                                                                              3               Ot.
Outstniwieno and disbursed                                 315.2
JiSLIJazscss                                                                     UndlShured                                                SILl              -
U5S 1.00 e 50.09 Porntas
Ft. 1.00 - S0.020                                                                Outstandioe. inel. Mdisbursed                              803.4
LI UnI-rlesrvfe nsets: instly assrt financnsg.
Includets errors  end missions.
,a  use of D*     saorcets.
M     teve of totsl detseKwle on  aume- and lena-ter  debt toO totl *ntorts of goon  AnM services.  Tedbt  ervice rstio cor                onding to co rtIble
currfUItyebt NakU  40.31.
Nt aeplicablu.                                                                                                                         1955
not awailfUll.                                                                                                              148   11. 



- 29 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans L'
(as of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                            (less cancellations)
Number      Year       Borrower    Purpose                    Bank   Undisbursed
2316-HU     1983       NBH go      Grain Storage & Mech       130.4       17.4
2317-HU     1983       HPR '      Energy Conservation        109.0       71.7
B2-HU     1983       NBH        Grain Storage & Energy)
Conservation        )    30.0          -
B3-HU     1983       NBH        Grain Storage & Energy )
Conservation         )   8.8'          -
2397-EU     1984       NBH         Industrial Exports &)
Restructuring     )      110.0       70.5
2398-HU     1984       OKGT '    Petroleum                     90.0       58.1
B8-HU     1985       NBH         Industrial Export & )
Restructuring, and)      35.0          -
Petroleum )
B9-HU     1985       NBH         Industrial Export &  )
Restructuring, and )     12.2-;        -
Petroleum )
2510-HU     1985       NBH         Integrated Livestock       80.0        74.0
2511-HU     1985       NBH         Fine Chemicals              73.0       67.8
2557-HU     1985       EPR         Transport                   75.0       69.9
Bll-HU     1985       NBH         Integrated Livestock,)
Fine Chemicals and )     36.0         -
Transport )
B12-HU     1985       NBH         Integrated Livestock, )
rine Chemicals and  )   14.0 '        -
Transport           )
Total                                 803.4      429.4
of which has been repaid                -
Total now held by Bank                803.4
Total undisbursed                                429.4
_' The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
k'   National Bank of Hungary.
''~ Hungarian People's Republic.
A' National Oil and Gas Trust.
*~' USS equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y2.1 billion.
-V   US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3 billion.
k'  US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3.5 billion.



- 30 -                        ANNEX III
(Page 1)
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project        June 1985 to November
1985 (5 months)
(b) Agency which has prepared the project                NBH and the Ministry
of Industry
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank              June 1985
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project       June 1985
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission               November 1985
Cf) Date of completion of negotiations                   April 25, 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                       July 1986
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
None
1.  Measures to be taken by the Guarantor:
(a) to implement necessary measures for the full development and
operation of the EEO by March 31, 1987, following review with the
Bank of the findings and recommendations by consultants of the
functions of the EEO and its role in the existing framework for
energy conservation (para. 65);
(b) to review with the Bank by December 31, 1988, the progress achieved
in the energy rationalization program, the role of EEO and the
prospects for future energy savings (para. 65); and
(c) to ensure that EEO will develop and discuss with the Bank a training
program by December 31, 1986 (para. 71).
2.   Measures to be taken by the Borrower:
To carry out appraisal of subprojects in accordance with the
methodology agreed with the Bank (para. 70) and verify that
borrowing enterprises meet eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank
(para. 64).



_   r                                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR ~1 7^
HUNGARY                        EXISTING FEATURES                                                                                                    *-
BANK ASSISTED PROJECTS                    -,y        ,         CZECHOSLOVAKIA               ZECHOSLOVAKIA                                                    EUS
PROjECTS                        RaI.0-                                                                                                                      US..R
IL                                                                               r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
A  R.~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ROAj
N..:   I   \
Ab-    1  ,0ag;
200,- 400                                           ,                         a             E                                   1.
AUSTRItA                          0 - 2D A                                                                        - !    D                     E        Y-I
4r                                                                                                                           : E8RUARe 1911$:
IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORAY19






