Docant of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reiput Ne. P-4141-AR
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AM4OUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60.0 MILLION
TO TIHE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 18, 1985
lT  dcumma  h. s ruda ei diuLLism md oWm be used by redplmts my In The perd mmue ef
tsdr WSa  dull. ist emtm  m-  nwt idhwlmw be dbeulud witbs.t Wud Dak subdz adeu.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Austral (A)
US$ 1  =    A0.80
A 1  =    US$1.25 (September 1985)
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH        -    Banco Hipotecario (National Mortgage Bank)
DIPOS     -    Direccion Provincial de Obras SanItarias de Santa Fe
(Santa Fe Water Utility)
EPOS      -    Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias de Cordoba
(Cordoba Water Utility)
MOSP      -    Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(Ministry of Public Works and Services)
OSN       -    Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion
(National Water Works)
PNSB      -    Plan Nacional de Saneamiento Basico
(National Water and Sanitation Development Plan)
SIGEP    -     Sindicatura de Empresas Publicas
(Comptroller of Public Enterprises)
SNAP      -    Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable Rural
(National Rural Water Service)
SRH       -    Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos
(Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources)
UC        -    Unidad Coordinadora para el Financiamiento Programas
Inversion en Saneamiento Urbano
(Coordinating Unit for Sector Investment)
UE        -    Unidad Ejecutora del Plan Nacional de Saneamiento
(Executing Unit of the National Sanitation Plan)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Argentine Republic
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Public Works and Services (MOSP), National Water
Works (OSN) and the water utilities of the Provinces of
Cordoba (EPOS) and Santa Fe (DIPOS).
Amount:        US$60.0 million equivalent (includes US$8.0 million for
interest during project execution).
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending      The Borrower would make available the proceeds of the Loan
Terms:         to OSN, EPOS and DIPOS on the same terms as those of the
l-an. Both foreign exchange and interest risk would be
assumed by the project executing agencies.
Project
Description:   The project would assist the Government to rehabilitate old,
poorly maintained water and severage installations, extend
water services to new urban areas, and strengthen sector
planning, management and finances. The project would
includes the following components:
(a) national water and sanitation plan preparation;
(b) operational improvements program in Metropolitan Buenos
Aires and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario, consisting
of the first stage of a national program including
inter alia consumption and production metering,
rehabilitation of distribution networks, and streng-
thening of the water utilities' distribution management
and commercial operations:
(c) rehabilitation and extension of the city of Cordoba's
water system consisting of the construction of a water
treatment plant to replace a rundown plant, upgrading of
another plant, and water mains and secondary pipes; and
(d) technical assistance to improve the financial planning,
accounting and purchasing systems of OSN and EPOS.
The project will directly benefit about 1.4 million people.
This document has a restricted dstnbuton and may be used by recpients only in the performancu of|
their offici duties. Its conteast may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:    The multiplicity of activities to be undertaken under the
proposed project would require close cooperation of several
entities. To some extent, the risk associated with the multi-
plicity would be minimized by institutional arrangements for
project implementation which include clearly defined
responsibilities for project participants and the services of an
international organization to undertake administration and
contracting of the technical assistance program. The federal and
provincial governments' commitment to ensure the funds required
by the project and the strengthening of the utilities' management
systems minimize any risks related to the availability of local
counterpart funds.
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign       Total
US$ Million
National Water and
Sanitation Plan                             0.42       0.41        0.83
Technical Assistance
Buenos Aires                            0.52      0.52         1.04
Cordoba                                 0.10      0.11         0.21
Operational Improvements
Buenos Aires                            8.30      12.45       20.75
Cordoba                                 2.78       4.17        6.95
Rosario                                 3.03       4.54        7.57
Cordoba Water System
Rehabilitation and Extension
'Los Molinos Channel'",                 5.59      2.50         8.09
Water Production, and Distribution    25.35       12.49       37.84
Engineering and administration
(7Z of USS45.93 Nillion)                    2.16       1.06        3.22
Base Cost (09/85 Prices)                   48.25      38.25       86.50
Technical Contingencies 10                 4.83       3.82        8.65
Price Contingencies                         15.36      9.93       25.29
Total Project Costs                        68.44      52.00      120.44



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
USS million-
Bank                                       -       52.00   52.00
Government                               11.07        -    11.07
Domestic Loans                           43.30        -    43.30
OSN                                      14.07        -    14.07
TOTAL                                    68.44     52.00  120.44
Bank (interest during project
execution)                             -        8.00    8.00
Estimated Disbursements:
1986   1987   1988   1989  1990   1991  1992  1993  1994
Bank Fiscal Year                   -          US$  ilon
Annual       6.00   8.80  13.10   8.00  7.30   7.50  4.80  2.80  1.70
Cumulative   6.00  14.80  27.90  35.90 43.20  50.70 55.50 58.30 60.00
Rate of Return:      About 15%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 5783-AR dated November 5, 1985.
IBRD No. 19128



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$60.0 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendatior. on a proposed
loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$60.0 million to
help finance a Water Supply project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest
rate. The Government would make available US$16.0 million, US$29.0 million
and US$6.0 million to Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion (OSN), Empresa
Provincial de Obras Sanitarias (EPOS), and Direccion Provincial de Obras
Sanitarias (DIPOS), respectively, on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in June/July 1983 and its
report (4979-AR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1984.
This report reflects the major findings of that mission and subsequent
updating missions. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate
population, an export-oriented and diversified agricultural sector, and a
large industrial sector. The economic performance of the country has
suffered, however, from policy instability and economic distortions
introduced by the frequently changing governments.  Except for agriculture,
public sector participatior, in the economy is high, industrial production
is largely domestic market-oriented, and available resources are not
utilized efficiently. A large public sector deficit has contributed
significantly to the country's recent very high inflation level.
A. Economic Developmerts of the Last Decade
4.        Over the last decade, abrupt shifts in economic policies weakened
Argentina's productive capacity and exacerbated structural imbalances.
Changes in policies prc,duced large and rapid fluctuations in the real
exchange rate, reFl int:erest rates, and real salaries. The rate of
inflation was over 4002' in 1976, fell to 100% in 1980 and accelerated again
to about 600% in 1984; the external trade balance as a share of GDP has
fluctuated between positive 4.8% and a negative 4.3%, while annual GDP
growth has ranged from plus 6.7% to minus 6.2%.



N-
-2-
5.        High and rising inflation, physical and technological
deterioration of the country's productive capacity, major dislocations in
industrial production and huge external debt service requirements have
resulted in general economic stagnation and recession, such that the real
1984 per capita GDP was 14% lower than its 1974 level. Heavy borrowing in
the late 1970s multiplied the country's external debt as a share of GDP
sevenfold (from 10% to 68%). Today, interest payments on the external debt
absorb nearly half of gross domestic savings compared to less than 5% in
the early 1970s.
6.        The productive sectors, particularly manufacturing, are beset by
thorny structural and financial problems. More than 40Z of capacity in the
construction industry, artificially inflated during a brief construction
boom of the late 1970s, now stands idle. Significant underutilization of
capacity also exists in many manufacturing industries; and most firms also
lack sufficient working capital.  Financial intermediation is costly and
inefficient, interest rates are high both in nominal and real terms, and
oversized banking institutions are suffering severe difficulties.
Argentina's self-sufficiency in oil has deteriorated as the ratio of oil
reserves to annual output has declined. Prover reserves of gas have
increased, but the processing and transport infrastructure to exploit them
is deficient.
7.        The public sector is simultaneously overstaffed and seriously
short of managerial and technical expertise. Ineffective tax
administration, together with inadequate budgeting and investment planning
processes, contribute significantly to the large public sector deficit.
Cuts in investment to curb the public sector deficit have led to a
deterioration of social infrastructure and have jeopardized the reliability
of power supply.
B. Policies for Adjustment
8.        Economic mismanagement and the consequences of the 1982 South
Atlantic crisis hastened the departure of the military Government.  A
democratically elected Government took office at the: end of 1983, facing
spiralling inflation and growing balance of payments difficulties. Also,
the after-effects of the industrial recession were threatening the solvency
of the financial system.
9.        Toward the end of 1984, the Government ent:ered into a 15-month
stand-by agreement with the IMF and rescheduled its external debt with
official creditors, covering interest and principal up to 1985, and with
the commercial banks, covering principal up to 1985.  It also obtained the
commitment of US$4.2 billion in fresh money to finarce the current account
deficit and to eliminate arrears accumulated throughi 1983-85. The principal
objectives of the stabilization program were to: (a) lower the rate of
inflation from an average of about 20% per month in -the last quarter of
1984 to about 8% per month by the end of 1985; and (b) to achieve a balance
of payments position that would enable Argentina to meet its external
obligations while satisfying the needs of domestic recovery.
10.       The Government moved to comply with tne cconditions under the
stand-by agreement despite a deepening recession. The fiscal deficit was



- 3 -
reduced to 13% of GDP during the last quarter of 1984 and the real exchange
rate was improved by 17Z between September and December. Public utility
prices were raised 9% in real terms. Inflation, however, continued at full
speed after a brief pause in October and November. Output and employment
and the value of real exports began declining. Monthly wage indexation was
reduced to 90Z of the previous month's inflation from 100% earlier; real
wages also fell 17% from July to December. By the end of 1984, shortfalls
from the agreed targets of the program were observed; during the first
quarter of 1985, the Government's adherence to the program became weaker.
Therefore, the IMF suspended the first conditional draw-down under the
stand-by agreement until the completion of the 1985 first quarter review of
the program.
11.       A new economic team took office in late February 1985 and began
preparing a new package to deal with inflation which had already reached
beyond 20% per month. By the second quarter of 1985, economic conditions
had worsened significantly. The economy was facing spiralling
inflation while the recession intensified. The Government then decided to
abandon gradualism in favor of shock treatment and set about to prepare the
country for a major change in economic policy necessary to break
inflationary expectations. In June 1985, the Government devalued the peso
by 18% to improve relative prices, raised the price of meat by almost 100%,
and introduced a number of fiscal measures with the purpose of drastically
reducing the overall fiscal deficit. It increased prices in petroleum and
gas products, and tariffs on electricity, telephone, transport and postal
services; a temporary 10% import surcharge and 9 percentage points increase
in the export tax were approved; a 12% cut in the 1985 budget expenditure
took place; and a hiring freeze was declared in the public sector.
Following these measures, the Government announced a very strong adjustment
program and initiated its implementation. The program was then supported
by an agreement with the IMF on revised and more stringent targets under
the ongoing stand-by agreement.
12.       The Government's economic program was comprised of: (a) a drastic
cut in the total public sector deficit (including Central Bank operating
losses) from 12.5% of GDP in the first half of 1985 to an expected 2.5% on
average in the second half of 1985 with the deficit to be financed by
external borrowing, thus eliminating domestic credit expansion to the
public sector. Further expenditure cuts were to follow the ones undertaken
and achievement of lower inflation was to shorten revenue collection lags
and allow for lower nominal interest rates, thus reducing interest service
payments; (b) a reduction in the balance of payments' current account
deficit from 3.5% of GDP in 1984 to 2.4% in 1985; (c) a monetary reform
that included the introduction of a new currency unit pegged to tne US
dollar and a system for de-indexing peso denominated contracts; and (d) a
wage-price freeze. The program was supported by an agreement with
commercial bank creditors to: (a) reschedule about US$13.9 billion in
principal payments during the period of the stand-by (1985/86); (b) provide
US$4.2 billion of new money of which US$2.2 billion were to be disbursed by
September 1985; (c) establish a trade credit maintenance facility to
maintain such financing at its 1lvel of September 30, 1984; and (d)
establish a stand-by money market facility that maintains creditor banks'
deposits with Argentine banks at their level of September 30, 1984.



- 4 -
13.       The Government has been able to stabilize the economy in the
short term, and meet the targets and draw down the first tranche under the
IMF stand-by agreement. The monthly rate of inflation, as measured by the
consumer price index has dropped from 30X in June to 2Z in September. The
overall fiscal deficit has been reduced to about 2.5Z of GDP as a result of
the revenue and expenditure measures and the sharp drop in inflation.  So
far, no credit expansion to the public sector has been required. The
reserve position of the Central Bank hau also shown some improvement,
reflecting increased confidence in the Government's policies. The
Government has also received the first disbursement of new money under the
agreement with the commercial banks. Almost all political and social
groups have thus far supported the program despite its austere nature.
Since cuts in public spending and high real interest rates will have a
dampening effect on domestic demand, the Government has been careful not to
raise expectations for a quick economic recovery. In this connection, the
industrial and other nonagricultural sectors are experiencing a severe
recession which began in late 1984 despite some increase in industrial
output in September of 1985. Real GDP is estimated to decline by about 1%
in 1985. Export response to the program has not yet been significantly
positive although an expected good harvest is likely to facilitate the
achievement of the balance of payments target of the program.
14.       The program's risks relate to the possibility of a renewal of
inflationary pressures once the wage and price freeze is relaxed. Thus,
the Government has indicated that the freeze will continue into 1986 and
then be phased out gradually. The Government's economic program has been
far more successful than initially expected and augurs well for improved
economic performance. A continued effort to maintain the overall fiscal
deficit at current levels will be required to break longer-term
inflationary expectations and ensure the program's success. Thus, the
Government has indicated that it will continue to act in the fiscal area as
needed.
C. Development Prospects and Policy Bequirements
15.       Argentina's growth performance in the next five years will depend
heavily on the continued success of the present Government's policies.
Restoring domestic and overseas confidence in economic management and
renewing private sector investment will require maintaining the recent
trends in price stability. Moreover, given the burden of external interest
payments on Argentina's gross domestic savings, public investment will be
limited largely to improving the efficiency of existing capacity and
completing unfinished projects. The Government has stated its intention to
give priority to those projects which alleviate immediate bottlenecks, have
a high rate of return and can generate foreign exchange.
16.       Argentina's key development objectives are to: (a) strengthen and
expand the growth of exports in order to reduce the country's external debt
relative to GDP and exports; and (b) resume medium-term growth as the
stabilization program takes hold. The Government's economic program and
policies are being designed to achieve these objectives. In particular,
special emphasis is being given to the elimination of distortions in order
to produce a rapid output and export response. Faster recovery of per
capita consumption can take place only after medium-term growth has
resumed.



- 5 -
17.       The Government has formulated a medium-term strategy that links
the stabilization and external adjustment programs to development goals.
The strategy is based on an improvement of investment climate and the
restoration of adequate export incentives. The proposed policy measures
are closely in line with the recommendations of the 1984 Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM), viz., (a) improvement in public sector finances and
efficiency; (b) overhaul of the tax system and tax administration;
(c) reduction in the number of public enterprises and reform of
government-enterprise relationships; (d) improvements in incentives for
private industry and agriculture; (e) reform of the financial system and
active support for manufacturing exports; and (f) expansion of petroleum
and gas exploration and development activities to increase oil exports
through increased private sector participation. Since the strategy aims to
promote productive fixed investments, real per capita consumption is
projected to rise only slightly during 1985-90.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Improving Argentina's growth prospects for the rest of the decade
would require a successful implementation of the adjustment program during
1985/86, the rescheduling of the country's external debt by its creditors
as it falls due, continued lending at the agreed amounts, and a continued
expansion in exports. Under those assumptions, the current account deficit
of the balance of payments is projected to average about US$1.6 billion per
year during 1985/86, equivalent to 2.2% of GDP, to be financed largely by
disbursements from the IMF stand-by agreement, increasing disbursements of
existing and projected loans from public sources, and direct foreign
investment. Although this is not likely to lead to a quick short-term
economic recovery because of the eifects of stabilization on domestic
demand, real GDP growth, beginning in 1987, could resume at about 3% per
year on average. This growth depends on the projected expansion in
exports, and of increasing agricultural production resulting from an
intensified use of fertilizer and industrial production resulting from
renewed private sector investment activities. Under these assumptions, the
current account deficit would decline rapidly from 1987 on as a result of
increasing proceeds from grain and manufacturing exports. Thus, the
current account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to amount
to only US$20 million by 1990.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
19.       At the end of 1983, the total public sector external debt of
Argentina was US$33.2 billion.  From US$11.5 billion at the end of 1978, it
had grown almost three-fold. The structure of the debt also had changed
radically during the 1978-1983 period. At the end of 1978, the debt to
commercial banks constituted 38% of the total, but this ratio rose to 60%
by the end of 1980, and 87% by the end of 1983. By 1979, total debt
service requirements already had gone beyond the reach of net exports, and
since 1982, the trade surplus, although large, has not been sufficient to
pay the accrued interest. Thus, when the South Atlantic crisis disrupted
normal roll-overs and lending in 1982, Argentina began accumulating
principal and interest arrears. The Government provided exchange rate
guarantees for the rescheduled private external debt and eventually assumed
a large part of the private sector's external obligations. Total external



- 6 -
debt, including arrears and private sector obligations, reached US$46
billion by the end of 1983. Following the agreements with the IMF and its
creditors, Argentina initiated a program to eliminate payment arrears, with
commercial banks contributing US$4.2 billion to the effort. The banks
subsequently released the first tranche of their additional financing in
September 1985.
zo.       A continued effort by the Government in implementing domestic
policy reform, including a reduction in protectionism, combined with
external support from financial sources, should enhance Argentina's
export potential and thus, improve its prospects of reducing its debt
servicing ratio and also its total debt as a percentage of GDP during the
1990s. Provided that the arrears are eliminated by the end of March 1986,
as the current program calls for, and that the debt amortization payments
due in 1986 are restructured with a modest increase in the commercial
banks' exposure, Argentina should be able to meet the servicing
requirements of its external debt, including new borrowing for
high-yielding projects which would support increased foreign exchange
generation, efficient import substitution and increased domestic resource
mobilization. At the end of 1983 the Bank's share of Argentina's total debt
outstanding and disbursed was 2.1Z and its share of external debt service
payments was 2.1Z.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. Bank Operations
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties. In the period 1980-June
1985, the Bank made loans for nine projects totalling US$985 million. Bank
lending since 1980 has focused on major infrastructure projects and
provision of credit for development of the industrial and hydrocarbon
sectors. The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project is intended to channel the
enormous potential of the Parana River to provide base-load electric energy
for Argentina in the 1990s. The Second Industrial Credit project supports
the modernization andf expansion of export-oriented industries. A highway
sector project is helping to augment and maintain the road network. In
parallel to the above projects, the Bank has supported the Government's
efforts to exploit Argentina's energy resources; for this purpose five
loans were approved during the above-mentioned period to: (a) help
Argentina assess its hydrocarbon reserves; (b) improve the basis for
rational exploitation of coal resources; (c) facilitate private sector
participation in exploration and production of oil and gas; (d) alter the
country's two major refineries in order to meet changing demand patterns;
and (e) expand Argentina's capacity to make effective use of its
hydrocarbon resources and increase the utilization of natural gas and its
by-products.
22.       Execution of Bank-assisted projects in Argentina has suffered in
recent years from policy reversals, cumbersome bureaucratic procedures,
curbs on public investments stemming from the need for fiscal austerity,
and from the private sector's reluctance to invest in an uncertain



- 7 -
environment. The authorities share the Bank's concern about this
situation, which has resulted in unexpectedly slow disbursements and
consequent negative resource transfers. In response, several existing
projects have been restructured to improve their execution, such as the
Grain Storage Project first approvsd for Bank financing in 1978. The Bank
also has instituted procedures for monitoring monthly disbursements and for
periodic project implementation reviews with the Government. Disbursements
of Bank loans in 1985 were more than double the 1984 cate.
23.       Promising prospects for political stability and serious efforts
by this Government to tackle Argentina's thorny economic problems provide
the Bank with an opportunity to play a key role in the country's economic
recovery and future development. The Government has requested the Bank's
help in implementing a stabilization program and in preparing the way for
renewed long-term economic growth. Over the short-term, the Government is
seeking help with economic analyses and expanded lending operations
designed to enhance domestic resource mobilization and increase the
availability of foreign exchange. Economic and sector work include a major
public sector investment review and comprehensive export-oriented
agricultural and industrial studies which are being completed. The Bank
has appraised an Agricultural Sector Loan which would assist the Government
in improving the incentives necessary for a more intensive use of
agricultural resources to increase production and exports; policy reforms
included under the proposed loan would contribute to both short- and
long-term sectoral development. The Bank has also appraised a proposed
Bahia Blanca Port project, which would reduce shipping costs for grain
exports. The Bank is also processing a technical assistance loan for
reforming public sector management and strengthening the international
competitiveness of the economy. Preparations are underway for further
support of the industrial sector to assist in the economic recovery of
Argentina; of the energy sector directed at distribution and transmission
requirements and supporting the substitution of abundant natural gas for
oil; and of policy-based lending to support structural reform.
B. IFC Operations
24.       IFC has made 25 investments in Argentina, totalling US$236
million, of which US$126 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of its investments is shown in Annex II. Promotional efforts are
geared to export or import substitution-oriented projects with emphasis on
oil, petro-chemicals, and related sectors. IFC will also continue to seek
investments in projects where its presence would facilitate the formation
of joint ventures with foreign participation, and act as a catalyst to
attract higher levels of commercial financing.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Sector Organization
25.       Until 1980, national responsibilities for most of the water and
sewerage systems in urban areas were concentrated in the National Water
Works Company (Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion - OSN). The Government
then began to decentralize most of these responsibilities to the



- 8 -
provinces. The Goverument's action was part of an overall strategy to
improve quality of services by inducing efficiency and dynamism in a
stagnated and overcentralized sector.
26.       The Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources (SRH) of the Ministry of
Public Works and Services (MOSP) was made responsible for planning, and
overall supervision of sector activities. All other responsibilities were
divided among: (a) OSN for water and sewerage services in the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Area; (b) a water utility in each of the 23 provinces; and (c)
the National Rural Water Services (Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable Rural
- SNAP) for services in rural areas and urban communities with less than
10,000 inhabitants. Other agencies active in the sector include the
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (Ministerio de Salud Publica y Accion
Social - MSAS) and the National Mortgage Bank (Banco Hipotecario - BH).
27.       SRH oversees the operations of the sectoral agencies and is
responsible for making the decentralized arrangements operative, in
addition to coordinating water resources management. SRH created in 1980
the Executing Unit (UE) of the National Sanitatior. Plan for developing
sector technical, financial, and managerial policies and assisting the
provincial utilities develop their capabilities; and in 1985, a unit (UC)
for coordinating Government funds and external financing for investment
projects.
28.       OSN, although being a national government enterprise, provides
water and sewerage services to fourteen municipalities of the Buenos Aires
Metropol-itac Area with ar. aggregate population of 10 million. It also
gives technical assistance to the provincial entities in coordination with
UE.
29.       The provincial entities created, under the decentralization
process, received from OSN the existing infrastructure in their areas and
the current financial assets. These entities vary from provincial
enterprises to departments of provincial governments. The responsibility
for setting tariffs rests with provincial governments. The provincial
utilities under the proposed project are: Cordoba Provincial Water Works
(Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - EPOS) and Santa Fe Provincial
Water Works (Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - DIPOS).
Population, Service Levels, and Quality
30.       During the 1970s, Argentina's total population grew at 1.6X per
annum, from 24 to 28 million, while the urban population grew at a rate of
2.5% per annum, from 18 to 23 million. In 1980, 83% of the population
lived in urban areas, 75% lived in 198 communities with populations greater
than 10,000, and 35Z was concentrated in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan
Area.
31.       The percentage of total population connected to public water
supply systems increased from 45Z in 1970 to 60% in 1980. In urban areas,
the increase was from 56% to 69X. Population service coverage for sewerage
in urban areas is lower than that for water supply: 31% in 1970 and 37% in
1980. In rural areas, 71Z of the population living in communities between
100 to 2000 inhabitants received water services through house connections.
About 38Z of the rural population had excreta disposal systems. Water



- 9 -
supply and sewerage service coverage is not in line with the per capita
income rank of Argentina (6th) in Latin America. The country ranks 9th in
service levels.
32.       Public water supplies throughout the country are chlorinated and
quality is adequate. A large portion of the population not connected to
public systems, however, relies on individual water sources which often are
contaminated. In parts of the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area and in
provinces (especially in the northeast and north) where services have not
been extended and bad sanitary conditions are prevalent, infant mortality
rates are more than twice the national average.
33.       Population and service coverage in the proposed project area are
as follows: (a) Metropolitan Buenos Aires has a population of 10 million
and water and sewerage service coverages of 64% and 40%, respectively (this
low coverage results from some distant municipalities lacking connections
to the public systems); (b) the city of Cordoba has 1 million inhabitants
and service coverages of 78% and 25%; and (c) the city of Rosario has 1
million population and service coverages of 89% and 45Z.
Sector Perfcrmance, Policies, and Constraints
34.       JSN led the development of the water supply and sewerage sector
in Argentina for more than a century, building and operating systems
which the Government mostly financed. The sector grew rapidly in this
period and Argentina attained a leading position with regard to sector
activities in Latin America. Installed water production and main
distribution capacity were often over-designed. As long as the real cost
of capital was low, OSN chose to build large infrastructure rather than
operate sophisticated systems which could reduce demand. In time, however,
the deterioration of the national economic conditions prevented the
Government from continuing to provide large subsidies for sector activities
and OSN was unable to adjust to the resulting financial constraints. Until
1976, OSN was not generating enough revenues to cover even operating
expenses. In 1977, the Government pressed public enterprises toward
greater financial self-reliance and required OSN to generate its first
operating surplus. Government subsidies were curtailed, and OSN was
directed to borrow on the internal and external credit markets. Grant
financing of investment was reduced to limited funds obtained from
provincial and municipal budgets.  The result was a sharp reduction in
investment and an increasing inability to satisfy services demand and to
maintain existing installations adequately.
35.       The 1980 decentralization reflected the Government's belief that
the sector could be more effectively managed by the provinces. The
decision to decentralize was taken, however, without adequate consideration
of the limited institutional capabilities at the provincial level. The
Government failed to provide the necessary assistance to prepare the
provinces for their new responsibilities. It is now attempting to overcome
these deficiencies by defining and implementing a set of policies and
assistance programs which would be included in a national water and
sanitation development plan, to be prepared under the proposed project.



- 10 -
Sector Objectives and Strategy
36.       The Government has established as service goals, to provide by
1990, 80% of the population with water supply and 70% with sewerage or
alternative excreta disposal systems. This would entail serving an
additional 6.1 million inhabitants with public water supplies at a cost
estimated at about US$1.6 billion, and 10.4 million inhabitants with
sewerage at a cost of about US$2.4 billion. The annual investment required
(US$700 million) would be several times the annual investment levels of the
1970s and the 1980s (US$114 million and US$78 million in current prices).
However, it is unlikely that this level of investment will be achieved
since: (a) the country's public investment programs is being sharply
curtailed; (b) the financial intermediaries and resources for the sector
have yet to be determined; and (c) the water entities would need sufficient
lead time to implement operational and financial policies which allow them
to internally generate sufficient funds for investment and for servicing
debts. Argentina's sector development will have, therefore, to stress
maximizing service coverage and quality under a severely limited investment
budget. This approach entails the rehabilitation and expanded use of
existing infrastructure, reduction of per capita investment costs, water
conservation and improvement of operational and commercial practices.
37.       The Government has agreed to this approach.  The National Water
and Sanitation Development Plan (PNSB) to be developed under the proposed
project would update the demand for services and evaluate the required
investments. It would define sources of and intermediaries for financing
for the sector and propose a tariff policy to reflect the economic cost of
services, the users' capacity to pay, and enhance the water utilities'
self-financing capacity. The plan would also provide for the least cost
analysis of projects, which takes into account rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, and the promotion of water conservation measures consistent
with the efficient use of sector resources. The plan would also support
the Government's domestic resource mobilization efforts which call for a
financial strengthening of government enterprises and improvements in
public sector management.
38.       The Bank's strategy calls for the Bank to act as a catalyst to
speed the formulation and implementation of new sector policies and
practices conducive to more cost-effective and less capital-intensive
investments. An important element of this strategy is to assist the
authorities in the preparation of the PNSB plan.  At the same time the Bank
would focus its assistance on the rehabilitation of existing installations
to prevent a collapse of service in major cities and improvement of the
operational, managerial, and financial capabilities of the provincial
utilities. With this assistance the provincial utilities would be prepared
to introduce improved cost recovery policies and to undertake the necessary
expansion of the systems.



- It -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       In late 1983, the Government requested Bank assistance to assess
progress made in sector reorganization and assist with project
preparation. The project was appraised in February-March 1985 and
negotiations were held in Washington in October 1985. The Argentine
delegation was led by Mr. Carlos Rivas Roche, Undersecretary of Hydraulic
Resources, MOSP.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled  Argentina - Water
Supply Project (No. 5783-AR, dated November 5, 1985) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
40.       The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed project in
the sector. Its main objectives are to: (a) rehabilitate deteriorating
infrastructure, replace rundown facilities, and extend water services to
new urban areas; (b) prepare a national plan to provide the necessary
institutional framework to permit the newly decentralized system to
function in a more efficient manner; and (c) initiate a national
operational improvements program which promotes water conservation through
physical rehabilitation of water systems, production and consumption
metering, and institutional strengthening of the water utilities. The
operational improvements program would cover in this first stage the Buenos
Aires Metropolitan Area, and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario de Santa Fe
that represent 60X of the urban population of the country. The water
utilities of these cities intend to introduce new technologies which could
be replicated in other area of Argentina.
41.       The above objectives are consistent with the Bank's strategy to
assist the Government in the improvement of public sector management both
at the national and provincial levels; the inducement of greater efficiency
in the use of resources; and the rehabilitation of the nation's valuable
social infrastructure.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project includes the preparation of a national water
supply and sanitation plan (US$1.1 million or 1% of the project cost), an
operational improvements component (US$47.0 million or 39%), and
rehabilitation and extension of the water system in the city of Cordoba
(US$70.7 million or 59Z). The proposed project would be complemented by
technical assistance to OSN and EPOS (US$1.6 million or 1% of the project
cost).
43.       The preparation of the national water supply and sanitation plan
would include: (a) formulation of Government objectives in the sector,
service targets and investment alternatives for the decade; (b) development
of project evaluation criteria to foster adequate technical standards for
project design with special emphasis on least cost analysis; (c)
preparation of financial policies, including definition of financial



- 12 -
criteria for setting investment priorities; Cd) definition of tariff
structures and levels to achieve acceptable rates of return on sector
assets and enable the sector to contribute significantly to new
investments; (e) evaluation of the existing organizational framework and
responsibilities at federal and provincial levels; (f) recommendations
for the establishment of the organizational and institutional
structures to effectively implement the sanitation plan; (g)
recommendations on strategies directed at improving the efficiency of
the present sector organization; (h) definition of responsibilities in
sector financing and alternative funding; Ci) identification of manpower
resources and staff training needs; and, (j) evaluation of existing
research facilities and their funding and recommendations for further
development.
44.       The operational improvements component would be carried out in
the Metropolitan Buenos Aires and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario de
Santa Fe, and would include : (a) water consumption metering; (b)
production and main distribution metering; (c) water distribution flow
survey; (d) mapping of the water distribution and sewerage systems; (e)
water distribution network rehabilitation; (f) distribution system
management; and (g) upgrading of commercial systems. The component, mostly
equipment, is designed to cut water wastage, in order to cut operating
costs and defer new investments.
45.       The rehabilitation and extension of the Cordoba water system
would include the following: (a) construction of "Los Molinos- water
treatment plant (2 m3/s); (b) upgrading of 'Suquia' water treatment plant;
(c) completion of the multi-purpose -Los Molinos- raw water channel; (d)
installation of four booster pumping stations; and (e) construction of
mains and distribution pipelines.
46.       Finally, the proposed project would include: (a) studies and
technical assistance for the improvement of financial planning, accounting,
and purchasing systems for OSN and EPOS; and (b, preparatioa by OSN, EPOS
and DIPOS of investment, operational and financial recovery plans including
annual targets in the areas of water production and sales, service levels
and quality as well as financial improvements.
Project Implementation
47.       MOSP would act as technical agent for the project, being
responsible for overall project supervision and coordination, serving
through SRH, as the liaison among the Bank, the Government and the project
beneficiaries.  MOSP, with assistance of consultants, would prepare the
national water and sanitation plan (para. 43 above). OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS
would be responsible for the execution of works and institutional programs
in their respective areas. Each of these agencies have appointed a
coordinator for the project. The project would be completed at the end of
1993.
48.       Project execution would require extensive use of consultants
estimated to total 410 man-months of foreign consultants and 300 man-months
of local consultants. MOSP and OSN would enter into master contracts with
consultants for the preparation of the National Water and Sanitation Plan,



- 13 -
and for the operational improvement program in Buenos Aires. EPOS and
DIPOS would retain consultants for their project activities.
Project Executing Agencies
49.       OSN, the executing agency for the Metropolitan Buenos Aires
project subcomponent, is managed by an administrator appointed by MOSP.
The administrator d'rects the operations, engineering, and finances and
administration departments and their second-level units. With 9,400
employees, OSN, provides water and sewerage services through 1.0 million
and 0.5 million house connections respectively.  OSN's annual budget is
approved by the Congress; charges for services are approved by an
interministerial committee comprising Public Works, Economy and Labour.
OSN is required to get prior approval from the Ministry of Economy and the
Planning Secretariat for major multi-year investment projects. OSN's
planning and budgeting have been weak. Accounting reports are not issued
on time and are often based on unreliable and poorly coordinated data. OSN
staff prepares most engineering designs and supervises most works and
operations. Its operation of systems needs substantial improvements. With
the exception of limited areas of Buenos Aires for which services were
partially financed by the Inter-American Development Bank, systems lack
production and consumption metering. Most of the instrumentation in the
old production and distribution systems are in disrepair. In addition to
these physical deficiencies of the system, water distribution management
needs upgrading. The commercial system needs to be strengthened in the
areas of installations, mapping, customer register, tariff structure, and
billing and collection (see para. 59).
50.       EPOS, the executing agency for the Cordoba project subcomponent,
is governed by a board composed of a president and four directors. There
are departments for planning, engineering, operations, finances and
administration, and small communities administration. With 2,030
employees, EPOS, provides water and sewerage services through 260,000 and
92,000 house connections respectively. Its budget is approved by the
provincial congress and tariffs by the provincial government. Engineering
planning is quite adequate to needs and financial planning has improved
recently. Engineering design and project supervision are carried out in
most cases by EPOS' staff. Its problems in operations, commercial and
accounting are similar to OSN's (para. 59).
51.       DIPOS, the executing agency for the Rosario project subcomponent,
is managed by an administrator appointed by the provincial Governor.
Activities are carried out by five departments: planning, operations,
commercial, finances, and administration. With 1,400 employees, DIPOS
provides water and sewerage services through 299,000 and 148,000 house
connections respectively. Accounting is satisfactory. Engineering is
mostly carried out by DIPOS's staff. Problems in operational and
commercial areas are similar to those of OSN and EPOS (para. 59).
52.       SRH, the executing agency for the national sanitation plan, is
responsible for overseeing the activities of UC and UE. SRE staff
comprises about 30 professionals. For its increased activities under the
project, SRH would rely heavily on the consultants assisting UE and UC.



- 14 -
Project Monitoring
53.       Agreement on the monitoring indicators as well as on a plan for
project progress reporting was reached during loan negotiations. Two
project implementation reviews will be carried out by June 30, 1987 and
December 31, 1989, respectively. These reviews, which would include
discussions with the Bank of the findings and recommendations of the water
and sanitation plan, operational improvement program, and technical
assistance for OSN and EPOS, would also provide the basis for the
corrective measures which may be required on project execution.
Project Cost
54.       The total cost of the project excluding interest during
construction is estimated at US$120.4 million equivalent. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$52.0 million or 432 of the project
cost. Costs are based on September 1985 prices and include physical
contingencies of 10%. Price contingencies of US$25.3 million or 27Z of
1985 project cost are based on estimated international inflation of 5% in
1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8%, thereafter. Technical assistance and
consultant costs (US$5.7 million) are based on those of similar
internationally and locally recruited experts in Argentina. Construction
costs are based on unit costs developed by OSN and EPOS during
implementation of ongoing projects. Costs do not include direct taxes from
the provincial governments.
Project Financing Plan
55.       The Bank loan of US$60.0 million to the Government of Argentina
would finance total foreign costs and USS8.0 million to finance interest
during the grace period to help reduce the financial pressures on the
Government and on the executing agencies. The local counterpart of US$68.4
million is expected to be financed by a combination of domestic loans to
EPOS and DIPOS (US$39.5 and USM3.8 million respectivelv), OSN internal cash
generation (US$14.0 million), and a federal government contribution to the
province of Cordoba for the multipurpose 'Los Molinos' channel (US$11.1
million). Assurances from the federal and provincial governments were
obtained during loan negotiations on the timely availability of local
counterpart funds. Both Bank loan proceeds and counterpart financing would
be on-lent to OSN, EPOS and DIPOS, at the same interest as the Bank loan,
and with similar grace and repayment periods. The Borrower would onlend
US$16.0 milliou, US$29.0 and US$6.0 million to OSN, EPOS and DIPOS,
respectively. Foreign exchange and interest risk would be assumed by the
project executing agencies. The signing of at least two subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government, the executing agencies and the
respective provincial governments would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan.
Past and Current Financial Performance
56.       OSN's financial situation was highly satisfactory in 1980.  In
both 1981 and 1982 the company experienced substantial operating surpluses
(income before depreciation amounted to US$154 and US$67 million
respectively) which resulted in a high liquidity position. OSN's favorable



- 15 -
condition deteriorated rapidly, however, mostly as a result of declining
tariffs which, by the end of 1982 through 1984, were equivalent to 34-40%
of early 1981 tariffs in real terms. OSN revenues in 1983-84 were only
sufficient to finance operation and maintenance budgets which lacked
programs of preventive maintenance and of replacement and improvement of
worn out or deficient facilities. There was an operating deficit in 1984.
OSN's investment which in 1981 and 1982 amounted to US$68 million and US$85
million, respectively, declined to US$28/38 million in 1983/84.  OSN's
financial performance in 1985 is improving as a result of substantial
tariff increases during the first semester (22Z cumulative in real terms).
These increases were approved before the present temporary freeze imposed
on prices and wages. The Government has indicated its willingness to
consider further tariff increases when the wage and price freeze is relaxed
(paras. 12-14).
57.       EPOS and DIPOS started operations with sufficient funds to
support gradually improved service coverage and quality. They received
from OSN a large asset base and had no debt. Their tariffs generated
enough revenues to cover operation and maintenance budgets and to finance
some investments. Since then, their financial conditions, especially
EPOS's have deteriorated. DIPOS' revenues continued being sufficient to
cover its limited operation and maintenance budget and to finance a modest
average annual investment of US$6.0 million during 1982-84. This was
mainly the result of the periodic tariff adjustments implemented in 1983
based on a formula which takes into consideration cost increases. This
policy allowed the company to rapidly recover its 1981 tariff level in real
terms after the sharp decline of 1982. EPOS, which also experienced a
tariff deterioration delayed the recovery process until mid-1984. Tariffs
during 1982-84 were equivalent to 31-39Z of early 1981 tariffs, in real
terms. As a result, EPOS' revenues were barely sufficient to finance the
already inadequate operations and maintenance budget. EPOS' investments
since its creation have therefore been negligible: US$2.0 million in 1983
and US$2.7 million in 1984. This trend is however, being reversed by a
recent provincial government and EPOS' management decision to implement a
tariff recovery plan. Tariffs were increased by 45% in real terms between
June 1984 and April 1985. Further tariff increases scheduled for 1985 were
postponed in compliance with the Government's austerity plan. The net
result of the current tariff freeze would be a 1985 real average tariff 8%
above the 1984 tariff level. This would provide EPOS with a posi':ive
inceme before depreciation despite excessive maintenance expenditures for
the water plant to be replaced under the proposed project. In addition,
the Government and EPOS have agreed to continue gradually i-creasing
tariffs during the propob.i project execution period as soon as the price
freeze is lifted. This policy is consistent with EPOS' charter which
provides that tariff levels should be sufficient to generate enough
revenues to cover current expenditures and debt service, and also to
contribute with an unspecified amount to finance investments in system
expansion and improvement.
Future Financial Performance and Financial Covenants
58.       There is an increasing awareness at federal and provincial levels
in Argentina of the need to improve the self-financing capabilities of the
water and sewerage companies. The provisions in the project which involve



- 16 -
the revision and updating of ingrained institutional, financial, and
engineering policies and practices will help the project beneficiaries in
this endeavor. These revisions combined with the results of the technical
assistauce, metering and other operational improvements to be financed
under the loan, would provide the basis for financial recovery, investment
and managerial improvement of the agencies participating in the project.
These programs would be expected, inter alia, to set specific targets for
future financial improvements in the forms of rates of return or internal
contribution to investment, which the Bank would review in detail in
conjunction with the preparation of further operations in the sector.
During negotiations: (a) agreement was reached on the terms of reference
for the above financial recovery plans for OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS, and (b)
assurances were obtained that these plans and schedules for their
implementation would be completed by June 30, 1987, and that the Bank will
be given an opportunity to comment on the provisions of the plans.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that: (a) beginning in
1986, OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS will generate sufficient revenues to cover their
operating expenses, adequate maintenance, taxes, and debt service
requirements; (b) OSN, EPOS and DIPOS will submit to the Bank by September
of each fiscal year an update of the financial projections for the current
and the following three years, specifying the measures to be taken to meet
the aforementioned requirement.
Future Operational Performance and Covenants
59.       The operational improvements project component is designed to
dramatically c-ange the operations of the three water utilities involved,
by addressing, inter alia, their major weaknesses discussed above (paras.
49, 50 and 51). There would be a tightened control of water produced and
sold. Clandestine connections and leakages would be minimized. Metering
the largest water consumers (the top 10-25%) which account for the bulk of
water consumed C40-60Z), would permit the introduction of tariffs
structures related to the marginal cost of water and would promote water
conservation. Thus, as water demand decreases, investments could be
postponed. The increased efficiency in the water utilities would be
closely monitored by the monitoring indicators and project implementation
reviews (para. 53); and through investment, operational and financial
recovery plans (paras. 57 and 58). In addition, agreement has been reached
with OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS on the following: (a) metered connections as
percentage of total connections would increase in Buenos Aires from 10% in
1986 to 22% in 1991; in Cordoba, from 6% to 24%; and in Rosario, from 5% to
8%; and (b) revenues collected to amounts billed by OSN, EPOS and DIPOS
would increase from 86% in 1986 to 96% in 1991 and thereafter.
Audit
60.       Audit of the project executing agencies is carried out as
follows:  (a) MOSP, by the Comptroller General; (b) OSN, by the Comptroller
of Public Enterprises (Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas - SIGEP);
(c) EPOS by the Contaduria General de la Provincia; and (d) DIPOS, by the
Tribunal de Cuentas de Santa Fe. In addition, assurances were obtained
that OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS would have their financial statements for each
fiscal year starting with fiscal year 1985 and statement of expenditures,
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and in accordance



- 17 -
with generally accepted accounting principles; MOSP would have the accounts
of its project component and the project's operating account audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; and starting in June 30, 1986,
but not later than April 30 of each following years, the project executing
agencies would submit to the Bank certified copies of the audited financial
statement and reports.
Procurement
61.       Procurement under the proposed project would be carried out
following Bank guidelines. Assurance of an exemption for project-financed
procurement from legislation mandating the use of domestic goods and
services would be a condition of effectiveness. All contracts for
equipment and materials exceeding US$100,000 and for civil works exceeding
US$1,000,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Equipment and materials would be grouped to obtain packages in
excess of US$100,000 with the exception of contracts amounting to Less than
US$130,000 under the MOSP water supply and sanitation plan component,
US$1,000,000 for OSN's component, US$2,800,000 for EPOS' components, and
US$370,000 for DIPOS' components. The nature for works under the
operational improvements components precludes the efficient packaging of
services to be bid as works will be carrried out in operating installations
spread over the project cities. These works, amounting to approximately
US$9.0 million or 11% of the project cost, will be carried out under
procedures satisfactory to the Bank by:  (i) local contractors:
US$2,600,000 under OSN's subproject, US$900,000 under EPOS' subproject, and
US$1,000,000 under DIPOS' subproject; and (ii) by force account:
US$2,600,000 unde- OSN's subproject, US$900,000 under EPOS' subproject, and
US$1,000,000 under DIPOS' subproject. Standard bidding documents and a
purchase program for 1986 were agreed to during loan negotiations together
with assurances of an updating of the purchase program by October 31, of
each year starting in 1986.
62.       Technical assistance and consultants' services will be procured
in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. A
contract with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be awarded to ease the
administrative burden on MOSP for the preparation of the water supply and
sanitation plan.
Disbursements
63.       The Bank would disburse as follows: (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for direct imports; (b) 44% of local expenditures for imported
equipment and materials procured locally and ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods; (c) 44% of total expenditures of civil works; (d) 100%
of total expenditures for consulting services and training; and (e) against
amounts due for interest and other charges on the Bank's loan until the
date of the first principal payment to the Bank up to a maximum of US$8
million. A special account for the project in the amount of US$5.0 million
(estimated four month's peak disbursements) would be established in the
Central or other bank acceptable to the IBRD.



- 18 -
Status of Project Preparation
64.       Project preparation conforms to the agreed implementation
schedule. The project coordinating unit in MOSP (UC) has been created and
staffed. UC has prepared and submitted to the Bank model onlending
contracts between MOSP, and OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS.   UC has also prepared
draft terms of reference for a master contract for consulting services
under the preparation of the national plan. "Los Molinos" treatment plant
design preparation is completed. The land for the plant is already in the
expropriation process and the law allows EPOS to take immediate possession
of it. OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS, have created and staffed units for the
execution of the operational improvements components. Agreements were
reached during loan negotiations between the Bank and MOSP and the
executing agencies on on-lending contracts; and between the Bank and MOSP
on terms of reference for a master contract for the preparation of a
national water and sanitation plan.
Project Justification and Economic Benefits
65.       The project would enable OSN and DIPOS to satisfy short-term
demand from existing facilities and to prepare them to adequately undertake
system expansions which will be needed in the future. The project yields
satisfactory returns and has a high social i pact. In Cordoba, nearly 30Z
of the beneficiazies are urban poor who would be provided a dependable
water supply at affordable rates. Failure to execute the project would
mean that: (a) in the near future EPOS would become incapable of providing
even a minimal level of services to Cordoba's population; and (b) OSN, EPOS
and DIPOS would experience increasing losses with the consequent need for
larger subsidies and investments. Furthermore, the project would be
instrumental for assuring the necessary sector-wide institutional,
financial and operational policy adjustments.
66.       Least Cost Solution.  The project finances only items of high
priority and immediate impact which are consistent with long-term
objectives. Project components represent the least-cost solution for
achieving the project's objectives and do not involve the use of unusual or
unproven technologies. The investment in most significant physical
component (Cordoba) which was selected on the basis of the analyses of
eight alternatives and is consistent with the future reorientation of
Cordoba's water system.
67.       Economic Analysis.  Internal rates of return (IRRs) have been
calculated for the two key components of the Cordoba sub-project (65% of
total project cost). The estimated IRR for the plant construction and
expansion component is 10, and for the operational improvement component
is 44Z, yielding a weighted IRR of 152. The Buenos Aires operational
improvement component (24Z of total project cost) and the Rosario
operational improvement component (9% of total project cost) could be
expected to yield similar high results. An IRR was not computed for the
Cordoba technical assistance component because benefits of the component
cannot be quantified reliably.
68.       The IRRs were calculated using revenues from consumer charges as
the minimum measure for economic benefits of the project. Many benefits



- 19 -
such as improvement of public health and hygiene, enhanced property values,
employment generation, greater well-being of the population, etc., cannot
be quantified reliably and therefore, are excluded from the calculations.
The consumer surplus is also excluded. As a result, the IRRs are
understated. Revenues were calculated using 1987 projected tariffs held
constant in September 1985 prices. The IRRs indicate that the project is
fully justified.
69.       Long-run marginal costs for the Cordoba subproject were
calculated using the Average Incremental Cost (AIC) method with an 12%
discount rate.  All costs are expressed in September 1985 prices.  The AIC
for the subproject is US$0.17/m3 which is higher than present (1985) tariff
expressed in September 1985 prices of about US$0.14/m3.  (The US$0.17/m3
represents the weighted average of the components: US$0.25/m3 for plant
and US$0.06/m3 for the operational improvements).
70.       Beneficiaries, Urban Poverty Impact and Affordability.  Benefits
of the Cordoba subproject would accrue to virtually the entire population
served by EPOS as a result of the replacement of rundown production
facilities which break down with increasing frequency and that could become
inoperative. Direct beneficiaries of Cordoba construction and expansion
component would include about 0.4 million people by the end of 1993 who
would have either lost or had the volume of their water supply curtailed if
the new facilities were not constructed. The operational improvement
component would directly benefit 0.35 million new users by 1993 through
more reliable services. This component would also benefit the entire
population presently served by EPOS through more reliable and fair
billings and safer and less expensive supply. The operational improvements
in Buenos Aires would generate considerable water savings through the
prometion of conservation and reduction of leakages, which should permit
OSN to serve an additional 0.8 million consumers by 1990. The Rosario
component would benefit about 0.25 million people whose services would be
upgraded in quality and quantity. In addition, the entire population
served by DIPOS would benefit through more accurate and timely billing.
The operational improvements in the three cities would benefit 1.4 million
people by the end of 1990.
71.       The direct impact of the project on the poverty group, defined as
families with a monthly monetary income of less than US$160 in September
1985 prices (on an annual basis, this corresponds to approximately one
fourth of the national per capita income) was estimated for the Cordoba
subproject by calculating the proportion of urban poor in the projected
(1993) incremental population served by each project component. About 22Z
of the direct beneficiaries of the construction and expansion component and
37% of the direct beneficiaries of the operational improvements component
will be the urban poor. An estimated 23% of the subproject investments
will directly benefit the poor. An evaluation of the affordability of
services was made based on 1985 tariffs. In 1985, a family with a monthly
income at the poverty threshold would pay about an acceptable 2.6% of its
income for a 'lifeline water supply of 12m3.
Project Sensitivity, Risks and Safeguards
72.       There is a high degree of certainty that the project will provide
the desired benefits. The effect of variations in costs, benefits and



- 20 -
implementation delays on the project's rates of returns has been analyzed
and the IRRs are not highly sensitive to changes in costs and benefits.
The construction components of the project as the works are of conventional
design and well within the capability of local civil works contractors and
consultants. The multiplicity of activities to be undertaken under the
project, including the introduction of new technologies in Argentina, would
require the close cooperation of the utilities. To some extent the risk
associated with the multiple activities would be minimized by the
institutional arrangements for project implementation and the retention of
an experienced organization to undertake the administration and
contracting for the technical assistance and studies. These measures would
be supplemented by intensive supervision by Bank staff and by reporting and
monitoring provisions which will allow the Bank to regularly check on
project progress.
73.       The federal and provincial governments have committed themselves
to ensure the funds required for the project. Moreover, by strengthening
the utilities' management systems and improving the quality and efficiency
of its services, the project would enhance the utilities' finances, their
acceptance in the communities and thus their ability to implement tariff
increases when necessary. These project features minimize any possible
risk related to the availability of local counterpart funds.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 18, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
TAJILk  IA                                  AN E  I
AmnICI=HA              - bCAcL INdICATORS DTWA gst               Page  1 of 6
M g",13                              WSW=jj  GRO's iWRaGWmD AVERAGE) La
MST                      O1ST RUINS LSWIAIL) lb
mcgw            momL  trCO.            nouuz IiiC-z
I196    197aLb              _      IA T. MMUA 4 C                UILP
ADJUSn  ENROLJENT RALTIOS
PRDIA  TOTAL                     9S.0       lub.'      119.0              106.7                    101.9
WALZ                   93.0      104.0       120.0             104.5                    106.2
rFNALE                99.0       107.0       119.0             1u4.6                     97.5
SECONDAT: TOTAL                  23.0        45.0       59.0              44.2                     57.5
mLE                   23.0        42.0        56.9              42.7                     64.9
FiNALE                24.0        48.0       63.0               ".9                      50.0
VOCA,ISAL CZ OV SECONDARY)         50.3        58.6       61.3               13.3                    21.0
C           ~~~PUPIL-TEACRZRL RATO
PRDWM                            22.0        19.0       20.0              29.9                     25.1
SECONDhr                          7.0         7.0        7.0 /f           16.7                     19.1
amu
PASSENIUR CASITUSIND POP           23.0        60.1        ..               46.0                     54.2
RADIO RECEIVERSITUOUSAB0 POP      169.3       375.6      727.1             328.3                    17u.7
TV  MCEIVERS/T0USAUD POP           21.3       146.1      202.3              112.4                    149.3
VSPAPU  ("DAILT GENUAL
TEREST") CfLOCLAXION
PER TUOUSMID POPUlNATI            154.5      177.2       114.7              nl.1                     97.0
CIRAU   A1NUAL ,.TTNDACCAPTA        7.0         2.2        1.5               2.                       2.7
TOTAL  LaROR FORCE (TOUS)       11133.0    12700.0    14539.0
10A3Z (PERCENT)                  21.6        26.7       27.1              23A                      36.3
AG!5ILTIM  (PERCET)              20.0        16.4       13.1 /d           31.4                     40.8
IzLuuT  (PERCENT)                35.9        32.1       34.0 7            24.3                     23.3
PAtICOPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            54.0        53.0       47.7               33.5                     43.1
ALE                             86.0        81.0       75.0 /d            51.3                     55.1
FiNLC                            23.0        27.0       27.0 Id            15.9                     3L.6
CONOMIC DUEPUSD1t RATIO             0.7         0.7        1.0               1.3                      0.9
:1CN DISTIBUIO
PrE1  or F ?VATE INCON
RISES  5S 0F ROUSCROLDS          27.5         ..          ..                ..
BlEaT Z2C OF OUSEN1oLIS          50.9          .3
LOWEST 2Z0 OOUSFUIOLDS            a.9         4.4
-WEST 4*o0 OIOUSr OLDS           16.6        14.L
ESTIXATD ABS-        POVER  EICUS
LEVEL (CSS PS CAPITA)
U                                 ..          ..          ..              206.3
DUAL                              ..          ..         ..               185.3
ESTINAM RElXATVE POvER!? INCU
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URN                               ..           .          ..              519.3
RURAL                             ..          .          ..               359.7
ESTIMATD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INa LEVEL (I)
Uxas                              ..          ..          .                  ..
URL                               ..          ...
NOr AVAILABL
Mr APPLICAUE
NOT TS
/a  The grnup evre  for each laicator are populatiou.el*ted arltatc _cns.  Avarere of councris
o    rg the tudLatore depend. - avallability of data ad I not miforu.
/b   Unles otbanDwse noted, "Da for 1960" refer to aqy year betuea  1959 and 1961; "Dta for 197?F beaen
1969 ad 1971; ed data far "fot Eacet Eitiate' baea  1981 sd 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1980; /a 1962;  If 1979.
JUNE. 1985



- 22 -                                        ANNE I
TABLE C 34                                      Page 2 of 6
AErTNA                 - SOCIAL lbuICATIAh ODATA slIEr
A;vIIINrSlA                         ReftAbNG; GIS CUEICITW AVE MAR) I-
15 CST                      wsC UuT  SrL'A) lb
ReCENT          1110ULC IWAM            tiDuLS INCE
I,t..I     197.Lk. EISrIMATlb      LAI. 415LRtC8 A GMt    *       oft
An (THOUSAND Sl. m)
TOTAL                            27bb.9     i7...9      27b6.9
ACRICULT0RAL                     17411.2    1777.0      1788.0
my  n CAPIrA CUSO)                    ..          ..  207U.0 0715.               9                    214.3
eUrr wmeuflu MR CAPIrA
(KRLOORAIS uF OIL EQUIVILF.UT)   608.0      1211.0      t41s.0            993.6                    1119.8
POPUIATEOII AD   AL SnTsTCS
POPULATION 'ED-YYEAR (THNOSANDS)  2061h.0    23962.0    29b27.0
URUS POPULATION (Z OF TWrAL)      73.6        7.4        S3.8              67.7                     47.5
POPULATINM PRCrIONS
POPUIATUON 1I YEAR 2000 jflLL)    ..         ..          b.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (OLL)       ..         ..         54.0
POPUATION NOENT                   ..         ..          1.5
POPULATION OENSIn
PER SQ. It.                      7.5         8.7        10.7              48.0                     84.7
PER Sq. MS. AGRI. LAbiD          11.8       13.5        10.3              91.1                    166.1
POFULATION AGE STrUCTUE (X)
0-14 IRS                        30.7       29.1        3U.6              38.5                     31.2
15-4 YRS                        b3.0        03.0        01.1             57.1                     61.5
6s D AI AE                        S5S        7.1         8.2               4.2                      7.2
PopuLAT101 CR011w RATE (l)
TOTAL                             1.8        1.5         1.6               2.4                      1.0
URBAN                            3.0         2.1        2.1                3.0                      3.7
CRUDE 3NM RSATE (PER nUS)         23.0        22.9        24.3              30.9                     23.4
CUDE DEAt RATE (PER THOtS)        8.7         9.4        9.0               6.0                      8.9
CROSS REPROCUCTM RATE               1.5        1.5         1.6               2.0                      1.5
FAMILt PLANING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (T11101)
USERS C OF FAARRED Ul1)          ..          ..          ..               4S.3
WMAND0 - D mnia
IbDEX OF FOD PROD. MRI CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0       101.0       116.0            1e9.s                     109.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF HRUIWINTS)       124.0      128.0       121.0             113.2                    131.5
PROTEINS (CAMS PER DAY)         110.D      107.0       106.0              194                     92.4
OF UIOI ANIMAL AND PULSE       o6.0        08.0        69.0 Ic           34.2                     34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4)  AMAH  RATE      4.B         3.2         1.0              4.8                       4.7
MALI
LIFE EXPECr. AT 51X111 (YTEAR)    65.1        06.b        b9.5             64.b                      87.2
IMPFAur miRr. RATE (PER Tfl'OS)   60.0        53.0       36.u              59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (%PD7P
TOTAL                            47.3       5b.0        57.0 /4           65.3                     70.2
URBAFN                           58.9       69.0        65.0 Id           76.5                     59.4
RURAL                            9.6        12.0        17.0 IC           44.2                     57.u
ACCESS TO ERCRErA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            62.0       S5.0        79.0 Id          56.3                      S9.6
URBAIN                            ,         87.0        59.0 7i          73.4                      65.9
RURAL                            ..         79.0        32.0 Ii           25.5                     47.8
POPULATION PER PHYStClA!t        740.0       520.0      430.0 Ic          1909.7                   1070.6
POP. PER NLRISLItC PERSON        760.0 Ie   590.0          ..              08.2                     769.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           160.0      180.0         _.              302.0                    325.3
URBAN                           190.0 le   200.0        ..              422.0                     201.9
RUMA                           4490.0 7;  1010.0         ,,             2716.7                   0519.7
ADUISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BE         ..           .          ..              27.5                     20.0
-ISIS
AVERaGE SIZE OF UhOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             3_7        3.8
Ulta                             3.5
RURAL                            4.3
AVERSE NO. OF FERSONS/IOPIR
TOTAL                             1.4        1.4
URBAN                            1.3
RURAL                             1.7
PERCENTACE OF DIELLINCS WITH LECT.
TOTAL                            h9.2       76.0        87.0 Id
URSBA                            54.7
RURAL                            I..6



- 23 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes Although the data are drawn from sources genemlly judged the most authoritative and reliable. it should also be noted thai they may not be intentionally
comparable because of the lack of standardized deintiuons and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data. The data am nonethekss useful to
describe ordes Of mougnitude. indicate trends. and characterize cerutin major differences between countries.
The reference groups are (1) the same country group of the subject country and (21 a country group with sormcwhat higher average income than the country
group of the subjec country lecept for -High Income Oi Exporers- group whre -Middle Income North Afria and Middle East- is chosen because of stronger
socio-cultural affinitiel. In the reference group data the averages are population waighted arithmentc seam for each indicator and shown only wben majority
or the countries in s group has data for that indicator. Since the coverage of countries among the indicators depends on the availability of data and is not uniform.
caution must be excrixd in elating averages of one indicator to another. Thse averages are only useful in comparing the value ofone indicator at a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude Birth Rate (per thousmad)-Number of live births in the ycar
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland watcrs'  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cude Death Rate (per thoand)-Number of dcaths in the year
Agriculnral-Estimate of agricultural area uscd temporarily or     per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pasture  market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodection Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                             will bear in her normal reproductivc period if she experences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      Fedy Pfrlani-Acceporsn  Annal (th_ rads,-Annual naun-
Rank Arkas (19B81-83 basis): 1983 data.                           herofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family plaraing program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Fail Phlanig-Users (perenw ofamwff   munmen)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal edec-   tapc of married women of child-beaing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are praeticing any form of contraception Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are genly women aged 1549, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured. for other age
POPULATlON AND VffAL STATISTCS                                   groups.
Torta Populaio, Mid-Year (thowesnds-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUlltRlON
and 1983 data.
Urban Popultion (percent of total)  Ratio LO' urban to total      Index ofaFed Prodwtion Per Capita (1969-71 = lt0)-ndex of per
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  ecaude aniual feeduand seed foood commoditie            s
ability of dtau among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       excludes animnal feed and seed for agricultumc Food comnmodities
include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Poplation f4ojecrios                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    excluded): they comprise creals, root crops. puls, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar b, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the populatioa became stationary.               Per Capit Supply ofCalries (pet  efreq remem)j-Comnput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- a n - sexspecific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over 3 long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available suppLies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously -emained at reptacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= I . In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food p-'oessing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 20W00 and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 peaet for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentus-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capta Supply of Proten (grs per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower tham those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pbpul_tion De&  -j                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJa.m-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita hnoel Supply fom Aimal and Pe-Protein supply
Per sqJbn. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day, 1961-65,
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Popation Age Structure (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-     Chil (ages I-4) Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years) and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popation Growth Rate (percentt-toral-Annual growth rates of       from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Populwian CGrowth Rare (percent)-urban-Annual growth rates        Life Expecrany at  irth (yearrs)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant wvould live if prevailing pattsns of mortality for all people



- 24 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the sme throughout its life.  Pipd-reacher Ratio - primary. acd secotidry-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primry and secondary levds divided by numbers of
/4f_a Metuisy RE (per shesmd)-Nunmber of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levds.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Accem  oSo WSf   er (pe   ef c pp.futou)-tetal, mhm. End      Pauagr Curs (per thesad pe         Passgr can comn-
rmsIl-Number of people (total, urba  and rual) with eiotible  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons excludes armbul-
aoss to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or  ances hearses and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rai& Rwemt (per teh.uaadpoepuhi)-AI types of receivers
borchoks, springs and sanitary wels) as pe=ntages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to genl public per thousand of population.
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or smndpost  excudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
lcated not more than 200 meters from a house may b considered  registration of radio sets was in fect dau for  ct yers may
as being within reasonable access of that bouse. In mrAl areas ritrtion ofpradio sets was inteic; ator recsnt r
masonabc acoass would imply that the housewife or members of the  not be comparable sicc most counties abolshed lnsing.
housdibold do not have to spcnd a disproportionate part of the day  TVReceRs (pgr t_Mul'paps n)-TV receivers for bmadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                        to genl public per thousand population exludes unlicensed TV
Acens to Er  Dispal (pereeut ofh                              recrs in con     and in yeas when retation of T  sets was
ad rmrl-Number of people (total. urba  and rural) served by
cxcrcta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Akp- CGcaftm (per rhomudpop.oiu-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collecion and disposaL with or  age cirulation of -daily general interest newspaper.- dcfined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  pcnodEn publication devoted primarily to recordig geal news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instadlations.  It is consiered w be dadir if it appears at least four imres a week.
Popularic per Phjwkuu-Fbpulation divided by number of prac-   CG    Aumnl Ane,auce pff Caipb per Yew-Based on the
tsing physicians qualified from a medical school at university kvel.    number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pepufatieu per NV_rsn P_rse.-FPopulation divided by number of  drive-in cinanas and mobile units.
2racitcing mak and fanale graduate nurses, assistant nunesF
prcacical nurses and nursing auxiLaries.                      LABR FORCE
PepusA- pe Hespal Bed-totl          . and rmnl-Ptpulation     Tel Labor Force (thairs mus-Economically active persons. in-
(total urban, and nrual) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but exduding housewives.
beds available in public and private. general         students. etc.. coverng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation enters. Hospitals arestblishmets  various countries are not comparable 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
pen ently staffed by at least one physician, Establshments prov-  Feaigl (percar)--Ftmale labor forxe as percentage of total Labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitak.  force.
however. include health and metical centers not penanenly staffed  Asrwa:brr (perFeent-Labor force in famung. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilit3es.                                       Induitry (percmu)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adxrssion per H ospitl Red-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and elecricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      orce; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pmirwasiou RAt (p )-wal, met. anemeli-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates ar computed as total, male and female labor force
Average 5re of H Aewehil (p-     per A-ebf-di-toal. whim.     as percentags of total, male and female population of al ages
aadiral-A housebold consists of a group of individuals who share  respecively. 1960. 1970. and 1933 data. These are based on ILO's
vnng quartcrs and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates relecting age-sex structure of the popultion, and
may nor be included in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs.
Average Nawhier of Perwis per Rume-oteal, wham, and r1ura-      memic Dependec Ride-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average ncmber of person' per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population Ithose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectdvely. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISIRIBUTION
Percenae of Duelibgs -irt ElcbiciV--4otal. am. and rural-     Pffcete of Trod Dsposablc 1mm (had in cMh ad kinds-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accning to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sted Ewollrnext Rats                                        The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Jrv   sdwol - toml mk af            Gss total. male and       keves and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroUlmen of all ages at the primary kevl as pcntages of  Est  fed Ahstle Povety luerne Lene (S$ per capita)-arban
respective primary school-age populations. Wbile many countries  d rul-Absolute poverty income lvd is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differeners in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal    FEin.faed Relte Pfbty Incame Lev  (1U1  pr p pir c -wh
education, gross cnrodlmcnt may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income kvd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  averag per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                          dcrived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - otal, male andfenml-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Emirpmtde Popsaua Rebw Absolnee Poverty luceiw Level (per-
mary instrcion provides generaL vocationaL or teacher training  ceme)-uran and rurl - Paecent of population (urban and rural
insructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: corrcspond-  who are -absolute poor.
cnce courses are generaly exduded.
Vocancoal Eraro&lmnri (percent of secondary)-Vocadional institu-        Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tion include technical industriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 25 -
UlEEU I
la. 3 of 6
mis SSO  373
am             Ae.   ut frS trtus                                         Is Prce   d mIlt
Oulasti 4ceb
IS            170w74 1 3   31m    1936    l37                       5932     1         `1 105
mlli of1 3M   1                             Prcmtapul                                      I
6ros h_tic Prot.t                           7lt                LO7      1.3    -1.12      LO       Li               9.12   1oLoo   200.54
1un d Trall EHfect                              I                                                                   L.       0.00     0.
fru   bu.tictIsa                            70749              LOS      1.70   -2.47    -L4    L .4              I2L60    lO.AD  200.0
loqrtsofSut  ul                               5 91             1.3     2330  -27.79    -5.41       Li              15.14    9.32      L41
Eum hs  f      s ba W J FS99                                   L4    14.09    4.21   *.01           4.5            I06  11.43    ILK
swts MistEd by Term d Trate                  93                Llb   11.3   -5.25        I.10     2.9             1194    13.43    1.
harct  Su                                   -2t LO                                                                          -4.11    -5.44
EmesiUM                                     579                4.51     1.45   -3.40     0.50      2.2              LD9    31.5      1 0.24
lnvnt_t                                       N101t0           1.3      4.44  -1344    -70         4J.3            1.61    14.31    9.4
_inti  Savin                                u3s                2.47     2.7      1.75    L.U       4.1             17.41    1.45    14.74
atins  Sunrp                                 74                3.04    L04   -7.13    -.40         9.5             1L.      10.3      7.21
ttEl3iO       UIKE                           131      192      13       i914    1m                                  thm Pondt    Total)
IOilliomuuf CwrudE bluus)
Imrts (ci.4.I                                9430     S7       450      4713   W45                                 u.3    100.0   oL..
capital Sids                               2059      90       79        2       s52                               2.A    17.1    144
Itrtiabt Sin                               4r7      3320    307       32      339                                 5L.      3LZ    72
Pstnema FWe                                 1011     112      453      47e      39                                I.7    10.1        L
C u m  Suos                                 ib 132   3s       20       220      15                                17.3      L        4.0
Epet   S(...)                                8141    477       7106     73       339                               50L0     100.0   100.0
Friary Pr     s I055    441    525                                   A54      A34                                74.3    90.7    61.3
Oafstrut Go29s                             249      2191     13       1413    19                                     7     11.3    102
glu jist Trt lniten                                   labrags 1910ke 100
EFptrice Jun                              319.4   270.0   241.9    254.7   754
Insrt Parim  Idos                         29.3   29L2    27s9   2719   294.4
Term  of Trte Ut                          104.7    IL4       E.       93.0    ID.0
VUJUE n11       SE1       ItlUilitaf tSS at 13 Mrmt    I sth                   gu                                        l1bt ILofon
tIricte                                      925      V7      104    1112    1340                                   1u       1L2      15
lntry                                       25s      23715    2.9      DI    2335                                   35J      39       3L5
Sevis                                       37147   3437 3    349      353   341                                    51      4U.9    40.9
lutz!                                       711S    O7M       719   1247   71474                                  13.    ttLtt  Il0.0
MRLIC FINLCE                             (1111amn of hgutius m Pine)wcm rts  of EPI
Mtmsuatatd Public Setrs
ternft Macipht                               1903    47447    329   1713135                                         31.7    31.7
Cerut Ezyditu                               2I9 I      14U   31139  394304 4t1.7    33.
Seitp                                       -331t   -1ltl1  -4130  -P6171                                           -7.0     -i3
lastmts                                      4746    1147   413     3613                                             L7       LS
serpWu     icidt                            -2      -25126   -102   -124113                                        -IL5    -24.4
NUEo, CEDIT _  Pt0IS                      Itilia  of.a hfttat1s*  End PIwitd
tu     at  1anu  1n0 tLO                              3D3      9.i   1193.1
Crdt to Puic Sutsr                           IL2      34J    21223       9
Crntit to Mtrivts Stswtw                     22 t        .7   293   Ili33.4
NMI U  Geui lky a
1 ol0                                 29.l'M   25.41    2LIS    ZL2.
lusmde Prim Into
21970   2.00)                             43Y    15411    71154   43
tulmul  Wricne Id                           103.9   257.3   340.9   57L3
Ink Cretit to Public Setsr                  29.7    222.2  SLI   343.
Bak erstt to Prints Suckr                    17.5   210.4   T23L       543
ui Fmt ANR trecmm                           ins T  m    Va  mPutr Per kbr
AgtiStun                                      1194     57.1     tlO7
loub,tr                                      22       34.5    995
frics                                         345      46.4   1O044
Ttsl/U                                      499    10.   Itilt



-26 -                                                             AN= r
Pap 6 of 6
Eatiwte                 Pajacted
rm       s,        Iwo 1     u`      un        ItU      ni        am     191         It7      3 99
EULE F PIIETS
Euparta  iad. WS)                             7714    %901       3765    115        525      9512     91       1063    11133    1243    17270
larts lied. IfS                              -24      -T2Z   -14024   -1237        7195    -51    -63          -        -62       -7051   -1029
h ear. DlaI.                                  246       341    -IZ        -m        2330     2m       3211      3749      U12      442      6741
Net Facter Sevice lm                          -all      -920    -3ot    -3700    -4719    -mm        -5712    -         -515    -T9    -6761
llt Crrt Trasers                                41       35        23      -3        32        36         3        0         I        I        0
Deluce -  Carrat kDcet                        1833      -7    -4767    -4734    -2357    -2461    -92    -707    -140             -1047      -20
Direct Inetuet                                 274      265      7i        927      257       I3U      269      3I0       259       36       m
kNt Public ILT  orrerir                       -n2        11      2511     MNU       5122    197       4307       "00      300       60        414
let Private ILT    rrmiq                     13239      3I5       1       1469     2219       613    -30         151       10s      m7      -336
UNr of 1      o er                                                                           1173         0       0       U        -300     -40
Short Ire Capital Tram ctien                 -1215      IUS    -171      -109      -44       -35       1670        0         0        0         0
Capital Trauactioe   a.ei.                    I3         431    -437      -44        0       -331     -10_         0         0        0         0
Ca     in t elrven  l- * inmr )              -199S    -U42       2796     3307  t 51         -244     -39       -19        -5      -150      -50
CWUT Mm   -I   Tll1EIIS
Public NILT Lons                              2419     3312      27       3703      1012     2030     609      4w        5500
IID                                          IU       306        27      3n       100       IOD        0       175      oil
Other rhltilataral                           231      323        44      321      in        200      400       55R      756
lilat ral                                     91       52       115        9       42       200      300      1350      "I5
Suppliers                                    372      535       216     3637      L13        30      300       500      600
Faseecial Inutitmtios                       1560     2091      240      1336      49       ISM     5290      2225     20
DBDT AND IET SEIVIE
Total eet isteanine  and Ihsbrs es           1246     19036    27162    35671    433        66035    43420
Total MILT  f et                              9946    14013     16770    2270    27135    M7         3200
Public OLT Debt                               6743      57    10177    1045    15_7         24957    2700
Interest an Plic DIebt                      5u3       lll      1063     1060     U33       2L37     2595
Rapaymts sm Pclic Bit                        195     1146      I9       IN5      1036      1000      400
Total Public Debt Sermien                   1663      1997     215b    2155      2347         7     2995
Privete  ILT Det                              3103     5431      6       12136    11227    10421       500
Itrwest m Private Debt                       n5o     138       140       915     1123      1436     1325
Repaymts  en Pnvatp Sltt                    1230     1700      1500       57      234       400      32
Total Private Det Servics                   2050     306D      3040     1142     1407      136    13654
Total tart-Ta r   et
Public Skort-Tn Debt                          1614      1363     4292     9430    12731      9219     122
Privat. Sort-Term Dbt                         1036     3635    6lle       331      3791      2400     2000
Total lLT Debt Srwvice                        3513     5047      519      3ff7     34        5523     4649
BREIM I1I E1PIPT RRMIN115 121
Total beit Service                            45.5     52.6      43.3     34.6     39.4     53.1      47.2
Public Dbt Service                            19.0     20.7      20.0    IB.7      24.6      33.5     30.4
Private    t Srvice                           26.6     31.       29.2     16.0     34.3      19.3     16.3
AVEMUE TEIIS F PULIC EST
Intwrest as 2 Prier Var NO                    11.3     12.5      12.4     10.4     12.       16.9     10.4
hortizabm   as I Prier ter 0010               17.9      17.0     32.7     10.L      9.3       6.       1.
1TERI.  EBUT liY CEDITlf   dishurse  mlyi                          1B3
Total 1 I LY Debt                                               353
3300                                                              m
Other Multilateral                                               1134
Dilatral                                                          711
Suppliers                                                        22
Fnamcial halts                                                  30791
Ihstlutnl
IWS  LIPISE                                 lecne  31. 1993              ecen r 31, 15
END Debt MID                                            us                           53
IIRD   et as Z of PFblic lO                             2.1                         2.1
IED Debt Servic                                        77.0                         IB2
INS Debt Swevice as I of Det Services                   2.1                         2.3
* Froa 1992 onnards inclcdes rescheduling mu natuinali:atin of sirt tare debt.
November 4. 1985



- 27 -
iiW -II
P 1 of 2
19E SAU  OF BANK GXI  OMATI
A. SrTMr OF BAl WDAN AND) MA, CR)DIS
(As of Septer  30, 1985)
Amout Ju        unle
LAm No. Year   BorPier             Papee - Iatiox                buried
Fuly dishrsed l1                                    596.0
1384     1977   Aktm                 g              104.7         22.8
1463     1978   B aciaal   IrAstrial
de Desraro       credit           IOD.O          1.3
1521     1978   Aenti              Grain Storae      87.0         70.7
1677     1979 
Argentinos SA.                     960          37.5
1761     1979   Arg h             Yacyrteta Pom     210.0        179.1
L880     L.980D  YadIeas
NetroliEeros    Oil and Gas
Fiscales         aas:u             27.0          2.1
1905     198D   ArRnmrn           Vocatoal
fming           58.0         57.3
S-02     1980   AngtEin       E Coal Exploratio   10.0             3.6
2031     1981    Rm Nacioa           1 ad G-s
de Deanrrollo      redit          100.0        79.7
2032      1981   YacizLentos
Petroliferos    Refinery
Flhcales     9     nversi         200.0        81.9
2063     1981   Banco Nacimaal   Iutria
de DIsarrollo     Cedit II        100.0        100.0
2296     1983   Ak stim            HigIiy           100.0         84.1
259251           Yacim!entos       Gas Utflization   180.0
Petroliferos     and  Tedxical
FPIaUle          Asistaxm
Total                                    1,968.7
Of hdiidi has bean repaId                  459.3
1,509.4
Amouot sold              12.8
Of  idt.sb    F Wmpaid  12.8                 -
Total now beld by Bank                   1,509.4
Total udidsbursed                                      720.1
i1 This lon Is not yet effective.



- 28 -
AIM:
Pa 2 of 2
B. SEMM  CF'IC IV  ESJNNJ
(As of Septieber 3D, 19Ew)
A~G~
Fiscal                                              Ammut in USS millm
Yewr       O bWof   d                                        iy Tota
1960   Acin3ar Industrla            Steel ProdLuct    3.7    -      3.7
Agentim de Acerks, S.A.
1960    apelLem Ro Par, S.A.    Pulp and Paper    3.0    -          3.0
ljgmnajes, S.A.I.C.
1961    abrica Aget7l de            Autobtve          1.5    -      1.5
1962   PASA, Pot ddmi               Petnx             3.0    -      3.0
Azgent.na, S.A.I.C.
1965/
72    Cernlloa Argentina, S.A.     Palp and Paper   12.5    -    12.5
1969/
75    1-Jmie Siderea, S.A.         Stel Pw&cts   17.0    -    17.0
1969   EditOrlal Codez, S.A.        Printing and
abliabig          5.0   2.0    7.0
73    Calera AveUlaeda, S.A.       Ce.t              5.5    -      5.5
1977T/ SAlpargtasS.A.I.C.                les& Fibres 14.5   2.0   16.5
1917   Soye S.A.                    Soybea Ptvoeass
Plant            25.0    -    25.0
1978 -Yssuh, S.                     Eblp and Paper   13.5   2.0   15.5
l1 B/  Juan Nnetti, S.A.            Cement and
81 /82n
mterials         74.0    -    74.0
19EY  Ipako-rndimtrlza              Ihieica3l and
79/92 Patruqulifias                Ntivdxscb  ]sal
Argantm  S.A                                  20.0    -    20.0
1979/  Alpesca SA.                  EL9eries          5.2   1.6    6.8
83/84
1984   Petragiimics Cqio SAIC       ehelsn   and
Petvdr icals   21.0   4.0   25.0
Total Groes aommit aerAs                            224.4  11.6  236.0
Lem llsttem,  TinEat
REpawynstI and Sales                         124.2   2.0  126.2
Total CaomitEnts ow Hekld ty IFC             100.2   9.6  109.8
Total Urdisbirsed                            23.6   4.0   27.6



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(X) Time taken by the Country to Prepare Project: One year
(b)  Preparation by:  MOSP/OSN/EPOS/DIPOS
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: December 1983
(d) First Bank Mission: February 1984
Ce) Appraisal Mission Departure: February 23, 1985
(f) Negotiations: October 1985
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Ca) The federal government would contribute to the Province of Cordoba
amounts required for the multipurpose -Los Molinos' channel
and the federal and provincial governments would make available
local counterpart funds for the project (para. 55);
(b) financial recovery plans for OSN, EPOS and DIPOS and schedules for
their implementation would be completed by June 30, 1987 and the
Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the provisions of
the plan (para. 58);
(c) OSN, EPOS and DIPOS would submit to the Bank by September in each
year an update of the financial plan and projections for the
-                     current and the following three years (para. 58);
(d) metered connections as percentage of total connections would
increase in Buenos Aires from 10% in 1986 to 22% in 1991; in
Cordoba, from 6Z to 24%, and in Rosario, from 5% to 8%; and
revenues collected to amounts billed by OSN, EPOS and DIPOS would
increase from 86% in 1986 to 96% in 1991 and thereafter (para. 59);
and
(e) a Special Account for the project in the amount of US$5.0 million
would be established in the Central or other bank (para. 63).



I BRD 19128
BOLIVIA           /
cw1I S , g           i ' s  PPARAGUAY
~~~~~~.  e z\..-                                                     BRAZLt -- ..... -
,ALA   S,ALTA/      kORMOSA-.                /         R A Z I L
I  \      -4-1~~~rUC1JAN HAC8<.  /                    '    awu,
-3 tAtAMARf g/SANTIAGO! RESSaC   L.  pagd               ISINES
MARrAUCA
r~~                                           ~      ~~   --.  '*    |          .
C H I ~~~~~~~~L                                 ES)D     
SAN UAN                                    .
-.4    ~   ORO         RSRIC
MENDOZA JLUIS:                              -
,  ,   'inj _:B  i       isU E NOS\    --;..-                  -'      -       :
v    *NEU QUEf N. uou-E  N        --               4;    
s~~             .r RIO  NEGRO                         LY                           -  -rPPL
- 4 . I                 /   </                           4>Li
MAR~~~~fa. iMf.udra
,'-S  S  t 5ANrA  I   z .'  BAHA    DE
. ',&3 St  --   '':--. - ".'E -* _'    20  -C  .O . 1....0 '
S>~~~~~~zv                                                            Tt,V         XWNINAS 
~~ n_*-   >_,4>  5,  TIIERRA DEL~~~~~~W- T-E
S.~~~~~~~~41
JULY 1965s






