Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18014
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN-2641-AR)
June 16, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of the Currency:  Peso $
At September 1996: USS1 = $1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA                   AguasArgentinas
Greater Buenos Aires water concessionaire
AC                   Aguas Cordobesas
Water Utility of the City of C6rdoba (private)
APSF                 Aguas Provinciales de Santa Fe
Water Utility of Santa Fe Province (private)
COFAPYS               Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Federal Council for Potable Water and Sanitation
DAS                   Direcci6n de Aguay Saneamiento de la Provincia de C6rdoba
Water and Sanitation Regulatory Office for the Province of C6rdoba
DIPOS                 Direcci6n Provincial de Obras Sanitarias de Santa Fe
Office of Public Works and Services of Santa Fd
ENOHSA                Ente Nacional de Obras Hidricas de Saneamiento
National Entity of Sanitation Works
EPOS                  Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias de C6rdoba
Public Works and Services Enterprise of C6rdoba
ENRESS                Ente Regulador de Servicios Sanitarios
Sanitation Services Regulatory Agency for the Province of Santa Fe
ETOSS                 Ente Tripartito de Obrasy Servicios Sanitarios
Greater Buenos Aires Water and Sanitation Regulator
lNCYTH                Instituto Nacional de Cienciasy Tecnologia Hidraulica
National Institute of Hydraulic Sciences and Technology
MEOSP                 Ministerio de Economia y de Obrasy Servicios Publicos
Ministry of Economy and Works and Public Services
MOSP                  Ministerio de Obrasy Servicios Puiblicos
Ministry of Works and Public Services
OSN                   Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n
National Sanitation Works
PAHO                  Organizaci6n Panamericana de la Salud
Pan-American Health Organization
SRH                   Secretarfa de Recursos Hidricos
Water Resources Secretariat
SNAP                  Sistema Nacional de Agua Potable
National Water Supply System
Vice President                           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Director              Myma Alexander
Sector Management Unit Director          Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager                             Abel Mejia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
ARGENTINA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2641)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................... ii
PART I - PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................................1
A. Background ...........................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Description ..........................................................2
C. Project Design and Preparation ..........................................................6
D. Project Implementation ...........................................................7
E. Project Results ...........................................................9
F. Project Sustainability ..........................................................                                                                 12
G. Bank Performance ..........................................................                                                                        12
H. Borrower Performance ..........................................................                                                                   13
I. Assessment of outcome ..........................................................                                                                   13
J. Future operation ..........................................................                                                                       14
K. Lessons Learned ..........................................................                                                                        14
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................... 18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................................  19
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................... 20
Table 4: Project Scope and Implementation  ....................................................... 21
Table 5: Project Cost and Project Financing  .....................                                      ................................... 22
Table 6: Disbursements by Category .......................................................                                                         23
Table 7: Loan Disbursements, Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ............................................ 24
Table 8: Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................................                                              25
Table 9: Studies Included  in the Project ....................................................... 26
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................... 28
Table  11: Resources: Missions ....................................................... 31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................                                                     32
APPENDIX A - Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ..........................................................                                               33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
ARGENTINA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2641-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Water Supply
Project, for which Loan 2641-AR in the amount of US$60.0 million was approved by the
Board on December 10, 1985 and became effective on April 24, 1987. The Bank canceled
US$20.0 million of the loan, at the request of the Government of Argentina: US$15.3
million in 1993 and US$4.7 million in 1995.
After three extensions of the closing date by a total of three years , the loan was
closed on June 30, 1997. Final disbursement took place on August 6, 1997, at that time a
balance of US$1.6 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Carlos Moreno-Pineda (LAIIU) and German Uzcategui
(Consultant) and reviewed by Abel Mejia (Task Manager) and Asif Faiz, Sector Leader
(LCC7C).
Preparation of this ICR is based on documents (Staff Appraisal, President's Report,
Legal Agreements, audit reports, Bank supervision reports, correspondence, and internal
Bank documents) in the project files. The borrower and the participating executing agencies
(COFAPYS, ENOHSA, OSN, DIPOS, EPOS and ETOSS), provided information to
complete the evaluation of project preparation and implementation. The Borrower's
comments are included as an appendix to the ICR.



..
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
ARGENTINA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2641-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
Loan 2641-AR was the first loan to support expansion and rehabilitation of water
supply facilities and institutional strengthening of the water and sanitation sector in
Argentina. The project had three main objectives: (i) rehabilitate deteriorating infrastructure,
replace run-down facilities and extend water services in three main centers; (ii) prepare a
national water and sanitation plan to provide the necessary institutional framework to permit
the newly decentralized system to function in a more efficient manner; and (iii) initiate a
national operational improvements program to promote water conservation through physical
rehabilitation of water systems, production and consumption metering, and institutional
strengthening of water utilities. In 1993, the description of the project was amended to
support the concessioning process of the water utility in Metropolitan Buenos Aires.
The project had four parts: (i) Part A, preparation of the national water supply and
sanitation plan; (ii) Part B, operational improvements in Metropolitan Buenos Aires and the
institutional strengthening of Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n (0SN); (iii) Part C,
rehabilitation and extension of water supply systems in the city of Cordoba and the
institutional strengthening of the Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias de C6rdoba
(EPOS); and (iv) Part D, operational improvements to the water supply system in the city of
Rosario and the institutional strengthening of the Direcci6n Provincial de Obras Sanitarias
de Santa Fe (DIPOS).
Seven executing agencies were ultimately responsible for project execution: (i) The
Subsecretariat for Hydraulic Resources (SRH), the Consejo Federal de Agua Potable y
Saneacniento (COFAPYS) and the Ente Nacional de Obras Hidricas de Saneamiento
(ENOHSA) were the liaison between the Bank, the Government and the project
beneficiaries, and also were responsible for executing Part A of the project; (ii) OSN was
responsible for executing Part B; (iii) EPOS was responsible for executing Part C; and (iv)
DIPOS was responsible for executing Part D.
Project Implementation
The project, appraised in November 1985, was approved by the Board in December
1985, and the loan became effective in April 1987. Significant delays occurred during the
first three years of implementation. The reasons for the delays in project implementation
were: (i) length of time which elapsed from loan signing to loan effectiveness; (ii) lack of
familiarity of executing agencies with the Bank's procurement procedures; (iii) reluctance of



iii
bidders to quote prices during the hyper-inflationary period (1987-1989); (iv) change of the
project coordinating agency in 1988; and (v) change of the sector's strategy established by
Law No. 23.696 of August 1989, which allowed the privatization of OSN and other
federally owned public utilities.
In June 1993, as a result of the privatization of OSN and the lack of the counterpart
funds required to conclude the works included in the Cordoba rehabilitation and expansion
component, it was agreed to: (i) cancel US$15.2 million from the EPOS component (Part
C); and (ii) reallocate US$5.3 million from OSN (Part B) to Part A, in order to develop the
institutional capacity to regulate the water concession of Metropolitan Buenos Aires.
Project Results
The Santa Fe Province water utility (DIPOS) fully implemented the physical
components of the Rosario subproject and also improved its operational efficiency. OSN and
EPOS, the Buenos Aires and C6rdoba water utilities respectively, only partially implemented
their subprojects. During project implementation all the executing agencies decided to
privatize their water utility services, and the Bank strongly supported these decisions. The
services in Buenos Aires, the province of Santa Fe, and C6rdoba are now operated by
private concessionaires.
Part of the funds allocated to OSN were used to prepare the financial analysis and
bidding documents required to privatize the water and sanitation services of Metropolitan
Buenos Aires region. EPOS (Part C) partially completed a water treatment plant which
produces one third of its design flow. In 1993, an amendment to the Loan Agreement
reallocated to ETOSS funds originally allocated to OSN. This reallocation made possible to
design the institutional structure of ETOSS.
At appraisal the project was estimated to cost US$128.4 million. However, after
project adjustments agreed with the Government due to a lack of local counterpart funding
by EPOS and the Province of Cordoba, the project's cost was reduced to US$65.0 million.
As a result of the changes which occurred during project implementation, the Bank's
financing share increased from 47 to 57 percent.
Recent financial performance of the concessioned-utilites in Buenos Aires, Santa Fe
and Cordoba show a significant improvement when compared with the projections of the
SAR. Water tariffs were initially reduced as a consequence of privatization, while the
concessionaires have increased the billing and collection rates. All three concessionaires have
given the highest priority to the execution of an operational improvement program, with
performance indicators which are more demanding than the ones established in the SAR.
The economic revaluation showed a wide range of results. At appraisal, the IRR for
the rehabilitation and expansion of C6rdoba's water facilities was estimated at 10 percent
and 44 percent for the operational improvement component, yielding a weighted IRR of 15
percent. The economic revaluation of the C6rdoba subproject yielded an IRR of only 5
percent. However, the Rosario subproject was fully executed and exceeded the appraised



iv
IRR of 44 percent. The OSN subproject was not executed, thus the ex-post IRR has not
been calculated.
Project Sustainability
It is expected that water utilities in Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Cordoba, under
private sector management, will maintain good financial and operating performance, while
improving the quality and coverage of the water and sanitation services. The main challenge
to sustain the efficiency gains obtained in the three project cities, through the long-term
concession of their water utilities, is to improve the quality of the regulatory process.
Effective regulation of the three water utilities requires: (i) to minimize political interference
in the appointment of regulators and improve the governance structure and efficiency of
regulatory institutions; (ii) to price water based on metered consumption; and (iii) to
incorporate consumers into the decision making process.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
This project had a very long gestation period, about 6 years, from identification in
1979 to appraisal in 1985. The implementation of the project was even longer, about 12
years, from 1985 to 1997. During these 18 years, the water and sanitation sector in
Argentina went through fundamental changes. In the early eighties, the break-up of the
national monopoly of OSN into decentralized provincial utilities, followed, ten years later,
by the bold decision of the government to privatize water and sanitation services in Buenos
Aires, the largest water utility of the country. Lessons from this project and developments in
the sector, not directly related to the project, are very rich and relevant to many other
countries, particularly in the LAC region.
Sector Strategy Lessons
Decentralization of a national water company without an adequate policy
framework is not sustainable. Creation of provincial utilities was not enough to
improve sector performance. When the Government decided in 1979 to decentralize
water services, breaking-up the national monopoly of OSN was a step in the right
direction; unfortunately, it was done in the absence of a sound public policy
framework. Therefore, the decentralized utilities carbon-copied the regulatory
environment of OSN with excessive political interference in the appointment of
managers, and the approval of budgets and investment plans. The wrong tariff
regulations remained intact, with the only difference that the power to approve new
tariffs was transferred to sub-national jurisdictions at the provincial or regional level.
The performance of most provincial utilities deteriorated even further. This situation
was exacerbated by the macroeconomic crisis in the country during most of the
eighties.
Privatization of water utilities requires a different approach. The water sector is a
sector with frequently complex and conflicting objectives of efficiency and equity,
and thus needs a different approach to reform other utility sectors such as
telecommunications, power, and gas that do not face the same issues. The issues of



v
the poor and the environment are more relevant in the water sector than any other
utility sector. The analytical framework to deal with these issues has still to be
developed in Argentina. The proposed Water Sector Reform Project has been
designed to address these pending issues of the reform agenda.
Privatization of utilities requires development of a sound regulatory capacity in the
public sector. The establishment of effective regulatory agencies is as important as
private sector participation. However, in the case of ETOSS this task is taking
longer than anticipated mainly because the culture of regulating public utilities is an
alien concept in Argentina and in LAC. Hence, the new role of the public sector as a
regulator of water utility services is not well defined, nor well understood by the
society and the political establishment. The main lesson of the project in relation to
ETOSS is that the creation of regulatory agencies to promote competition, to
improve efficiency, and to represent the interest of consumers is a task that demands
a major concentration of high-quality Bank assistance.
Project Lessons
Project design must beflexible to respond to changes in country policies. When the
administration decided in late 1989 to allow privatization of OSN and established a
Privatization Committee, the Bank's support and commitment were critical in making
a success of the effort. However, such an important change in the project concept
should have been done on the basis of a comprehensive review of the project's
scope and objectives in light of the changed policy stance in the federal government
in 1989-90.
Macro-context and Sector policies should be carefully evaluated. The
decentralization policy of the government, while well oriented, lacked a framework
of incentives to promote efficiency in the provincial utilities. With the lack of clarity
in government policies at the time of appraisal (February, 1985) and taking into
consideration the delay to make the loan effective (26 months), it would have been
advisable, at least, to re-evaluate the project concept and the risks associated in its
implementation. Such a decision would have been fully justified by the rapidly
changing institutional environment of the sector during 1985-1987, and the
deterioration of the overall economic conditions.
Sector constraints and issues should be reflected in project design. As part of the
review of the government strategy, issues related to tariff design, budgeting,
investment decisions, personnel policies, financial management practices, level of
management autonomy, etc. should be carefully identified as part of project
preparation or through economic sector work. The project failed to identify most of
these issues; therefore options to address them were not included in project design.
Moreover, at the time of appraisal, OSN performance was rapidly deteriorating:
revenues in 1984 did not cover operational costs, mainly because of almost 100
percent increase--in real terms--of personnel costs in 1983. The Bank has only
conducted a sector review in 1992.



vi
Anticipate requirements of technical assistance. The technical assistance
component of the project, about US$ 2.0 million, or 3.3 percent of the loan was
disproportionally small when considering the challenge of the major sector reforms
underway at the time of project preparation. Through loan amendments, technical
assistance was increased to US$18.5 million, corresponding to 49 percent of the loan
amount, after partial cancellation of the loan.
Develop adequate implementation procedures during project preparation. The
inexperience of executing agencies in the implementation of Bank-financed projects,
and the risks associated with frequent changes of key project officials should be
addressed during project preparation. A detailed Project Operation Manual should
have been a condition of appraisal (as now is the practice). These procedures would
help to maintain the institutional memory regarding the project implementation
procedures, and would also help to establish continuity in project administration for
future management.
Address inexperience of counterpart agencies through continuous training. Starting
from the early stages of project implementation, the Bank must provide training to
the staff of the executing agencies, as now is the practice. Training programs should
be repeated from time to time to address the turnover of government officials.
Training should focus on the content of the Project Operation Manual, and on
procurement procedures. A considerable part of the implementation problems were
associated with procurement issues, as demonstrated by the numerous procurement
correspondences found in the project files between the agencies and the Bank, on
relatively standard procurement matters.
Complex projects require an strategic view. The strategic focus of Bank missions,
and expert assistance should be sought when complex sectoral issues arise.
Problems encountered in the implementation of civil works by EPOS could have
been minimized with adequate technical and administrative support.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
ARGENTINA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2641-AR)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background
Sector Objectives
1.    By the end of 1978, when this project was being prepared, Argentina had an
estimated population of 26.5 million, and a network coverage of 53 percent for water
supply and 30 percent for sewerage services. Most urban population not connected to the
water network relied on groundwater. In Metropolitan Buenos Aires, 45 percent of the
population consumed untreated water from shallow wells, often contaminated from septic
tanks. The sector objectives of the Government at the time of project preparation were
to: (i) increase water coverage to 90 percent of the urban population and to 26 percent of
the rural population (75 percent of the concentrated rural population); and (ii) serve 65
percent of the urban population with sewerage collection. In 1996, the population of the
country was estimated at 33.7 million, being the network coverage in water distribution
and sewage collection estimated at 81 and 51 percent, respectively.
Sector Organization
2.    Until December 31, 1979, operation and construction of most urban systems were
entrusted by the provinces to Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n (OSN) and to the Servicio
Nacional de Agua Potable Rural (SNAP). Both institutions were under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Economy through the undersecretariat of Hydraulic Resources. Starting
January 1, 1980, water supply and sewerage services were transferred to the 23 provinces
on a grant basis while OSN retained responsibilities for the Metropolitan Buenos Aires
area'. The transfers were implemented through individual agreements between OSN and
the provinces, and covered fixed assets, ongoing contracts, personnel, and accounts
receivable. Before the transfer, the Ministry of Economy approved all requests for tariff
increases, and subsequently transferred that responsibility to provincial governments.
3.    During 1989, after loan effectiveness, the Federal Congress passed Law No.
23.696, establishing the legal framework to privatize the water and sanitation services in
the Metropolitan Buenos Aires area. This decision was the turning point to initiate the
1 The City of Buenos Aires was at the time and up to 1996 under federal junsdiction.



2
privatization of water and sewerage services in Argentina. However, each province was
free to pursue its own policy in the sector and most were slow to adopt institutional
reforms like those of the federal government. Privatization of water services, and other
utilities, is only partially complete in these provinces.
Bank Sector Lending
4.    This was the Bank's first intervention in the sector and was designed to support
the decentralization strategy of the Government. Because federal financing was no longer
available to the provinces, the proposed Bank loan was seen as an important contribution
to the investment program of three provincial water utilities. The utilities selected for
financing, received the highest priority by the Central Government and included the
country's largest population centers. Furthermore, the project was designed to provide
assistance to develop capabilities within the new sector organization for: investment
planning; formulation of financial policies; project evaluation; training; and institutional
reorganization.
B.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Origin
5.    In 1985, the situation of the water supply and sewerage sector was critical.
Services had deteriorated steadily since the break-up of OSN in 1981. The Government
attempted a major effort in the early 1980s to rebuild the systems, but with limited success
due to financial constraints. At the time, the Government expressed its interest in the Bank
playing an important role in the reorganization of the sector including the provision of
financial assistance. The Bank assigned priority to assist in: (i) the implementation of
financial policies; (ii) the improvement of the efficiency in the use of existing resources;
and (iii) the institutional reorganization of the sector. Being the first Bank financed water
and sanitation project in Argentina, it was designed to target 60 percent of the urban
population of the country in the cities of Buenos Aires, Rosario and Cordoba.
Project Objectives
6.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) rehabilitate deteriorating infrastructure,
replace run-down facilities and extend water services to new urban areas; (ii) prepare a
national plan to institutionalize the sector; and, (iii) promote water conservation through
physical rehabilitation of water systems, production and consumption metering, and
institutional strengthening of water utilities. These objectives were consistent with the
Bank's strategy to assist the Government in the improvement of public sector
management, promote greater efficiency in the use of resources, and rehabilitate social
infrastructure.
7.    In 1993, to support the privatization strategy of the Government, the description
of Part A of the project was expanded to include: "Strengthening of the organizational
capabilities of ETOSS, through the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition



3
and utilization of equipment required for said purposes". ETOSS, Ente Tripartito de
Obrasy Servicios Sanitarios, is the autonomous entity in charge of regulating water and
sanitation services in the Metropolitan Buenos Aires area. ETOSS reported to the
Secretariat of Public Works of the Ministry of Economy and Works and Public Services
(MEOSP) until February 1998, and to the Secretary of Natural Resources and Sustainable
Development thereafter.
Project Description
8.    The project was designed to assist the Government to rehabilitate old, poorly
maintained water and sewerage facilities, extend water services to new areas in the three
urban centers; and strengthen sector planning, management and finances. It was divided in
four parts, the first comprised of project activities to be carried out with the Federal
Government, and the other three corresponded to each one of the cities included in the
project. Part C contains the project activities in the city of Cordoba and had the largest
share of project cost, 64 percent. The Buenos Aires component (Part B) represented 26
percent of the project. The Rosario component (Part D) and the Federal component (Part
A) had 9 and 1 percent of the project, respectively. Table 4 contains a detailed description
of the project scope and implementation.
Part A:      National Water Supply and Sanitation Plan.
9.    This component included: (i) the formulation of the Borrower's objectives in the
sector, service targets and investment alternatives for the decade; (ii) the development of
project evaluation criteria to foster adequate technical standards for project design with
special emphasis on least cost analysis; (iii) the preparation of financial policies, including
definition of financial criteria for setting investment priorities; (iv) the definition of tariff
structures and levels to achieve reasonable rates of return on sector assets and enable the
sector to contribute significantly to new investment; (v) the evaluation of the existing
organizational framework and responsibilities at federal and provincial levels; (vi)
recommendations for the establishment of the organizational and institutional structures to
effectively implement the sanitation plan; (vii) recommendations on strategies directed at
improving the efficiency of the present organization; (viii) definition of responsibilities in
sector financing and alternative flow of funds; (ix) the identification of manpower
resources and staff training needs; (x) evaluation of existing research facilities and their
funding, and recommendations for further development; (xi) carrying out training
programs for the MOSP staff for the preparation and execution of the national sanitation
plan; and (xii) the carrying out of training programs for the preparation and execution of
the national plan; and (xiii) acquisition and utilization of office equipment.
Part B:      Operational Improvements in Metropolitan Buenos Aires and OSN
Institutional Strengthening.
(i)    Acquisition and installation of about 200,000 water meters.



4
(ii)   Acquisition, installation and/or improvement of equipment in four measurement
stations.
(iii)   Rehabilitation or construction of about 700 kilometers of pipelines.
(iv)   Strengthening the operating capability of OSN by: (i) updating of the mapping of
water distribution and sewerage systems; (ii) updating of consumer files and tariff
studies, and upgrading of billing and collection systems; (iii) acquisition and
utilization of data processing equipment; (iv) developing a system for routine
surveys, including the acquisition and utilization of pitometers; (v) developing a
systems for preventive and corrective maintenance for water and sewerage
networks, including the acquisition and utilization of vehicles and specialized
equipment; (vi) training programs for OSN's staff; (vii) developing financial
management systems including planning, budgeting, accounting and purchasing;
and (viii) office equipment.
Part C:      Rehabilitation and extension of the city of Cordoba water system, and
EPOS Operational Improvement and Institutional Straightening.
(i)    Construction of Los Molinos water intake and water treatment plant, with a
capacity of about 2 cubic meters per second. Completion of Los Molinos raw
water channel with adequate capacity to operate the Los Molinos water treatment
plant at design capacity.
(ii)   Upgrading of Suquia water treatment plant, including an expansion of its
production capacity by about three hundred liters per second.
(iii)   Construction of four booster pumping stations in Arguello, Suquia, Alto Alberdi
and Nueva.
(iv)   Connection of the existing water distribution network to the new installations.
(v)   Acquisition and installation of about 60,000 water meters.
(vi)   Acquisition and installation of about 15 macro meters for water treatment plants,
water storage facilities, and water mains.
(vii)  Rehabilitation or construction of about 275 kilometers of pipelines.
(viii)  Strengthening the operating capacity of EPOS by: (i) updating of the mapping of
water distribution and sewerage systems; (ii) updating of consumer files and tariff
studies, and upgrading of billing and collection systems; (iii) acquisition and
utilization of data processing equipment; (iv) developing a system for routine
surveys, including the acquisition and utilization of pitometers; (v) developing
systems for preventive and corrective maintenance for water and sewerage
networks, including the acquisition and utilization of vehicles and specialized
equipment; (vi) training programs for EPOS' staff; (vii) developing financial



5
management system including planning, budgeting, accounting and purchasing; and
(viii) office equipment.
Part D.     Operational Improvements in the City of Rosario and DIPOS Institutional
Strengthening.
(i)   Acquisition and installation of about 4,000 water meters for commercial and
industrial customers.
(ii)   Acquisition and installation of about 10 macro-meters for water treatment plants,
water storage facilities, and water mains.
(iii) Rehabilitation or construction of about 300 kilometers of pipelines.
(iv)   Strengthening the operating capacity of DIPOS by: (i) updating of the mapping of
water distribution and sewerage systems; (ii) updating of consumer files and tariff
studies, and upgrading of billing and collection systems; (iii) acquisition and
utilization of data processing equipment; (iv) developing a system for routine
surveys, including the acquisition and utilization of pitometers; (v) developing
systems for preventive and corrective maintenance for water and sewerage
networks, including the acquisition and utilization of vehicles and specialized
equipment; (vi) training programs for DIPOS' staff; (vii) developing a financial
management system incorporating planning, budgeting, accounting and purchasing;
and (viii) office equipment.
The Executing Agencies
10.   The borrower was the Argentine Republic. The Ministry of Works and Public
Services (MOSP), later merged with the Ministry of Economy (MEOSP), was the
executing agency for the project, being responsible for overall project supervision and
coordination. To this end, MOSP through the Secretariat of Water Resources (SRIH-),
would be the liaison between the Bank, the Government and project beneficiaries. MOSP,
assisted by consultants, was to prepare the national water and sanitation plan. OSN,
EPOS, and DIPOS were responsible for the execution of works and institutional programs
in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, C6rdoba and Rosario, respectively. The project was to be
executed during the period from January 1986 to December 1993. The following
executing agencies were assigned to each of the sub-projects.
(a)   The Secretariat of Water Resources (SRH), under the jurisdiction of MOSP, was
responsible for the implementation of Part A of the project. SRH had the overall
responsibility for coordinating water resources management at the federal level and
overseeing the activities of OSN, the National Water Supply System (SNAP), and the
National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and Technology (INCYTH). SRH was also
responsible for making operational the decentralized arrangements required to implement
the project. To that end, it created the executing unit (UE) of the National Sanitation
Plan. UE was also responsible for the development of water and sanitation sector policies,



6
and for assisting the provincial utilities to implement the project. SRH also created the
Coordinating Unit for Sector Investment (UC) with the responsibility for coordinating
investment projects which require Government funds and external financing.
(b)   OSN was responsible for implementing Part B of the project. OSN had the
responsibility to supply water to 1 million connections, and collect sewage from about 0.5
million connections, in the Metropolitan Buenos Aires area. OSN, as described in the
SAR, was in a dismal condition: its annual budget required congressional approval; tariffs
required approval of the Secretaries of Public Works, Economy and Labor; the investment
plan required approval of the Planning Secretary of the Ministry of Economy; accounting
reports were unreliable; instrumentation of main facilities were in condition of disrepair.
Labor productivity was very low, about 10 employees per thousand connections. In May
1993, Aguas Argentinas signed a 30-year concession contract to provide water and
sanitation services in Buenos Aires, formerly under OSN.
(c)   EPOS was responsible for implementing Part C of the project. EPOS supplied
water to 260,000 connections, and collected sewage from 92,000 connections, in the city
of Cordoba. Operational, commercial, and financial management problems as reported in
the SAR, are similar to OSN. EPOS's budget required approval from the provincial
congress, and tariffs from the provincial government. The SAR indicated that engineering
and financial planning was adequate, and it improved noticeably during project
preparation. In 1997, Aguas Cordobesas signed a long term concession contract for the
water supply service in the city of Cordoba. Sewage services in the city remain under the
responsibility of the municipality.
(d)   DIPOS was responsible for implementing Part D of the project. The SAR indicated
that accounting was satisfactory, but problems in the operational and commercial areas
were similar to those in OSN and EPOS. DIPOS supplied water to 299,000 connections
and collected sewage from 148,000. In December 1995, Aguas Provinciales de Santa Fe
signed a long term concession to provide water and sewage services in all major urban
centers of the province of Santa Fe, including the city of Rosario.
(e)   ETOSS was responsible for partially implementing Part A of the project, related to
the institutional strengthening of ETOSS.
(1)   In November 1988, the Federal Council for Potable Water and Sanitation
(COFAPYS) replaced SRH in the administration of the loan. In November 1995,
COFAPYS was abolished, and their functions were assumed by ENOHSA.
C.   Project Design and Preparation
Conceptual Framework
11.   The project was originally conceived to include the largest cities of the
country: Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Rosario and Mendoza. Mendoza withdrew from the
project during preparation. The basis for project design was to provide financial



7
assistance in: (i) the implementation of sound financial and human resources policies; (ii)
the improvement of the efficiency in the use of the resources in the sector; and (iii) the
institutional reorganization of the sector. The project is first mentioned in a back-to-office
report dated May 3, 1979, prepared by a combined Bank/Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO) mission which visited Argentina to assess the nature and scope of a
potential Bank operation in the water supply and sewerage sector. The report
sumrarized the Argentine water sector, as: (i) poor in performance; (ii) unable to cover
operating and maintenance costs; (iii) metering was practically nonexistent; (iv) no
medium and long tenn planning, with decision making heavily centralized in OSN; and (v)
lack of sector training and upgrading plans. Since the early eighties the Government,
aware of the constraints affecting the sector, adopted two basic strategies: (i)
decentralization of services; and (ii) establishment of a financial self-sufficiency policy.
The Government also fostered an official policy to introduce metering and setting tariffs to
recover the costs of the service. The project was designed to address the sectoral policy
framework adopted by the Government since 1980.
Project Preparation and Appraisal
12.   Discussions to prepare the project were initiated in 1979, following the
Bank/PAHO mission. From 1979 to 1983, progress in the preparation of the project was
minimal due to frequent changes of sector authorities and the lack of clarity of sector
policies. In 1983, the new government requested the Bank to assess the progress made in
the sector reorganization and to assist in the preparation of a project. The Bank and the
authorities agreed on a plan for completing project preparation and establishing appraisal
for late September 1984. This included: (a) defining institutional arrangements and
project financing plan; (b) reviewing the scope for the institutional and the technical
assistance programs and reviewing the status of preparation of project engineering; and (c)
preparing financial and economical analyses. The preparation of the project took longer
than anticipated, and the appraisal was finally carried out one year later, in November
1985.
D.    Project Implementation
Project Start-up
13.   The project was approved by the Board on December 10, 1985. Loan signature
did not take place until 11 months later, on November 11, 1986. To declare the loan
effective took another 5 months. The time elapsed between appraisal and the effectiveness
of the loan was 26 months. During this period of time, Argentina was encountering
serious macro-economic difficulties and had initiated a series of largely unsuccessful
heterodox stabilization/adjustment programs with the support of the Bank and the IMF.
Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement
14.   The SAR estimated that the execution of most of the components of the project
would start in the first quarter of 1986, and the project would be completed by December



8
1993, with a closing date of June 30, 1994. However, the loan was declared effective on
April 24, 1987 and the first disbursement was not made until October 15, 1987. By July
1989, when President Menem assumed office, little had been achieved. The slow progress
in project implementation is explained by: (i) delays in the signature of the Loan
Agreement caused by cumbersome bureaucratic procedures to approve sub-loan
agreements; (ii) lack of knowledge and skills of executing agencies on Bank procurement
procedures; and (iii) the reluctance of contractors and suppliers to submit bids under the
hyper-inflationary environment prevailing in the period immediately after the effectiveness
of the loan.
Project Costs
15.   The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$128.4 million, including
institutional building, operational improvements and water rehabilitation and expansion
works. The final project costs reached US$65.0 million. The differences between the cost
at appraisal and actual cost can be attributed to: (i) Part B of the project was not executed,
although half of its proceeds were used to support the privatization process of the water
and sewerage services of Metropolitan Buenos Aires; and (ii) only 40 percent of Part C of
the project, corresponding to the city of Cordoba, was executed. However, Los Molinos
Channel and the Alimentador Sur, both works included in the project, were subsequently
financed by the Municipality of C6rdoba. If these works are considered, the project cost
is US$111.0 million (Table 5).
Project Financing
16.   At appraisal, project financing was defined as: US$68.4 million from local sources
and US$60.0 million from the Bank. The Bank's percentage of financing was as follows:
(i) 100 percent of the costs of foreign expenditures for direct imports; (ii) 44 percent of
local expenditures for imported equipment and materials procured locally and ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 100 percent of total expenditures for
consulting services and training.
17.  In June 1993, the project description was adjusted as a consequence of the change
in the water sector policy established by Law No. 23.696 to allow privatization of OSN.
MEOSP and the Bank agreed to amend the loan by reallocating US$5.3 million from OSN
(PART B) to ETOSS (Part A) and canceling US$15.2 million from the EPOS sub-project
(Part C). The reallocation was used for the strengthening of the organizational and
operational capacity of ETOSS. Later, due to the lack of local counterpart funds to
conclude the C6rdoba rehabilitation and expansion component, two additional
amendments were accepted by the Bank, to reduce the loan to US$38.3 million. After
three extensions, the closing date was June 30, 1997. After loan closing, an additional
US$1.6 million of undisbursed funds were canceled (Table 6).
18.   Disbursements did not follow the appraisal estimates as shown in Table 7. The
disbursements were initiated two years later than expected in appraisal and the bulk of
disbursement occurred between 1989 and 1993.



9
E.    Project Results
Changes in Project Description
19.   Funds allocated to OSN were used to support the financial evaluation of the
privatization of the water and sanitation systems of Metropolitan Buenos Aires, to
prepare the bidding documents, the concession contract and the regulatory framework.
The approved loan amendment allowed use of the proceeds originally allocated to OSN to
strengthen the organizational and operational capabilities of ETOSS, through the
provision of technical assistance and the acquisition and utilization of equipment.
Physical and Institutional Results
20.   Once the Federal and Provincial Governments decided to support the privatization
process, project targets defined at appraisal were adjusted.
(a)   By November 1988, SRH had completed the preparation of the National Water
and Sanitation Plan (Part A); however the plan was never implemented due to the change
of the sector strategy of the government based on private sector operation of the sector
and independent regulatory agencies.
(b)   The organizational structure of ETOSS was defined, as well as its administrative
procedures, personnel policies, and training needs. An evaluation of Aguas Argentinas'
sewerage expansion plan, which modified the plan presented at the time of the bidding of
the concession, was contracted to a panel of international experts. An important study to
review the economic regulation of the concession and define a new tariff structure was not
executed because unjustified long delays of ETOSS in the selection of consultants. The
Bank assigned the highest priority to this study and justified the third extension of the
closing date of the loan to finance it.
(c)   To implement Part B of the project, in June 1988, OSN selected a German
consulting firm to evaluate the operational performance of the utility. The firm completed
the study but its recommendations were never implemented. Because of the
Government's decision to privatize the services, OSN decided it would not be appropriate
to implement recommendations such as the improvement of the commercial system
because the future concessionaire most likely would use its own system. For the same
reasons, OSN did not adopt the rehabilitation investment plan. However, the information
collected and the analysis presented by the consultant were useful to prepare the
privatization of OSN.
(d)   EPOS prepared the institutional improvement program (Part C), but it was only
marginally implemented. The physical sub-project components were partially completed.
Los Molinos water treatment plant is working at 30 percent of its design capacity, because
of a contractual dispute with the contractor which impeded the completion of the plant,
and concluded with the takeover of the works by EPOS. The channel of raw water to feed
the plant was built by the Province and the Municipality of Cordoba. Most of the works



10
that were not built with the support of the loan have since been included in the first five-
year investment plan of the private concessionaire, Aguas Cordobesas.
(e)   DIPOS fully implemented Part D of the project.
21.   Table 8 contains the key indicators for project implementation. The performance
of OSN and EPOS was not satisfactory. DIPOS partially complied with the indicators.
OSN and EPOS gave priority to privatization which made implementation of the project
lower priority as the new operators would assume responsibilities for operational
improvements and physical investments. OSN was privatized in May 1993, DIPOS in
December 1995, and EPOS in May 1997.
22.   In the three localities (Buenos Aires, Cordoba and Rosario), the new
concessionaires have given the highest priority to the execution of an operational and
commercial improvement programs similar to the one proposed in the project. These
include: (i) revamping the commercial system; (ii) aggressive metering; (iii) updated
cadaster of facilities and customers; and (iv) sectorization of the water distribution system.
The performance targets established in the concession contracts in the three utilities are
more ambitious than the monitoring indicators of the project. For example, in Buenos
Aires, during the first year of operation, 40,000 water meters were to be installed for large
non residential consumers, and 2,600 valves were rehabilitated or renovated.
Financial Performance
23.   Financial projections were not included in the SAR. The financial information
provided in the SAR covered period 1982-1984, of which only OSN presented audited
stater ents for years 1982 and 1983. The SAR stated that the financial information of
OSN and EPOS was unreliable. Hence, the financial performance of the utilities included
in the project has not been assessed. However, the financial performance of the
privatized utilities in Buenos Aires, Rosario and Cordoba has improved dramatically when
compared with the performance of the utilities previous to privatization. This improved
performance, however, is only partially related to the project, in spite of the strong
support provided to the privatization efforts and the catalytic role of the Bank in
promoting the sectoral reform in the country. Information of these private utilities and
their corresponding regulatory entities is summarized below:
(a) - Aguas Argentinas, a consortium headed by Lyonnaise des Eaux, won the bidding
process to provide water supply and sanitation services to the Metropolitan Buenos Aires
area. Aguas Argentinas has been operating the service since May 1993. The impact of a
private operator has been felt as Aguas Argentinas has decreased the water tariff by 17
percent, while increasing OSN's billings from $300 million in 1992 to $375 million in
1996, a 25 percent increase, and increasing the six month collection ratio from 86 percent
in 1992 to 89 percent in 1997.



11
(b)   ETOSS, the regulatory agency for Metropolitan Buenos Aires, has yearly
operating expenses of about US$10.0 million, which are financed by 2.67 percent
surcharge on the billing amounts.
(c)   Aguas Provinciales de Santa Fe, a consortium headed by Lyonnaise des Eaux,
replaced DIPOS in all main cities of the province, including Rosario. Since December
1995, Aguas Provinciales has been operating the water supply and sanitation service for
cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants, under a similar scheme to the one followed in
Buenos Aires. As a consequence of the privatization process, the average water tariff was
reduced from 0.34 to 0.29 US$/m3, which exceeds the expected tariff calculated during
appraisal. Towns in the province with less than 30,000 inhabitants are served by
cooperatives, and municipal services, and by a "residual company" in those areas
formerly with DIPOS, but not transferred to the private concessionaire.
(d)   Ente Regulador de Servicios Sanitarios (ENRES) is the regulatory agency for the
Province of Santa Fe, and its expenses are covered by a 4.90 percent surcharge on the
billing amount of the concessionaire and 2.60 percent surcharge on the-billing of the
cooperatives and municipalities. Its annual budget is of about US$3.5 million.
(e)   Since May 1997, Aguas Cordobesas, a consortium lead by Lyonnaise des Eaux is
operating 75 percent of the water system of the city of Cordoba. The remaining 25
percent of the city has been served for years by small water companies using groundwater.
This scheme will continue but the small water companies are now entitled to buy bulk
water from the concessionaire. The city sewers have been operated by the municipality
since 1990. The rest of the water and sewerage systems of the province are operated by
cooperatives and municipalities. As a consequence of the privatization process, the
average water tariff in the city of Cordoba, served by Aguas Cordobesas, were reduced by
8.2 percent.
(f)   Regulation in the province of Cordoba is under the responsibility of the Direccion
de Aguay Saneamiento (DAS), which is also responsible for providing technical
assistance to small water companies, and for construction and management of small
irrigation systems, flood control and other hydraulic works.
(g)   Although all three winning consortiums were lead by Lyonnaise des Eaux, the
bidding process for competition for the market was responsive. In the city of Buenos
Aires and Santa Fe three consortiums participated in each of the bidding processes, while
in the city of C6rdoba there were two participants.
Economic Reevaluation
24.   At appraisal, internal rates of return (IRR) were calculated only for two
components of the C6rdoba subproject (65 percent of the project cost). The estimated
IRR for the rehabilitation of facilities and expansion component was 10 percent, whereas
the IRR for the operational improvement component was 44 percent, yielding a weighted
IRR of 15 percent.



12
(a)   For C6rdoba, the operational improvement component was not executed, while
the rehabilitation and expansion component was partially executed. The water treatment
plant is working at 30 percent of design capacity. The IRR of the Cordoba subproject is
less than 5 percent, using the economic evaluation model of the appraisal.
(b)   The OSN subproject anticipated for Buenos Aires was not executed.
(c)   The Rosario subproject was fully executed. An estimated IRR of 44 percent has
been calculated.
Impact on the Poor
25.   The project was not designed to benefit directly the poor since it was to address
rehabilitation of existing services (largely for non-poor consumers). However, the
benefits derived from the overall improvement of the operational system of Rosario and
the increase in water production in Cordoba are presumed to have a marginal impact on
the low income population in these two cities.
F.    Project Sustainability
26.   The project, as originally designed, would not have been sustainable even after
taking into consideration the successful implementation of the Rosario component.
However, it is expected that the private concessionaires have much better prospects to
sustain good financial and operating performance and improve the quality and coverage of
the water and sanitation services. Sustainability can still be undermined by the weaknesses
of regulatory entities which must be improved by reinforcing their institutional and legal
framework, and increase their independence from the Government.
G.   Bank Performance
27.   At identification and appraisal the Bank supported the strategy of the Government
to improve performance of decentralized public utilities. However, the Bank failed to
identify some fundamental flaws of that strategy. First, the Bank underestimated the
extent of deterioration and the lack of constitutional capacity in the sector/participating
provinces. The complexity generated by multiple executing agencies, and the weak
institutional capacity of provincial utilities was not well assessed. This is demonstrated by
the fact that two thirds of the project cost was allocated to the weakest provincial utility
(EPOS). Second, tariff systems when not associated to metered consumption generate
widespread economic distortions, wasteful use of water, and constraints the financial self-
sufficiency of utilities. The Bank also failed to properly recognize the risk of a lack of
counterpart funds of OSN and provincial utilities due to the Argentine economic crisis at
the moment of appraisal. The project was designed to finance multiple activities which
required a well tuned coordination capacity, and experience in Bank financed projects.
This capacity did not exist.



13
28.   During the period of economic instability (1986-89), moreover, the Bank did not
reassess the likelihood of realizing the project objectives, in light of the fiscal problems
facing the Borrower and provinces. However, once the Government decided to privatize
the services under the responsibility of OSN in the Metropolitan Buenos Aires, the Bank
was flexible in changing direction and supporting the privatization process promptly and
decisively. During that period from 1990 to 1993, the Bank supervision was intense and
effective. Unfortunately, the Bank allocated limited resources to supervise the
implementation of the works executed by EPOS, which faced important technical and
administrative problems. At that stage of project execution, more frequent supervisions to
C6rdoba's component may have given better results.
29.   Additionally, the Bank did little to strengthen COFAPYS and the other executing
agencies over the life of the loan. Faced with an extremely complex federal-provincial
setting and wide-spread institutional weakness, the Bank was indecisive and not able to
provide a clear picture of the extent to which institutional reform was needed. There were
clearly fundamental issues of autonomy and capacity which were left unaddressed. Had
these issues been addressed, the entities may have been able to play a more decisive role in
the overall project implementation.
H.   Borrower Performance
30.  In the initial years of implementation, the project was slow due to delays in
processing of procurement documents and a lack of experience in the executing agencies
with Bank procedures. The high rates of inflation in the period 1988-1990 contributed to
further delays in project implementation.
31.   When the Federal and Provincial Governments decided on privatization, the
project was affected in different forms: (i) OSN abandoned the objectives of the project
and focused only on the privatization; (ii) DIPOS continued investing in operational and
institutional improvements of its system, fundamentally in critical areas of the business,
such as timely bill issuing and improving collection and negotiating tariff adjustments; (iii)
EPOS concentrated on the construction of the water treatment plant, and paid no attention
to improve its operational and commercial efficiency; (iv) SRH first and COFAPYS later,
focused only in managing the loan disbursements, but did poorly in the actual
implementation of the overall Project components; and (v) ETOSS only partially
implemented the operational manuals financed under the project, and was incapable to
overcome bureaucratic hurdles within the administration to contract a much needed
consultancy designed to review the economic regulation of the concession, and design a
new tariff structure.
L     Assessment of outcome
32.   The project was not successful in meeting its original objectives, even though the
objectives of increasing the efficiency of services provided by water utilities in Buenos
Aires, Rosario and Cordoba, will be achieved. This improvement and a better quality of



14
service will not be achieved through improved public-managed utilities as envisaged at
appraisal, but by private concessionaires. It is expected that the private provision of water
and sanitation services would lead to a faster and more sustainable improvement in the
coverage and quality of services as well as to a better allocation of investment resources.
This outcome can not be fully attributable to the project, but to the decision of the
Government to change the institutional model to provide water and sanitation services
through private concessionaires and limit the role of the public sector to the regulatory
function. The Bank was flexible and provided a strong support to the Government's
decision to privatize and played a key catalytic role through the reform process.
J.    Future operation
33.   The three utilities now under private operation will continue to operate that way
and are likely to demonstrate continued operational improvements. However, much
remains to be done especially to: (i) extend the privatizationl restructuring process to
other provincial water utilities; (ii) reinforce the regulatory framework; (iii) develop
policies/strategies/processes to ensure extension of water and sewerage services to poor
areas; and (iv) finally, to progress in the sewerage sub-sector from collection to treatment
and to improve drainage systems. It was expected that a series of operations would be
needed to complete this agenda. The first follow-up project was the Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector Project (Loan 3281-AR) approved in December 1990, which aimed at
promoting greater sector efficiency and financial viability, service coverage expansion,
improvement in service quality, and encouragement of private sector participation. The
project has suffered long implementation delays, essentially due to the executing agency's
poor performance and continued institutional instability. Proceeds of the loan have been
used for technical assistance for institutional reforms in several provinces, including
establishment of regulatory agencies, tariff studies, and preparation of bidding documents
for concessions. To continue supporting Argentina's water and sanitation sector, a new
project is under preparation. The proposed project will build upon the lessons learned
from the two previous projects and complement them by supporting a second generation
of privatization of water utilities in medium size cities. In parallel, EDI/BM have been
supporting strengthening of the provincial regulatory agencies and the Bank has agreed to
provide reimbursable technical assistance to ETOSS, for expert advise in post-
privatization issues.
K.   Lessons Learned
34.   This project had a very long gestation period, about 6 years, from identification in
1979 to appraisal in 1985. The implementation of the project was even longer, about 12
years, from 1985 to 1997. During these 18 years, the water and sanitation sector in
Argentina was subject to fundamental changes. In the early eighties, the break-up of the
national monopoly of OSN into decentralized provincial utilities, followed ten years later
by the bold decision of the Government to privatize water and sanitation services in
Buenos Aires, the largest of the water utilities in the country. Lessons from this project
are relevant to many other countries, particularly in the LAC region.



15
Policy Lessons
(a)   Decentralization of a national water company without an adequate policy
framework is not sustainable. Creation of provincial utilities was not enough to
improve sector performance. Breaking-up the national monopoly of OSN was a
step in the right direction, unfortunately, in the absence of a sound public policy
framework. The Government, in the middle of a deep fiscal crisis, incapable to
continue subsidizing the operations and investment of the sector made the decision
to transfer the responsibility of service provision to regional governments. This
decision was made without creating at the same time the environment to promote
economic efficiency, and competition. Therefore, decentralized utilities carbon-
copied the regulatory environment of OSN with excessive political interference in
the appointment of managers, and the approval of budgets and investment plans.
The wrong tariff regulations remained intact, with the only difference that the
power to approve new tariffs was transferred to the sub-national jurisdictions, at
the provincial or regional level. The performance of most provincial utilities
deteriorated even further. This situation was exacerbated by the macroeconomic
crisis in the country during most of the eighties.
(b)   Privatization of water utilities requires a different approach. Creation of
provincial utilities was not enough to improve sector performance. When the
Government decided in 1979 to decentralize water services, breaking-up the
national monopoly of OSN was a step in the right direction; unfortunately, it was
done in the absence of a sound public policy framework. Therefore, the
decentralized utilities carbon-copied the regulatory environment of OSN with
excessive political interference in the appointment of managers, and the approval of
budgets and investment plans. The wrong tariff regulations remained intact, with
the only difference that the power to approve new tariffs was transferred to sub-
national jurisdictions at the provincial or regional level. The performance of most
provincial utilities deteriorated even further. This situation was exacerbated by the
macroeconomic crisis in the country during most of the eighties.
(c)   Privatization of utilities requires development of a sound regulatory capacity in
the public sector. The establishment of effective regulatory agencies is as
important as private sector participation. However, in the case of ETOSS this
task is taking longer than anticipated mainly because the culture of regulating
public utilities is an alien concept in Argentina and in LAC. Hence, the new role of
the public sector as a regulator of water utility services is not well defined, nor well
understood by the society and the political establishment. The main lesson of the
project in relation to ETOSS is that the creation of regulatory agencies to promote
competition, to improve efficiency, and to represent the interest of consumers is a
task that demands a major concentration of high-quality Bank assistance.



16
Project Lessons
(e)   Project design must beflexible to respond to changes in country policies. When
the administration decided in late 1989 to allow privatization of OSN and
established a Privatization Committee, the Bank's support and commitment were
critical in making a success of the effort. However, such an important change in
the project concept should have been done on the basis of a comprehensive review
of the project's scope and objectives. In light of the changed policy stance in the
federal government in 1989-90.
(f)   Macro-context and Sector policies should be carefully evaluated. The
decentralization policy of the government, while well oriented, lacked a
framework of incentives to promote efficiency in the provincial utilities. With the
lack of clarity in government policies at the time of appraisal (February, 1985) and
taking into consideration the delay to make the loan effective (26 months), it
would have been advisable, at least, to re-evaluate the project concept and the risks
associated in its implementation. Such a decision would have been fully justified
by the rapidly changing institutional environment of the sector during 1985-1987,
and the deterioration of the overall economic conditions.
(g)   Sectorconstraintsand issuesshould be reflected inproject design. As part ofthe
review of the government strategy, issues related to tariff design, budgeting,
investment decisions, personnel policies, financial management practices, level of
management autonomy, etc. should be carefully identified as part of project
preparation or through economic sector work. The project failed to identify most
of these issues, therefore options to address them were not included in project
design. Moreover, at the time of appraisal, OSN performance was rapidly
deteriorating: revenues in 1984 did not cover operational costs, mainly because of
almost 100 percent increase--in real terms--of personnel costs in 1983. The Bank
has only conducted a sector review in 1992.
(h)   Anticipate requirements of technical assistance. The technical assistance
component of the project, about US$ 2.0 million, or 3.3 percent of the loan was
disproportionally small when considering the challenge of the major sector reforms
underway at the time of project preparation. Through loan amendments, technical
assistance was increased to US$18.5 million, corresponding to 49 percent of the
loan amount, after partial cancellation of the loan.
(i)   Develop adequate implementation procedures during project preparation. The
inexperience of executing agencies in the implementation of Bank-financed
projects, and the risks associated with frequent changes of key project officials
should be addressed during project preparation. A detailed Project Operation
Manual should have been a condition of appraisal (as now is the practice). These
procedures would help to maintain the institutional memory regarding the project
implementation procedures, and would also help to establish continuity in project
administration for future management.



17
(a)   Address inexperience of counterpart agencies through continuous training.
Starting from the early stages of project implementation, the Bank must provide
training to the staff of the executing agencies. Training programs should be
repeated from time to time to address the tumover of government officials.
Training should be focused on the content of the Project Operation Manual and on
procurement procedures. A considerable part of the implementation problems are
associated with procurement issues as demonstrated by the numerous procurement
correspondences found in the project files between the agencies and the Bank, on
standard procurement matters.
(k)   Complex projects require more supervision than normal. The frequency of Bank
missions would be increased, and expert consultant support should be sought when
complex technical/procurement problems arise. Problems encountered in the
implementation of civil works by EPOS could have been minimized with adequate
technical and administrative support.



18
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1. Sanuary of Asseannts
A. Achievement of obiecdives    Substantia        Partial       Neeluidble    Not anlUcable
Macroeconomic policies                                             E               El
Sector tariffpolicies                                              [ E  El         E
Financial Objectives                               E l            El               E
lIstitukional Development                                         EJ               E
Physical Objectives                E               EJ              E               E
Poverty Reduction                  E               E               E              El
Gender Issues                                                                     [ E  E  El
Other social objectives            E               E               E              El
Environmental objectives            n              El              E               O
Public sector management           El              El              E               E
Private setor development          E               E               E               El
B. Prolect sustainability              Likelv            Unlikel          Uncertain
[RI               1:                  1:
HLuhlv
C. Bank nerformance                 satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                        IEl                El                 1
Preparation assistance                 E                  El                El
z~~E                                             El               El
Supervision                           E                   E                 El
HiLuhl-v
C. Borrower perfornance             satisfactorv       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                            E                  E                 El
Implementation                         E                  E                 El
Covenant compliance                                      El                 El
Operation (if applicable)              E                 El                  E
E]
D. Assessment of outcome       Satisfactorv    Satisfaetorv    Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactorv
El             0               El              El



19
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Title                      Purpose                  Year of approval    Status
Previous operations
NA
Following Operations:
Water Supply and       To promote greater sector efficiency and      1991         Disbursing
Sewerage Sector Project  financial viability; improve quality of services;
(L-3281-AR)            encourage private sector privatization
Water Sector Reform    To support the privatization process in several  1999     Negotiations
Project                localities: rehabilitation of existing      Expected
infstructure, elimination of bottlenecks in
existing waterworks, improvements on the
operational control and commercialization and
emergency works



20
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle I   Date Planned   I    Actual Date
Identificationl
Appraisal                  Nov. 1984          Feb. 25, 1985
Negotiations                 Apr. 1985          Oct. 10, 1985
Board Presentation           May. 1985          Dec. 10, 1985
Signing                                         Nov. 26, 1986
Effectiveness                                   Apr. 24, 1987
roject Completion                               Jun. 30, 1997
Disbursement                                Aug. 6, 1997



21
Table 4. Project Scope and Implementation
Project component                     Actual               Status
ART A: National Water & Sanitaffon Plan
ational Water and Sanitation Plan                  Jun-89           Studies prepared
tutional Streghitening of ETOSS                  Jun-95         Partially implemented
xpertPanel to review Master Plan                    Sep-96              Executed
ariff Study                                                           Not executed
ART B: Buenos Aires
onsultants to privatize OSN                        May-93             Implemented
erational Improvement Promam
onsumption Metering (200.000)                      Dec-90           Not executed (*)
oduction Metering                                  Dec-89            Not executed
Pitometer Survey                                   Mar-89             Not executed
Mapping                                           Sep-89             Not executed
ater Distribution Renovation (700 Km)              Dec-90            Not executed
Distnbution System Management                      Jun-88           Studies prepared
Commercial SystemUpgrading                         Dec-88            Studies prepared
echnieal Assistance
echnical assistance to OSN                         Dec-88            Studies prpared
ARTC: Cordoba
nerational Improvement Prognam
onsumption Metering (60.000)                       Jun-89             Not executed
oduction Metering                                  Mar-89             Not executed
itometer Survey                                    Dec-88             Not executed
[!dapping                                         Dec-87             Not executed
aterDistribution Renovation (275 Km)              Dec-88             Not executed
*istnbution System Management                      Dec-87             Not executed
.CommercialSystem Upgrading                        Dec-89             Not executed
eh& Ext. of Cordoba's water system
Molinos Channel construction                     Dec-92        Executed by Municipality
Molinos water treatment plant                    Dec-93             90% executed
Suquia water treatment plant                        Dec-89             Not executed
ster pumping stations                            Dec-92             Not executed
Watermains                                         Dec-91       Executed by Municipality
Technlea Assistance
echnical assistance to EPOS                        Dec-88             Not executed
PART D: Rosario (Santa Fe)
Onerational Imurovement Prom-am
onsumptionMetering (4.000 Km)                     Jun-89               Executed
oduction Metering                                  Dec-87              Executed
tometer Survey                                     Mar-89              Executed
Mapping                                           Dec-88             Not exeuted
ater Distribution Renovation (300 Krm)             Dec-89              Executed
stribution System Management                      Dec-89             Not executed
_mmercialSystem Ugang                             Dec-87              Executed
(') Funds reallocated to support the privatization of OSN and the institutional strengthening of ETOSS



Table 5. Project Cost and Project Financing
(USS '000)
_____________________ |          Estimated at appraisal               Actual             Percent
Category            IBRD       Local  I Total    IBRD  I Local    Total    Change
Part A: SRH/COFAPYS/ENHOSA
Works                                0         0         0                             0
130       160      290       143        26       168      -42%
Consulant's services andtraiing    870         0       870     4,515       813     5,328     512%
Total Part A:                    1,000       160     1,160     4,658       838     5,497    374%
Part B: OSN/Buenos Aires
works                          4,100      5,218    9,318         0                   0    -100%
10,000    9,122    19,122         0                   0    -100%
oultnt's services and training  1,900      0     1,900    10,636     1,915    12,551     561/a
ITotal Part B:                   16,000    14,340    30,340    10,636     1,915    12,551    -59%
Part C: EPOS (Cordoba)
Works                           24,400    44,030    68,430    13,073    17,918    30,991     -55
Goods                            3,700     5,370     9,070        19         3        23    -100%
Consulant's services and training  900         0       900       387        70       457     -49%
ITotal Part C:                   29,000    49,400    78,400    13,480    17,991    31,470    -60%
Part D: DIPOS (Rosario)                                                                           I
Works                              950      1,209     2,159    4,336     4,929     9,265     329%
Goods                            3,950     3,331     7,281       431       883     1,314     -82%
|Consultant's services and training  1,100     0      1,100      711       128       840      -24%
[Total Part D:              1    6,000      4,540    10,5401    5,478    5,940    11,418       8%I
[Interests & Other Charges        8,000               8,0001    4,078              4,0781     49%
|Total                      j   60,000    68,440   128,4401   38,331    26,683    65,0141   -49%1
(*) Does not include US$ 46 million of investment cost of the Alimentador Sur and the Los Molinos Channel, both
financed by the Municipality of Cordoba



Table 6. Disbursements by Category: Original, Revised and Actual
(US$ '000)
Orifinal   Amendment Amendment Amendment Amendment   Actual   Undisbursed
Dec. 26, 1986 March 3,1991 June 25,1991 June 11, 1993 August 8, 1995 June 30, 1997 June 30, 1997
1 Part A of the Project               1,000       1,000       1,000      6,300        6,300      4,658        1,642
(a) Goods                             130         130         130       1,000       1,000         143         857
(b) Consultants' services and training  870       870         870       5,300       5,300       4,515         785
2 Part B of the Project (OSN)        16,000      16,000      16,000     10,700       10,636      10,636
(a) Works                           4,100        4,100      4,300          0            0           0           0
(b) Goods                           10,000      10,000      3,300          0            0           0           0
(c) Consultants' services and training  1,900    1,900      8,400      10,700       10,636     10,636           0
3 Part C of the Project (EPOS)       29,000      29,000      29,000     17,500       13,480      13,480          0
(a) Works                          24,400       24,400     24,400      16,200       13,073     13,073           0
(b) Goods                           3,700        3,700      3,700        100           19          19           0
(c) Consultnts' services and training  900        900         900       1,200         387         387           0
4 Part D of the Project (DIPOS)       6,000       6,000       6,000      6,000        5,478       5,478           0
(a) Works                             950        4,200      4,200       3,900       4,336       4,336           0
(b) Goods                           3,950         700         700        800          431         431           0
(c)Consulants'servicesandtraining    1,100       1,100      1,100       1,300         711         711           0
Interest & other charges              8,000       8,000       8,000      4,270        4,078       4,078           0
djustments                              0            0          0           0           0           0
otal for all 13 categories          60,000      60,000     60,000      44,770       39,972     38,331        1,641



Table 7. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
A4praisal             6.00  14.80  27.90  35.90  43.20  50.70  55.50  58.30  60.00  60.00  60.00  60.00
6.00  11.43  19.52  24.46  28.97  33.60  36.56  38.26  39.97  39.97  39.97  39.97
ctuSal                               2.30   6.58  12.06  17.85  23.27  30.40  34.44  37.60  38.33  38.33
AtulD as %ofSAR       0.0%   0.0%   8.2%  18.3%  27.9%  35.2%  41.9%  52.1%  57.4%  62.7%  63.9%  63.9%
as %of Revised                 11.8%  26.9%  41.6%  53.1%  63.6%  79.5%  86.2%  94.1%  95.9%  95.9%
D   of findisbursement                                                                 August 6,1997



Table 8. Key Indicators for Project Operations
Public Utilities             Private Operator
1986                 1991                   1997
Indicator                         City        SAR/Actual       SAR*          Actual          Actual
Employees per 1000/water connections             Buenos Aires         9.9           7.5            7.4             2.0
Cordoba             7.5            5.8           6.6              5
Rosario             4.7            4.5           5.8             2.5
Number of water meters installed                 Buenos Aires         NA          200,000           0            350,000
Cordoba             NA           60,000           0             30,000
Rosario             NA            4,000         7,500           25,000
|Kms of distribution network built/replaced/rehabilitated   Buenos Aires  NA       2,000            0              NA
Cordoba             NA            550             0              NA             V
Rosario             NA            400            181             248
Revenue collected to amount billed (/o)          Buenos Aires         90             96            71              89
Cordoba              86            96            60               70
Rosario              86            96            89               91
Metered conections to total connections ()      Buenos Aires          10            22             3               10
Cordoba              6             24             10              6
Rosario              5              8             5               6



Table 9. Studies Included in the Project
No |         Study          |Exgec.y |           Purpose            |                  Impact of Study                   |Cost
The study was not implemented. A the time, it was completed
National Water and       MOSP To permit the decentralized sector in October 1988, the country was facing difficult         1.0
Sanitarion Plan                  to function efficently        macroeconomics problems. The following year, the new
administradion, authorized the privatization of OSN
Recommendations were not implemented since the
2   Operational improvement    OSN   mprote.mgent idn billing, t  r8c tion  Government called for the privatization of OSN. The study  5.63
provided information to bidders for the concession.
Preparation of the feasibility study
3   Pnvatztion                OSN   and bidding documents for the    The results of this study allowed OSN to privatize the system,  4.1
privatization and assist OSN in the which was transferred to the concessioner in May 1993
process                                                                                             a.
4  Training                   OSN   Train OSN's staff                                                                          0.15
6   Organization and assistance  Assist in organization,        Helped ETOSS in its organization and staffing, in
6  to stengthen ETOSS        ETOSS establisment of procedures and    establishing procedures for the regulation activities and in
training of ETOSS's staff     training of its staff



Table 9. Studies Included in the Project
No            Study            Exec.             Purpose                                Impact of Study                        Cost
__ . P~~~Alency]                                                   lms
The study recommends: to prepare a sanitation master plan for
Review of.the expansion       AdvisETOSSontheexpansio    Bs. As., establish a suitable tariff structure, improve data on
7  plan of the                       AdvseETlSETOSSplnosthe          water use, build the 4th cloaca maxima (4th main sewer
colector) and provide primary and secundary treatment at
Berazategui
To have a description and analysis
8   OSN' concession process    ETOSS of the process of consession and the                                                          0.1
lessons learnt from it
9   Operational Improvement of EPOS  Improvement in billing, collection, The consultant prepared the diagnostic for the operational  0.1l
EPOS                             accounting and system operation   improvement program. It was not implemented
10  Operafional bImprovement   DIPOSImprovement in the System        DIPOS improved the efficiency of its system operation         0.20
operation
Feasibility for
11  Rehabilitation of the     DIPOS To increase the daily production   Rehabilitation works are being executed. The concessioner is  0.45
Rosario water treatment          from 350,000 to 485,000 m3     in charge of these works
plant
Total                                                                                                                                0.85



Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Agreement
Executing agency: COFAPYS
Section  I Covenant Present                Description of covenant                                   Comments
Type    Status
2.02           3        C    Opening and maintaining a Special Account
3.01          10        C    To maintain the Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto
4.01 (b) (i)   2       CD   Furnish audit report of Part A of the Project
4.01 (b)(i)    2       CD   Furnish audit report of Special Account
Project Agreement
Executing agency: OSN
Section  I Covenant Present                Description of covenant                                   Comments
Type    Status
2.02           9        C    Furnish an investment, operational and financial recovery plan                                             00
2.03 (a)       9       CP   Progress Report
2.03 (b)       9       CP   Furnish an annual purchase program
3.01           5        C    Carry out operations with appropriate public utility practices
4.01 (a)       I       CP   Maintain financial records of OSN and the Project
4.01 (b)(c)    1       CD   Furnish annual audit reports
4.02 (a)       2        C    Total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating expenses and debt serice
4.02 (b)       9       CD   Furnish financial projections for the current and following three years



Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Project Agreement
Executing agency: EPOS
Section   Covenant Present                 Description of covenant                                   Comments
Type    Status
2.01(b)(ii)   10       CD   Complete the Los Molinos Channel                                 Executed by Provincial Government
2.02           9       C   Furnish an investment, operational and financial recovery plan
2.03 (a)       9       CP   Progress Report
2.03 (b)       9       CP   Furnish an annual purchase program
3.01           5       CP   Carry out operations with appropriate public utility practices
4.01 (a)       1       CP   M_ntain financial records of EPOS and the Project
.01 (b)(c)    1       CD   Furnish annual audit reports
.02 (a)       2       NC   Toal revemues equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating
expenses and debt service
.02 (b)       9       CD   Fumish financial projections for the cut and following
three years



Table 10. Status of Legal Coveamts
roject Agreement
iuting agency: DIPOS
Section   Covenant Present                  Description of covenant                                  Comments
Type    Status
.02           9        C   Furnish an investment, operational and financial recovery plan
2.03 (a)       9       CP   Progress Report
2.03 (b)       9       CP   Furnish an annual purchase program
3.01           5        C   Carry out operations with appropriate public utility practices
.01 (a)       1        C   Maintain financial records of DIPOS and the Project
.01 (b)(c)    1       CD   Furnish annual audit reports
.02 (a)       2        C   Total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating expenses and debt service
CD   Furnish financial projections for the current and following three years
Coenant Tvoes                                                                      Present status
I = Accounts/audits                                                                C = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                    CD = Complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                                          CP = Complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funds                                                              NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



31
Table 11. Resources: Mission.
Stage or project  Moily      Number  Days in  Specialized staff skills
cycle      M           of persons the field     represented
roueh annralsal
reparation 1        May-79      3               ENG, 2 ECON
reparation 2          Jul-79    4               2 ENG, ECON, FA
eparation 3         Dec-79
reparation 4         Jun-80     3               ENG, ECON, FA
reparation 5         Sep-96     1         15    ECON
reparation 6         Feb-81     1         5    ECON
reparation 7         Feb-84     1         5    ENG
reparation 8        May-84      4         56    ENG, ECON, 2 FA
eparation 9         Aug-84     4         36    ENG, ECON, 2 FA
raisal
ission 1            Feb-85     5        105   2 ENG, ECON, 2 FA
Aunraisal through Board anoroval
Mssion I              Dec-85     2               ENG, FA
Supervisions
Mission 1             Mar-86     2         24    ENG, FA
ission2              Jul-86    2         18    ENG,FA
ission 3            Oct-87     3         57    ENG, ECON, FA
ssion 4            Mar-88      2        20    ENG, ECON
ission 5            Apr-89     1         7    FA
ission6              Jul-89    2         30    ENG, FA
ssion 7             Jun-90     3        38    2 FA, 1 ECO
ission8             Aug-90     1         9    ENG
Mission 9            May-91      2         34    ENG, FA
Mission 10           Nov-91      2         22    ENG, FA
Mission 11            Dec-91     2         16    ENG,FA
ssion 12           Mar-92      4        44    ENG, 3 FA
ission 13           Dec-92     2         22    ENG, FA
Mssion 14           Oct-93     2         22    ENG,FA
ssion 15           Aug-94      1        15    ENG
Mssion 16          Mar-95      2         5    ENG, FA
ission 17           Apr-95     1         12    FA
ssion 18            Jun-95     1         2    ENG
Mision19             Jul-95    6         12    3 ENG, 2 FA, ECON
ssion 20           Nov-95      2         4    ENG, FA
ission 21          Mar-96      3         3    ENG, FA, ECON
ssion 22           Aug-96      1         2    ENG
Msion 23           Mar-97      2         4    ENG, FA
ssion 24            Jun-97     1         2    ENG
Note: The above list aempt to include a11 fomal and informal field vii to the calnt, however
some aditional shoht vim fim Bank daffmemben and consultants made ither from the Bank
ofce in Buenos Aires  at the oppounity of odher Bank maons may have been onmited&



32
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Imputs a/
|                          Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                   Weeks             |          US$(000)
Peparation to appraisal                    31.7                           52.9
Appraisal to Baord approval                91.4                         171.6
Supervsion                                185.5                         463.2
Completion                                  8.6                          18.6
Total                                     317.2                         706.3
a/ Does not include inputs for preparation from 1979 to 1983.



@  33                  Appendix A
9D1eW.M14 4 IG :A98 1.998s 
Buenos Aires, i1 2 MAY 1998
Ing. Abel Mejfa Bentacourt
BANCO MUNDIAL (I 5149)
REF: Prestamo 2641- Informe Evaluaci6n Final
Primer Proyecto Argentino de Suministro de Agua Potable
El documento preliminar presentado por el Banco refleja adecuadamente el
periodo de crisis institucional transitado por el Estado Nacional y Provincial en
la administraci6n de sus empresas prestadoras de servicios publicos.
En particular el sector saneamiento con una imperfecta descentralizaci6n de la
ex OSN, efectuada en 1980, origin6 un deterioro que no pudo ser paliado con el
apoyo de operaciones crediticias como la referida ni con el aporte tecnico de los
organismos multilaterales.
Ello promovi6 ia decisi6n politica de transformar los servicios a partir de su
concesionamiento al sector privado. Esta transici6n ha sido caracterizada por las
dificultades propias de todo proceso de cambio estructural.
Sin embargo ha permitido mejorar operativa y comercialmente la empresa
provincial DIPOS - SANTA FE, que en una posterior operaci6n financiada por el
BIRF ha concluido su proceso de privatizaci6n.
Asimismo se establecieron las bases y condiciones necesarias para transformar
otros Entes provinciales y municipales como el caso de la provincia de Misiones.
Por otra parte el Credito permiti6 detectar las dificultades existentes en el Sector
Saneamiento, sus prestadores y la relaci6n entre el Banco y el Gobiemo Federal.
Con las iecciones aprendidas en el desarrollo de los Programas Aguas I y 11,
que financiara el Banco Mundial, se esta formulando un nuevo prestamo
destinado a extender la privatizaci6n de servicios en ciudades medianas.
Atentamente
14~  Ornt    de Oras
/                       Ar~~~~~~~~~~~~ricat de Saneamiento



co ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t           tD
,                           o                           o                            o  I
N                                                                                    '0- --Ar'   S  .   .   =   \J.
r.                                                                  CHILE   W  f . $.   
-etate   -~ -4!"c '-' o  -    7                            . --
> O I (       U'>           mK                             0 
(0 ,.N                                    0 g~'~                0   0->
.   s  W  #  >   a   0                                                ..  W~~0   2
~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~j                                       C o0 -~                     C    
t5~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~>
CD  rn~~~~~~~~~
-O'k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 0*0



