Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5783-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTI NA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 11, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This doument 1e a resiid lshuo  md my be 1ed by ncipients eoly in the pesfonnce of
ther olda  dde  Its couters may not dorise be dikosed wthout Woi Bak sutboration.



ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Austral (A)
USS 1   =    AO.80
A 1   =    USS1.25 (September, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH        -    Banco Hipotecario (National Mortgage Bank)
DIPOS     -    Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias de Santa Fe
(Santa Fe Water Utility)
EPOS      -    Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias de Cordoba
(Cordoba Water Utility)
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
MOSP      -    Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(Xinistry of Puiblic Works and Services)
MSAS      -    Ministerio de Salud Publica y Accion Social
(Ministry of Health and Social Welfare)
OSN       -    Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion
(National Water Works)
PNSB      -    Plan Nacional de Saneamiento Basico
(National Water and Sanitation Development Plan)
SIGEP    -     Sindicatura de Empresas Publicas
(Comptroller of Public Enterprises)
SNAP      -    Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable Rural
(National Rural Water Service)
SRH       -    Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos
(Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources)
UC        -    Unidad Coordinadora para el Financiamiento Programas
Inversion en Saneamiento Urbano
(Coordinating Unit for Sector Investment)
UE        -    Unidad Ejecutora del Plan Nacional de Saneamiento
(Executing Unit of the National Sanitation Plan)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................           iii
I.  THE SECTOR ..    .........   . ..... ................. ..... .....    1
Sector Organization ..................................... ..         1
Population, Service Levels, and Quality ............ .......         2
Sector Performance, Policies, and Constraints .............          2
Sector Objectives and Strategy ........................... .         3
II. THE PROJECT          .... ..... ...            ................      4
Background              .................        .....               4
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement .....          4
Project Description            ....                                 5
Project Implementation .........................4...... ....         5
Project Executing Agencies           ..... 0 ..........              6
Project Monitoring        1.        ........................         7
Project Cost       ..............                      ..            7
Project Financing Plan ....................................          8
Past and Current Financial Performance .........4..........          8
Future Operational Performance and Covenants ..............          9
Future Financial Performance and Financial Covenants ......         10
Audit ... ..................                .........4.. .          10
Procurement .............................................4444       11
Disbursements ........... ........................                  11
Status of Project Preparation  ............       ............      12
Project Justification and Economic Benefits ..........              12
Project Sensitivitv, Risks and Safeguards ... ..............        14
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................          15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Argentina from February 23 to March 21, 1985. The mission was comprised of
Messrs. Emilio Rodriguez, Engineer; Bernardo Gomez, Financial Analyst; and
Emmanuel Mbi, Economist.
hi document has a rsricted distribution and may be used by epents only in the perfornume of
their ofriual duties. Its contents mny not otherwis be diWosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Institutional Arrangement  in the Provinces . . .............                        17
2. Population and Service Level                             ....18
3.  Levels of Supply and Sewerage Services in Provinces                                 19
4. Project Description.. .                                  ....                        20
5. Project Implementation Schedule....                                                  23
6. Organization Charts ............. ...                                                24
7. Institutional Overview                          .....28
8.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance..                                       30
9. Monitoring Indicators                         ....36
10. Project Cost Estimates ....                                                        37
11. Project Executing Agencies Financial Da t                    ...40
12. Project Cost by Procurement Method                      ....47
13. Loan Disbursement Schdule                               ....                       48
14. Economic and Social Analysis.. ...                                                 49
15. Selected Reference Documents and Data Available in
Project File...                                                                   57
MAp
IBRD No. 19128



- iii -
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Argentina
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Public Works and Services (MOSP), National Water
Works (OSN) and the water utilities of the Provinces of
Cordoba (EPOS) and Santa Fe (DIPOS).
Amount:        US$60.0 million equivalent (includes US$8.0 million for
interest during project execution).
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years,  including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Rank's standard variable rate.
Relending      The Borrower will make available proceeds of the Loan to
Terms:         OSN, EPOS and DIPOS on the same terms as those -of the loan.
Both foreign exchange and interest risk will be assumed by
the project executing agencies.
Project
Description:   The project will assist the Government to rehabilitate old,
poorly maintained water and sewerage installations, extend
water services to new urban areas; and strengthen sector
planning, management and finances. The project includes th-
following components:
(a) national water and sanitation plan preparation;
(b) operational improvements program in Metropolitan Buenos
Aires and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario, consisting
of the first stage of a national program including,
inter-alia,   consumption   and   production   metering,
rehabilitation    of    distribution    networks,    and
strengthening of the water utilities, distribution
management and commercial operations;
(c) rehabilitation and extension of the city of Cordoba's
water system consisting of the construction of a water
treatment plant to replace a rundown plant, upgrading of
another plant, and water mains and secondary pipes; and
(d) technical assistance to improve the financial planning,
accounting and purchasing systems of OSN and EPOS.
The project will directly benefit about 1.4 million people
in the  three project cities.   This includes about 0.35
million in Cordoba, 0.80 million in Buenos Aires and 0.25
million in Rosario.



- iv -
Risks     The multiplicity of activities to be undertaken under the project
will require close cooperation of several entities.   To some
extent, the risk associated with the multiplicity will be mini-
mized by the agreed upon institutional arrangements for project
implementation which includes clearly defined responsibilities
for project participants, and by the services of an international
organization to undertake administration and contracting of the
technical assistance program.  These measures  will be supple-
mented by intensive supervision by Bank staff and by project
reporting and monitoring provisions which will allow the Bank to
check frequently on project progress and to detect problems
early.   The federal and provincial governments commitment to
ensure the funds required by the project, and the strengthening
of the utilities' management systems and efficiency, minimize
risks of delays related to the availability of counterpart funds.
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign       Total
-=U bS$ Million----
National Water and
Sanitation Plan                              0.42      0.41         0.83
Technical Assistance
Buenos Aires                             0.52      0.52         1.04
Cordoba                                  0.10      0.11         0.21
Operational 'mprovements
Buenos Aires                             8.30     i2.45        20.75
Cordoba                                  2.78      4.17         6.95
Rosario                                  3.03      4.54         7.57
Cordoba Water System
Rehabilitation and Extension
-Los Molinos Channel-,                   5.59      2.50         8.09
Water Production, and Distribution    25.35       12.49        37.84
Engineering and administration
(7% of US$45.93 Million)                     2.16      1.06         3.22
Base Cost (09/85 Prices)                    48.25      38.25       86.50
Tech. Contingencies 10%                      4.83       3.82        8.65
Price Contingencies                         15.36       9.93       25.29
Total Project Costs                         68.44      52.00      120.44



-v-
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
-- US$ million
Bank                                         -        52.00   52.00
Government                                 11.07         -    11.07
Domestic Loans                             43.30         -    43.30
OSN                                        14.07         -    14.07
TOTAL                                      68.44      52.00  120.44
Bank (interest during project execution)   -           8.00    8.00
Estimated Disbursements:
1986   1987   1988   1989  1990   1991  1992  1993  1994
Bank Fiscal Year                              US$ million
Annual       6.00   8.80  13.10   8.00  7.30   7.50  4.80  2.80  1.70
Cumulative   6.00  14.80  27.90  35.90 43.20  50.70 55.50 58.30 60.00
Rate of Return:      About 15Z.



ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PART I - THE SECTOR
Sector Organization
1.01      Until 1980, nation-wide responsibilities for most of the water and
sewerage systems in urban areas were concentrated in the National Water Works
Company (Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion - OSN). At that time, the Government
initiated a series of changes to decentralize most of these responsibilities
to the provinces. The Government's action was part of an overall strategy to
improve quality of services by inducing efficiency and dynamism in a stag-
nated, overcentralized sector (paras. 1.10 and 1.11).
1.02      The sector was decentralized by Decree 258 of 1980.  Under this ap-
proach, the Ministry of Public Works and Services (MOSP), through the Secreta-
riat of Hydraulic Resources (SRH) was made responsible for planning, and over-
all supervision of sector activities. Other responsibilities were given to:
Ci) OSN for water and sewerage services in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area;
(ii) a water utility in each of the twenty-three provinces; and (iii) the
National Rural Water Services (Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable Rural -
SNAP), created in 1966, for services in rural areas and urban communities with
less than 10,000 inhabitants. Other agencies active in the sector include the
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (Ministerio de Salud Publica y Accion
Social) and the National Mortgage Bank (Banco Hipotecario).
1.03      SRH, in addition to coordinating water resources management, over-
sees the activities of OSN, SNAP, and a research and training institute. SRH
is responsible also for making the decentralized arrangements operative. To
this end, SRH created in 1980 the Executing Unit (UE) of the National Sanit-
ation Plan for developing sector technical, financial, and managerial policies
and assisting the provincial utilities develop their capabilities; and in
1985, the Coordinating Unit for Sector Investment (UC) for coordinating
investment projects which require Government funds and external financing.
1.04        OSN, a national government enterprise, in addition to providing
water and sewerage services to fourteen municipalities of the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Area with an aggregate population of 10 million provides tech-
nical assistance to the provincial entities in coordination with UE.
1.05      The provincial entities created under the decentralization process,
received from OSN, on a grant basis, the existing infrastructure and the
current assets, including accounts receivable. Organizationally, these enti-
ties vary from provincial enterprises to departments of provincial governments
(Annex 1).   The responsibility for setting tariffs rests with Provincial
governments. The provincial utilities under the proiect are: Cordoba Provin-
cial Water Works (Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - EPOS) and Santa Fe
Provincial Water Works (Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - DIPOS).



- 2-
Population, Service Levels, and Quality
1.06      Argentina has become increasingly urbanized.  During the 1970s, the
urban population grew at a rate of 2.5% per annum, from 18 to 23 million,
while total population grew at 1.6% per annum, from 24 to 28 million. The
1980 census showed that 83% of the population lived in urban areas, 75% lived
in 198 communities with populations greater than 10,000, and 35% was concen-
trated in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (Annex 2).
1.07      The percentage of total population connected to public water supply
systems increased from 45% in 1970 to 60Z in 1980.   In urban areas, the
increase was from 56% to 69%.  Population service coverage for sewerage in
urban areas is lower than that for water supply: 31% in 1970 and 37% in 1980
(Annex 3). In rural areas, 71% of the population living in communities bet-
ween 100 to 2000 inhabitants received water services through house connec-
tions. About 38% of the rural population had excreta disposal systems. Water
supply and sewerage service coverage is not in line with the per capita income
rank of Argentina in Latin America (6th). The country ranks 9th in service
levels.
1.08        Public water supplies throughout the country are chlorinated and
quality is controlled by routine testing and analyses. A large portion of the
population not connected to public systems, however, relies on individual
water sources which often are contaminated.  In parts of the Buenos Aires
Metropolitan Area and in provinces especially in the northeast and north,
where services have not been extended and bad sanitary conditions are prev-
alent, infant mortality rates are more than twice the national average.
1.09      Population and public service coverage in the proposed project area
are as follows: (a) Metropolitan Buenos Aires has a population of 10.0 million
in a vast urban area and water and sewerage service coverages of 64% and 40%
respectively.   These low coverages result from some distant municipalities
lacking connections to the public system; (b) the city of Cordoba has 1.0
million inhabitants and service coverages of 78% and 25%; and (c) the city of
Rosario has 1.0 million population and service coverages of 89% and 45%.
Sector Performance, Policies, and Constraints
1.10       OSN led the development of the water supply and sewerage sector in
Argentina for more than a century, building and operating systems which were
mostly financed and subsidized by the Government. This institution operated
in periods of rapid growth when Argentina attained a leading position with
regard to sector activities in the region.   Installed water production and
main distribution capacity were often designed to meet overestimated demands.
Buenos Aires was situated near an unlimited supply of fresh water. As long as
the real cost of capital was low OSN found it more effective to build large
infrastructure rather than operate sophisticated systems which could reduce
demand. The deterioration of the economic conditions in the country prevented
the Government from continuing to provide large subsidies for sector



- 3 -
activities, and OSN was unable to adjust to the resulting financial con-
straints.   Until 1976, OSN was not generating enough revenues to cover evfn
operating expenses. In 1977, newly adopted economic policies stressed greater
financial self-reliance of public enterprises and required OSN to generate its
first operating surplus.   Government subsidies were curtailed, and OSN was
directed to borrow on the internal and external credit markets. Grant financ-
ing of investment was reduced to limited funds obtained from provincial and
municipal budgets. The combined effect was a sharp reduction in investment
and an increasing inability to satisfy demand for services and to properly
maintain existing installations.
1.11      The decentralization of the sector reflected the Government's belief
that most of the above constraints could be more effectively removed by pro-
vincial governments. The decision to decentralize was taken, however, without
taking into consideration the limited institutional capabilities at the pro-
vincial level, and it was not accompanied by the necessary assistance to pre-
pare the provinces for the full assumption of responsibilities. The Govern-
ment is now attempting to overcome these deficiencies by defining and imple-
menting a set of policies and assistance programs which would be included in a
national water and sanitation developmeat plan, to be prepared under the pro-
posed project (para. 1.13).
Sector Objectives and Strategy
1.12       At the end of 1983, the Government established service goals for
1990. The goals were to provide 80% of the population with water supply and
70% with sewerage or alternative excreta disposal systems. The attainment of
these goals represented serving an additional 6.1 million population through
public water supplies at a cost estimated by Argentinian authorities at about
US$1.6 billion, and 10.4 million persons with sewerage at a cost of about
US$2.4 billion. Annual investment required (US$700 million) is several times
the annual investment levels of the 1970s and the 1980s (US$114 million and
US$78 million in current prices). This level of investment is highly unlikely
to be achieved since:  (a) the country's public investment programs continue
being sharply curtailed; (b) the financial intermediaries and financial
resources for the sector have yet to be determined; and (cj the water entities
would need sufficient lead time to implement operational and financial poli-
cies which allow them to internally generate sufficient funds for investments
and for serving debts. The emphasis in sector development will have, there-
fore, to be placed on maximizing service coverage and quality under a severely
limited investment budget.   This approach entails the rehabilitation and
expanded use of existing infrastructure, reduction of per capita investment
costs,  water  conservation,  and  improvement  of operational and commercial
practices.
1.13       The Government has now agreed to this approach which will feature
the National  Water  and  Sanitation Plan  (PNSB)  to be prepared under  the
project.  The plan will update the demand for services and evaluate required
investments.  It will review the setting up of an investment financing system
and propose tariff policy and levels to reflect the economic cost of services,



-4-
the users'  capacity to pay, and  the need to enhance the water utilities'
self-financing  capacity.    Other  areas  to be covered  are  the  least  cost
analysis of projects, which take into account rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, and the promotion of water conservation measures consistent
with the efficient use of sector resources.   The plan will be in line with
general economic policies for the country, inter alia, to alleviate federal
and provincial governments budgetary requirements by financially strengthening
government enterprises and improving public sector management.
1.14      The Bank's strategy is to act as a catalyst to speed the formulation
and implementation of new sector policies and practices conducive to more
efficient operation and less capital intensive sector investments. An import-
ant element of this strategy is to help the Argentinian authorities in the
preparation of the PNSB plan, while at the same time focusing Bank assistance
on the rehabilitation of existing installations, to prevent a collapse of
services in major cities and improvement of the operational, managerial, and
financial capabilities of.the provincial utilities. With this assistance, the
provincial utilities would be prepared to introduce improved cost recovery
policies and to undertake the necessary expansion of the systems.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Background
2.01       In late 1983, the newly elected authorities requested the Bank to
discuss sector issues, assess progress made in sector reorganization, and to
assist with project preparation. The project was appraised in February-March,
1985  and  negotiations  were  held  in  Washington  in  October,  1985.    The
Argentinian delegation was led by Carlos Rivas Roche, Undersecretary of
Hydraulic Resources, MOSP.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.02         The main objectLves of the project, which is the first in the
sector, are to: (i) rehabilitate deteriorating infrastructure, replace rundown
facilities and extend water services to new urban areas; (ii) prepare a
national plan to provide the necessary institutional framework to permit the
newly decentralized system to function in a more efficient manner; and (iii)
initiate a national operational improvements program which promotes water
conservation through physical rehabilitation of water systems, production and
consumption metering, and institutional strengthening of the water utilities.
The operational improvements program covers in this first stage the Buenos
Aires Metropolitan Area, and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario de Santa Fe
that represent 60% of the urban population of the country, and where che water
utilities are prepared to introduce new technologies which could be replicated
in other areas of Argentina.
2.03        The above objectives are corsistent with the Bank's strategy to
assist the Government in the improvement of public sector management both at
the national and provincial levels; the inducement of greater efficiency in
the use of resources; and the rehabilitaLion of the nation's valuable social
infrastructure.



-5-
Project Description
2.04       The project includes the preparation of a national water supply and
sanitation plan (US$1.1 million or 1% of the project cost), an operational
improvements component (US$47.0 million or 392), and rehabilitation and exten-
sion of the water system in the city of Cordoba (USS70.7 million or 59%). The
projec- would be complemented by technical assistance to OSN and EPOS (US$1.6
million or 1% of the project cost).
2.05       The preparation of the national water supply and sanitation plan
will include: (a) formulation of Government objectives in the sector, service
targets ard investment alternatives for the decade; (b) development of project
evaluation criteria to foster adequate technical standards for project design
with special emphasis on least cost analysis; (c) preparation of financial
policies, including definition of financial criteria for setting investment
priorities; (d) definition of tariff structures and levels to achieve reason-
able rates of return on sector assets and enable the sector to contribute sig-
nificantly to new investments; (e) evaluation of the existing organizational
framework and responsibilities at federal and provincial levels; (f) recom-
mendations for the establishment of the organizational and institutional
structures to effectively implement the sanitation plan; (g) recommendations
on strategies directed at improving the efficiency of the present sector
organization; (h) definition of responsibilities in sector financing and
alternative flow of funds; (i) identification of manpower resources and staff
training needs; and (j) evaluation of existing research facilities and their
funding, and recommendations for further development.  Preparation work will
be carried out by consultants assisting SRH (paras. 2.09 and 2.10).
2.06      The operational improvements component which will be carried  out in
Metropolitan Buenos Aires and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario de Santa Fe,
includes the following sub-components: (a) wnter consumption metering; (b)
production and main distribution metering; (c) water distribution flow survey;
(d) mapping of the water distribution and sewerage systems; (e) water distrib-
ution network rehabilitation; (f) distribution system management; and (g) up-
grading of commercial systems.   The component, mostly equipment (88%), is
designed to cut water wastage thus decreasing operating costs and delaying the
need for new investment (para. 2.34).
2.07          The rehabilitation and extension of the Cordoba water system
includes the following: (a) construction of 'Los Molinos  water treatment
plant (2 m3/s); (b) upgrading of "Suquia water treatment plant; (c) comple-
tion of the multipurpose  Los Molinos  raw water channel; (d) four booster
pumping stations; and (e) construction of mains and distribution pipelines.
2.08      Finally, the project includes: (a) studies, technical assistance and
equipment for the improvement of financial planning, accounting, and purchas-
ing systems for OSN and EPOS and (b) preparation by OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS of
investment, operational and financial recovery plans including annual targets
in the areas of water production and sales, service levels and quality.as well
as billing, collection and tariff levels (para. 2.22).
Project Implementation
2.09        The Borrower will be the Argentine Republic.   MOSP will act as
terhnical agent for the project, being responsible for overall project



-6-
supervision and coordination.   To this end, MOSP through SRH, will be the
liaison between the Bank, the Government and the project beneficiaries. MOSP,
with assistance of consultants, will prepare the national water and sanitation
plan. OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS will be responsible for the execution of works and
institutional programs in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, Cordoba, and Rosario
respectively.   Each of these agencies have appointed a coordinator for the
project. The project will be executed in the period January 1986 to December
1993.  Detailed implementation schedule is in Annex 5.
2.10      Project execution will require extensive use of consultants to help
introduce improved managerial praccices in the project executing agencies
(para. 2.12-2.15). The project includes 410 man-months of foreign consultants
and 300 man-months of local consultants. MOSP and OSN will enter into master
contracts with consultants for the preparation of the National Water and
Sanitation Plan, and for the operational improvement program in Buenos Aires.
EPOS and DIPOS will retain specialized consultants for specific project
activities.   Agreement was  reached during Loan Negotiations  on terms of
reference for master contracts for consulting services.
2.11      The contractual documents under the project are:  (a)  a Loan Agree-
ment between the Bank and the Government; (b) Project Agreements between: (i)
the Bank and OSN; (ii) the Bank, EPOS and the Government of Cordoba; and (ii)
the Bank, DIPOS and the Government of Santa Fe; (c) three onlending agreements
between the Government and: (i) OSN; Cii) EPOS and the Government of Cordoba,
and (iii) DIPOS and the Government of Santa Fe; and (d) Special Account Agree-
ment between the Government and the Account Bank.
Project Executing Agencies
2.12      OSN, the executing agency for the Metropolitan Buenos Aires project
subcomponent, is managed by an administrator appointed by MOSP. The adminis-
trator directs the activities of the institution through three departments:
operations, engineering, and finances and administration, and twelve second-
level units under the department's managers. With 9,400 employees, OSN, pro-
vides weter and sewerage services through 1.0 million and 0.5 million house
connections respectively.   OSN's annual budget is approved by the Congress;
cizg;es for services are approved by an interministerial committee comprising
Public Works, Economy and Labour. OSN is required to get prior approval from
the Ministry of Economy and the Planning Secretariat for major multi-year
investment projects.  Planning and budgeting at OSN have been weak.  Account-
ing reports are not issued on time and are often based on unreliable and poor-
ly coordinated data.  The accounting system is, however, adequate to record
project  related  transactions  and expenditures.    OSN staff prepares most
engineering designs and supervises most works and operations.   Operation of
systems is an area which needs substantial improvements.  With the exceotion
of limited areas of Buenos Aires for which services were partially financed by
IDB, systems lack production and consumption metering.  Most of the instru-
mentation in the old production and distribution systems are in disrepair. In
addition to these physical deficiencies of the system, water distribution
management needs upgrading. The commercial system needs to be strengthened in
the areas of installations mapping, customer register, tariff structure, and
billing and collection (para. 2.21).



-7-
2.13      EPOS, the executing agency for the Cordoba project subcomponent, is
governed by a board composed of a president and four ditictors.  There are
departments for planning, engineering, operations, finances and administra-
tion, and small communities administration. With 2.030 employees, EPOS, prov-
ides water and sewerage services through 260,000 and 92,000 house connections
respectively. Its budget is approved by the provincial congress and tariffs
by the provincial government. Engineering planning is quite adequate to needs
and financial planning has improved noticeably during project preparation.
Engineering design and project supervision are carried out in most cases by
EPOS' staff.   Problems in operations, commercial and accounting areas are
similar to those of OSN (para. 2.21).
2.14      DIPOS, the executing agency for the Rosario project subcomponent, is
managed by an administrator appointed by the provincial Governor. Activities
are carried out by  five  departments:    planning,  operations,  commercial,
finances, and administration. With 1,400 employees, DIPOS provides water and
sewerage services through 299,000 and 148,000 house connections respectively.
Accounting is satisfactory.   Engineering is mostly carried out by DIPOS'
staff.  Problems in operational and commercial areas are similar to those of
OSN and EPOS (para. 2.21).
2.15       SRH, the executing agency for the national sanitation plan, is at
MOSP directly responsible for overseeing the activities of UC and UE.  SRH
staff comprises about 30 professionals.   SRH to adequately undertake its
increasing activities under the project, would rely heavily on the consultants
assisting UE and UC (paras. 2.09-2.10). Organization charts of SRH, OSN, EPOS
and DIPOS are in Annex 6. An instititional overview of the three utilities is
in Annex 7. Draft terms of reference for technical assistance to OSN and EPOS
are in Annex 8.
Project Monitoring
2.16         Monitoring indicators have been prepared as shown in Annex 9.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the monitoring indicators as well
as on a plan for project progress reporting.   Agreement was also reached
during Loan Negotiations that two project implementation reviews will be
carried out by June 30,  1987 and December 31, 1989, respectively.   These
reviews which include discussions with the Bank of the findings and recommend-
ations of the water and sanitation plan, operational improvement program, and
technical assistance for OSN and EPOS will provide the basis for the required
corrective actions on project execution.
Project Cost
2.17      The total cost of the project excluding interest during construction
is estimated at US$120.4 million equivalent.  The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$52.0 million or 43% of the project cost.  Costs are based
on September 1985 prices and include physical contingencies of 10Z.   Price
contingencies of US$25.3 million or 27% of 1985 project cost are based on
estimated international inflation of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8%, there-
after. Technical assistance and consultant costs (US$5.7 million) are based



- 8 -
on those of similar internationally and locally recruited experts in
Argentina.  Construction costs are based on unit costs developed by OSN and
EPOS during implementation of ongoing projects.  Costs do not include direct
taxes. Detaile& project costs are in Annex 10.
Project Financing Plan
2.18        The Bank loan of US$60.0 million to the Government of Argentina
finances 100 percent of foreign costs estimated at US$52.0 million. Also, the
loan includes US$8.0 million to finance interest during the execution period,
to help reduce the financial pressures on the Government and oh t.'e project
executing agencies. The l_-al counterpart of US$68.4 million will be financed
by OSN internal cash generatlon (US$14.0 million), a combination of provincial
grants or loans to and internal cash ge-neration from EPOS and DIPOS (US$39.5
and US$3.8 million respectively), and a federal government contribution to the
province of Cordoba for the multipurpose -Los Molinos" channel (US$11.1
million).    Assurances  from  the  federal  and  provincial  governments were
obtained during loan negotiations on the timely availability of counterpart
funds.  Bank loan proceeds will be made available by the Government to OSN,
EPOS and DIPOS on a loan basis, at the same interest as the Bank loan, and
with similar grace and repayment periods.   Foreign exchange risk would be
assumed by the project executing agencies. The signing of at least two subsi-
diary loan agreements between the Government, the executing agencies and the
respective provincial governments is a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan.
Past and Current Financial Performance
2.19      OSN's  financial situation in 1980 was highly satisfactory.  In both
1981 and 1982, the company experienced substantial operating surpluses (income
before depreciation amounted to US$154 and US$67 million respectively) which
resulted in a high liquidity position. OSN's favorable financial performance
deteriorated rapidly, however, mostly as a result of declining tariffs which,
by the end of 1982 through 1984, were equivalent to 34-40% of early 1981
tariffs in real terms. OSN revenues in 1983 and 1984 were used almost entire-
ly to cover oreration and maintenance budgets which lacked programs of pre-
ventive maintenance and of replacement and improvement of worn out facili-
ties. The 1984 operating deficit was financed by delayed payments to contrac-
tors and suppliers and by Government grants. OSN's investments which in 1981
and 1982 amounted to US$68 million and US$85 million respectively, declined to
US$28 million and US$38 million in 1983-84.   OSN's financial statements for
1982-84 are shown in Annex 11. Financial performance in 1985 is expected to
improve as a result of substantial tariff increases during the first semester
(22% cumulative in real terms).   These increases were approved before the
temporary freeze imposed on prices and wages.  The Government has indicated
its willingness to consider further tariff increases when the wage and price
freeze is relaxed in 1986.



- 9 -
2.20      EPOS and DIPOS started operations with a financial position adequate
to support the -implementation of policies and practices to gradually improve
service coverage and quality in the respective provinces. They received from
OSN a large asset base and no debt.  Also, tariff levels were sufficient to
generate enough revenues to cover operation and maintenance budgets and to
finance some investments. Since then the performance of both companies deter-
iorated.   DIPOS' revenues continued being sufficient to cover its limited
operation and maintenance budget and to finance an average annual investment
of US$6.0 million during 1982-84.  This performance was mainly the result of
the implementation in 1983 of a policy of periodic tariff adjustments based on
a formula which takes into consideration cost increases.  The implementation
of this policy allowed the company to rapidly recover its 1981 tariff level in
real terms after a sharp decline experienced in 1982. EPOS, which also exper-
ienced a tariff deterioration delayed the recovery process until mid-1984.
Tariffs during 1982-84 were equivalent to 31-39% of early 1981 tariffs, in
real terms. As a result, EPOS' revenues were barely sufficient to finance the
already unsatisfactory operations and maintenance budget.  EPOS' investments
since its creation have therefore been negligible: US$2.0 million in 1983 and
US$2.7 million in 1984 (the latter being financed by a provincial grant).
This trend is however, being reversed by a recent provincial government and
EPOS' management decision to implement a tariff recovery plan.  In compliance
with this plan, tariffs were increased by 45Z, in real terms, between June
1984 and April 1985. Further tariff increases scheduled for 1985 were indefi-
nitely postponed in compliance with Government's recently imposed austerity
plan. The net result of this tariff freeze would be a 1985 average tariff 8%
above the 1984 tariff level. This tariff level would provide EPOS with a pos-
itive income before depreciation despite excessive maintenance expenditures
for the water treatment plant to be replaced under the proposed project (about
USS1.6-1.8 million for this year). In addition, government and EPOS' authori-
ties have agreed to continue gradually increasing tariffs during the proposed
project execution period as soon as the price freeze is lifted (para. 2.22).
This policy is consistent with EPOS' charter which provides that tariff levels
should be sufficient to generate enough revenues to cover current expenditures
and debt service, and also to contribute an unspecified amount to finance
investments in system expansion and improvement.  EPOS and DIPOS financial
information is presented in Annex 11.
Future Operational Performance and Covenants
2.21      The operational improvements project component is designed to drama-
tically change the operations of the three water utilities involved by addres-
sing, inter alia, major weaknesses discussed above (paras. 2.12-2.15). There
would be a tightened control of water produced and sold. Clandestine connec-
tions and leakages would be minimized.  Metering the largest water consumers
(the top 10-25%) which account for the bulk of water consumed (40-60%), would
permit the introduction of tariffs structures related to the marginal cost of
water and would promote water conservation. Thus, as water demand decreases,
large investments could be postponed.  The increased efficiency in the water
utilities will be closely monitored as follows:  (i) by the monitoring indi-
cators agreed upon during loan negotiations (Annex 9); (ii) through invest-
ment, operational, and financial recovery plans (para. 2.22); and (iii)
through project implementation reviews agreed upon during negotiations (para.



- 10 -
2.16).   In addition, agreement was reached with OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS during
loan negotiations on the following:  (i) metered connections as percentage of
total connections will increase in Buenos Aires, from 10Z in 1986 to 22% in
1991; in Cordaba, from 6% to 24%; and in Rosario, from 5% to 8%;  and (ii)
revenues collected to amounts billed by OSN, EPOS and DIPOS will increase from
86% in 1986 to 96% in 1991 and thereafter.
Future Financial Performance and Financial Covenants
2.22      There is an increasing awareness at federal and provincial levels in
Argentina of the need to improve the self-financing capabilities of the public
enterprises, including water and sewerage companies.   The provisions in the
project which involves the revision and updating of ingrained institutional,
financial, and engineering policies and practices will help the project bene-
ficiaries in this endeavor (para. 2.08).  These revisions combined with the
results of the technical assistance, metering and other operational improve-
ments to be financed under the loan, will provide the basis for financial
recovery,  investment and managerial improvement programs.   These programs
are expected, inter alia, to set specific targets for future financial
improvements in the forms of rates of return or internal contribution to
investment, which the Bank will review in detail in conjunction with the pre-
paration of further operations in the sector. During loan negotiations: (i)
agreement was reached on  the terms of reference for the above financial
recovery plans for OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS, and (ii) assurances were obtained
that these plans and schedules for their implementation will be completed by
June 30, 1987, and that the Bank will be given an opportunity to comment on
the provisions of the plans.   Assurances were also obtained during negotia-
tions  that:  (i) beginning in 1986, OSN, EPOS and DIPOS will generate suffi-
cient revenues to cover operating expenses, adequate maintenance, taxes, and
debt service requirements; (ii) OSN, EPOS and DIPOS will submit to the Bank by
September of each fiscal year an update of the financial pLan and projections
for the current and the following three years, specifying the measures to be
taken to meet the aforementioned financial covenant.
Audit
2.23       Audit of the project executing agencie: is carried out as follows:
(i) MOSP, by the Comptroller General; (ii) OSN, by tho Comptroller of Public
Enterprises   (Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas - SIGEP);. (iii) EPOS
by the Contaduria General de la Provincia; and (iv) DIPOS, by the Tribunal de
Cuentas de Santa Fe.  SIGEP is at present an acceptable independent auditor.
The Bank will assess in the next few months the institutional and technical
capabilities of the EPOS and DIPOS auditors. During Loan Negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that: (i) OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS will have their financial
statements for zacii fiscal year starting with fiscal year 1985 and statement
of expenditures, audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (ii) MOSP will
have the accounts of its project component and the project's special account



- 11 -
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles; and (iii) starting in June 30,
1986, but not later than April 30 of each following years, the project execut-
ing agencies will submit to t.ze Bank certified copies of the audited financial
statement and reports.
Procurement
2.24        Procurement under the project will be carried out following Bank
guidelines.  The exemption for project-financed procurement from legislation
mandating the use of domestic goods and services would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. All contracts for equipment and materials exceeding US$100,000
and for civil works exceeding US$1,000,000 will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Equipment and materials will be grouped to
obtain packages  in excess  of US$100,000 with  the exception of contracts
amounting to less than US$130,000 under the MOSP water supply and sanitation
plan component, US$1,000,000 for OSN's component, US$2,800,000 for EPOS' com-
ponent, and US$370,000 for DIPOS' component.  The nature of civil works under
the operational improvements components precludes the efficient packaging of
services to be bid as works will be carried out in operating installations
spread over the project cities.   These works,  amounting to approximately
US$9.0 million or 11% of the project cost, will be carried out under proced-
ures satisfactory to the Bank by: (i) local contractors: US$2,600,000 under
OSN's subproject, US$900,000 under EPOS' subproject, and US$1,000,000 under
DIPOS' subproject; and (ii) by force account US$2,600,000 under OSN's subpro-
ject, US$900,000 under EPOS' subproject, and US$1,000,000 under DIPOS' subpro-
ject. Standard bidding documents and a purchase program for 1986 were agreed
upon during Loan Negotiations together with assurances of an updating of the
purchase program by October 31, of each year starting in 1986.
2.25       Technical- assistance and consultants' services, will be procured in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. A contract with
an international organization under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank wil]. be awarded to ease the administrative burden on MOSP for the prep-
aration of the water supply and sanitation plan.
2.26         Project costs by procurement method are presented in Annex 12.
Prior Bank review of feasibility studies, final designs and prequalifications,
bidding documents, awards, and contra:ts procured under ICB will be required.
The executing agencies will maintain all relevant documentation for local pro-
curement of goods and services.   Bank missions will carry out an ex-post
review by sampling.
Disbursements
2.27      The Bank will disburse as follows:
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports;



- 12 -
(b)   44%  of  local  expenditures  for imported equipment and materials
procured locally and ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods;
(c)   44% of total expenditures of civil works;
(d)   100% of total expenditures for consulting services and training; and
(e)   against amounts due for interest and other charges on the Bank's
loan until the date of the first principal payment to the Bank up to
a maximum of US$8 million.
Disbursed amounts, excluding interest under (e) above, should not exceed
US$1.0 million for MOSP, US$16.0 million for OSN, US$29.0 million for EPOS,
and US$6.0 million for DIPOS.   Proceeds of the Bank loan will be disbursed
upon presentation of standard documentation with the exception of those
proceeds financing goods and services procured locally which will be disbursed
against statement of expenditures prepared by MOSP. In these cases, detailed
documentation will be retained by the executing agencies   for inspection
during supervision missions. Disbursements, estimated in line with the 8 1/2
year profile for water supply projects in the Region, would be completed by
June 30, 1994 (Annex 13). A special account for the project in the amount of
US$5.0 million (estimated four month's peak disbursements) will be established
in the Central or other bank.
Status of Project Preparatior
2.28      Project preparatior^ conforms to the agreed implementation schedule.
The project coordinating unit in MOSP (UC) has been created and staffed.  UC
has prepared and submitted to the Bank model onlending contracts between MOSP
and OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS.   UC has also prepared draft terms of reference for
a master contract for consulting serviczs under the preparation of the
national plan.   -Los Molinos  treatment plant design preparation is com-
pleted.  The land for the plant is already in the expropriation process and
the law allows EPOS to take immediate possession of it. OSN, EPOS, and DIPOS
have created and staffed units for the execution of the operational improve-
ments components. Terms of reference for most of the activities in the oper-
ational improvement and for the technical assistance to OSN and EPOS have been
prepared. During Loan Negotiations agreements were reached between: the Bank
and MOSP and the execut'ng agencies on onlending contracts; and between the
Bank and MOSP on terms of reference for a master contract for the preparation
of a national water and sanitation plan.
Project Justification and Economic Benefits
2.29       General.  The project will enable OSN and DIPOS to satisfy short-
to-medium-term demand from existing faZilities and to prepare them to adequa-
tely undertake system expansions which k1ill be needed in the future. The pro-
ject yields satisfactory returns and has a high social impact. In Cordoba for
instance, nearly 30% of the beneficiaries are the urban poor who would be pro-
vided a dependable water supply at affordable rates. Given the advanced state



- 13 -
of deterioration of water production facilities in Cordoba, large levels of
unaccounted-for water in all three cities comprising the project and the
existing inefficient financial and operational practices among the entities,
failure to execute the project would invite the risks that: (i) in the near
future EPOS (Cordoba) would become incapable of providing even a minimal level
of services to Cordoba's population; and (ii) all three entities would also
continue to experience ever increasing losses with the consequent need for
larger subsidies and investments.   Furthermore, the project will be instru-
mental for assuring major sector-wide institutional, financial and operational
policy adjustments.
2.30      Least-Cost Solution.  The project finances only items of high prior-
ity and immediate impact which are consistent with long-term objectives. Pro-
ject components represent the least-cost solution for achieving the project's
objectives (para. 2.02) and do not involve the use of unusual or unproven
technologies.   The most significant physical component (the construction of
water production, transmission and distribution facilities to replace rundown
facilities in Cordoba) was selected on the basis of the analyses of eight
alternatives and it is consistent with the future reorientation of Cordoba's
water system (study of alternatives available in project file).
2.31      Economic Analysis.  Internal rates of return (IRRs) have been calc-
ulated for the two key components of the Cordoba subproject (65Z of total pro-
ject cost). The estimated IRR for the plant construction and expansion compo-
nent is 10Z, and for the operational improvement component 44%, yielding a
weighted IRR of 15%.   The Buenos Aires and Rasario operational improvement
components (24% and 9% of total project cost) possess similar characteristics
to this component in Cordoba and c.uld be expected to yield similar high
results.   A detailed description of the benefits of these components is in
project files. An IRR was not computed for the institutional development com-
ponent because its benefits cannot be quantified reliably.   Assumptions and
details of the analyses are described in Annex 14.
2.32      The IRRs were calculated using revenues from consumer charges as the
minimum measure for economic benefits of the project. As in all twater supply
and sewerage projects, the full economic impact of the proposed project cannot
be captured solely in a rate of return measure since many benefits such as
improvement of public health and hygiene, enhanced property values, employment
generation, greater well being of tie population, cannot be quantified reli-
ably and therefore, are excluded from the calculations. The consumer surplus
is excluded from the calculations also.   As a result, the IRRs are under-
stated. Revenues were calculated using projected 1987 tariffs in Cordoba held
constant in September 1985 prices.   The calculated IRRs indicate that the
project is fully justified in economic terms.
2.33       Long-run marginal costs for the Cordoba subproject were calculated
using the Average Incremental Cost (AIC) method with a 12% discount rate. All
costs are expressed in September 1985 prices.  The AIC for the subproject is
US$0.17/r3 which is higher than present (1985) tariff expressed in September



- 14 -
1985 prices of about US$0.14/m3.   Tariffs projected for Cordoba in 1989
slightly exceed the AIC.   While the AIC for the subproject as a whole is
US$0.17/m3, the AIC for the components of the subproject were estimated as
follows: for the plant construction and expansion compoaent, US$0.25/m3, and
for  the operational  improvement  component  at  US$0.06/m3.    This  clearly
demonstrates the need to execute the operational improvements under which
water can be provided at least-cost.
2.34      Beneficiaries, Urban Poverty Impact and Affordability.  Benefits of
the Cordoba subproject would accrue to virtually the entire population served
by EPOS in the city of Cordoba as a result of the replacement of rundown pro-
duction facilities which breakdown with increasing frequency and that could
become inoperative at any moment.  Direct beneficiaries of the Cordoba con-
struction and expansion component include about 0.4 million people who would
have either lost or had the volume of their water supply curtailed if the new
facilities were not  constructed.    The  operational  improvement  component
directly benefits 0.35 million new users through more reliable services. This
project component also benefits the entire population presently served by EPOS
through more reliable and fair billings and safer and less expensive supply.
The immediate savings of water through the operational improvement component
in Buenos Aires will make it possible to supply 0.80 million additional people
by 1990 at a per capita cost of about US$30. This is appreciably more econo-
mic than supplying water to this population through construction of new facil-
ities which would require investments of about US$80 to US$100 per capita.
The Rosario component benefits about 0.25 million people whose services will
be upgraded in quality and quantity.   In addition,  the entire population
served by DIPOS would benefit through more accurate and timely billings.
Totally, the operational improvements in the three cities will benefit 1.40
million people.
2.35       The direct impact of the project on the poverty group, defined as
families with a monthly monetary income of less than US$160.00 in September
1985 prices (on an annual basis, this corresponds to approximately one fourth
of the national per capita income) was estimated for the Cordoba subproject by
calculating the proportion of urban poor in the projected 1993 incremental
population  served  by each project  component.    About  22% of  the  direct
beneficiaries of the construction and expansion component and 37% of the
direct beneficiaries of the operational improvements component will be the
urban poor.   An estimated 23% of the subproject investments will directly
benefit the poor.  An evaluation of the affordability of services was made
based on 1985 tariffs. In 1985, a family with a monthly income at the poverty
threshold would pay an acceptable 2.6% of its income for a "lifeline" water
supply of 12m3.
Project Sensitivity, Risks and Safeguards
2.36       There is a high degree of certainty that the project will provide
desired benefits. The effect of variations in costs, benefits and implement-
ation delays on the project's rates of returns has been analyzed (Annex 14).
The analyses demonstrate that the IRRs are not highly sensitive to changes in
costs and benefits. There is little risk regarding the construction compon-
ents of the project as the works are of conventional design and- well within



- 15 -
the capabilitY of local civil works contractors and consultants to construct
and implement. The multiplicity of activities to be undertaken under the pro-
ject which includes the introduction of new technologies in Argentina requires
the close cooperation of the whole utilities' organization.  To some extent,
the risk associated with the multiplicity would be minimized by the agreed
upon institutional arrangements for project implementation which includes
clearly defined responsibilities for project participants and the retaining of
an experienced organization to undertake the administration and contracting
for the technical assistance and studies. These measures will be supplemented
by intensive supervision by Bank staff and by reporting and monitoring provi-
sions, which will allow the Bank to regularly check on project progress and to
detect problems early.
2.37      The federal and provincial Governments have committed themselves to
ensure the funds required by the project.   Moreover, by strengthening the
utilities' management systems and improving the quality and efficiency of its
services, the project would enhance the utilities' finances, their acceptance
in the communities and thus their ability to implement tariff increases when
necessary.   These project features minimize risks of delays related to the
availability of local counterpart funds.
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
-3.01        During negotiations of the Loan, agreement was reached on 'the
following:
(a)   with MOSP, on terms of reference for a master contract for the pre-
paration of a national water and sanitation plan (para. 2.10);
(b)   with MOSP, on progress reporting and monitoring indicators (para.
2.16);
(c)   with the executing agencies that two project implementation reviews
will be carried out by June 30, 1987 and December 31, 1989 respect-
ively (para. 2.16);
(d)   with the Government of Argentina, the provinces of Cordoba and Santa
Fe, EPOS, DIPOS and OSN, on the timely availability uf counterpart
funds (para. 2.18);
(e)   with OSN, EPOS and DIPOS, on the terms of reference for the prepara-
tion of investment, operational and financial recovery plans (para.
2.22);
(f)   with OSN, EPOS and DIPOS on the targets for improved bill collection
and for increased metered connections (para. 2.21);
(g)   with OSN, EPOS and DIPOS that plans mentioned in (e) above will be
completed by June 30, 1987, and that the Bank will be given oppor-
tunity to comment (para. 2.22);



- 16 -
(h)   with OSN, EPOS and DIPOS, on the submission to the Bank by September
in each year of updated financial plans and projections for the
current and following three years (para. 2.22);
(i)   with OSN, EPOS and DIPOS, on the annual submission of a plan of
action to meet the financial break-even covenant (para. 2.22);
(j)   with the executing agencies on audit arrangements (para. 2.23);
(k)   with the executing agencies on standard bidding documents and an
annual purchase program for 1986, and its annual updating (para.
2.24);
(l)   with the executing agencies  on model onlending contracts  (para.
2.28).
3.02          As a condition of Loan  Effectiveness,  the Government should
enter into subsidiary loan agreements with at least two beneficiaries and the
respective province or provinces and enact a resolution declaring that Bank
procurement guidelines have precedence over local legislation (para. 2.24).
3.03       With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$60.0 million to be repaid over a period of
15 years, including three years of grace.



- 17 -
ARGEJTINA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
institutional Arrangement in the Provinces_
Rural        Decentral-
Provinces        Planning                    Urban Operations      Operations       ization
3uenos Aires  National Warer Works (OSt)   OS0                   Provincial Serv.      Ye
Carazarca     General Adainia-               GAWV                    GAW               Yen
tiation of gater
Yorks (CAW)
Cordoba       Cordoba Provincial             EPOS                     EPOS             Tes
Warer Works (EPOS)
Corrientes    General AdAniis-               GAWV                    N.A.              yen
tration Water
works (u W)
Chaco         State 'dater Company (SVC)    suc                      N.A.              ye
Chubut        Direction of Water             Corporation and         DWG               go
and Gas (DWG)                 municipalities
Entre Rion    Provincial Direction           PDG or Nunici-          PDWC              No
of 'ater and Gas (PDWG)       palities
Formosa       Direction of Water             DVS or Nunici-          DVS               la
and Sewerage (DWS)            palltiee
JuJuy         Administrazion of              AS                      AS                Yee
Sanitation (AS)
La Parpa      Service of Water               Nunicipalities          SWSS              so
Supply and
Sanitation (Svss)
La Rioja      Direction of                   DS                      N.A.              so
Sanitation (DS)
lendoza       Water Company (OSXSE)          OsXSB                   OSNEE             ere
Nisiones      Administration of              AW or Nunici-           AW                Yes
'Waer Works (AYW)             palitiee
Neuquen       Provincial Services            PSV or Nunici-           N/A              No
of Water (PSW)                paLitiem
Rio Negro    CGneraL Directiob               Provincial Admi-         N/A              go
of Water (GDV)                istration of Water
Salta         Direction of Water             WE                       DWS              Yes
Supply (DWS)
San Juan      State Water                    SWC                      SVC              Yes
Company (SVC)
San Luis      ?rovincial Direction of        Wunicipelities           PDVS             yes
Water and Sewerage (PDWS)
Santa Cruz    Company of Public              CPS                      H/A              Yea
Services (CPS)
Santa Fe      Provincial Water
'Works (DIPOS)                DIPOS                     DIPOS           Yen
Tucumean                /A                   N/A                      N/A              N/A
Santiago del Estero   N/A                    S/A                      N/A              N/A
Tierra del Fuego       N/A                   /A                       N/A              N/A



- 18 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population and Service Levels
Popul-   No. of cities       Total pop-           Z Service Levels
ation     with 10000          ulation       Water Supply      Sewerage
size      People             (1980)
(thousands)    -             (thousands)
Greater than
1000         3               10.716              65             42
500 to
1000         3                2.132              79             42
L00 to
500         13                3.040              77             37
50 to
100         24                2.514             60              13
10 to
50        153                3.161             69              34
2 to
10          -                2.100             n/a             n/a
less than 2    -                4.200              18             n/a
TOTAL        .196              27.863              58             36



VILKNZ
tu     w afv Na 41           titu    t
Samm      MU 900  %111 OS INNI1111   sle     . Ou ms of  n  ."51, Imblims votard, il sIt via WA knifed
6431 643 -uN  IMIITNIO9                                                                             ________________                                 n
h.is                          n t.m _. S.01 in W.M  k .    t        t w NO" t*    -                  O.               |  .m                           1.4.-_4.  1  m  ka     uIm -
t_ 1. b1l1                                                             I*I agIa bt                  l'sssIaIl* b d                                             l *                     baed            L.-  Waist  I   rq.t.sim b-
Ull tEl  w     _ me _.      1 Clb  1  Pq.IaIIa b           G          l -                      -iI       q                                 1 0fh          Sl I          9otaki.O bead                ta li   head
:Fp1%%1 ti .  1" _  _ _  _ _  1"                           . I . ftpk     i. ."- t_  _                 _       . _w I _W  I  "}wMZ   t>}9l
cities hp'            -     -      - 411(44                        .   I 9   I      III         m. * I bw.                            -     a                     n....       -.                          S 
,~~~~~~~~                                                                .m _ __-  '^ ^| 'a@'"1  - -- -          -- - -                   -                            1- - -.z84l-all l
",^." .... D 1wlas     s       a     s.)       * s 1.^a.                                        ^.  *  .tob  ^e                             is        u                           @als".   . ......|*1      1satltS lt1tta
.t          _     ioW al F M                                        .                           _                                                 . | ." .1                                        at I                  a 115I Li.mn I  _o _ T  _ -    |0 W6
H a1.0m04*41                                 *   11.49 14)    1416. I  1H.31   1       6H4111t.61pi1M61                    3  1  .1                                                                          6 s 142)46    U)JMI   16   9 661I6 t     I m    t
844t         49 909.326  1906.44  be  18.a1         a  1^W4.1        21e.t^   14  83.614  10  I110.-44         -  -0.31   66-  _.46  1by          .                                            1m ii       as64ple441.1        AU   it 346.13   as
. eN.*i    a 914.13) 949.065  09 *      1.9     1                                          A  1 3I .110 890.,6)   64  44.061    )-        .      .       .     ..      .        .                                   413l0   MU31  74   MAN  0I
'14 0         -t9   6.090  6                                            -          . 4 43*5 _419   II 1lll6  -     -                                     14.                                        1m16      M       1|  3l8i1   41
44*..t      _   10.161   38.114  64   4.11          I  941,1 1-.141  14  '1.4,41    -            ..I 4 54   14344'                                                                                                                   18 -8.   61
sr. Alss   44 a91.044 96.91,93  I9  1143   3 4 1444.41  46.441  U   38.711   I1     115.316  994.415  764  41.614  10.11  143116 40                                                                                                 14  941.49   30
i.^  f   _    le.l#    _  _   s~~~~~~.ot0  _~ s1.*4:  l.aw *9   11,1    to                                                                                                                                                  61 ..a .Is       | || |        |"'wl 4 X|tR 
CIII   4 909.941  116.6121  II  48.18.9  164.461 4'9.614  it  46.70)  40.9  314.4m   11ME  63   411A7  31
A  eel       I  90.110    -       -    90               $ 9.4 8 1.381  41   4.811  644.8   69.411    an   34  51114  ?a-
11a       4.010   6.661  45    -            8   0.414 11.814  la  a g J0ib    aa   8m                                                                                                                                 343   is   3*30  04
It     10 .49t  61.61'  1 4  11.111   3 3a   O.41  10.411 k4ao 11.49t  3   .                                   .      . } - .t6  to.exm   i se |5             a                                          I        mJ1   68.n w   i4s| .'tl   a"i
9am.          '0  69.10   91.1 0  4_ A.411 .949  40.31    43                                                                           __-_                                                                         a       _1611  4    lU_IUl 
. 3 _ 4.099 33.910 _61 ._ _ 8 10.09 ,1.100 i 1 .998 43.                                                                                         _ _ _-                                                                  4   804 Ai  4& luo1 1
to "ts., II 101.11  00.6611 7r   wssioXl   . - I_-  -                                                                                                                                                                         IIAO  11   %M41 Al-uaol^
ttels,.  112.31) 16.001 it 1i 41 99. 19.03 .1 o 8lla69101.630 941 is 104t U
W~~~~~~~~~2.10  VI E1.a  I I                       e 6        a  zo       a  .         -e4* i       s.161* .a tO    .   ..*-41   is                                                                                     IOL    is   |  |* aii is?4*|  
.0 &I....   .   .   .     9a4,45 940.19 6^4"E 40#o.4s              1                  99..... 1 i 41533.                                                                                                           1.8944 1i  91 48  is
460 CMlu     a  61 5410  98.980  99  99,890  98       ..                                  .......                                                                                                                     610    38    14   90.1181 19
SAUl 76      4t 1_ .94%  11.469  40  74.04 _         4     .     41.001  39   0.680  a9  4 61.840 _1-1 al9 80   1L .186  4t1            4.000 14.166 _* -       .11. |                   .t4 |.464U                                   M4  4)68   4
9.6.4  _I  41039,11  63.180  01  90.116                              .4                                          10 1'.414,  1.                                                                                       L '             83 -        8'
1   814."9   99.411  89  11.43   99 .       _.                                      .4 e 144 8440  1     .4.                         .    .      ..1 81.                                              814.1t   41t. .i  .!1  jI
del 74e4  _ 8t 14.14   440    __  99.89   I             ..... . t o  1--4 la .M   14   446 41
70 9*A      1)3 66J9   911.100   69  &4        3484   118m.         Itl  64   3.11061if  is        W    $41*47 of          49)66164                                             R    ~ ~ 1t9L              e9         . * U           I1 U~
., *._ at
fro tolt    _ N a llll_1
cI fr. Imss Altos IhWwo4 Capitol eaud
049 t*eba
I                                                                                    .                _  _    _ _ _                                        _         _  _         _



- 20 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.         The Project includes the following components:  (a) national water
and sanitation plan preparation; (b) operational improvements program in
Metropolitan Buenos Aires, and the cities of Cordoba and Rosario consisting of
the first stage of a national program including inter alia consumption and
production metering, rehabilitation of distribution networks, and streng-
thening of distribution management and commercial areas of the water utili-
ties;- Cc) rehabilitation and extension of the city of Cordoba's water system;
and (d) technical assistance to OSN and EPOS.
2.        The following presents a list of main project components:
Part A: Preparation of a National Water Supplv-and Sanitation Plan (PNSB).
A.I.      Purchase of office equipment; and
A.2.         Technical assistance including consulting services,  in-service
training of MOSP's staff, and fellowships for: (a) Investment plan preparation
- Mi) at the Province level, diagnosis of sector services, formulation of
sector service targets and development of investment alternatives for the
decade; and (ii) formulation of government objectives in the sector and
consolidation of the provincial plans in a national plan; (b) Engineering -
development of project evaluation criteria to foster adequate technical
standards for project design with special emphasis on least cost analysis; (c)
Finances - Ci) preparation of financial policies for investment and oPeration
and maintenance of systems; (ii) definition of financial criteria for setting
investment priorities; and (iii) definition of tariff structures which
maintain  equity  while  encouraging  efficiency;  and  (d)  Institutional
responsibilities - (e) evaluation of the existing organizational framework and
responsibilities at federal and provincial levels; (i) recommendations for the
establishment of organizational and institutional structures to effectively
implement the sanitation plan; (ii) preparation of amendments of existing
legislation;  (iii)  definition  of  inter-institutional  coordination;  (iv)
recommendations on strategies directed at improving the efficiency of the
present organization; (v) definition of responsibilities in sector financing
and alternative flow of funds; (vi) identification of staff training needs;
and (vii) evaluation of existing research facilities and its funding, and
recommendation for further development.
Part B:  Operational Improvement Program in the Metropolitan Area of Buenos
Aires and in the Cities of Cordoba and Rosario de Santa Fe.
B.1.       Consumption Metering.   Purchase and installation of about 200,000
water meters for Buenos Aires, 60,000 for Cordoba, and 4,000 (industrial and
commercial meters) for Rosario de Santa Fe;



- 21 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
B.2.            Production  and  main  distribution  metering.    Purchase  and
installation of water meters in water treatment plants, water storage tanks
and water mains;
B.3         Pitometer survey.   Purchase of pitometers and accessory equipment
and setting up of a system for routine surveys;
B.4.        Mapping of water distribution and sewerage systems.  Purchase of
equipment, setting up of a day-to-day mapping updating, and collection of
data;
B.5.         Water distribution network rehabilitation.   Replacement and/or
construction of about 700 kms of pipelines in Buenos Aires, 275 kms in
Cordoba, and 300 kms in Rosario de Santa Fe;
B.6.        Distribution system management.  Purchase of vehicles, equipment,
and tools for maintaining water distribution pipes, sewers, and house
connections.  Setting up of systems for preventive and corrective maintenance
for water distribution networks and sewerages;
B.7.           Commercial  system manaz"ment.    Purchase  of  data processing
equipment, updating of consumer files, tariff studies, and upgrading of
billing and collection systems; and
B.8.        Consulting services, in-service training of OSN, EPOS, and DIPO's
staff, seminars, and fellowships to complement activities under B.1 to B.7.
C. Rehabilitation and Extension of the Cordoba Water System.
C.1.        Completion of  Los Molinos- multipurpose raw water channel (water
for the Cordoba city's water supply system and for agricultural uses);
C.2.         Construction of "Los Molinos'/two cubic meter per second water
intake and water treatment Dlant;
C.3.       Upgrading of -Suquia" water treatment plant, including an expansion
of about three hundred liters per second of its production capacity;
C.4.      Four booster pumping stations in Arguelle, Suquia, Alto Alberdi and
Nueva;
C.5.            Connection  of  the  water  distribution  network  to  the  new
installations; and
C.6.      Construction of mains and water distribution pipelines.



- 22 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
D. Technical Assistance to OSN and EPOS.
Includes consulting services, equipment and in-service training for
the improvement of the financial planning, accounting, and purchasing systems
of OSN and EPOS (draft terms of reference, Annex 8).



- 23 -
WAIER SUPPLY PROJECT
,.ps mn 0in mi___ Sch____
i,^-_-~~~~~~~ tu                                                'W
1---        123 ''  11331              1       111  I         311
1__  III LI7 1 7
w--                     I     I  i   i  I I   I   I   I   I 
.Arw  hul- 
I Im   m
_z<!-"'-E D V*    _mmE                   _    m_l_
S.-.,'.     II    III     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    _ 7s



s  :       3~~~~~~~~~
SL  1l: z~~~~~~~
5~~~~~~!



- 25 -
ANNME 6
Page 2 of 4
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
OBRAS SANITARIAS DE LA NACION (OSN) Oganlbafn Chat
=  ~~~^u
ACMt~~~~~~~~~WMOACQOMAc
_ _ 
PRC CON.M         _     9                                                    j- 
WRGJnIl  e4Gw4mwllr.                                                       l            lMOCK
WA1 NIVXMV         a1CMO MECK*C          I                        Iw M-
h~~~~~~~~wm                                                                   ACC1  I   MNI



- 26 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EMPRESA DE OWS SANITARIAS DE COROORA (EPOS) Organizton Chat
a CON.,.         -
'u CXm.Y
3ESr''                         E3URW'   d'O    I



- 27 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DIRECCION PROVINCEAL 0E OSR  SANITARIAS DE S. FE (DIPOS) Organizao Chat
GEIE1AL
AMAICK
SW--
Ht q I~~XWA"



-3-
onE.ex 7
Paqe I a 
ARCEVLMIA
*JATKR SUPPLY PRtOJECT
[n.E1rcZcofla OYfYIE
UseEr ns111o7
iN A                        _  _     _     _     _         _  _     _     _     _        ,  _     _     _    _             .  Y :n   w_
e_ p-.    s   u    ac  1_1. OII mL   u   aL_w
_um  ba*  to dmca             bc  ro pEa~a          d        u_   m        bc  toc@
MTEN-             pclmtin1a I Cz . &A A            katlin. GWME       MM S   hazm. QPAa   m'nu
l MfSa m      _         by a                     _ _           c       p    me        m
atmiml                  Aodciw _   ootd  by    m     tch pto&m                  fw   Amstc aold  r a 
does      m       0. a 5t-   d c                m   b       I8 Ad s  C             io
SOT URI.                     mla mo=v  Ss m1uxm  byr  DMW~MM                .
AM CA                   A L  das z ad 13 1C'-  9:.                     I    q        SDw   a 
dv.LLCMof Mum. Alm.           fa16 ,g_  m.                  In 2 orm R
a _c sorml.axom                 mo                              60.000                       299.00
--N       -t :m                       m                           92.mD                         14ow
RMAC
san !M_  =.   Ta aay  19. am    A   f                               '  ' .      to D-S            an a tcrw               pmj0I 1h_         on
_mm  a 10 ,_ pLi di            9        ftw_p  lnm         ia           pL-.                CC         de 
= a       w a *        11g     pL-  for t  cF  d C b                                       IU E.               1.
of pe 1      pmly t.   M flow" _m   f                                    I                 f1rAL in- Po 0
-   ~~~himaL     mmg.        .    mh          t eh
12a  domo        r    _no    Ls  I a      ^uc ced    mm   ob
sc            f         a  8     - me In td      o a
pmm                           yomls In de df ofan L
fI   -             fat  am
SMON-7           baI*E  Is  cm             by  Tdm to MLs1afmcq.                                             Ur      on idSug CM
=woulbJLY  -.   gm                                          _                                   at t.s umj Di  zIn 
-   omwo    .   Iwo cp mu m mathe boc
0u pw           . at                                                                       I-      C aI
.n    c  el     h~
Ia In d       d         1 .cd I-4L  t 7   plaw
mobuls                                          -.1   1smbLJ                                                _ u   of
L1u.  for d   s.l   all
opwa1im ad      lumdotgpm w  a  w                    Seanpaum    ui    Mnm   ML                           The a            m       at
oxwv  mdmox.   ~Di    sai  cmm                  pliw.                                      ti  p3      cIudm  uimla-
ptfblim i  a..ld by CiA                                                                                            at
amd q    of tome    r m.                                                                  laUmIm



I It       ti     i 1t[                          I |    Ng1       ss[i.
t         [    va%2           2jj   ii            II2
i  If.~     Ks                                                                               i i7
t1211''fli,              1     1 ,'    '1    l'   U41Il                 iWilf^lg.



- 30 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
A. Draft Terms of Reference for Improving OSN and EPOS' Financial Management
}. Objective
1.          The objective of the technical assistance is the setting-up of a
financial system which facilitates managerial activities leading to the
formulation and to the achievement of the company's long, medium, and short-
term goals, as well as to the efficient utilization of resources.
II. Financial System
2.            The financial system would be one of the key elements of the
company's internal control and it should include instruments and procedures
for:  1) monitoring and enforcing compliance with policies and programs; 2)
evaluating performance (results and costs) of the company as a whole as well
as of different responsibility centers; 3) securing the celevancy, timeliness,
reliability and accuracy of financial and operational data; and 4) safeguard-
ing assets. The system should integrate the functions of financial planning
and budgeting with the accounting and reporting activities of the company. It
should include, but not be limited to, the following instruments:
(a)   long, medium, and short-term budgets which include investments and
operations and maintenance activities;
Cb)   long, medium, and short-term financial projections which consolidate
the above budgets and the proposed financing policies;
(c)   management  reports  on  the  company's financial situation and on
budget execution, including comparisons between budgeted and actual
results for the company as a whole and for the responsibility
centers; and
(d)   financial statetients to meet the needs of external parties, includ-
ing government, creditors, and regulatory agencies.
3.          The system should not only accomodate large volumes of data and
different types of data, but also must be capable of meeting changing informa-
tion needs, including reporting information along revised organizational
lines, when necessary.



- 31 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
III. Scope of Consulting Services
4.         The consultants will conduct the work here described and whatever
work is needed to attain the technical assistance objectives.   As part of
their work the consultants should evaluate, modify, design and implement all
the required elements for the effective and efficient operation of the
proposed financial system. The consultant's assistance should cover, but not
be limited to, the development and implementation of improvements in the
following areas:
Planning, Budgeting, Reporting - including:
(a)   standard procedures, input documents and timetables to ensure that
all data required for the long, medium and short-term budgets are
captured, that is, investment and operations and maintenance activi-
ties, identifying financial and operational targets;
(b)   financial planning and cash management models integrated wich the
accounting and budgeting system.  These models should permit OSN's
staff, inter-alia, to assess the viability of investment plans,
determine tariff requirements, evaluate the impact of changes in
costs, in financing plans and in exchange and inflation rates, and
plan  the  use  of  cash.    The  consultants  should  also  propose
procedures, equipment and software which would allow the company's
staff to use microcomputers.
(c)   reporting system which includes the four instruments mentioned in
paragraph 2; and
(d)   procedures for processing data and providing relevant information
taking into consideration changes in price levels.
Accounting - including:
(a)   chor. of accounts and instructions to operate the financial, budget-
ary .nd cost accounting systems;
(b)   forms  ard procedures  for posting financial,  budgetary and cost
accounzing data;
(c)   flows of documents and timetable for their processing;
(d)   controls of quality and  timeliness of  inputs  to  the accounting
system; and



- 32 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
(e)   interface  between  the  accounting  system  and  the  single-purpose
systems that capture or generate financial and operational data.
For  example:    customer  billing  and  collection,  materials  and
supplies,  payroll personnel,  accounts payable,  fixed assets, and
work in progress.  The consultants should assist the company in the
improvement of the single-purpose systems so as to facilitate the
orderly and timely flow of data and information to the accounting
system.
Computerization - Accounting and report generation under the financial svstem
would be computerized.   The consultants should,  therefore,  recommend the
priorities for computerizing the different elements of the financial system,
including those that capture or generate the basic data.   Based on those
priorities, the consultants should:
(a)   develop standards for data processing and a master plan for system
development through 1990; and
(b)   determine the company's computer equipment requirements and assist
it in the selection and acquisition of this equipment.
Manpower Planning - The consultants should formulate recommendations to the
company on staff requirements for the financial system operation, maintenance
and development.
Training - The consultants should make every effort to transfer their skills
to the company's staff.   Most of this transfer would take place through
on-the-job training while the consultants and the company's staff carry out
the design and implementation of the system.   In addition, the consultants
should prepare and execute a plan of seminars to the company's staff in order
to provide information on:
(a)   the obJectives and scope of the technical assistance work, progress
made, and work plan until full achievement of objectives; and
(b)   the operation, maintenance, development, and use of the financial
system.
IV. Phasing of the Consultants's Work
5.        The consultancy should be carried out in two separate phases:
First Phase - Diagnosis - During this phase the consultants should review and
assess the company's existing financial system. It should end with an incep-
tion report summarizing the main findings of the evaluation, including:



- 33 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
(a)   identification of deficiencies;
(b)   proposals for changes in systems and procedures including an eval-
uation of alternative solutions in terms of costs, benefits, pract-
icality and adaptability at the company;
(c)   comprehensive description of proposed system and procedures;
(d)   statement  of  hardware  and  software  needs  for  implementing  the
system;
(e)   statement of staff needs and, if necessary, a program for in-house
and outside training; and
(f)   detailed work program  including  level of  effort  needed  by  the
consultant and a timetable identifying actions to be taken by the
consultant and the company.
Second Phase - Design and Implementation - After the company and the consult-
ants agree on the diagnosis report, the proposed improvements would be implem-
ented as a cooperative effort of the company staff and the consultants.
Training of the company's staff and purchase of equipment as required would
take place in this phase.
V. Reporting Requirements
6.        The consultants should present the company's management the follow-
ing reports:
(a)   diagnosis report and recommendations at the end of the first phase,
including comprehensive proposals for improvement ojeasures and plan
of action for the design and implementation phase;
(b)   draft  documentation  of  the  designed  systems and  implementation
plans, during the early states of the design implementation phase;
(c)   definite documentation of the systems designed and implemented, at
the end of the implementation phase;
(d)   quarterly progress reports summarizing work accomplished, changes in
plans, and identification of any major obstacles being encountered;
and
(e)   final report summarizing (i) all work done, (ii) the assessment of
the problems encountered during the consultancy, and (iii) the
recommendations to management for making the best use of the system
implemented.



- 34 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
VI. Time Schedule
7.          The diagnosis phase should last about 4 months, and the design/
implementation phase about 12 months.
VII.  Facilities and Services to be Provided by the Company to the
Consultants
8.        The company will facilitate the work of the consultants by:
(a)   appointing a high level official to act as project coordinator;
(b)   appointing counterpart personnel to work full time with the consult-
ants.   The number of personnel and their qualifications would be
agreed upon during the negotiation of the technical assistance
contract;
(c)   appointing counterpart personnel as required to carry out the work
in particular areas;
td)   providing suitable office space in the company's premises; and
Ce)   providing secretarial assistance and office supplies as required by
the work the consultants carry out in the company's premises.
B. Draft Terms of Reference for Improving OSN's Goods and Materials
Management System.
I. Objectives
1.        The setting-up of efficient and controlled system and procedures for
the purchase, storage, utilization and accounting for goods and materials
required in the company's day-to-day operations.
II. Purchasing and Inventory System
2.         The goods and materials management system should provide the means
for keeping the investment in materials and supply inventory at economic
levels while improving the level of service consistent with management
directives.   In addition, the system should maintain at satisfactory levels
the storage and administrative costs of inventories. Thus, the system should
maintain capital and operations costs at satisfactory levels and help to
increase the productivity of construction and operating personnel. The system
should include instruments and procedures for:   (a) purchasing and storing
goods; (b) inventory forecast and control; (c) delivery of goods to the users;
and (d) accounting for goods and supplies.



- 35 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
III. Scope of Consulting Services
3.         The consultants will conduct the work here described and whatever
work is needed co attain the technical assistance objectives.   As part of
their work the consultants should evaluate, modify, design and implement all
the required elements for the effective and efficient operation of the
proposed system. The consultant's assistance should cover, but not be limited
to, the development and implementation of improvements in the following areas:
(a)   material standarization;
(b)   purchase programming;
(c)   suppliers roster;
(d)   warehouse and storage organization and procedures;
Ce)   preparation of inventories, including procedures for the identific-
ation and disposal of obsolete items;
(f)   computerization;
Cg)   manpower planning; and
(h)   personnel training
IV. Phasing of the Consultants' Work
(Similar to the one described in the terms of reference for the
financial system).
V.  Reporting Requirements
(same as above)
VI. Time schedule
(same as above)
VII. Facilities and Services to be Provided by the Company to the
Consultants
(same as above)



- 36 -
ANNEX 9
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Preparation of a National and Sanitation Plan
1. Activities under this component would be monitored through a critical path study.
Operational Improvenents and Technical Assistance Programs
Year
1986    1987      1988        1989       1990      1991
1.  Number of Employees             Buenos Aires    9. y     9.5        9.0         8.5       8.0        7.5
per 1000/water connections      Cordoba          7.5     7.1        6.8         6.4       6.1        5.8
Rosarlo          4.7     4.5        4.5        4.5        4.5       4.5
2.  Number of water meters          Buenos Aires      -      30,000    60,000    60,000    50,000         -
installed                       Cordoba         10,000  13,000    17,000    20,000         -          -
Rosario            200   1,000      1,000     1,000        800       -
3.  Kilometers of distrib-          Buenos Aires      -         400       400        600       600        -
utlon network builtl            Cordoba           -        200        350        -         -          -
replaced/rehabilirated          Rosario           -         100       100        200       -          -
4.  Revenues collected to           Buenos Aires    90       92         93          94        95         96
Amounts Billed (Z)              Cordoba          86      90         93          94        95         96
Rosario          86      90         93         94         95        96
5. Metered connections              Buenos Aires    10        13        15          19        22         22
to total connections (2)        Cordoba           6      13         19          21        23         24
Rosario           5       6          7          8          8         8



- 37 -
ANtEX 10
Page I of 3
ARGENA
WAlR SUPPLY PR3JECr
PRWEFC COST ESrPS
CUSS   1'Ulicxi)
Project Component        TDL   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Iistitution Building      2.08    0.41    0.52    0.57    0.42    0.16   -         -        -
Natiiasl       0.83    0.21    0.21    0.20    0.21    -        -       -        -
Benos Aires    1.04    0.15    0.21    0.31       21    0.16   -        -        -
Cordoba        0.21    0.05    0.10    0.06    -         -      -       -        -
Operational Impronments   35.27    5.25   10.45    8.76    5.63    3.11   2.07    -
Buenos Aires   20.75    1.87    5.71    4.88    3.11    3.11   2.07    -         -
CordoIa        6.95    1.56    2.59    2.08    0.72    -        -       -        -
Rosario        7.57    L82    2.15    1.80    1.80    -         -       -        -
{ORDMBA                  45.93    4.13    8.69    9.19    9.84    5.60   3.77    2.64    2.07
Wanter produetion, mains
& pumoing             37.84    4.13    8.69    7.53    7.76    4.15   2.32    1.19    2.07
Ios Mblinos Channel       8.09    -        -       1.66    2.08    1.45   1.45    1.45    -
EbwHemriw  andadmdn.r 7%   3.22    0.30    0.61    0.65    0.66    0.41   0.25    0.19    0.15
Base Cost                86.50   10.09   20.27   19.17   16.55    9.28   6.09    2.83    2.22
Tecbirid1 Contaiiypcies 10% 8.65    1.01    2.Q3    1.92    1.65    0.93   0.61    0.28    0.22
Total Constant
Prices-Olec. 84        95.15   11.10   22.30   21.09   1820   10.21   6.70    3.11    2.44
Price Conting2ncies      25.29    0.56    2.91    4.67    5.83    4.33   3.49    1.85    1.65
Total Project Cost       120.44   11.66   25.21   25.76   24.03   14.54  10.19    4.96    4.09



* 38 -
ANNEX 10
Pae 2 of 3
ARG(UD
WCER SUPPLY PROJECr
HRWECD aOSr ESTMME -   AJR1BA REEWILrATICN AND EXSNSIN
tuIs$ Mliairs)
SUEFF=    C41r  TOM    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
LOSS
Water!ntake                0.09  0.09               -    -    -    -    -    -
Los Molii" Chmel           8.09    -        -       1.66    2.08    1.45    1.45    1.45
E"Tos 1DbIXx0s Water
Treatnant Plant        11.09    1.56    2.07      1.56    1.53    1.23    0.24    0.83   2.07
"Sxjta" Water Treat. Plant 3.31    1.10    1.10    0.65    0.46    -          -       -       -
Rupii"Argule1l             0.32     -       -       -        0.06    0.13    0.13    -         -
P%wg m   iva-              0.54   -    -    -    0.23  0.23  0.08  -    -
Bzplr'g"SAta7              0.72    0.31    0.41    -         -       -        -       -        -
P%Wdg -Alto AlUrdi         3.29     -       -       0.&6    1.31    0.65    0.32    0.36    -
an - Section 1            10.04     -       3.26    2.52    2.11    0.95    1.20    -          -
Man - Sectic 2             2.95     -       -        1.13    1.13    0.52    0.17    -         -
n ectionSuia - Alberdi 1.13    0.40    0.73          -       -       -        -
Dstributi
osm Mlinos - sr         1.28     -       -        0.52    0.58    -        0.18    -        -
Dlstribitm Network         3.08    0.67     1.12    0.50    0.35    0.44       -      -       -
EgLneewl  md Achtn. 7%   3.22    0.30    0.61    0.65    0.66    0.41    0.25    0.19   0.15
Base Cost                 49.15    4.43    9.30    9.84   10.50    6.01    4.02    2.83   2.22



-39 -
ANMX 10
Pwag 3 of 3
AREA
TA= SUPPLY PIJECr
RJECr Csr ES.E   OPEATI0NL   R                aO
9jIHID   cPio                 Total   1986    1987    19R8    1989   1990  1991
Clnuptin reterii              11.93    1.58    2.53    2.76    2.99   1.04  1.03
Produc  nmetering             1.71    0.29    0.65    0.61    0.16   -        -
Pito,nter suxey               0.31    0.13    0.09    0.06    0.03   -        -
Mapping                        1.25    0.40    0.47    0.33    0.05   -       -
Wbter distribut1xe
rebabilzati.g              13.64    1.41    3.54    3.93    1.65   2.07   1.04
Di.stribitim systm
I_Iageamt                    5.29    1.19    2.66    0.77    0.67   -       -
Cmmurcial system
mmgment                      i.14    0.25    0.51    0.30    0.08   -       -
Base Cost                    35.27    5.25   10.45    8.76    5.63   3.00  2.07



- 40 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCIES FINANCIAL DATA
A. Notes to OSN's Financial Data
1.        OSN's financial statements of 1982 and 1983 are audited.  Those of
1984 are not. OSN's external auditors, Sindicatura General de Empresas
Publicas - SIGEP -, expressed no opinion on the financial statements because
of the inadequacy of the Company's accounting records, particularly of fixed
assets, inventories and accounts receivable. Accounting principles and
methods applied in 1984 differ from those applied in previous years.
2,        Financial statements were converted into current dollars at the
following exchange rates:
Exchange Rate */
Year           Year End    Average
($A-US$1)
1982             4.86        2.17
1983            23.27       10.54
1984           160.84       67.79
*/ Argentinian Pesos to the US Dollar.



- 41 -
ANNEX i1
Page 2 of 7
NATIONAL WATER WORKS - OSN
Income Statement
(Current USS million)
1982       1983           1984
(Audited) (Audited) (Non-Audited)
Revenues
Water and Sewerage                   108.63      87.30        95.44
Other                                 20.63      12.72         6.97
Total Revenues                  129.26     100.02       102.41
Operating Costs
Personnel                             39.54      64.99        68.38
Chemical, Power, 0. and M.            10.66      21.27        39.74
Administrative and Comn.              12.29       6.33
Total Operating Costs           62.49       92.59       108.12
Income Before Depreciation                 66.77        7.43       (5.71)
Depreciation                               49.39      52.16        54.76
Operating Income                           17.38      (44.73)     (60.47)
Interest Expenses and Other                 1.13        1.53       87.55
Interest Earned on Investments             48.53      39.07.          -
Other Non-operating Income (Expenses)       0.79        1.42        0.74
Income (Expenses) Previous Years            3.45     (66.76)       63.80
Yet Income                              69.02     (73.56)          -
Effect of Price Level Increases          (200.88)   (443.86)          -
Ner Gain (Loss)                       (131.86)   (517.42)      (84.22)



- 42 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
NATIONAL WATER WORKS - OSN
Balance Sheet
(Current US$ million)
1982       1983           1984
(Audited)  (Audited)  (Non-Audited)
Assets
Fixed Assets                             1888.01    2039.28      2096.62
Accumulated Depreciation                  534.06      739.98      668.35
Net Fixed Assets                  1353.95    1299.30       1428.27
Work in Progress                           32.20       34.16      360.22
Cash and Short-term Deposits               4 47.93     10.45        4.82
Acccunts Receivable Serv. (revalued)    167.79        177.79      188.03
Inventory                                 127.54     236.16        81.41
Other                                       8.47      20.90        19.21
Total Current Assets               351.73      479.46       293.47
Other Assets                                7.86       2.48         3.10
Total Assets                       1745.74    1781.24      2085.06
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts Payable                            9.17       57.34       40.95
Long-Term Debt (Current Portion)             -          -           1.00
Other                                       0.07      0.66           -
Total Current Liabilities             9.24     58.00         41.95
Long-term Debt                             14.41       16.80       21.81
Equity                                   1722.09    1706.44      2021.30
Total Liabilities and Equity       1745.74    1781.24      2085.06
__ m_



- 43 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 7
B. EPOS' Financial Statements
Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - EPOS *
Income Statement
(Current USSMillion)
1983        1984
-Non-Audited-
Revenues
Water and Sewerage                              9.60        13.29
Other                                           -            0.21
Total Revenues                             9.60        13.50
Operating Costs
Personnel                                       5.59        7177
Chemical, Power, 0. and M.
Administrative and Commerical
Total Operating Costs                      5.86        10.53
Income Before Deprec'ation                      3.74         2.97
Depreciation                                    4.40         2.95
operating Income                               (0.66)        0.02
Interest Expenses and Other                     -            -
Other Non-operating Income (Expanses)           4.95         -
Income (Expenses) Previous Years                -            1.32
Net Income                                 4.29         1.34



- 44 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 5 of 7
Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - EPOS
Balance Sheet
(Current USSMillion)
1983        1984
-Non-Audited-
Assets
Fixed Assets                                    189.05       195.00
Accumulated Depreciation                         28.23        32.28
Net Fixed Assets                           160.82       162.72
Work in Progress
Cash and Short-term Deposits                       1.85        1.11
Accounts Receivables Services                     4.20         3.93
Inventory                                         0.97         1.15
Other                                             0.16         0.73
Total Current Assets                         7.18         6.92
Other Assets
Total Assets                               168.00       169.64
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts Payable                                  0.74         0.63
Long-term Debt (Current Portion)
Other                                             0.19         0.50
Total Current Liabilities                    0.93         1.13
Long-term Debt
Equity                                          167.07       168.51
Total Liabilities and Equity               168.00       169.64
*    Some data had to be estimated because of inadequacies in the account-
ing records, particularly in the areas of fixed assets and accounts
receivable.



- 45 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 7
C. -DIPOS' Financial Statements
Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - DIPOS
Income Statement
(Current US$ million)
1982       1983         1984
Non-Audited
Revenues
Water and Sewerage                     18.85       16.92       29.64
Othe.r                                 0.78        0.22         1.55
Total Revenues                      19.63       17.14        31.19
Operating Costs
Personnel                              8.91       10.54         5.67
Chemical, Power, 0. and M.             3                        9.85
Administrative and Commercial           3.41        1.03        6.02
Total Operating Costs               12.32       11.57        21.54
Income Before Depreciation                  7.31        5.57        9.65
Depreciation **                            0.14         0.03        0.06
Operating Income                            7.17        5.54         9.59
Interest Expenses                           0.21        0.20        0.31
Other Non-operating Income (Expenses)    0.56           0.75        0.82
Net Income                           7.52        6.09        10.10
* On non-revalued fixed assets. DIPOS is currently carrying out an
inventory and valuation of its fixed assets.



- 46 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
Direccion Provincial de Obras Sanitarias - DIPOS
Balance Sheet
(Current USS million)
1982       1983         1984
Non-Audited-  -
Assets
Fixed Assets
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Fixed Assets                     2.56        2.17         2.53
Work in Progress                         -          -
Cash and Short-term Deposits            1.06       1.26         1.99
Accounts Receivable Services *         2.67        2.20        12.07
Inventory                              0.02        0.05         0.31
Other                                  0.83        0.45         0.48
Total Current Assets               4.58        3.96        14.85
other Assets
Total Assets                         7.14        6.13         17.38
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts Payable                        1.21       1.36         0.54
Long-term Debt (Current Portion)         -           -            -
Other                                  2.33        0.25         0.53
Total Current Liabilities            3.54        1.61         1.07
Long-term Debt                          -           -           1.67
Equity                                 3.60        4.52        14.64
Total Liabilities and Equity         7.14        6.13        17.38
* Only the 1984 figure inclues required adjustments for inflation.



- 47 -
ANNEX 12
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost by Procurement Method
Item                    Procurement Method a/            Total
ICB     LCB    Other              Cost
Equipment and
Materials                  33.5     4.2       -                37.7
(18.2)   (2.8)
Civil Works                  68.0     9.0 b/   -                 77.0
22.2    (3.1)-
Consultants                    -       -      (5.7)               5.7
Total                       101.5    13.2      5.7              120.4
(40.4)   (5.9)   (5.7)              (52.0)
a Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
b/   Part of these works could be carried out by force account under
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 48 -                    ANNEX 13
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year          Quarterly            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending        Disbursement
(U%J  million)      (US$ million)  (Z of total)
FY 1986
March      31, 1986            5.00 *               5.00            8.3
June       30, 1986            1.00                 6.00           10.0
Ff 1987
September  30, 1986            1.50                 7.50           12.5
December   31, 1986            1.80                 9.30          15.5
March      3L, 1987            2.50                11.80           19.7
June       30, 1987            3.00                14.80          24.7
Fn 1988
September  30, 1987            3.10                17.90          29.8
December   31, 1987            3.20               21.10           35.2
March      31, 1988            3.30                24.10          40.2
June       30, 1988            3.50               27.90           46.5
FY 1989
September  30. 1988            2.00               29.90           49.8
December   31, 1988            2.10               32.00           53.3
March      31, 1989             1.80               33.80           56.3
June       30, 1989            2.10               35.90           59.8
FY 1990
September  30, 1989            1.50               37.40           62.3
December   31, 1989            2.10               39.50           65.8
March      31, 1990             1.50               41.00          68.3
June       30, 1990             .20               43.20           72.0
FT 1991
September  30, 1990            1.50               44.70           74.5
December   31, 1990            2.20               46.90           78.2
March      31, 1991            1.30               48.20           80.3
June       30, 1991            2.50               50.70           84.5
FY 1992
September  30, 1991            1.20               51.90           86.5
December   31, 1991            1.20               53.10           88.5
March      31, 1992             1.20               54.30           90.5
June       30, 1992            1.20                55.50          92.5
FY 1993
September  30, 1992            1.00                56.50          94.2
December   31, 1992            1.00               57.50           95.8
March      31, 1993            0.50                58.00           96.7
June       30, 1993            0.30               58.30           97.2
FY 1994
September  30, 1993            0.60                58.90          98.2
December   31, 1993            0.60               59.50           99.2
March      31, 1994            0.30                59.80           99.7
June       30, 1994            0.20                60.00          100.0
*  Disbursement for special account recovery assumed starting in FY91.



- 49 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Economic and Social Analysis
Internal R.te of Return (IRR) and Marginal Cost Calculations
1.   Internal rates of return (IRRs) have been calculated for the Cordoba
subproject component (a) (plant construction and expansion; 55% of total
project cost), component (b) (operational improvements; 10% of total
project cost) and for both subproject components combined (65% of total
project cost).   Revenues expected to be generated from 1987 tariffs ex-
pressed in September 1985 prices have been used as a minimum measure for
economic benefits in the analyses. The analyses exclude costs and benefits
of tech-aical assistance and institutional development for Cordoba (EPOS).
The cost of these items is, however, small (0.2% of total project cost).
2.    Marginal costs were calculated for the Cordoba subproject using the
long-run Average Incremental Cost (AIC) method at an 12% discount rate.
All costs are expressed in September 1985 prices and include engineering,
administration and physical contingencies, and are exclusive of taxes and
duties. IRR and AIC calculations are included in Attachments 1 through 3.
A summary of asusmptions for the calculations is included in Attachment 4.
Detailed data and other information are available in the project file.
3.   The results of the analyses are summarized below:
(a) Cordoba Water Supply Expansion Component (Component A; Attach-
ment 1)
Cost as a percent of total project           - 552
Internal rate of return                      - 9.54%
PV of incremental investments                - US$30.27 million
PV of incremental operating expenses         - US$19.94 million
PV of water billed                              199.49 million m3
Marginal cost                                - US$0.25/m3



- 50 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
(b)     Cordoba  Operational  Improvement  Component  (Component  B;
Attachment 2)
Cost as a percent of total project           - 102
Economic rate of return                      - 43.86%
PV of incremental investments                - US$6.23 million
PV of incremental 0 & M expenses             - US$2.31 million
PV of water billed                           - 161.10 million .3
Marginal cost                                - US$0.05/m3
(c)   Cordoba  Subproject  (Water  Supply  Expansion  and  Operational
Improvement Components Combined; Attachment 3)
Cost as a percent of total project           - 65%
Internal rate of return                      - 15.23%
PV of incremental investments                - US$37.40 million
PV of incremental 0 &-M expenses             - US$24.82 million
PV of water billed                           - 386.34 million m3
Marginal cost                                - US$0.16/m3
(d)    Sensitivity  Test  on  IRR  (Cordoba  Water  Supply  Expansion;
Component (A))
Change in Benefits
Change        2 Year    1 Year                       Base
in Costs      Delay      Delay    -20%      -10%     Case      +10%    +20%
-ERR (Z)
Base Cost       7.02       8.10      5.36     7.59      9.54    11.29   12.88
+10%            5.69       6.58     3.45      5.79      7.78     9.54   11.13
+20%            4.45       5.17      1.59     4.08      6.14     7.93    9.54
+50%             1.09      1.30    -4.61    -0.96       1.59     3.62    5.36
-10%             8.48      9.76      7.36     9.54    11.47    13.22   14.84
-20%           10.10      11.62     9.54    11.70    13.64    15.41   17.06
(e)    Sensitivity  Test  of  IRR  (Cordoba  Operational  Improvement;
Component (B))
Change in Benefits
Change        2 Year    1 Year                       Base
in Costs      Delay      Delay     -20X      -10%    Case       +10%    +20%
-EERR (%)-
Base Cost      26.07      31.94    33.91    38.75    43.86    49.37   55.37
+10%           24.25      29.40    30.53    34.78    39.20    43.86   48.85
+20%           22.67      27.24    27.77    31.58    35.50    39.58   43.86
+50%            18.91     22.28    21.74    24.75    27.77    30.81   33.91
-10%           28.19      33.01    38.20    43.86    50.00    56.79   64.43
-20%           30.72      38.78    43.86    50.82    58.61    67.57   78.16



- 51 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
(f)  Sensitivity Test on Weighted IRR (Total Cordoba Subproject)
Change in Benefits
Change        2 Year    1 Year                       Base
in Costs      Delay      Delay    -20%     -10%      Case     +10%    +20X
- - - -- --- -RR (%)- --
Base Cost      11.06      12.81    10.80    13.10    15.23    17.22   19.11
+10            9.69      11.22     8.96    11.23    13.30    15.23   17.04
+20%            8.45       9.78     7.28      9.55    11.59    13.47   15.23
+50%            5.26       6.12     2.77      5.20     7.28     9.12   10.80
-10%           12.58      14.60    12.86    15.23    17.43    19.51   21.50
-20%           14.32      16.66    15.23    17.70    20.02    22.23   24.35
Beneficiaries and Urban Poverty Impact
4.   The project partly consists of investments designed to reduce what is
believed to be high levels of unaccounted-for water (e.g. 73% in B. Aires)
through an integrated set of actions that combines macro and micrometering,
new census of users, rehabilitation of networks, leak detection and
improvements in billings and collections.   These actions are expected to
result in a reduction of water wastage, and make available water to facili-
tate new connections. As a result, the project not only will make water
available to new consumers, but will also improve services to existing
users as well as provide appreciable financial benefits to the utilities.
5.   The Cordoba subproject's plant construction and expansion component
would benefit 0.4 million people by 1993. The opertional improvement com-
ponent would benefit 0.35 million people. In Buenos Aires, it is estimated
that nearly 8 million m3/month of water would be recuperated through the
operational improvements. Thus, it is estimated that allowing for losses,
0.8 million people would be connected to the system.   In Rosario, the
rehabilitation is designed to upgrade the services of 0.25 million
persons.
6.   The Cordoba subproject would have an appreciable impact on the poor,
defined as families earning a monthly monetary income of less than
US$160.00 in September 1985 prices. Several variables are used to classify
the poor in Argentina. These include levels of satisfaction of basic needs
such as housing, health, education, etc. These variables are then used to
arrive at socio-economic and income stratification of the population.
Nearly 80% of the population above the urban poverty threshold in Cordoba
was already connected to public water systems in 1984 (regardless of
service quality).   Many areas into which new water connections will be
extended are heavily populated by families below the poverty threshold.
Even in new areas of settlement to which water would be extended, a sub-
stantial proportion will be poor families that have recently migrated to
the city.



- 52 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment I
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND MARGINAL COST (INCREMENTAL VALUES)
CORDOBA WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION COMPONENT (COMPONENT A)
(US$ Million in September 1985 Prices)
IM     "117   1911   1909   190    1WI   1992    1"3    1994 1"5-2015
fECES
PWLATIN SEW 0D 00M)             -       -       -  50.60  51.2  53.21  363.74  31.65  417.04   43 i.41
VOULE PILLS (N3)                -       -       -   5.94   5.91   6.14   41.'7  44.96   41.12    49.44
CONNECTIONS (0003               -       -       -  13.00  13.13  13.64  913.27   9.91  106.93   109.17
IENUEIE   P OPEA*TZONS
raMIFF  Ejus                    -       -       -   1.Y2   1.30   1.35   '.23    .69  10.19    10.U
03 EV91                         -       -       -   0.3B  0.59   0.61   4.20   4.50   4.91          4.94
10. A TWA. LOS lLeS    0.10   0.O   0.60   0.30                -       -      -       -       -
me I mSu. oneS               o.so   o.uo        -      -       -       -      -       -       -        -
LOS NLONS PLIT               1.90   2.90   2.40   1. 40    .40   1.20         -       - 
OmE RAMTs                       -   1.1O   1.10   0.70   0.50
PSIIUNMON                    0.30   0.50    5.70   P.30   4.50    3.10
am1  IN                      o.Ko   1.30    0.50   0.40        -
LOS ALIES CUL E0.60   0.40    0.50                     -       -       -      -       -       -        -
TUTtL IMNEhINfS              4.10    7.0   10.90   11.10   6.40   4.30
TOTAL COSTS                  4.20    .3O   10.90  11.-6      .9    4.41l  4.20    4.50    4.31      1.94
WEI PEEITS                  -4.10  -7.60  -10.90  -10P.  -5.6'  -3-;6  5.0!   5.39    5.75          5.V4
un 12. 145  lU?43
Inteml ReIb ot Return at Nt SLruat
NTI                    9.54?
Net Present Value at OCC 12  - -6.3
Sumry Marginal Cost Analysis
a)  Discount rate (Z)                                                 -  12
b)  Project life (year.)                                              -  30
c)  PV of inveutmntr (USS million)                                    -  30.27
d)  PV of O & M expenses ( )                                          -  19.94
a)  Pv of volume bIlUed  tMn =3)                                      - 199.49
f)  Marginal coat (c c  d  a) (USS/m3)                               -   0.25
g)  Present (1985) tariffs in Sept. 85 price. (USS/,3)                -   0.14
h)  Projected average 1989 tariffs in 1985 prtces (USS,m3) -   0* 18
1)  1985 cariff/larginal cost (2)                                    -  56
J)  Protected average tariff/martinal cosa  (Z)                       -  72



- 53 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 2
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND MARGINAL COST (INCREMENTAL VALUES)
CORDOBA OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT (COMPONENT B)
(US$ Million in September 1985 Prices)
11     1937   im      Im     1999   19  l!"2   1"913  14 l795 S01.
PWVdTERS
UItRATION SERVED 40001   70e.9  109.20  149.4  12.38 JU14 240.40 2.64  354.12  405.44   43.4
'mmE  tILLED 'IWIJI      4.55   '.00   .-6   11-.0   12.06  15.41  19.31  22.70  2z5.c       21.40
CUI- iTiONS (0)          18.20  23.0l   38.32  44.0  41.20  61.04  73.24  90.0   103.e    117.60
REVSWIS AIn PMlETI 3S
rm. REVEJE               0.77   1.19   1.63   1.36   2.05   2.62    3.1!   3.hi   4.4Z        5.60
Dam                                                    OAPS 01  -  -  -  -   0.15   0.20   0.26   0.34   !.4-  0.53
NicRUTMII                0.60   0.50   0.60   0.70        -       -      -      -       -        -
TnIOII                   0.05   0.05   0.04   9.00        -       -      -      -       -        -
PlTSEstEn                 3.02   0.03   0.01
NIPE u CA3Ml             0.13   0.13       -       -      -       -      -      -       -        -
iE1111  1933 a RoEo      0.19   0.53   1.64        -      -       -      -      -       -        -
I      RVin  WU1   I 4INT.    0.59   1.65  -      -
CWJCIML IIUPEIOTS    0.13   0.04   0.34   0.04            -       -      -              -        -
MroL r.Lwc Sr            1.76   2.98   2.33   0.79       -
rTrAL COSTS              1.776   '.9n    .373   0.79   9.1;.:9 0.0    0.216   0.34   0.43     0.53
rET EFITS               -0.9   -1.79  -0.71    1.69   I.0    .42   11.35   3.5    3."9        4.47
Ja 12, tM5  13:43
Inheil Not" ot Return of Not Stis
UIr2                  43.861
Net Present Valu- at OCC 12Z - 16.5
Sum_rv Marginal Cosc Analysit
a)  Discount race (:)                                              -  12
b)  Proj-et lif- (years)                                           -  30
c)  PV of investments (USS million)                                -   6.11
d)  ES of 0 & m expgnss   ( )                                           2.04
a)  Pn of volua  billed (Mn n3)                                    -145.13
f)  Marginal coot (c + d  a) (US$/13)                              -   0.06
g)  Present (1985) tariffs in Sept. 85 prices (USSl/3)             -   0.14
h)  Projected average 1989 tariffs in 1985 prices CUSS/u3) -   0.18
t)  1985 tariffEmarginal cost (Z)                                  - 233
J)  Projected average tariff/marginal cost (S)                     - 30W



- 54 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 3
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND MARGINAL COST (INCREMENTAL VALUES)
CORDOBA SUBPROJECT (WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION & OPERATIONAL
IMPROVEMENT COMBINED)
(USS Million in September 1985 Prices)
IM     1197   19      1939    19 I     I9t    9      1993   194 iY5-:IS
PPunATIU         0eeo    70.s9  109.20  149.45 222."   3.31  293.61  649.38  743.n7   2.49   117.12
WIll DILUL  thil3)        4.33   7.00   9.56  1.69   17.97  22.35  60.2;1  67.66   74.1l    79.8
CUMETIUS (00P            112.0  23.00  33.32  57.20  61.33  75.21  166.51  190.71  210.1    227.47
RAWilE AN3 WEP*TIUh
TMPFT IE!WI               0.77   1.19   1.63   3.17   3.35   3.97  12.34  13.75  15.01    15.89
ou ESES                      -      -       -   0.51    0.74   0.81   4.46   4.84   5.24        5.47
llOAT  IIWBETIIS          5.86  10.56  13.13  11.39   6.40   4.30         -       -      -         -
TOI.L MS                  5.16   10.56   13.13  12.47   7.14   5.11   4.41    4.14   5.24       3.47
El IJUlm                 -5.09  -9.39  -11.50  -9.30   -3.79  -1.14   7.0    0.91   9.77    10.41
hum 12. I5  18:44
Inenwl RItats  rs Rcbm of Nlt Strum
IST3                  154Z3
Not Present Value at OCC 122 - 10.2
Sumary Marrinal Cost Analysis
a)  Discount race (                                                 -  12
b)  Project life (years)                                            -   10
c)  PY of investmnts (USS milion)                                  -  36.38
d)  PV of O& ' He neas(                                             -  21.98
e)  PY of volum  billed (tn 3)                                      - 34.62
f)  Marglnal cost (c + d  *) (uSsS/3)                               -   0.17
g)  Pra.nt  l1985) tariffs in Sept. 85 prices (U551/3)              -   0.14
h)  Projected average 1989 tariffs in 1985 prices CUSS/,3) -   0.18
i)  1985 tariff/marginal cost (:)                                   -  82
j)  Projected average cariff/marginal cost (2)                      - 106



- 55 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 4
Page 1
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY. PROJECT
Assumptions for IRR and AIC Calculations
Plant Construction and Expansion Component
1.   Incremental population served includes all additional people connected
to the system beginning in 1989, when production from new plants begins to
ccme on stream, extending through the year 1995.   Incremental population
excludes population already connected whose service would be improved.
2.    Incremental number of connections and consumption are obtained from
incremental population assuming an average of 3.9 persons per account and a
consumption (volume billed) of about 37.5 m3/connection/month.
3.   Revenues stem from tariffs.  Connection and reconnection charges have
been excluded from the calculations.   Tariff levels are based on tariff
forecasts.  1987 tariffs expressed in September 1985 prices have F  n used
to project revenues.
4.   Investment  costs include all water related expenditures for produc-
tion and transmission, treatment plants, storage, distribution and one-
sixth of the cost of the Los Molinos Canal. The canal is expected to yield
benefits to other sectors  (agriculture and energy).   Of the 12 m3/sec
estimated, 2 m3/sec are attributed to water supply needs. Costs are based
on estimates by EPOS and quotations by contractors on recent works. All
investment costs include engineering and physical contingencies and make
allowance for replacement equipment.
5.     Operating costs include direct and indirect costs for operating
personnel, chemicals, energy, materials and spare parts.   Administration
costs are included in personnel costs and. are assumed to be roughly 30Z of
total personnel costs. It is also estimated that 15% of total 0 & M costs
are fixed costs which will not increase due to the project and 70% of the
remainder is due to water supply operation and 30% for sewerage. Detailed
breakdown of 0 & M costs by plant and activity is in the project files
(Document No. B.6).



- 56 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 4
Page 2
6.    Shadow Prices.   Efficiency prices have not been applied to costs.
This is because in foreign exchange, Government's policy is aimed at
reaching a real exchange equilibrium level in relation to the US dollar.
For labor, reliable figures on unemployment levels in Cordoba are
unavailable,  making  the  estimation  of  the  efficiency wage  rate  (EWR)
unreliable. It is nevertheless believed that the EWR is below the official
wage rates due to high unemployment and depression in the civil works
industry.   In this event, under those assumptions, the project's rate of
return would be slightly higher.
Operational Improvement Component
7.   Incremental population served includes additional persons connected to
the water supply system beginning in the second half of 1986 as a result of
additional  water  available  through  a  loss  reduction  program  and
introduction  of  efficiency  measures.    Incremental  population  extends
through 1995. Excludes population already connected whose service would be
improved.
8.    Incremental connections are obtained from incremental population as
shown in para. 2.
9.    Incremental consumption is assumed to be 21 m3/connection/month as
operational improvement program is designed to meet short-term demand until
construction of new plants which would augment volume of water delivered to
individual connections.
10.   Revenues stem from tariffs and were calculated along the lines of
para. 3.
11.    Investment  costs  include  all  expenditures  for micro  and  macro
metering, pitrometery, network cadastre, network rehabiltation and renewal,
repair and maintenance and commercial improvements.
12. Operating costs include costs for operating personnel, administration
and additional materials over what is presently needed.
13. Shadow prices. See para. 6 above.



- 57 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Reference Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1.    Republica Argentina:  Decenio Internacional del Abastecimiento del
Agua Potale y del Saneamiento, Noviembre 1978.
2.    La Pobreza en Argentina, Anexo No. 4 (no date).
3.    Diagnostico del Sector de Saneamiento
4.    Informacion Basica del Saneamiento en la Provincia de Cordoba (no
date).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.    Plan de Obras:  Proyecto de Presupuesto Ano 1985, EPOS.
2.    Analisis de la Demanda y Alternativas, EPOS, 1985.
3.    Copias de Planillas de Costos para Sustituir en la Alternativa No.
8, EPOS, 1985.
4.    Demanda del Proyecto, EPOS, 1984
5.    Aspectos Basico para Execucao do Programa de Melhoras Operacionais
(Buenos Aires), P. Carraro, Feb. 1985
6.    Analisis Economico, Cordoba, EPOS, Feb. 1985
7.    EPOS: Area del Proyecto, Existencia de Servicios, Demanda y Plan de
Expansion, EPOS, no date.
8.    Economic Analysis:  Data Package, Mission Estimates, June 1985.
9.    Draft Terms of Reference for Institutional Improvement Program (OSN,
EPOS, DIPOS).
10.    EPOS:  Proyecto de Ingenieria:  Costo Marginal de Largo Plazo y Tasa
Interna de Retorno, Nov. 1984, EPOS.



- 58 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
C. Project Entities Organizational and Financial Information
1.    OSN   1982-83 Financial Statements
2.    OSN   1985 Budget
3.    OSN   1985-94 Investment and Operational Plan
4.    OSN   Tariff System and Structure
5.    OSN   Project Execution Unit (Resolution 073956, May 13/85
6.    OSN   1985-93 Draft Financial Projections
7.    EPOS  Special Program for Collection of-. ccounts Receivables in
Arrears (Provincial Decree 3413, July 26/84.
8.    EPOS  Tariff System and Structure
9.    EPOS  1985 Budget
10.    EPOS  1983 Financial Statements
11.    EPOS  1985-91 Investment Plan (Summary)
12.    EPOS  Charter (Law 7253, January 10/85)
13.    EPOS  Organization Chart (Decree 1654, April 29/83)
14. .  DIPOS Charter (Law 8711, December 3/80)
15.    DIPOS 1984 Annual Report
16.    DIPOS 1982-84 Financial Statements
17.    DIPOS 1985 Budget
18.    DIPOS 1985-87 Investment Plan
19.    DIPOS 1985-93 Draft Financial Projections
20.    DIPOS Tariff System and Structure
21.    DIPOS Tariff Adjustment Regulations (Decree 3407, August 23/83;.
22.    DIPOS  Special  Program  for  Collection of Accounts  Receivable  in
Arrears (Resolution 1812, October 10/84).
23.    DIPOS Roster of Econsulting Firms (Resolution 2255, December 27/84)
24.    MOSP  Coordinating Unit (Resolution 117/85, February 22, 1985)
25.    MOSP  Executing Unit (Resolution 848/80 SETOP, November 14, 1980)



I BRD 19128
10.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60
BOLIVIA AO
\   LeO2>c7'%   I ?a2!8
Coaeni U\               
LIUJ        PJit.' 1-.    PARAGUAY                            B
SA         I 54LT A /                                      RfORMOS-  A Z I L
~~~~ JORMOSA--- C%n ^ 
,~~    -'  -  ~~~ Cloinn
..-'/       /  ,~ANTIAGO1 RESISTENCI     .   PD.dft   ISI*ONES
S.tiago del 1.1m        CIIN
DEL   V   -          RRIN T?S,
ATAMAUCA, I    ST RO i
JAN  A              *
5     pLAEm   J Ar      x        FE                /
!'     NENOASAN      J    O     DO      Lt<b 
~~SAN JUAN
CJ    SAU R UN     G       U A           Y.,cRBio
LU IS                       N   I   URUGUAY  (
N   MUENDOZA  JLUIS I
LNE                    )                         [ARGENTINA
5!g/J  RIO NEGRO>)                      WATER SUPPLY
411
PROJECT
So. Cal. __. wl
.   CHUBUT   2 iltSf50Fq[ ]Pmro                               Cities
Major Road
--lntsmatioa  Boundaries
Fit& o
) SANTA
*?tC RUZ 
I -,
__ _ t ~~~~~TIERRA DEL
v-,,. ,,--   . -        -.   i -F UEGO
O_i -W d,D :].-Ow MUo           iHUA
_*#"                                  L 1!                     KILOMETERS  D    200      400      600     goo
__ _wodm                                                            MILES     IW    200   300    4600     50
so_
r      T    A DEL-                                     sr
JULY 79856



