Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17866
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EASTERN LOWLANDS: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
Credit 2119-BO
May 13, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 20, 1998)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos (BOB)
BOB 5.47       US$1.0
FISCAL YEAR: January 1 -December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAO                  - Camara Agropecuaria del Oriente
CIAT                 - Tropical Agriculture Research Center
CIMA                 - International Environmental Committee
CORDECRUZ            - Corporaci6n de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz
KfW                  - Kreditanstallt fur Wieder Aujbau
ICR                  - Implementation Completion Report
INRA                 - Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agraria
NAFIBO               - Nacional Financiera Boliviana
NGO                  - Non Governmental Organization
PLUS                 - Land Use Plan
Vice President:                  Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit:  Isabel Guerrero
Director, Sector Management Unit:   Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager:                    Matthew A.. McMahon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EASTERN LOWLANDS: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2119-BO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................................................                                             i
Evaluation Summary .......................................................                                  ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMEN'T
Introduction .......................................................                                        1
A. Project Objectives ........................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................                 ..................   3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project..... 6
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................                   7
E. Bank Performance .......................................................                         7
F. Borrower Performance .......................................................                     8
G   Assessment of Outcome .......................................................                   8
H. Key Lessons Learned .......................................................                      9
I. Future Operation .......................................................                        10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ....................................................  12
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................  13
Table 3:   Project Timetable .......................................................                      14
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual ..........................   15
Table 5:   Key Project Indicators .......................................................   16
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project ..................................................   18
Table 7:   Status of Covenant Compliance ............................................   21
Table 8(a):Project Costs ..24
Table 8(a):Project.Costs........................................................    2
Table 8(b):Project Financing .......................................................  25
Table 9:   Economic Budget - Investment Costs ....................................   26
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................  27
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................  28
Table 12: Status of Credit 2119-BO ....................................................  29
PART III: APPENDICES
Appendix A: Aide Memoire from  Completion Mission .............................  31
Appendix B: Borrowers Summary Report ............................................  37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EASTERN LOWLANDS: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2119-BO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Eastern Lowlands:
Natural Resource Management and Agricultural Production Project in Bolivia, for which
Credit 2119-BO in the amount of SDR 26.5 million (US$35.0 million) was approved on
March 29, 1990 and made effective on January 7, 1991.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, one and one half years later than the
original closing date. Final disbursement took place on January 6, 1998, at which time
there was a balance of US$2.371million. The final balance to be cancelled will be known
when the Special Account has been recovered.
The ICR was prepared by Matthew McMahon of the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development Unit of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office,
assisted by H.J. Nissenbaum (consultant) and Marlyn Caluag and Gladys Sakata
(LCSES). The report was reviewed by Messrs./Mmes. Wiens, Werbrouck (LCSES),
Crown (LCOQE), Nguyen (LOADR), Laver (LEGLA) and Bateman (LCC6C).
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's supervision mission of September
1997 and was advanced during the Bank's completion mission of January 1998. The
Borrower has reviewed the report and its contribution to the ICR is contained in
Appendix B.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EASTERN LOWLANDS: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2119-BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   In the late 1980s, the Bolivian Government requested IDA assistance to accelerate
growth in the country's agricultural sector. Agricultural outpult had sharply diminished in
the previous decade. Sector growth for 1980-87 period was -1.3 percent, while crop
yields apart from soybeans had not significantly increased. At the same time, the
Government's "New Economic Policy" launched in 1985 had set a landmark in macro
management and stabilized the economy--but it had not reactivated growth.
2.    The project objectives were to: (a) assist in the long-term development of the
Eastern Lowlands through the preparation and implementation of a land-use plan (PLUS)
for the region; (b) increase over a five year period the production of profitable
agricultural commodities, and strengthen the balance of payments position of Bolivia by
increasing annual exports of soybeans by about 200,000 tons, and substituting annually
for about 30,000 tons of wheat imports; (c) develop the technology and credit
mechanisms to increase and sustain agriculture productivity; (d) improve the existing
rural roads and storage infrastructure; (e) introduce market pricing of public lands; and (f)
support the Ayoreos in the demarcation of their land and improve their living conditions,
and assist the Chiquitanos in the demarcation of their tribal land.
3.    These were risky undertakings as the Lowlands had not yet established sustained
agricultural development. In the decade preceding the project, the area sown to soybeans,
which was the main crop of expansion in the area, rose from 41,000 ha in 1981 to
171,000 ha in 1990, of which almost 80 percent was taken from forested land. While
most of this land was suitable for cultivation, it was feared at that time if expansion
continued it would be done without regard for soil capability or appropriate management.
Simultaneously, oil, gas, and timber development had increased with negligible attention
to natural resource sustainability. In addition to these problems, there were other project
uncertainties stemming from conflicts between these trends and indigenous tribes' land
rights, which kindled serious disputes.
4.    Suitably thus, the project objectives also called for measures to ensure the more
rational use of Santa Cruz's natural resources. The project set out to develop the long
term land use plan and to cause natural resource management interests to be integrated
into agricultural investment decisions. It also set out to demarcate lands for the
indigenous communities and to develop technology for sustainable agriculture and credit
mechanisms for small farmers as well as address the issue of the pricing of public lands.



Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    Preparation and Implementation of the Land Use Plan (PLUS) All activities
related to this objective were successfully completed and a the Land Use Plan has been
issued. As a result, a 1995 decree established the land use plan as Santa Cruz's territorial
standard and instrument for governing land usage and its sustainable development. The
project component (financed by KfW of Germany) also set up the technical office now
empowered to monitor the plan's implementation, and prepared it legally and technically
to do so.
6.   IncreasedAgricultural Production and Exports Bolivia's real annual agricultural
growth since 1987 of 1.5 percent has been strongly influenced by the expanded
production in the Eastern Lowlands, the most salient features of which are as follows:
between 1990 and 1996, agricultural exports from Santa Cruz increased 400 percent; the
gross value of the Department's agricultural output rose from US$350 million to US$685
million during the period 1990-96. It has been estimated that 37 percent of the increased
output could be credited to the project, producing US$115 million in annual returns.
Assuming these increases are maintained through year 2009, the project's future IERR
was projected at 36 percent, twice that forecast in the SAR.
7.    Development of Credit and Technology Mechanisms The credit component
failed to contribute significantly through the extension of only 221 subloans, comprising
about 16 percent of the anticipated number. Small farmers especially had great difficulty
accessing project funds because of collateral problems (smallholders' rural land was not
accepted for guarantees) and the intermediaries' reluctance to lend to them. Later on, the
credit component was halted while the Central Bank of Bolivia was setting up a second
tier bank, Nacional Financiera Boliviana (NAFIBO) to manage foreign credit lines.
When this latter bank did come into existence, it did not agree with the Bank's conditions
to assume responsibility for the Project portfolio, and as a result, a large share of these
resources were cancelled.
8.   In the technology area The Centro de Investigaciones Agropecuarias Tropicales
(CIAT) contributed by producing new varieties and technological packages suitable to
the region, as well as their promulgation. Specifically, its new varieties and its work on
windbreaks, alternative tillage techniques and integrated pest management for the
different crop rotations were widely adopted. CIAT's work doubled the number of
soybean varieties adapted to the area, as well as adapting varieties of wheat, cotton and
rice to the conditions of Santa Cruz. The Project also supported extension activities of
seven producer associations with great success in extending new knowledge to their
members.
9. .  Improvement of Rural Roads Road improvements under the project surpassed
planned levels. Thanks to unit cost savings, and the reallocation of more credit resources,
some 410 km have been upgraded and better maintained, over a third more than the initial
goal.



iv
10.  Introduce Market Pricing of Public Lands In 1992 the project assigned funds to
a commission which overhauled all land legislation. These activities funded by the
project, led to the passage of the Agrarian Reform Law, which established market pricing;
and the preparation of a Land Administration Project which is now being funded by the
Bank (Cr. 2742-BO).
11.  Indigenous Component The objectives of the indigenous peoples component
were achieved by the demarcation of approximately 250,000 has. of land, and the
installation of schools and medical clinics in the communities.
12.   Municipal Strengthening Development Plans were prepared for several
municipalities and roads designs were prepared for several provinces. A rural
development plan was also prepared for the indigenous cormmunities of San Jose de
Chiquitos and Robore.
Implementation Experience and Results
13.   Project iimplementation was satisfactory despite some problems in the earlier part
of the project as it took eight months to declare the Credit effective. In the case of the
agriculture credit line, difficulties with the Central Bank surfaced immediately about the
means of setting interest rates and the creation of the planned "risk fund." There were
also problems in reconciling the project's credit scheme with the Central Bank's auction
system. These problems caused the public banks which dealt with small farmers to be
consistently outbid for access to funds.
14.   Project implementation was most strained in the indigenous groups component.
In this case, the Bank found itself in the position of trying to negotiate disputes between
competing factions, different Indian tribes, disparate NGOs,, and others. Fortunately, a
satisfactory compromise was finally worked out, which took a lot of supervision effort
from the Bank.
15.  In the wake of these problems, a 1993 Bank midterm review mission
recommended refocusing of the project. Its recommendations led to accelerating the pace
of, and expanding the scope of the PLUS and the indigenous peoples components, and to
new activities aimed at social development, assisting small farmers and poverty
alleviation. These new directions largely governed the remainder of project activity until
its close.
16.   Prospects for sustainability are good with the establishment of the Land Use Plan
and its technical office, CIAT's achievements in the area of technology generation, the
producer associations' extension initiatives, the assumption of road maintenance by the
municipalities, and the demarcation of indigenous groups' lands. This is further
strengthened by Forestry and Environmental Protection laws' stipulation that risky areas
which have been deteriorating, especially national parks and biological reserves, must be
shielded from commercial development. In addition, the Bank funded National Land
Administration Project is moving to improve the legal and regulatory framework for land
use, restructure the public agencies responsible for enforcement and establish a legal
cadaster to secure property rights.



v
17.   The Bank's performance in this project is rated as satisfactory. The Bank's
involvement increased the Government's awareness of environmental problems in
Bolivia and helped mobilize the resources for their solution. Several economic and sector
reports completed before the project, called attention to the high rate of natural resource
usage nationwide. These reports and the accompanying dialogue, together with this
project, were very constructive in helping to advance policies and instruments enhancing
more sustainable development of the area. Similarly the Bank's presence helped civic
society in Santa Cruz focus on the issue of indigenous lands. Although this was a very
conflictive issue, the Bank's leadership helped to amalgamate the efforts of often
opposing factions. The Bank also led a dialogue on such issues as the future financing of
agricultural research and extension, and land pricing policies which led to the creation of
the land reform institute (INRA), which in turn developed the Agrarian Reform Law.
Conversely, the failure to establish sufficiently firm and agreed machinery for agriculture
credit was a negative feature.
18.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The project unit, led by an able
project director performed well, following the Mid-Term Review, in reviving the
indigenous peoples component and guiding its improvements to greater success with
effective participatory methods.The project unit was also very effective in the
identification and implementation of road improvements in marginalized rural
communities. CORDECRUZ, the initial implementing agency, always gave strong
support to the technology generation and extension aspects of the project and as a result,
before its dissolution, it set up a trust fund of US$10 million to support the activities of
CIAT. However, the Central Bank was not very agile towards helping make Credit 2119-
BO monies competitive in the market or in carrying out agreed studies.
19.   The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, by having achieved its
development objectives of: (a) initiating the long-term, rational management of the
Eastern Lowlands natural resource base; (b) developing the technology to increase
agricultural productivity on a sustainable basis; (c) improving rural infrastructure in the
Eastern Lowlands; (d) improving the living conditions of the Ayoreo indigenous group
and helping to demarcate indigenous lands. Its accomplishments also helped improve
the balance of payments and trade accounts. This export expansion was badly needed
while Bolivia was trying to escape from its grave economic crisis.
Key Lessons Learned:
20.   The main lessons were that:
(a) It is important for the Bank to bring issues of the environment, ethnicity or
gender to the development dialogue in countries where these issues are still
not on the agenda. In the case of the Eastem Lowlands Project, IDA's role in
introducing environmental and indigenous concerns into the development
dialogue in Santa Cruz was crucial. At the time of project preparation the
GOB's objective was to expand production for increased exports. In the
subsequent dialogue this objective was tempered by the identification of
environmental and indigenous concems, which led to the development of the
Land Use Plan and the demarcation of the indigenous lands.



vi
(b) It is important for the Bank to explore other channels in civil society to solve
developmental or social problems. This was important in the Indigenous
Component where IDA's persistence and patience in resolving the issues paid
off. This was an extremely conflictive issue, that required several years to
solve but which IDA considered to be very important. Working closely with
civil society i.e. beneficiaries, NGOs, churches etc., finally led to a solution
of the crisis. IDA insisting on a declared "bottoim line" result helped in this
sense.
(c)   Mid-term reviews can be very useful when the problems are clearly identified
by both the Borrower and the Bank. In this case, the mid-term review was
very beneficial, as the problems were clearly identified and the scope of the
restructuring was judicious. This restructuring led to a refocussing on the
"public good" issues that needed to be financed to accompany the privately
financed development that was going on in the project area, i.e. improvement
of roads into small farmer areas, increased research and extension on
sustainable practices, and renewal of commitment to indigenous issues.
(d)   It is difficult to support a decentralized project, or a component of that
project, from a centralized agency. Putting a credit component through the
Central Bank didn't work for the small farmers as there wasn't enough
concern and information in such a central institution as to their needs, and
there was never sufficient agreement between the Central Bank of Bolivia
and IDA on the mechanisms which were needed to reach the small farmers.
There should have been a more aggressive dialogue between these two
entities, and this was symptomatic of having responsibility in La Paz for the
solution of problems in Santa Cruz. This split responsibility hindered the
development of the project to some extent.
(e)   This problem for decentralized projects, and which the Bank may encounter
more in the future as it gets involved in such projects was illustrated by the
fact that many basic policy issues, which needed to be discussed in the
context of the project, were neglected since the Project Implementation Unit
in Santa Cruz was distanced from the relevant Ministries in La Paz.
Therefore, timely resolution of some issues was neglected and often had to
be done by IDA supervision missions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EASTERN LOWLANDS NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT 2119-BO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
21.  In the late 1980s, the Bolivian Government requested IDA assistance to accelerate
growth in the country's agricultural sector. Agricultural output had sharply diminished in
the previous decade. Sector growth for 1980-87 period was -1.3 percent, while crop
yields apart from soybeans had not significantly increased. At the same time, the "New
Economic Policy" launched in 1985 had set a landmark in macro management and
stabilized the economy--but it had not reactivated growth.
22.   The Government and the Bank therefore agreed that Bolivia's adjustment program
needed to address underlying agricultural sector constraints. Among others actions, it
was decided to place priority on the development of the Eastern Lowlands, perceived as
having the country's largest and most promising untapped agricultural potential, and with
the possibility of increasing agricultural exports.
A. Project Objectives
23.   The project had an ambitious range of goals. The objectives were to: (a) assist in
the long-term development of the Eastern Lowlands through the preparation and
implementation of a land-use plan (PLUS) for the region; the plan would give due
consideration to the future sustainable expansion of agricultural production in an
environmentally-sound way; (b) increase over a five year period the production of
profitable agricultural commodities, and strengthen the balance of payments position of
Bolivia by increasing annual exports of soybeans by about 200,000 tons, and substituting
annually for about 30,000 tons of wheat imports; (c) develop the technology and credit
mechanisms to increase and sustain agricultural productivity, thereby raising family
income of small farmers; (d) improve the existing rural roads and storage infrastructure;
(e) introduce market pricing of public lands; and (f) to support the Ayoreos in the
demarcation of their land and improve their living conditions, and assisting the
Chiquitanos in the demarcation of their tribal land. The project consisted of the
following components: (a) natural resource planning and management; (b) credit for
agricultural production and marketing; (c) agricultural research; (d) agricultural
extension; (e) rural road improvement and maintenance; (f) assistance to indigenous
people and demarcation of their lands; and (g) administrative support.
24.   These objectives appropriately reflected the evidence that Bolivia's then
unsatisfactory economic growth was partly due to a prolonged decline in its accumulation



2
of capital stock. Private investment had been quite low and public funds poorly allocated
and inefficiently used. The project thus focused on exploiting the unused land resources
in the Lowlands in a sustainable manner, while taking into account the needs of the
indigenous groups in the area.
25.   There were considerable uncertainties and risks attached to these undertakings.
The Lowlands had not yet established an agriculture that was sustainable and consistent
with the rational exploitation of its resources. Its producers confronted high transport
costs to ports over 2,000 km away, leading to low margins and consequent exploitation of
the existing soil resources, and had limited access to technology for sustainable
agriculture. Further, the Government's distribution of state lands in the 1970s, and the
continuing abundance of cheap (sometimes free) land contributed to farmers' reliance on
the expansion of area for output increases, instead of developing more efficient
production practices.
26.   In the decade preceding the project, the area sown to soybeans, which was the
main crop of expansion in the area, rose from 41,000 ha in 1981 to 171,000 ha in 1990,
of which almost 80 percent was taken from forested land. While most of this land was
suitable for cultivation, it was feared at the time that if expansion continued it would be
done without regard for soil capability or appropriate management. Simultaneously, oil,
gas, and timber development had increased with negligible attention to natural resource
sustainability. In addition to these problems, there were other project uncertainties
stemming from conflicts between these trends and indigenous tribes' land rights, which
kindled serious disputes.
27.   Suitably thus, the project objectives also called for measures to ensure the more
rational use of Santa Cruz's natural resources. The project set out to develop the long
term land use plan and to cause natural resource managemenl interests to be integrated
into agricultural investment decisions. The development of ihis plan (PLUS) was a
pioneering effort in Latin America.
28.   The credit component was focussed on agricultural activities that were based on
suitable production plans and agronomic conditions. It completely excluded aid for land
clearance. However, agricultural producers continued to have easy access to substantial
commercial bank funds and other financing sources, for expansion activities.
29.   The project's policy environment, at the time of preparation, also bears noting.
Originally, the overriding production-minded focus of the Government and the Bank was
on cushioning declining mineral and hydrocarbon earnings, lessening import dependence
for vital foodstuffs, boosting non-traditional exports and other balance of payments-
related issues. Within the Bank moreover, the focus of sector assistance was then on
regional development, with secondary regard for environmental and like interests.
30.   Later policy changes in both institutions substantially altered these settings. The
Bank's priorities shifted to more direct poverty reduction and environmental protection,
together with greater local cormnunity involvement. On the Government's part, the
policy changes included the decentralization of political authority and public



3
administration, along with the undertaking of popular participation and greater respect for
ethnic identities. These new paradigms contributed to a refocusing of the project.
31.  In May 1993 a Mid-Term Review was conducted to review the problems, and
there were many, that the project was encountering. Taking into account the new policy
environment both in Bolivia and the Bank, and the problems that needed to be solved in
the project, the Review team recommended to restructure the project and to reallocate
funds from the credit component to other categories. These changes were confirmed
through an amendment to the Credit Agreement. The changes in the amendment were as
follows: (a) a restructuring of the research and extension to reflect the concern with
small farmers and sustainable agriculture, and an increased reliance of the private sector
(farmers associations) for implementation; (b) increase rural road improvement and
rehabilitation, focussing on small farmer areas; (c) addition of a micro-regional and
municipal strengthening component to address the needs of poor communities and
strengthen their ability to implement the Popular Participation Law; (d) increase
resources for the component of the Comision Nacional de Reordenamiento Territorial
Sobre Uso del Suelo y Tenencia de la Tierra (CNRT) to allow it to complete its program
of addressing land issues and to prepare a project for IDA financing.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
32.   Preparation and Implementation of the Land Use Plan (PLUS) All activities
related to this objective were successfully completed and the Land Use Plan has been
issued. The soils investigations provide the technical basis for orienting crop production
towards the most suitable areas, and for preventing irrational exploitation, with the
issuance of certificates of soil suitability. Studies of protected zones and forest areas,
including the Noel Kempf Mercado National Park, identified the reforms needed for their
preservation and sustainable development. As a result, a 1995 decree firmly established
the land use plan as Santa Cruz's territorial standard and instrument for governing land
usage and its sustainable development. The project component (financed by KfW of
Germany) also set up the technical office now empowered to monitor the plan's
implementation, and prepared it legally and technically to do so. Twenty municipalities
received PLUS maps and training in resource management and its regulatory framework.
This work will continue at the local level.
33.  IncreasedAgricultural Production and Exports Bolivia's real annual agricultural
growth since 1987 of 1.5 percent has been strongly influenced by the expanded
production in the Eastern Lowlands, the most salient features of which are as follows:
* between 1990 and 1996, agricultural exports from Santa Cruz increased 400
percent;
* the gross value of the Department's agricultural output rose from US$350
million to US$685 million during the period 1990-96;
between 1990 and 1997, the value of its summer soybean crop increased from
US$33.7 million to US$168.3 million; winter soybean, from US$9.5 million to
25.3 million, wheat, from US$10.1 million to US28.1 milllion; sunflower, from



4
US$1.9 million to US$26.9 million; cotton, from US$3 million to US$73.2
million; rice, from US$33.2 million to US$63.6 million; corn, from US$6.6
million to US$37.4 million; and sorghum, from US$3.3 million to US$6.9
million.
In one way or another all of the above crops were affected by activities of the project.
Other statistics on the Lowlands' performance are shown in Table 5.
34.   Consultants who assessed these increases, concluded that 37 percent of the eight
crops' increased output could be credited to the project, producing US$115 million annual
returns. These were led by earnings from summer soybean (whose 1995/96 production
level was eight times that of 1986/87's), followed primarily by cotton, wheat and corn.
Assuming these increases are maintained through the year 2009, the project's future IERR
was projected at 36 percent, twice that forecast in the SAR.
35.   These figures reflect Santa Cruz's rapid development based on a somewhat
diversified, capital-intensive agricultural sector. This development has resulted from
improvements in the enabling macroeconomic environment vwhich has encouraged
private investment. Among the principal factors, as well as the Project's involvement,
were; the GOB's new floating exchange regime, attractive world market prices,
expanding Andean Pact markets for soybeans, and inexpensive land costs. The Project's
contribution in the area of increasing production resulted from; (a) improvements in roads
accessing market sites and main trunk roads; (b) results from the Tropical Agriculture
Research Center's (CIAT) agricultural research program, and (c) a similarly expanded
extension program.
36.   Between 1990 and 1997, the Department's cultivated area multiplied almost
threefold, increasing from 375,000 ha to 1,085,000 ha. This was mainly for soybean
production. whose cultivation area increased 20 percent yearly and is now nearing
500,000 ha. In the process unfortunately, deforestation increased considerably, e.g.,
almost one million ha between 1989 and 1996. These actions far exceeded expectations,
e.g., the project plan forecast only 25,000 ha of new land clearance in the expansion zone
over five years.
37.   Development of Credit and Technology Mechanisms The credit component
failed to contribute significantly through the extension of only 221 subloans, comprising
about 16 percent of the anticipated number. However, this component did provide timely
relief from the severe 1991/92 floods though. Small farmers especially had great
difficulty accessing project funds because of collateral probleims (smallholders' rural land
was not accepted for guarantees) and the intermediaries' reluctance to lend to them.
Overall however, Santa Cruz farmers readily obtained other commercial bank loans and
others funds during this period of great liquidity, while colonization scheme producers
(Japanese and Mennonites) are reported to have been self-finenced. Later on, the credit
component was halted while the Central Bank of Bolivia was setting up a second tier
bank, Nacional Financiera Boliviana (NAFIBO) to manage foreign credit lines. When
this latter bank, did come into existence it did not agree with ihe Bank's conditions to
assume responsibility for the Project portfolio and as a result, a large share of these
resources were cancelled.



5
38.  In the technology area, CIAT contributed by producing new varieties and
technological packages suitable to the region, as well as their promulgation. Specifically,
its new varieties and its work on windbreaks, alternative tillage techniques and integrated
pest management for the different crop rotations were widely adopted. CIArs work
doubled the number of soybean varieties adapted to the area, as well as the adaptation
varieties of wheat, cotton and rice to the conditions of Santa Cruz.
39.   The Center's technology transfer department also helped to give it a more
adaptive research orientation. Because of this, the results of the research program were
communicated to a much wider range of producers and extensionists than ever before.
The Project also supported extension activities of seven producer associations with great
success in extending new knowledge to their members. Much of these activities are now
being financed by the associations.
40.   The international environmental committee which reviewed the project during its
term commended CIAT for its contributions towards the higher outputs achieved, and for
persuading Santa Cruz farmers to adopt less destructive soil management practices. Also,
with project financing, CIAT was restructured to carry out more multidisciplinary work,
augmented its staff considerably and prepared a 1997-2001 business plan.
41.  Improvement ofRural Roads Road improvements under the project surpassed
planned levels. Thanks to unit cost savings, and the reallocation of more credit resources,
some 410 km have been upgraded and better maintained, over a third more than the initial
goal. A consultant study has calculated that each US$1 invested in roads produced
US$409 of returns, due to reduced transport time. The 1993 reprogramming of the credit
freed up funds which permitted the addition of road improvements in small farmer zones.
The municipalities have now responsibility for the future maintenance of these roads.
42.  Introduce Market Pricing of Public Lands Initially, there was very slow
progress in getting the Government to fulfil its undertakings to set market pricing for
public land. Finally, in 1992, the government imposed a moratorium on further
concessions and project funds were assigned to a commission which overhauled all land
legislation. These activities funded by the project, led to the passage of the Agrarian
Reform Law, which established market pricing and the preparation of a Land
Administration Project which is now being funded by the Bank (Cr. 2742-BO). The
international environmental committee (CIMA) considered that the new law's market and
tax provisions are favorable signs for more efficient future land investments.
43.  Indigenous Component The objectives of the indigenous peoples component
were achieved by the demarcation of approximately 250,000 of land, and the installation
of schools and medical clinics in the communities. The demarcation of the lands has
been the first step in ensuring Indian land ownership rights. Furthermore, much of the
legal work needed for titling of these lands was financed under the project and these titles
are now being adjudicated by the Instituto Nacional de ReformaAgraria (INRA). What
was achieved in this component was no mean feat, in view of the complexity of the land
issues, and the highly polarized, conflictive social environment, as well as the tough
physical environment in which the demarcation took place.



6
44.   Municipal Strengthening Development Plans were prepared for several
municipalities such as Pailon, Warnes, Concepcion, Minero and El Puente among others.
Roads designs were prepared for the provinces of Cordillera, Warnes, Obispo Sanistevan,
Sara, Ichilo, Florida and Chiquitos. A rural development plan was also prepared for the
indigenous communities of San Jose de Chiquitos and Robore.
C. Implementation Record and Major FactorsAffecting the Project
45.   Project implementation was late in starting and delayed in some components over
the period. It took eight months to declare the Credit effective, and there were bouts of
inactivity subsequently. There were counterpart funding shortages and repeated instances
of project staff turnover after changes in central government political power. Both caused
instability in project execution.
46.  In the case of the agriculture credit line, difficulties with the Central Bank
surfaced immediately about the means of setting interest rates and the creation of the
planned "risk fund." There were also problems in reconciling the project's credit scheme
with the Central Bank's auction system. These problems caused the public bank which
dealt with small farmers to be consistently outbid for access to funds. In addition, some
of the project assumptions were undone by unforeseen financial sector developments,
including the change from Central Bank on-lending to second tier arrangements, which
froze the credit resources for two years. Ultimately, the bulk of Credit 2119-BO funds
assigned to farmer credit was reallocated to other ends.
47.   Project implementation was most strained in the indigenous peoples component.
In it, the Bank found itself in the position of trying to negotiate disputes between
competing factions; different Indian tribes, NGOs, and others. Fortunately, a satisfactory
compromise was finally worked out, which took a lot of supervision effort from the
Bank.
48.  In the wake of many problems, a 1993 Bank midterm review mission
recommended the considerable refocusing of the project. Its recommendations led to
accelerating the pace of, and expanding the scope of the PLUS and the indigenous
peoples components, and to new activities aimed at social development, assisting small
farmers and poverty alleviation. These new directions largely governed the remainder of
project activity umtil its close. They prompted improvements in the Ayoreo tribe's
education, health and housing conditions, road upgrading in. smallholder areas, the
strengthening of municipalities' planning instruments, and microregional pre-investment
studies. But the parallel attempt to create new agriculture credit machinery foundered,
for the reasons mentioned above. From that point on, project implementation was much
improved and proceeded towards achieving its development objectives.



7
D. Project Sustainability
49.   The establishment of the Land Use Plan and its technical office, CIATs
achievements in the area of technology generation, the producer associations' extension
initiatives, the assumption of road maintenance by the municipalities, and the
demarcation of indigenous peoples' lands should ensure project sustainability. So do the
new Forestry and Environmental Protection laws' stipulations that risky areas which have
been deteriorating, especially national parks and biological reserves, must be shielded
from commercial development. In addition, the Bank funded National Land
Administration Project is moving to improve the legal and regulatory framework for land
use, restructure the public agencies responsible for enforcement and establish a legal
cadaster to secure property rights. Because of the Bank's presence, there has been a
discussion and an increased awareness of environmental and indigenous issues among the
official and the farming communities, as well as many other sectors of civil society in
Santa Cruz. Such an awareness will be important in guaranteeing support for these issues.
50.   Further, the devolution of responsibilities for natural resource protection to the
municipal level should increase local regard for suitable environmental safeguards.
However, the local Govermnents appear to be concentrating first more on social demands
and infrastructure problems. They also have limited administrative expertise, which the
IDA financed Rural Communities Development Project (Cr. 2772-BO) is trying to
bolster, as well as supplement through support of NGOs.
E. Bank Performance
51.   The Bank's performance in this project is rated as satisfactory. The Bank's
involvement increased the Government's awareness of environmental problems in
Bolivia and helped mobilize the resources for their solution. Several economic and sector
reports completed before the project, called attention to the high rate of natural resource
usage nationwide, and its direct bearing on economic stability and poverty. Later reports
stressed resource management issues and constraints, and included useful analyses of
these problems in the Lowlands. These reports and the accompanying dialogue, together
with this project, were very constructive in helping to advance policies and instruments
enhancing more sustainable development of the area.
52.   Similarly the Bank's presence helped civic society in Santa Cruz focus on the
issue of indigenous lands. Although this was a very conflictive issue, the Bank's
leadership helped to amalgamate the efforts of often opposing factions i.e. government,
indigenous organizations, NGOs, farmers associations and churches, together to solve the
problem of demarcation. This required much effort on the part of the Bank, and because
of this, these components were only finalized in the last years of the project.
53.   The Bank also led a dialogue on the future financing of agricultural research and
extension. As a result of this CIAT has produced a institutional development plan for the
next five years, and which has been discussed and agreed upon with the regional
authorities and the Camara Agricola del Oriente (CAO), the leading farmers organization
in Santa Cruz. This discussion and agreement should lead to greater stability in this
organization.



8
54.   The Bank can also be credited with helping to bring about advances in land
policies that promote more efficient resource usage, the prevention of further abuses of
the land distribution system. Intensive, constructive supervision led to the creation of the
land intervention institute (INRA) which developed the Agrarian Reform Law.
55.   Conversely, the failure to establish sufficiently firm and agreed machinery for
agriculture credit represented a less positive aspect of the Bank's performance. This was
especially disapointing since small producers in particular had long been unable to obtain
timely and reasonable credit. It was also clear during project preparation, that an IDB
loan with similar Lowlands goals was then troubled by difficulties with the Central Bank
over the arrangements and procedures for channeling such credit. Yet the very same
difficulties surfaced in this project.
E Borrower Performance
56.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The Govemnment participants
warrant commendation on several counts. The project unit, led by an able project
director performed well in reviving the indigenous peoples component and guiding its
improvements to greater success with effective participatory methods. It incidentally
received the able support of missionaries assisting the Indian groups.
57.   The project unit was also very effective in the identification and implementation
of road improvements in marginalized rural communities. Tnhis poverty focus has led to
the Project been seen in very favorable light in Santa Cruz.
58.   The Corporacion de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz (CORDECRUZ), the initial
implementing agency, always gave strong support to the technology generation and
extension aspects of the project and as a result, before its dissolution, it set up a trust fund
of US$10 million to support the activities of CIAT.
59.  In addition, both the Bank and the Government were party to the failure to reach
agreement on a formula to correct the errant farmer credit component. Moreover, the
Central Bank was not very agile towards helping make Credit 2119-BO monies
competitive in the market or in carrying out agreed studies.
G Assessment of Outcome
60.   The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, by having achieved its
development objectives of: (a) initiating the long-term, rational management of the
Eastern Lowlands natural resource base; (b) developing the technology to increase
agricultural productivity on a sustainable basis; (c) improving rural infrastructure in the
Eastern Lowlands; (d) improving the living conditions of the Ayoreo indigenous group
and helping to demarcate indigenous lands. Its accomplishments also helped improve
the balance of payments and trade accounts. This export expansion was badly needed
while Bolivia was trying to escape from its grave economic crisis.
61.   The project could be deemed a success as laying the foundation for the future
sustainable development of the agriculture sector in Santa C'ruz. Along with substantial



9
Bank sector work, and in collaboration with the effective KfW assistance, it was
instrumental in Bolivia's adoption of new concepts and strategies to improve the
management of its natural resources. This was no small contribution to a country with
considerable ecological fragility, sensitive connections between population and natural
resources, and conflict between renewable resource management and economic
development concerns. Moreover, the Lowlands had traditionally been erroneously
viewed as having virtually unlimited carrying capacity, and its environmental constraints
had not been fully recognized. Thus, the project with its Land Use Plan, new conservation
technologies, and indigenous lands demarcation, may yet be pivotal for Bolivia's long
term development.
62.   It is possible that this project was prepared too late in terms of the pace of
development in the Eastern Lowlands. The project was limited to a perceived first phase
for documenting land suitability and usage data combined with other actions to establish
prerequisites for full scale development. But the record shows that considerable
additional land clearing occurred during the project, than what was originally forecast.
Thus, the project could be criticized for being short-sighted as to the overall rate and
scale of development in the project area.
63.   However, the information base required for a more comprehensive check on
Lowlands exploitation did not exist before the project. The issues of land tenure and
indigenous groups' claims had not then been fully examined, and doing so would have
only caused further delay. Also, it was difficult to anticipate the extent of new
immigration to, and investment in Santa Cruz, and of the positive reactions to the GOB's
reforms.
H. Key Lessons Learned
64.   The main lessons were that:
(a) It is important for the Bank to bring issues of the environment, ethnicity or
gender to the development dialogue in countries where these issues are still
not on the agenda. In the case of the Eastern Lowlands Project, IDA's role in
introducing environmental and indigenous concerns into the development
dialogue in Santa Cruz was crucial. At the time of project preparation the
GOBs objective was to expand production for increased exports. In the
subsequent dialogue this objective was tempered by the identification of
environmental and indigenous concerns, which led to the development of the
Land Use Plan and the demarcation of the indigenous lands.
(b) It is important for the Bank to explore other channels in civil society to solve
developmental or social problems. This was important in the Indigenous
Component where IDA's persistence and patience in resolving the issues paid
off. This was an extremely conflictive issue, that required several years to
solve but which IDA considered to be very important. Working closely with
civil society i.e. beneficiaries, NGOs, churches etc., finally led to a solution
of the crisis. IDA insisting on a declared "bottom line" result helped in this
sense.



10
(c)   Mid-term reviews can be very useful when the problems are clearly identified
by both the Borrower and the Bank. In this case, the mid-term review was
very beneficial, as the problems were clearly identified and the scope of the
restructuring was judicious. This restructuring led to a refocussing on the
"public good" issues that needed to be financed to accompany the privately
financed development that was going on in the project area, i.e. improvement
of roads into small farmer areas, increased research and extension on
sustainable practices, and renewal of commitment to indigenous issues.
(d)  It is difficult to support a decentralized project, or a component of that
project, from a centralized agency. Putting a credit component through the
Central Bank didn't work for the small farmers as there wasn't enough
concern and information in such a central institution as to their needs, and
there was never sufficient agreement between the Central Bank of Bolivia
and IDA on the mechanisms which were needed to reach the small farmers.
There should have been a more aggressive dialogue between these two
entities, and this was symptomatic of having responsibility in La Paz for the
solution of problems in Santa Cruz. This split responsibility hindered the
development of the project to some extent.
(e)   This problem for decentralized projects, and which the Bank may encounter
more in the future as it gets involved in such projects was illustrated by the
fact that many basic policy issues, which needed to be discussed in the
context of the project, were neglected since the Project Implementation Unit
in Santa Cruz was distanced from the relevant Ministries in La Paz.
Therefore, timely resolution of some issues was neglected and often had to
be done by IDA supervision missions.
L. Future Operation
65.   The Government through the Prefectura of Santa Cruz has demonstrated its
commitment to extending the Land Use Plan (PLUS) and roads components of the
project in the future, using 1998 funds. The Prefectura of Santa Cruz is also supporting
CIAT and the Endowment Fund has been maintained for this purpose. The Land Use Plan
is being used at the municipal level in the design of municipal plans. This is being further
supported by the rural communities development projects. The titling of the indigenous
lands is in the hands of INRA.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives            Substantial       Partial       Negligible         Not
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ _   __ ___ ____ _   _ ____ ___ ___ A pp licab le
Macro Policies                                                                           X
Sector Policies                           X
Financial Objectives                                                                     X
Institutional Development                                 X
Physical Objectives                       X
Poverty Reduction                                         X
Gender Issues                                                            X
Other social Objectives                                                                  X
Environmental Objectives                  X
Public Sector Management                                                                 X
Private Sector Development                X
NGO Involvement                                           X
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely              Unilikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                          Highly             Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                                    X
Preparation Assistance                                                                 X
Appraisal                                                                              X
Supervision                                 X
D. Borrower Performance                      Highly             Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                                                            X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant Compliance                                               X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome                  Highly       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
x



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose      Year of           Status
approval
Preceding operations
Completed
CR. 0933                Altiplano rural       1979        Audit issued
Development                    December 1988
Following operations
Cr. 2216                Agricultural          1991          Active
Technology
Development
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ _ _   Project  _
Cr. 2322                Agricultural          1992       Closed on Dec
Export                            31, 1997
Development
Project
Cr. 2742                Land                  1995          Active
Administration
Project
Cr. 2772                Rural                 1996          Active
Communities
Development
._____ _____ _____ ___ _   Project



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project             Date Planned             Date Actual
Cycle
Identification                   April 1988             March 1988
Preparation                      July 1988                1988-89
Appraisal                        June 1989            June 12-26, 1989
Negotiations                    January 1990        January 22-25, 1990
Board Presentation             April 15, 1990         March 29, 1990
Signing                          July 1990             May 7, 1990
Effectiveness                  August 7, 1990         January 7, 1991
Midterm Review                        _               May 2-23, 1993
Loan Closing                   June 30, 1996         December 31, 1997



15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FYs            90    91    92    93    94    95   96    97    98
Appraisal    .5   3.0   4.6   4.9   5.6   5.3   6.3   4.8    0
Estimate
Actual         0    1.5   2.6   11.7  2.8   1.3   3.1   3.2   2.7
Actual as
%  of          0      .5   .6   2.4   .5   .2   .5   .7           -
Estimate                                       _
Date of Final Disbursement: January 6, 1998.
Original Amount:   35.0
Total Disbursed:    29.1
Total Cancelled:        5.1
Total Undisbursed: 3.2



16
TaLble 5: Key Project Indicators
National Level                          1990       1996/97
- gross agricultural    product (US$    636.5        1,002
millions)
- agricultural share of GDP             13.1%       13.3%
- agricultural exports ($m)             237.5       399.3
- agricultural share of total exports  25.2%        34.0%
Santa Cruz Department
- gross agricultural product value ($m)  350.4      684.9
- agricultural share of total exports  10.9%        20.5%
- summer soybean output (000 tons)       194         990
- winter soybean output (000 tons)       55          149
- sorghum output (000 tons)              36           72
- corn output (000 tons)                 57          356
- wheat output (000 tons)                49          168
- sunflower output (000 tons)            12          168
- rice output (000 tons)                 183         265
- cotton output (000 tons)               2            39
- soybean output ($m)                   43.2         193.6
- cotton output ($m)                     3 0         73.2
- sunflower output ($m)                  1.9         26.9
- corn output ($m)                       6.6         37.4
- wheat output ($m)                     10.1         28.1
- rice output ($m)                      33.2         63.6



17
Table 5: Key Project Indicators (continued)
- elaboration of land use plan                  Completed regional 1:250,000 scale map
for 65% of Santa Cruz and 20 city maps.
- aroecological zoning                          All Santa Cruz covered on 1:250,000 scale
- forest monitoring surveys                     2 of scheduled 3 surveys completed.
- soil mapping survey                           Completed
- forest reserves & natural parks
- parks consolidated and operating           All four planned
- reserve consolidated and operating         The one planned
- plans prepared for biological reserves     The two planned
- deforestation for farming in project area:
- 1990 forecast of future clearing: 17,000  24,413 Km2 cleared
Km2-
- proportion of total deforestation (forecast:    6.4%
4.6%)
- proportion of farmers practicing crop  rotation    83.5%
- roads improved and better maintained          410 Km
- increase in % of farmers letting soils rest fallow    20.3%
over 1991-97
- credit beneficiaries                          221
- project-financed volume of credit ($m)        12.1
- expansion of agricultural research infrastructure   Canada Larga center completed
- research training                             82 extension agents, 200 farmers
- extension activities of producer associations:
- ANAPO                                     20% of farmers practicing direct sowing;
l ___________________________________________   80%     using   certified   seed
- FEGASACRUZ                                65% of cattlemen practicing parturition;
reduction of periods in slaughterhouse to
34 months; average gain in cattle weight to
_  186 Kg
- FENCA                                      9% of rice growers using certified seed
- ADEPA                                      20% of farmers using certified seed; better
cotton fiber quality; returns increased to
10.61 qq/ha (compared to projected 9.93
qq/ha)
- ADEPLE                                     improved milk quality
- ASOPROF                                    New, more profitable kidney bean varieties
introduced
- ASHOFRUT                                   New, more profitable technological
packages introduced for pineapple,
tomatoes, strawberries
- indigenous groups component:
- land measured in four Ayoreo cornmunities    243,974 ha
- health and education facility improvements   investments in clinics and schools in nine
communities



18
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose                Status               Impact
Soil Capability        Establish the Suitability   Completed      Provided technical basis
Studies of Selected    of Available Land for                      for orienting crop
Areas                  Sustainable Agricultural                   production towards
Development                                most suitable areas and
vice versa
Forest cover Study    Establish the Status of   Completed
Forest Cover before the
initiation of investments
Region-wide survey   Examine extent of        Completed           Provided Forestry
of forest cover        forest coverage and                        industry with useful
clearance                                  guidance. A 1994 study
also showed increased
land clearance activity
Agroecological         To assess the potential   Completed        Provided a basis for
zoning and             and constraints of key                     more precise area
zoning and       sectors and resources,                      mapping. In 1994,
mapping of SC          and to demarcate                           1:1,000,000 scale maps
Department on a        protected areas                            were completed for
1:250,000 scale,                                                  Cotoca and San Jose.
and analytical and                                                Helped direct farmers to
field studies                                                     desirable cultivation
areas.
Demarcation of         To meet the            Completed           Provided the basis for
Lands in the           prerequisites for land                     more definitive
titling                                    assurances of land
Ayoreos and                                                       ownership rights, and
Chiquitano                                                        greater protection
communities                   _                                   against incursions.
Completion of          To upgrade capability    Dropped because of
CORDECRUZ's            of main project        changes in
organizational study  implementation          institutional
responsibilities
which amended
CORDECRUZ's
tasks
CIAT sudies on soil  To find ways of          Partly completed.
drainage,              increasing crop yields in
compaction and         areas of adequate soils
rehabilitation____                                                  _I



19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Surveys of health,    To determine their         Completed,               Identified areas for
sanitation,             status and the           substantially (by NGOs)  development
education and           requirements for                                  investments.
remedial measures
potable water
conditions in the
Ayoreos
communities
Study of future         To define measures for   Completed                Provided the material
CIAT strategy and    putting CIAT on a more                               CIAT is using for
its business plan       self-sustaining basis                             soliciting resources
after project completion                         from possible
financing sources.
Study on improving   To improve commercial  Completed                     A plan was developed
small farmers'          bank lending in ways                              based on the study
designed to overcome                             but the Government
access to               the obstacle for small                            and the Bank failed to
agricultural credit    farmers                                            agree on its
imnlementation. *
Study on regional       To enable rural          Completed                Municipalities S
and municipal           municipalities to                                 obtained plans and
develop natural                                  pre-investment
development             resources development                             studies seeking
plans and programs in                            financing of
needy sectors                                    development
requirements.
Study on advances    To help PLUS'               Completed                Identified priorities
of land clearing in    technical office monitor                           for local officials,
the project area and   land uses in high risk                             new forestry and
foe projest   area and   areas, and identify                              lands superintendents
forest reserves         priorities for more                               on work to be done.
extensive regulatory
activity within these
zones
Protected areas         To strengthen their      Completed                Identified wildlife
(national parks and    management, partly to                              areas and
help compensate for                              recommended
forest reserves)        further forest clearance                          protective measures
in Santa Cruz                                    for national parks
consistent with Land
Use Plan.
* In a parallel development, the 1995 Central Bank Law led to the creation of "La Nacional Financiera Boliviana, Sociedad An6nima Mixta"
which aimed to address agricultural credit supply problems.



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Lands of Indigenous  To delineate their areas,  Completed   Identified the areas
Peoples                  ascertain the groups'                  occupied, defined those
territorial and settlement             to be designated as
patterns, resource uses,               reserves or receive
etc. in order to define                other special legal
their component of                     status.
Land Use Plan
Forestry                 To define opportunities   Completed   Identified policy and
for expanding foreign                  institutional changes for
exchange earnings from                 transforming Santa
forestry, needed policy                Cruz's forestry industry
and institutional                      compatible with
reforms, technical                     sustainable
requirements for                       development.
environmentally sound
harvesting of forest
____________________   _   _products_
Livestock                To examine the           Completed   Provided
development potential                  recommendations
of Santa Cruz's                        especially for growth of
livestock industry, and                small scale cattle
explore ways of                        raising.
increasing production
without significant
i_______________________  deforestation            _
Water resources          To examine volume of    Completed   Identified capacity of
fresh water resources,                 established surface and
examine potential for                  subterranean water
irrigating existing                    resources to meet
farmland, and water                    industrial and other
quality problems                       domestic consumption,
irrigation and power
generation requirements
El Vallecito             To examine the           Completed    Provided the basis for
agricultural             development needs of                   the post-1994 project
research statioi         the Gabriel Rend                       investments in El
Moreno's agriculture                   Vallecito, which
experiment station (El                 included strengthening
Vallecito) in order to                 its biotechnology lab
expand the project's                   and irrigation network.
agricultural research
objectives for greater
attention to
'campesino" farmers'
needs.                                .



21
Table 7 : Status of Covenant Compliance
Description of Covenant                    Status*  Comments
Government to submit legislation requiring  CD      Ultimately fulfilled
market pricing of public lands (except for          by 1996 Agrarian
indigenous communities and small farmers) by        Reform Law.
December 31, 1990
Government to charge market prices for public   CD  The aforementioned
lands it sells or otherwise disposes of, beginning  law fixes a pricing
December 31, 1991                                   mechanism based on
supply and demand.
Government to establish an environmental   C        The international
committee to independently assess progress          committee provided
during the project in achieving the rational long-  timely, useful
term development of the lowlands, and to            criticism and
review the outcome of its reports with IDA          suggestions.
Government to prepare and adopt a Land Use    CD
Plan for the project area by December 31, 1991
Government to ensure that plans for the project   CP  Contributed to
area's development are prepared and                 creation of Santa
implemented in accordance with the Plan's           Cruz department
regulations                                         office to monitor
Plan compliance. In
1995 Santa Cruz put
into effect norms for
administering the
Plan.
Until an agreed Land Use Plan is adopted, no  C     Cerificates of soil
financial institution managed by the Central        suitability required
Bank would provide official agricultural credit     since fall of 1992
for land clearing in the Eastern Lowlands unless    but this had little
the prospective borrower presented an approved      effect due to small
on-farm soil study (and an approved farm plan       amount of such
for farms over 1 00ha.)                             credit. Other funds
remained available
I____  _____ _   for land clearing.



22
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
IDA credit would be limited to agricultural  C        Implemented but
development to areas determined to be suitable        had little impact
for cultivation, and where production has             due to small use of
traditionally taken place or expansion has started    IDA credit line.
and infrastructure is available
The Central Bank to constitute a "risk fund" by   NC  "Risk Fund"
June 30, 1990 with agreed terms and conditions        proposal was
absorbed into
broader
assessment and
realignment of
development
lending institutions
Government to complete soil studies for two  CP
selected areas and the first region-wide survey
of forest cover prior to disbursement of any Cr.
2119 funds for the agricultural credit component
Government to carry out area-wide and forest    CP    1994 survey
cover surveys in the project area by December         compared satellite
31, 1991 and December 31, 1994 respectively           images of forest
cover with
m ___________________________________   __      c    1992/93    im ages.
Govermnent to carry out partial forest cover  CP
surveys in the project area by December 31,
1992 and December 31, 1994
CORDECRUZ and Producer Associations to       C        In 1995 the SC
employ extension agents                               Department
replaced
CORDECRUZ.
The former's
Natural Resources
Department was
upgraded. Some
50 extension
agents were
employed.



23
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
CORDECRUZ to furnish annual operating plans C      The SC
for road improvement and maintenance for the       Departnent
following year by March 31 annually                replaced
CORDECRUZ
and met the
obligation.
Government to provide adequate counterpart    CP
financing for the project's annual budget .
promptly as needed, and cause CORDECRUZ,
CIAT and producer associations to provide their
contributions on schedule
CIDOB to carry out the indigenous peoples  CD      Revised to install a
component of the project                           different
organizational
arrangement.
* C=complied with; CD=complied with after delay; CP=complied with partially; NC=not complied with.



24
Table 8 (a): Project Costs (US$ millions)
Project Components    Appraisal Estimate  Actual Costs
Natural Resource Mngmt           6.0                6.0
Production Credit                31.0               12.8
Agric. Research                  2.6                3.0
Agric. Extension                 3.8                3.6
Rural Roads                      9.4                10.7
Indigenous Peoples               1.0                0.8
Agrarian Reform                   0                 1.7
Strengthening Municipalities      0                 1.0
Project Preparation              0.5                0.7
Administrative Support           0.3                2.2
TOTAL                            54.6               42.5



25
Table 8 (b): Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Project Components              SAR Estimates               Final Financing
IDA    Gov't   German   IDA   Gov't  German
Gov't                    Gov't
Natural Resource Mngmt                0.31      5.65            1.80     4.16
Production Credit           24.61     6.36             10.90   1.90
Agric. Research              1.91    0.73               1.74    1.30
Agric. Extension            2.96      0.87              1.60    2.00
Rural Roads                  3.77     5.65              6.58    4.10
Indigenous Peoples           0.97     0.05              0.75    0.08
Agrarian Reform              0.53     0.02              0.56    0.10
Strengthening Municipalities  0.26   0.01               1.17    1.00  _
Project Preparation           0        0                1.60    0.16
Administrative Support        0        0                0.95    0.05
TOTAL                       35.00    14.00     5.65    25.85   12.49     4.16
1      ~~54.64                     42.50O 



26
Table 9:  Economic Budget- Investment Costs
(in 1996 constant US$ millions)
Project Years
1      2       3      4      5      6       7      8    Tolals
Project Preparation    608        -       -     -          -      -       -     608
Project Research      -    385    750   453   370    616    538    213    3.324
Extension (UPRA)      -    220      140    76    80        -      -       -     516
Extension (CIAT)      -    379    212   278   292    423    287    186    2.058
Natural Resources     -   1.891   1.571  1.426  1.722   1.322  1.153    670    9.755
Roads                 -    241   1.401  1.130  1.120  2.501  2.833  1.380   10,606
Credit                -       -  8.665  4.315       -      -      -       -  12.980
Project Support       -     128      96    134   202    127   202    177    1.064
Strengthening         -       -       -      -      -      -    11    774       785
Governments        I_ 
Land Reform           -       -       -      -      -    283   291    228       802
Total Costs        608   3.244  12.834  7.812  3.786   5.272  5.316  3.628   42.498



27
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Negotiations
through Board
Fiscal Year  Preparatio   Appraisal  Approval            Supervision  Completion  Total
n
Staffweeks
1987         1.4                                                                     1.4
1988         43.2                                                                   43.2
1989        106.0       12.1                                                       118.1
1990                    18.1        6.5                   5.0                       29.6
1991                                                     22.6                       22.6
1992                                                     19.9                       19.9
1993                                                     46.5                       46.5
1994                                                     35.2                       35.2
1995                                                     30.8                       30.8
1996                                                     19.7                       19.7
1997                                                     11.7                       11.7
1998                                                      2.9                        2.9
TOTAL       150.6       30.2        6.5                  194.3                     381.6
Uss,ooo
1987          3.4                                                                   3.4
1988         24.8                   15.0                                            24.8
1989        154.6       24.9                                                       179.5
1990                    41.2                              11.3                      67.5
1991                                                      57.9                      57.9
1992                                                      60.7                      60.7
1993                                                     120.9                     120.9
1994                                                      93.4                      93.4
1995                                                      76.7                      76.7
1996                                                      63.8                      63.8
1997                                                      40.7                      40.7
1998                                15.0                  19.0                     19.0
TOTAL       182.8       6.1                              544.4                     808.3



28
Table 1: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Mionth/Year        No. of        Days in          Specialized Staff Skills   lmpl. Status      Dev          :ype or
Project Cycle                       Persons         Field               Represented                           Objectives   Pr-oblems
Through              Aug-87      _      I             21         export zone expert"                na             Na        na       -
Appraisal            Sep-87             2             21        sociologistlagronomist              na             na        na
Oct-87            1              14       Agric. Economist                     na            na        na
Mar-88            5              14        Economist/Agronomist/               na             na       na
Financial Analyst
Apr-88             1             14        Consultant                          na            na        na
Aug-88             7             21        Land Use and Remote                 na             na        na
Sensing Specialist/Agmol
AnthropologistNat Res/
Env/Financial Analyst/
Cartographer
Sep-88             1             6        Economist                            na             na       na
Nov-88             1              S        Consultant (NGO)                    na             na        na
Mar-89             S             14        Economist/Cartographer/Fin          na             na        na
Analyst/Agronomist
Appraisal            Jun-89             7             14        Economist/Fin Analyst/              na             na        na
through Board                                                   Env/Roads Spec
Approval             Sep-89             1              5        Economist                           na             na        na
Supervision          Dec-90             3              7        Economist, Anthropologist            2             2         Compliance
wl ]Legal
Covenants
Procurement
Progress
Financial
PeriForm ance
Apr-91             1              7        Financial Analyst                   2              2         Trainingt
Studies
Progress
May/              3             10        Economist Anthropologist             I              I        Studies
Jun-91                                    Agricultural                                                 Progress
Mar-92             1              5        Agriculturist                        I             I
Jul-92            1              5        Anthropologist                       al
b/                   Oct-92             I              5        Environmental Specialist            a/
May 93             7             11        Environmental Specialist            3              3         Environmental
Financial Specialist, Research                              Aspects
Agriculture Specialist, Portfolio
Manager
March 94            1             7         Natural Resource Spec.              a/
Oct-94            3              10       Natural Resource Spec
Agriculturist, Oper Asst
Jul-95            1             11        Agriculturist                        S              S
a/ No Fonn 590 update.
b/ Mid-term review.



29
Table 12: Status for Credit 2119-BO
As of 14-APR-1998
D iso 1a y Anmtrs  n X> R
Disb Officer: NGUYEN, THAO LE          Task Manager: OICMAHON, MATTIEW A.
Disb .nalvst: 1RINCKIHAUS,                    Managing LCSES
CARMEN                          Division:
Sector: Environmene                  Loan Tvpe: Stndard IDA
|Currenc: R                            Restrictions: Disbursements Allowed
Amounts in USD                                      Date
Original Principal   35,000,000.00                   Approval 29-MALR-1990
Disbursed   29.108.020.39                       Signing 07-.AG Y-1990
% Disbursed           77.84                      Effective 0 7-JA.N- I 991
Cancelled    5.101.600.00                       Closing 31-DEC-1997
I;ndisbursed    3.174,138.96     Latest DisblRefund/Recov 06-JAN- 1998
Committed             0.00              Last Cancellation 16-AUG- 1996
Free    3,174,138.96
Pipeline Application          0.00



PART III: APPENDICES



Appendix A
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario "Tierras Bajas del Este"
Financiado por: BMAiDA, KFW, GOSIERNO
Direcci6n: Av. Omar Ch4vez Ortfz esq. cl Pozo
Casilla Ng 3512 * Telfs.: 33-9973 - 33-8952 * Fax (591) 3-33-3365
Santa Cruz de la Sierra- Bolivia
AYUDA MEMORIA
MISION DE SUPERVISION AL PROYECTO TIERRAS BAJAS DEL ESTE
(CREDITO 2119-BO)
Realizada del 19 al 24 de Enero de 1998
Introducci6n
1. En el presente documento se resumen las observaciones y comentarios de la
Misi6n del Banco Mundial/ Asociaci6n Internacional para el Desarrollo
(BM/IDA), que visit6 Santa Cruz del 19 al 24 de enero de 1998. La Misi6n
estuvo dirigida por el Sr. Matthew McMahon, Supervisor del Proyecto y el Sr.
Herman Nissenbaum, Consultor del BM/IDA. Este documento contiene los
acuerdos e inforrnes recibidos por la Misi6n y las entidades ejecutoras del
Proyecto por las acciones desarrolladas durante la ejecuci6n del mismo, el
cual ha cerrado sus actividades el 31-12-97.
1.1 La Misi6n ha sostenido reuniones de informaci6n con diferentes entidades
regionales y nacionales vinculadas a la ejecuci6n del Proyecto (Prefecto
del Departamento de Santa Cruz y su equipo de colaboradores, Camara
Agropecuaria del Oriente y los Subsectores Agropecuarios, Centro de
Investigaci6n Agricola Tropical - CIAT, OT-PLUS, Componente Vial,
CIDOB, asi como con el Ing. Carlos Roca (Secretario de la CIMA,
Comisi6n Internacional del Medio Ambiente).
1.2 Asimismo, la Misi6n en compafnia del Director de la U.P. sobrevol6 el
area de expansi6n del Proyecto y la zona del norte integrado del
Departamento de Santa Cruz para verificar y supervisar el avance fisico y
el impacto general despues de la ejecuci6n del Proyecto.
Analisis de eiecuci6n de acciones acordadas durante la ulfima Misi6n de
Supervisi6n
2. Durante la Misi6n anterior, fueron acordadas acciones cuya ejecuci6n fue la
siguiente:
2.1 La U.P. notific6 y consigui6 que la Prefectura del Departamento, realice el
desembolso de los recursos de contraparte para la implementaci6n de las
oficinas de la OT-PLUS . (ver anexo 1).



Appendix A                       32                               Page 2
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario "Tierras Bajas del Este"
Financiado por: BM/IDA, KFW, GOBIERNO
Direcci6n: Av. Omar Ch;Ivez Ortiz esq. c/ Pozo
Casilla N2 3512 - Tells.: 33-9973 - 33-8952 * Fax (591) 3-33-3365
Santa Cruz de la Sierra- Bolivia
2.2 La U.P. envi6 al Banco Mundial/IDA, un Plan de acciones sobre como los
municipios que fueron beneficiados con estudios de pre-inversi6n pueden
utilizar estos estudios, para apoyar el Fortalecimiento Regional y
Municipal. (ver anexo 2).
2.3 La U.P. gestion6 ante Is Prefectura y reiter6 la necesidad de realizar una
auditoria tecnica complementaria con respecto a los gastos efectuados
por el Componente Indigena durante los afos 1992 y 1993. (anexo 3).
2.4 Se ha firmado un Convenio interinstitucional con la Prefectura del
Departamento, en el cual la Prefectura se compromete asignar el monto
de $us. 177.349.- con el prop6sito de que la Unidad de Proyecto contirnie
funcionando hasta la conclusi6n total de sus actividades administrativas y
de evaluaci6n por parte del Banco Mundial/IDA. (ver anexo 4).
2.5 La U.P. contrat6 los servicios de la firma auditora Berthin Amengual y
Asociados, a objeto de que se inicie el trabajo de auditoria externa
correspondiente a los estados financieros correspondientes a la gesti6n
1997. (se envi6 contrato).
2.6 Entre el 28 al 30 de octubre de 1997, la U.P. Ilev6 adelante un Seminario -
Taller sobre los "Impacto Econ6mico de los Componentes de
Investigacid6n y Extensi6n en la Producci6n Agricola' el cual tuvo corno
expositor al Dr. Guillermo Donoso de la Universidad Cat6lica de Chile,
conjuntamente con reconocidos catedraticos de la Universidad Privada de
Santa Cruz de la Sierra.
AVANCE EN LA EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
AnMlisis General
3.1 En fecha 09 de junio de 1997, el Banco Mundial/IDA comunic6 la ampliaci6n
de fecha de cierre del Proyecto la cual ha sido lijada hasta el 31 de Diciembre
de 1997. El monto actual del Credito luego de la Octava enmienda al
Convenio, es de SDR. 23.0 millones.
At           3.2 La ejecuci6n financiera del Proyecto al 31 de diciembre de 1997, se estima en
US$.42.7 millones, lo que equivale a un 78.g % del costo original estimado del
Proyecto (US$. 54.6). Al 31 de diciembre de 1997, la ejecuci6n del Proyecto
fue de el 76 %



Appendix A                       33
Page 3
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario "Tierras Bajas del Este"
Financiado por: BMIIDA, KFW, GOBIERNO
Direcci6n: Av. Omar Chavez Ortfz esq. c/ Pozo
&v<; *IAJASiiO0 /         Casilla N2 3512 * Telfs.: 33-9973 - 33-E952 * Fax (591) 3-33-336S5
Santa Cruz de la Sierra - Bolivia
3.3 Los desembolsos del Credito 2119-BO al 31 de diciembre de 1997,
alcanzaron a SDR 20.6 lo que equivale a un 77.73 % del monto original del
Credito (SDR 26.5 millones). Al 31 de diciembre de 1997, la ejecuci6n fue del
78%.   Excluyendo al Componente  de  Credito que estaba  bajo  la
responsabilidad del Banco Central de Bolivia, la ejecuci6n de los
componentes del Proyecto a cargo de la U.P., seria del orden de 95 %.
RECONOCIMIENTO DE GASTOS EFECTUADOS HASTA ANTES DE LA
FECHA DE CIERRE DE DESEMBOLSOS
3.4 Como consecuencia de la falta de fondos en la cuenta especial al 31-12-97, la
Prefectura del Departamento, deveng6 los montos que se detallan (ver anexo
5) para el pago por el avance fisico efectivo que realizaron las empresas que
construyen los accesos "C" del Componente Vial, por un total de Sus.
609.131.30. Se acord6 que el Banco analizarc la posibilidad de reembolsar el
60 % equivalentes a $us. 365.478.76, cuando el Proyecto provea una
contabilidad satisfactoria de los montos que quedan por desembolsar.
ACTIVIDADES PARA LA CONTINUACION DEL PROYECTO
lnvestigaci6n - Extensi6n
4. El CIAT, debe continuar con sus esfuerzos de conseguir la implementaci6n de
del Plan de Negocios que fue desarrollado con financiamiento del Proyecto.
Entre las actividades que tienen planificadas se encuentra contemplada la
realizaci6n de un Seminario con los sectores publicos y privados para discutir
este Plan de Negocios y su financiamiento. En otro orden de cosas el CIAT,
esta trabajando con programas de capacitaci6n de recursos humanos,
sostenibilidad financiera y fortalecimiento gerencial.
Fortalecimiento Recional v MuniciDal
5. La Direcci6n de Fortalecimiento Municipal de la Prefectura, ha disefiado y
estructurado un programa dirigido a promover el fortalecimiento uniforme de
ZC   los 43 municipios rurales del Departamento de Santa Cruz. De la misma forma,
esta preparando una metodologia de transferencia y capacitaci6n de



Appendix A                         34                               Page 4
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario "Tierras Bajas del Este"
4.S, *  -X. -N,@                     Financiado por: BM/IDA. KFW, GOBIERNO
Direccidn: Av. Omar ChAvez Ortfz esq. el Pozo
Casila N2 3512 * Tells.: 33-9973 - 33-8952 * Fax (591) 3-33-3365
Santa Cruz de la Sierra - Bolivia
los recursos humanos de las diferentes municipalidades y proponiendo un
modelo  de  coordinaci6n  interinstitucional  entre  el poder  ejecutivo
departamental y otras instituciones publicas y privadas para lograr un mayor
apoyo a los municipios.
Componente Indiaena
6. Habiendo el Proyecto cumptido con todos los requisitos necesarios de
delimitaron y demarcaci6n fisica de las tierras destinadas a las etnias
Ayoreas, por un total de 243,974 Has. y luego de haber presentado al INFA
las carpetas correspondientes para iniciar el trdmite de titulaci6n.
Actualmente, mediante la Resoluci6n de Inmovilizaci6n No. RAI-TCO-0010 el
INRA ha establecido la inmovilizaci6n de las tierras solicitadas, hasta lograr
su titulaci6n. En consecuencia, es responsabilidad de la Prefectura del
Departamento y del INRA, seguir las gestiones que correspondan para lograr
la titulaci6n definitiva de estas tierras, las mismas que seran concedidas a Ila
comunidades ayoreas.
Comwonente Vial
7. La Misi6n ha sido informada que la construcci6n de los seis tramos camineros
en ejecuci6n, tienen un avance del 90%, por lo que la Prefectura del
Departamento debe asumir los costo de financiamiento que demanden su
conclusi6n.
Recursos Naturales OT-PLUS
8. La Misi6n ha sido informada que la implementaci6n de las oficinas de la OT-
PLUS con financiamiento del Proyecto, ha sido cumplida de acuerdo a Jo
programado.
La OT-PLUS como responsable del cumplimiento, control y seguimiento del
Plan de Uso de Suelo  ha preparado y esta Ilevando adelante un plan de
trabajo de divulgaci6n e informaci6n sobre las re( las de intervenci6n y de uso
de suelos en sus diferentes categorias, con el prop6sito de que en  las
A.t              Provincias del Departamento se puedan cumplir con las medidas   de
conservaci6n y aprovechamiento del suelo, necesarias para evitar el deterioro
de su capacidad productiva.
k~ O



Appendcx A                       35                               Page 5
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario "Tierras Bajas del Este"
Financiado por: BMIIDA, KFW, GOBIERNO
Direcci6n: Av. Omar Chhvez Ortiz esq. cl Pozo
Casilla Ng 3512 * Tells.: 33-9973 - 33-8952 * Fax (591) 3-33-3365
Santa Cruz de la Sierra - Bolivia
INFORME DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO
9. Durante el curso de la Misi6n el Banco y la Unidad de Proyecto, analizaron e
intercambiaron opiniones sobre los estudios de evaluaci6n preparados por los
consultores. Los estudios analizados fueron los siguientes:
* Impacto Econ6mico de lnvestigaci6n y Extensi6n, realizado por el Dr.
Guillermo Donoso.
* Impacto de la lnvestigaci6n y Extensi6n realizada por CIAT, con el
financiamiento del Proyecto Tierras Bajas del Este.
* Informe Final del Proyecto Tierras Bajas del Este, realizado por el
consultor Juan Morelli.
* Informe de la Comisi6n Internacional del Medio Ambiente (CIMA) sobre el
impacto ambiental del Proyecto.
. Plan de Ejecuci6n de los Estudios de Fortalecimiento Regional y
Municipal.
* Impacto Econ6mico de los Caminos Construidos con financiamiento del
Cr6dito 211 9-BO.
* Estudio de Monitoreo de Recursos Naturales.
La Misi6n del Banco y la Unidad de Proyecto, acordaron que estos reportes
presentan informaci6n y analisis objetivos que pueden ser utilizados en la
elaboraci6n del Reporte Final.
Ademas, la Misi6n del Banco y la Unidad de Proyecto, revisaron y discutieron
los logros del Proyecto y sus consecuencias. De la misma manera,
consensuaron   que aunque  no todos los objetivos originales fueron
alcanzados, el Proyecto si logr6 una parte significativa de estos. Tambien se
lograron la mayoria de los objetivos que fueron acordados durante la revisi6n
de Medio Termino. La Misi6n, tambien tuvo la oportunidad de entrevistarse
con varias personas vinculadas al sector agropecuario, las mismas que
emitieron opiniones favorables respecto al impacto del proyecto.
kk)\, 



Appendix A                        36                              Page 6
Proyecto de Desarrollo Agropecuario "Tierras Bajas del Este"
Financiado por: 8MIDA, KFW, GOBIERNO
Direcci6n: Av. Omar ChAvez Ortfz esq. cl Pozo
Casilla Ng 3512 * Telfs.: 33-9973 - 33-8952 * Fax (591) 3-33-3365
Santa Cruz de la Sierra - Bolivia
A su vez el Prefecto del Departamento, asi como la Unidad de Proyecto,
indicaron su satisfacci6n con lo que se ha logrado y dieron a conocer a la
Misi6n, que estos logros sirven para futuros avances en el desarrollo racional
y sostenible de las tierras bajas del este. De igual forma indicaron que la
Prefectura del Departamento, tiene presupuestado la continuidad de, las
actividades del Proyecto. Tambien dieron a conocer sus intenciones a la
Misi6n del Banco, de preparar un nuevo Proyecto para su financiamiento.
La Unidad de Proyecto, ayud6 a la Misi6n del Banco en la preparaci6n de la
informaci6n basica para el Reporte Final. Se acord6 que la Unidad ilba a-
mandar al Banco antes de marzo 30 de 1998, su contribuci6n al reporte -
Matthew McMahon                      Zvonko  tko ic Fleig
COORDINADOR BANCO MUNDIAL                PRETD    ARTAMENTO
Ky  4gmelfinge                       6wis Ernesto Hurtado Paz
DITOR DE    ROLLO                      DIRECTOR EJECUTIVO
STENIBLE Y MEDIO
//AMBIENTE



Appendix B
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
DEL
PROYECTO TIERRAS BAJAS DEL ESTE
1.    INTRODUCCION
El Proyecto Tierras Bajas del Este (PTBE) fue disenado para asistir al desarrollo
regional, procurando su sostenibilidad en el largo plazo y la preservaci6n de los recursos
naturales. Los componentes incluidos fueron: (i) Planificaci6n y manejo de los recursos
naturales, (ii) Credito para producci6n y comercializaci6n agricola, (iii) Investigaci6n, (iv)
Extensi6n agricola, (v) Mejoramiento y mantenimiento de caminos, (vi) Protecci6n y
desarrollo de pueblos indigenas, y (vii) Soporte administrativo. Se asistiria tambien, en la
introducci6n de un sistema de fijaci6n de precios de las tierras fiscaies basado en el
mercado. El proyecto asistiria a la expansi6n sostenible de exportaciones de 200.000 ton
de soya, sustituci6n de importaciones de unas 30.000 ton de trigo y soporte tecnico para
la expansion de otros cultivos. Otros beneficios esperados eran la preparacion del plan de
uso de suelos, incluyendo zonificaci6n agroecol6gica, mapeo y estudios de suelos e
identificacion de areas de reservas y parques naturales para preservaci6n de la flora y
fauna. Asimismo, se apoyaria la introducci6n de nuevas tecnologias para agricultores de
subsistencia y comerciales; se protegeria el ambiente cultural de los indigenas "ayoreos",
mejorando sus niveles de vida; y se demarcaria sus tierras tribales y las de los
"chiquitanos".
Mediante Ley No. 1170 del 04-07-90, fue aprobado el convenio de credito
destinado a financiar el Proyecto Lowlands, ( Tierras bajas del Este).
El 21-08090 el MACA emite la Resoluci6n Ministerial 06-90 creando la C.E.R.
Comisi6n Ejecutiva Regional del Proyecto Tierras Bajas del Este, la misma que delega
sus funciones a la Unidad del Proyecto establecida como una Unidad de Coordinaci6n y
Monitoreo con responsabilidades y atribuciones acordes a tal fin.
Durante el periodo de implementaci6n del proyecto (1990-97) el Departamento de
Santa Cruz  demostro ser una de las regiones mas dinamicas de la Amazonia,
confirmando su preponderante rol como motor de la economia nacional. La frontera
agricola productiva ha cuadruplicado las tierras en producci6n;
En este proceso, el proyecto Tierras Bajas del Este tuvo un rol preponderante para
encauzar el desarrollo sobre bases sostenibles.
Los objetivos del proyecto fueron:



38
Appendix B                                                              Page 2
i) Encauzar el desarrollo de largo plazo sobre bases racionales mediante la
preparaci6n e implementaci6n de un plan de uso de los recursos de la regicn,
procurando mecanismos para dirigir y monitorear la expansi6n de la producci6Sn
agricola ya iniciada espontaneamente,
ii) Aumerntar la producci6n de productos rentables para fortalecer la ba!anza
comercial del pais aumentando exportaciones y sustituyendo importaciones.
iii) Desarrollo tecnol6gico y de mecanismos crediticios para incrementar la
productividad agricola comercial y el nivel de ingresos de agricultores de
subsistencia, mediante investigaci6n, extensi6n y facilitar el acceso al credito,
iv) Mejoramiento de la infraestructura vial y de almacenamiento de cranos,
v) Introducci6n de politicas de fijaci6n de precios de tierras fiscales en base al
mercado para su uso mas eficiente y para reducir el acaparamiento especulativo, y
vi) Apoyar a los grupos indigenas "ayoreos" y chicluitanos en sus esfuerzos pa-a
demarcar sus tierras tribales y mejorar sus condiciones de vida.
El proyecto estuvo en general bien disenado para encauzar un procEso cle
desarrollo muy dinamico, impulsado por un sector privado pujante. pero que se perfilaba
en forma desordenada. Sus diversos componentes procuraban fortalecer los servicios cle
apoyo indispensables para aumentar la producci6n y productividad, pero dando n,fasis a
la planificaci6n, orientaci6n y control del uso de los recursos naturaies.
Durante el periodo de implementaci6n del proyecto (1990-97), el Departamento de
SC demostr6 ser una de las regiones mas dinamicas de la Amazonia, confirmando su
preponderante rol como motor de la economia nacional. El PBI departamental creci6 entre
1989 y 1996 a una tasa de 7.8% a.a., frente a un crecimiento del PBI del resto del pais de
3% a.a.. La participacion del producto agropecuario en el PSI departamental se estima
que pas6 del 18% al 30% en el periodo. El notable crecimiento del producto sectorial
cruceno viene teniendo tambi6n un impacto substancial en el balance comercial del pais.
Entre 1988 y 1996 las exportaciones nacionales crecieron de US$600 a USS1.187
millones (98%), mientras que las exportaciones de origen agropecuario del DSC pasaron
de USS2 a US$185 millones (656%). Los sectores agropecuario y agroindustrial dErl
Departamento de Santa Cruz son responsables del 15.6% de las exportaciones totales,
cuando en 1988 aportaban el 4.1%. Adicionalmente, ia producci6n agropecuaria
substitutiva de exportaciones fue tambien notable, como lo ilustra e! valor de producci6n
de trigo que pas6 de USS2 millones a US$15 millones (650% de incremento).
La causa principal de este crecimiento sectorial, tal como se preveia, se bas6
fundamentalmente en la ampliacion de la frontera agricola. Entre 1989 y 1996 el area baja
cultivos agricolas pas6 de unas 500.000 ha a rnas de 1.300.000 ha, incrementandose en
un 16.5% anual hasta 1994 y un 6% en 1995 y 1996. La superficie cultivada de soja crecic
a una tasa sostenida del 20% anual superando actualmente las 500.000 ha.
LOGROS ALCANZADOS
El proyecto alcanz6 buena parte de los objetivos buscados, superando en algunos
casos las metas esperadas, al haberse: (i) completado la planificacion y elaboraci6n del
Plan de Uso del Suelo (PLUS) del Departamento, constituyendo una herramienta valiosa[
para encauzar el desarrollo regional, (ii) apoyado el desarrollo de la producci6n agricola
cuyo crecimiento super6 en mas de seis veces las metas del proyecto tanto en relaci6n a
la producci6n y exportaciones de soya, como a la sustituci6n de importaciones de trigo,
mejorando substancialmente la posicion de la Balanza Comercial del pais; (iii) contribuidc



39
Appendix B                                                              Page 3
a desarrollar nuevos mecanismos de generaci6n y transferencia de tecnologias para
sustentar el desarrollo sectorial; (iv) mejorado substancialmente la infraestructura de
caminos para la interconexi6n y transporte de insumos, productos y servicios en zonas de
mayor potencial productivo; (v) apoyado a los indigenas chiquitanos y a los grupos de
"ayoreos" en sus esfuerzos para demarcar sus tierras comunitarias y en el caso de los
ayoreos, mejorar sus condiciones de vida; (vi) contribuido a crear el marco juridico-
institucional y la normativa indispensable a nivel nacional, para lograr un uso eficiente y
sostenible de los recursos naturales, frenar la especulaci6n y controlar la explotaci6n y
sostenibilidad de los recursos.
El componente de recursos naturales alcanz6 la mayor parte de sus objetivos,
aunque requiriendo mas tiempo del previsto originalmente. El PLUS, que es el
instrumento tenico-normativo del ordenamiento territorial que delimita espacios
geograficos y asigna usos al suelo para optimar el beneficio que este proporciona,
manteniendo el uso y manejo sostenible de sus recursos naturales renovables, fue
elaborado y puesto en vigencia mediante decreto supremo en setiembre de 1995. En su
gestaci6n, hubo una amplia participaci6n de las fuerzas vivas del Departamento a traves
de una comisi6n sectorial, lo cual facilit6 el proceso de apropiaci6n del instrumento para
su efectiva viabilizaci6n. Se elaboraron ademas, PLUS Municipales con sus mapas
tematicos, siendo presentados en todos los casos a autoridades y fuerzas vivas
municipales, al igual que en zonas de conflicto para evitar que se continue afectando los
recursos naturaies.
La Oficina Tecnica (OT-PLUS), actualmente dependencia de ia Direcci6n de
Desarrollo Social de la Prefectura del Departamento, viene profundizando el Plan en las
.reas de mayor presi6n, monitoreando el uso del suelo, [as areas de reserva y los
incendios forestales a pesar de fuertes limitaciones oresupuestales. Se viene
monitoreando el respeto al PLUS con el apoyo de la exigencia legal de la ficha ambiental,
que ante situaciones de hecho, concede plazos de hasta 5 anros para la adecuaci6n a las
normas establecidas. El Plan es ademas, un instrumento de consulta para los agricultores
que siguen ampliando la frontera agricola. Asimismo, se han delimitado 500.000 ha de
tierras indigenas, aunque sin llegar a solucionar su tenencia legal, actualmente en manos
del INRA.
El componente vial fue ejecutado en forma satisfactoria, e introduciendosele
algunas modificaciones para adecuarlo mejor a sus objetivos, ha generado un tremendo
impacto econ6mico para la regi6n, mejorando caminos existentes en lugar de realizar
nuevas aperturas: y ampliando hacia el Este los accesos, al demostrar el PLUS que el
area tiene una excelente aptitud de uso agricola en esa sub-regi6n, mayor a la estimada
originalmente (1 mill6n de ha en lugar de 500.000 ha); el mejoramiento de accesos a
areas de pequenos agricultores, etc.. Con las enmiendas aprobadas, se reasignaron
fondos inmovilizados de la categoria de credito para ampliar estas obras, en especial en
el area integrada para favorecer a bolsones de pequenos agricultores, con lo que al
culminar las obras, se habra construido unos 470 Km de caminos vecinales.
Este Componente resulto ser el mayor impulsor del desarrollo Nacional, por cuanto
la habilitaci6n, mantenimiento  y/o  construcci6n  de tramos viales que se  han
interconectado a las troncales; han facilitado el transito constante de y hasta las zonas
potenciales y de producci6n, estimulando de manera determinante la expansi6n de ia
frontera agricola, con un notable incremento de la superficie dedicada a cultivos



40
Appendix B                                                             Page 4
industriales como la soya, el algod6n y el girasol principalmente, que han generado un
impacto econ6mico trascendental.
Las actividades del componente indigena han estado dirigidas fundamentalmente
a las comunidades ayoreas, dejando en manos del componente de recursos naturales la
delimitaci6n de las tierras de indigenas chiquitanos. Las acciones desarrolladas
incluyeron:  (i) En el area de la salud: educaci6n en medicina preventiva, dotaci6n de
medicamentos, campahas de vacunaci6n, construcci6n de postas sanitarias, su
equipamiento, construcci6n de letrinas, perforaci6n de pozos para agua potable, etc.; (ii)
En el area de educaci6n: refacci6n y construcci6n de escuelas. capacitaci6n de maestros,
dotaci6n de pupitres y materiales de ensenanza; y (iii) como otras actividades: dotaci6n de
calaminas y clavos para viviendas, mejoramiento de accesos camineros en dos
comunidades, construcci6n de un puente, dotaci6n e instalaci6n de equipos de
comunicaci6n, capacitaci6n agro productiva, etc.. Asimismo, se encar6 la delimitaci6n y
demarcaci6n fisica de sus tierras (242.000 ha y unos 480 km. de perimetro trabajado). De
las once comunidades cuyas tierras se delimitarian, solamente se complet6 la
demarcaci6n de seis.
Ante la necesidad de crear un mecanismo de fijaci6n de precios de las tierras
fiscales a objeto de promover un uso mas eficiente y reducir su acaparamiento
especulativo, el proyecto incorpor6 mediante la enmienda correspondiente, el
componente de Intervenci6n de Reforma Agraria para la realizaci6n de estudios
conducentes al ordenamiento de la tenencia y dotaci6n de tierras. Este proceso culmin6 a
fines de 1996 con la promulgaci6n de la Ley INRA, la que entre otras cosas determina la
fijaci6n de precios de la tierra en base a mecanismos de oferta y demanda, de los que
queda excluido el pequeno campesino, al que se le puede dotar 50 ha en forma gratuita.
El proyecto tambien desarroll6 otras actividades de importancia para el
cumplimiento de sus objetivos, que incluyeron: (i) La planificaci6n microregional para
los municipios de Warnes y Pail6n, (ii) Estudios de Fortalecimiento Municipal para la
administraci6n racional de los recursos municipales, funci6n delegada por las Leyes de
Participacion Popular, INRA y Forestal, (iii) Diseino final de ingenieria de caminos
vecinales destinados a favorecer a pequenlos agricultores de siete provincias, totalizando
mas de 480 km. (iv) Proyecto piloto de desarrollo rural de comunidades indigenas
para las microregiones de San Jose de Chiquitos y Robore.
La lnvestigaci6n Agricola realizada por el Componente Investigaci6n ha jugado
un papel importante para la regi6n, observandose que la difusi6n de tecnologia validada
por el CIAT y asimilada por los Productores a traves de la Transferencia Tecnol6gica ha
comenzado a dar frutos en la Productividad Agropecuaria de la Regi6n.
Para la ejecuci6n de este Componente quecl6 como responsable el Centro de
Investigaci6n Agricola Tropical (CIAT), Instituci6n que fue reestructurada como
consecuencia de su fusi6n con ia Unidad de Programas Rurales y Agropecuarios de
CORDECRUZ (UPRA), y consolid6 el apoyo financiero de CORDECRUZ de 300.000
$us./ano, mas los rendimientos de un Fondo de Fideicomiso de 10.000.000 $us., que
generaria aproximadamente 900.000 $us./aflo a los que se sumaron los recursos
provenientes del Proyecto "Tierras Bajas del Este" para una ejecucion mas
dinamicamente de los programas de este Componente.



41
Appendix B                                                             Page 5
Un sub-programa de este Componente estuvo a cargo del Instituto de
Investigaciones Agricolas 'El Vallecito", dependiente de la Universidad Aut6noma Gabriel
Rene Moreno.
El Objetivo Primordial de este componente fue procurar que los Productores
Agropecuarios del Departamento dispongan de tecnologia para aumentar la producci6n
y productividad
El objetivo especifico de los Organismos Ejecutores era que los investigadores-y
transferencistas del CIAT y del Instituto de Investigaciones Agricolas 'El Vallecito"
transfieran de manera coordinada paquetes de tecnologias adecuadas a productores,
recibiendo retroinformaci6n para futuras investigaciones y mejoramiento de equipos en las
siguientes areas:



IBRD 21886
451                           To San Raion,     I
Ls Toncos
BOL1VIA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AND
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENTS:                                                A
RECONSTRUCTION
REHABILITATION
MAINTENANCE
RAILWAYS
EXISTING PAVED ROAD
EXISTING UNPAVED ROADS
,i/
*  t  !5            10 KILOMETERS
e                            / /
Q f | e -?, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA;ZIL
-'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
To San Jose
4sh  Pailon                                     30'
October 1989



