Page  1
July 8, 1991
Senor Lic. Enrique Garcia Rodriguez
Ministro de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Senor Lic. Raul Boada Rodriguez
Presidente
Banco Central
Casilla 3118
La Paz
Bolivia
Re: Credit No. 2119-BO
(Eastern Lowlands: Natural Resource
Management and Agricultural Production Project)
Amendment
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement, dated May 7, 1990, between 
Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and International Development Association (the 
Association) and the Project Agreement between the Association and Banco Central de 
Bolivia (the Central Bank), dated May 7, 1990, as amended, for the above-referenced 
Project.
Terms defined in Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement when used 
herein shall have the same meaning set forth in such Section.
I would like to inform you that the Association agrees to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement for purposes of changing the interest rates 
applicable to Sub-loans and to Central Bank Loans, and to postpone the deadline for 
creation of a fund to guarantee the repayment of Subloans. Therefore, the following 
amendments are proposed:
I.
In the Development Credit Agreement
(a)
Section 1.02 is amended by deleting paragraph (dd) therefrom and 
inserting the following new paragraphs (dd), (ee) and (ff) thereto To 
read as 
follows:
"(dd) 'Regulation' means the Central Bank's Reglamento par Subasta de 
Creditos Destinados al Desarrollo (Regulation for Development Credit 
Auction), 
issued in November 1990;
(ee) 'Development Credit Auction' means any of the auctions carried out 
by the Central Bank among financial institutions in Bolivia for purposes of 
allocating funds obtained from international or foreign lending entities 
and 
determining the interest rate applicable to the loans made by the Central 
Bank 
to such financial institutions with such funds, including the Central Bank 
Loans; and
(ff) 'Certificate of Deposit Rate' means the weighted average of the 
nominal interest rates paid by the Central Bank and the other financial 
institutions in Bolivia on certificates of deposit issued by the Central 
Bank 
and such other institutions during the period of four weeks prior to the date 
on which the Central Bank Loan is made, as such rates are published by the 
Central Bank in daily newspapers in Bolivia."
(b)
Section 6,01 is amended by inserting the following new paragraph 
Q) thereto to read as follows:
"(J) the nominal interest rates on the certificates of deposit referred 
to in Section 1.02 (ff) of this Agreement (other than those issued by the 
Central Bank) shall have ceased, in the opinion of the Association, to be 
freely determined by the financial institutions issuing such certificates 
of deposit."
Page  2
(c)
Section 6.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
"(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) or (f) or (g) or Q) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and".
II.
In the Project Agreement
(a)
Section 2.08 is amended by replacing, in the second line thereof, 
the date "March 31, 1991" by "March 31, 1992".
(b)
Article II is amended by inserting the following new Section 2.10 
thereto to read as follows:
"Section 2.10. The Central Bank shall, for purposes of any Development 
Credit Auction, establish as a floor for the interest rate to be offered 
by 
financial institutions participating in such Auction a rate which shall 
be not 
lower than the Certificate of Deposit Rate."
(c)
Schedule 1 is amended by replacing paragraph 1 (d) (i) and (ii) 
thereof by the following new paragraph 1 (d):
"(d) Interest Rate: the Beneficiary shall pay interest semiannually on 
the principal amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding at a rate 
per 
annum to be freely determined between the Financial Intermediary and the 
Beneficiary, with due regard to the economic and risk characteristics of 
the 
Agricultural Investment for which such Sub-loan is made."
(d)
Schedule 2 is amended by replacing subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1 
thereof by the following new subparagraph (a):
"(a) the interest rate applicable to each Central Bank Loan shall be the 
rate referred to in Article 19 of the Regulation, which in no case shall be 
lower han the Certificate of Deposit Rate."
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the space provided below. Upon confirmation by the Borrower and the 
Central Bank, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this 
amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by 
the Association of the above-cited fully executed original.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Marie Garcia-Zamor
Acting Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Enrique Rodriguez
Authorized Representative
Date:
CONFIRMED:
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ Raul Boada
Authorized Representative
Page  3
Date:
