Page  1
May 14, 1997
His Excellency Fernando Candía Castillo
Minister of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
La Paz, Bolivia
Excellency:
BOLIVIA - Eastern Lowlands - Natural Resources Management and
   Agricultural Production Project (Cr. 2119 - BO)
Please refer to the Credit Agreement for the above captioned Project, as 
amended.  
I am pleased to advise you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions of the subject, and on the basis of the interinstitutional arrangement 
entered into between Prefectura (as hereinafter defined) and the Project Unit on May 
30, 1996, and the Administrative Resolution of Prefectura (as hereinafter defined) of 
the same date with regard to the Project, the Association has agreed to amend the 
Credit Agreement so as to reallocate part of the proceeds of the Credit, extend the 
Closing Date and reflect the institutional reorganization provided by the 
Decentralization Law, as follows:
(a)
General. The term "CORDECRUZ" wherever used in the Credit Agreement is 
amended to read "Prefectura".
(b)
The term "CORDECRUZ Law" wherever used in the Credit Agreement is 
deleted. The corresponding sentences are adjusted accordingly so as to preserve the 
meaning of the remaining text.
Section 1.02. Paragraph (e) is modified to read as follows:  "(e) 'Prefectura’ 
means the Borrower’s Prefectura of the Department of Santa Cruz;".
A new paragraph (ll) is added at the end thereof to read as follows: "(ll) 
Decentralization Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1654 of July 28, 1995."
4.
Section 6.01. Subparagraph (e) is modified by adding the words "The 
Decentralization Law" in the beginning thereof.
5.
Schedule 1.  The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 and the Annex to Schedule 1 
are modified to read as per the Attachment to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned. This amendment 
letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of June 30, 
1996 once: (a) the Association has received one executed original of this amendment  
letter; and (b) the Association has received evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, that: (i) the Borrower and Prefectura have entered into the respective 
Financing Agreement; or (ii) Prefectura has assumed and continues to assume, and is 
legally enabled to carry out and fulfill, all the obligations and undertakings of 
CORDECRUZ previously set forth or referred to in the Credit Agreement and the 
respective Financing Agreement (all referred to collectively as the CORDECRUZ 
Agreements) and that, therefore, all actions taken, rights acquired or covenants 
contracted under the CORDECRUZ Agreements by CORDECRUZ with regard to the Project are 
valid and binding upon Prefectura as though Prefectura had been CORDECRUZ and the 
coming into effect of the Decentralization Law has not affected and shall not affect 
the consequences of any action taken or omitted to be taken by CORDECRUZ under the 
CORDECRUZ Agreements.
Please note that, by signing this letter, the Borrower agrees that, if the above 
conditions of effectiveness of the provisions of this amendment letter are not 
fulfilled by April 30, 1997, or such later date as the Association may specify, the 
Association may suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  2
Account on the basis, inter alia, of Sections 6.01 (e) and (g) of the Credit Agreement 
as they read prior to the amendments contained in this letter.
Because of their interest in the matter, a copy of this amendment letter is 
being sent to the President of the Central Bank and the Executive President of 
Nacional Financiera Boliviana (NAFIBO).
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Director Country Department III
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Candía Castillo
Authorized Representative
Date:  May 26, 1997
