Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8145
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2886-IN/CREDIT 1852-IN)
OCTOBER 31, 1989
Country Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rp)
(Yearly Averages)
Year                             Rupee/US$
1987 (Project Appraised)                     12.96
1988 (Project Completed)                     14.60
ACRONYMS
EOI     -     Bank of India
GOI     -     Government of India
_OC     -     Indian Oil Corporation
MaTC    -     Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation
SBI     -     State Bank of India
STC     -     State Trading Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India: April 1 - March 31



FOII OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANKF
Washington. DC 20433
USA.
Oll co *s ostn c wl
Opsuafm ivabMgn
October 31, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EYXCUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Drought Assistance Project (Loan 2886-IN/Credit 1852-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Drought Assistance Project (Loan 2886-IN/
Credit 1852-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restried distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petormenoe
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoiastion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2886-IN/CREDIT 1852-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE        ..................................................... .                                         i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                    ................................................                     iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project  Identity  .........                 .............................. .1 
2.   Background           ................................................ .1 
3.   Project  Objectives  and Description  .....                      ................... .               3
4.   Project Design  and Organization  ......                     t.................i.n...                4
5.   Project  Implementation  .........                   ............................                    5
6.   Project  Results              ...........................................        .                   6
Actual  Impact  of  the Drought  ......                  .......................                 6
Achievement  of Project  Objectives  ........................                                    7
7.   Project  Sustainability  .......                   ............................ .                    9
8.   Bank  and Borrower Performance  ..............................                                       9
9.   Financing  of Edible  Oils  .......                   ............................                   9
10.   Findings  and Lessons  Learned  ......                     .........................                10
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Project Data               ...............................................                         12
Project  Timetable                   ..........................................                    12
Loan/Credit  Disbursements  . .                  .................... ...........                  12
Project  Costs               ..............................................                        13
Staff  Inputs              ...............................................                         13
Field Mission Dates .......... . ...............                                                   13
Status  of Covenants                    ........................................                   14
I ni.is 'document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforMance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJEC',
(LOAN 2886-IN/CREDIT 1852-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Cunpletion Report (PCR) for the Drought
Assistance Project in India, for which Loan 2886-IN in the amount of US$150.0
million and Credit 1852-IN in the amount of SDR 156.3 million (US$200.0 mil-
lion equivalent) were approved on Novciber 24, 1987.  The loan-credit was
closed on July 15, 1988, eight and a half months ahead of schedule. It was
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement was on October 6, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the India
Department, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), based on the President's Report, the loan/credit documents, and study
of the project files. The draft PCR (Parts I and III) was sent to the
Borrower, and the editorial comments submitted by the Borrower have been
incorporated in the report. The Borrower chose not to submit an assessment
for incorporation as Part II.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION PEPORT
INIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2886-INICREDIT 1852-IN)
EVALUATION SUMKARY
Objectives
The project objectives were to: (a) assist India in meeting the
costs and the reconstruction/rehabilitation requirements resulting from the
drought; (b) help sustain and enhance the momentum of the economic reform
process during the drought; and (c) support the Government's longer term
strategy for increasing India's resilience to droughts. The loan/..redit
was designed to provide fast-disbursing assistance, and financing imports
of primarily agro-industrial inputs, petroleum products, non-ferrous
metals, and other drought-related industrial intermediate inputs (paras.
3.2, 3.3, 4.1-4.3).
Immlementation Exnerience
Project implementation was excellent. Preparation and
implementation of the project were completed under greatly accelerated
timetables, with a high level of support and professionalism by the
Borrower and its implementing agencies. The preparatory work during
appraisal to approve and clarify procurement arrangements for the import of
bulk commodities and other imported items financed by the project was
instrumental in ensuring smooth and rapid disbursement of the loan/credit
(para. 8.1). The use of loan/credit proceeds was in line with
understandings reached during negotiations (para. 5.1-5.3). The financing
of edible oil imports was dictated by the need for urgent replenishment of
stocks as an integral component of the Government's recovery program
(paras. 9.1-9.3).
Re-sults
Overall, the Indian economy withstood the impact of the drought
particularly well. Agricultural value added declined much less than had
been anticipated--only 1.0% compared with an initial estimate of between 5%
and 8%. The kharif (summer) foodgrain crop declined by about 8%, but the
rabi (winter) crop increased by 2% compared with 1986/87. The improved
rabi crop was assisted by the spread of irrigation which has enlarged the
sector's drought-proof base and by government actions to ensure the supply
of inputs (para. 6.1). the industry and services sector also exhibited
increased resilience to the agricultural shortfalls (para. 6.2).
Nevertheless, the budgetary and balance of payments costs of the
drought were substantial. Central Government allocations for drought-
related relief and public works programs increased by US$1 billion and
additional resources were also earmarked by the states. Edible oil imports
increased from 1.3 mmt in 1986/87 to almost 2 m-t in 1987/88 and there were



- iv -
further drought-related imports in 1988/89. Petroleum and petroleur
product imports increased by 1.8% in 1987/88 to meet the drought-induced
increase in demand for thermal power. T'his, together with a firming of
world petroleum prices, led to an increase in the value of petroleum
imports of US$l billion. In addition, about 2 mmt of wheat and 850,000
tons of rice were imported in 1988/89. These drought-related imports
contributed to a loss of foreign exchange reserves of US$300 million in
1987/88 and a further loss of US$1.4 billion in 1988/89 (para. 6.3).
In terms of its principal objective of helping to sustain and
enhance the momentum of the economic reform process during the drought
situation, the project must be considered a success: The project, together
with support from other donors, played an important role in assisting the
Government to manage the budgetary and balance of payments consequences of
the drought without rolling back the reforms already underway and, in fact,
with further progress in a number of important areas (para. 6.6). In
particular, the industr_al reform process continued in 1987 and 1988
through a series of policy changes in the regulatory framework which should
increase competition and facilitate the modernization process (para. 6.7).
In addition, export policies and incentives were further expanded with
lmproved access to restricted or canalized imports, extension of export
incentives to indirect exporters, easier access to i-ported capital goods,
and improved tax incentives (para. 6.8). Progress in import policy reform
has been less impressive; nevertheless, the process has continued with
easier access to imports by exporters and greater reliance on the exchange
rate and tariffs than quantitative controls to limit imports (para. 6.9).
SLignificantly, the project also contributed to an acceleration of
efforts to tackle the problems of farming in rainfed areas as part of the
Government's longer term strategy for increasing resilience to droughts.
Increased efforts are being made to integrate the activities of extension
and soil conservation agencies, at the Center and in the States.
Stabilization of watersheds and upgrading of wastelands is being stepped up
by acceleration of tree plarting programs and increased use of vegetative
soil conservation. The initial stages of this process are being supported
by ongoing Bank-assisted projects (paras. 6.10 and 6.11).
Sustainabilti,
Overall, the project effectively supported India's economic reform
process and contributed to an acceleration of the development of programs
designed to increase India's longer term resilience to drought in
agriculture. The prospects for sustaining the initiatives supported by the
project in agriculture, industry, and trade over the medium to longer term
appear good in the face of a fairly broad consensus at the senior levels of
the bureaucracy, an open and constructive dialogue with the Government, and
a strong commitment by the Government to move ),head in these areas (paras.
6.10-6.11, 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
The project was well conceived, was effectively implaminted, and
achieved its stated objectives.  The timely completion and success of the
project can be ati  bii   to a          I. (      n)-



(a) The Bank and the Government, in close collaboration, acted
pzomptly to assess the overall economic, social and sectoral impact of the
drought, and the extent of the required assistance.
(b) Agreement with the Government on the strategy and scope of
the overall recovery program was reached rapidly.
(c) Implementation arrangements were simple, made use of existing
institutions, and were commensurate with the country's implementation
capacity.
(d) The preparatory work to approve and clarify procurement
arrangements was instrumental in ensuring smooth and rapid disbursement of
the loan/credit.
(e) The commitment of the Government to the recovery program, and
the determined efforts and professionalism of the government officials and
other agencies involved deserve special mention.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2886-INICREDIT 1852-IN)
PART I
1.       PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name: Drought Assistance Project
Loan/Credit No.: Ln 2886-IN/Cr 1852-IN
RVP Unit: Asia
Country: India
Sector: Emergency Assistance Operation
2.       A&MUM
2.1      In 1987, India experienced a severe drought.  The monsoons which
normally last from June to September were generally late and deficient: 21
of the courtry's 35 meteorological zones had deficient or scanty rainfall,
affecting 63% of the area of the country (President's Report, para. 37).
For many regions of thLe country this was the third or fourth successive
year of poor rainfall. Major rainfall deficit areas included some of the
most importanr foodgrain producing areas--the Punjln, Western Uttar
Pradesh, Eastern Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. Ironically, much of West
Bengal and Bihar experienced torrential rains and suffered some of the
worst flooding in decades (PR, para. 38).
2.2      As the extent of the drought became apparent during August and
September 1987, it was estimated that there would be a sharp reduction in
foodgrain output from the kharif c.op1l/ Kharif foodgrain output was
expected to fall to around 70 million tons, down from 80 million tons in
1986/87 (which was also below normal due to drought conditions) and the
record 89 million tons in 1983/84. The major part of this loss was
expected in rice production (the main kharif crop). There was also severe
damage to the oilseeds crop. In particular, the groundnut crop in Gujarat,
which accounts for about 15% of India's oilseed production, was totallv
lost. In addition, there was serious damage to fodder, especially in
Rajasthan and Gujarat, and shortages of water for livestock and human
consumption were emerging in severely affected western states and in
Orissa. In the flood-stricken areas of Eastern India there was some
washout of the rice crop, especially in Northern Pihar (PR, para. 40).
2.3      Official estimates indicated that rice stocks (six million tons as
of October 1, 1987) may not have been sufficient to meet desired
consumption levels and that imports of cereals may also be needed to
maintain minimum stocks as a buffer against future droughts (PR, para. 42).
In addition, since India has no reserves of edible oils, imports were
required to replenish the stocks in the private and public distribution
systems and to sustain the local processing (vanaspati) industry (PR, para. 40).
L/ Kharif is the summer crop usually grown from June/July to
October/November.



- 2 -
2.4      The social impact of the drought was expected to be especially
severe. It was estimated that nearly 285 million people would be affected
in the rural areas in different states. Of these, more than 90 million
belonged to the vulnerable stetions of society, consisting of small farmers
and agricultural laborers. Drinking water shortages, aggravated by
successive droughts in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Orissa and other states, were
expected to affect more than 90,000 villages in these states (PR, para.
43).
2.5      Agricultural GDP was expected to decline by 5 to 8%.  Lower
agricultural demand and drought-induced power shortages were also expected
to feed through into re.aced growth in the industrial and service sectors,
leading to a reduction in growth of total GDP to no more than 2%, with the
possibility of zero overall growth (PR, para. 44). The budgetary cost of
the drought was also expected to be significant. The Government increased
its allocation for drought-related relief and public works programs from Rs
6.5 billion (equivalent to US$500 million) to Rs 20 billion (US$1.5
billion), financed by cuts in other outlays and a package of additional
taxes (PR, para. 45). Shortages of foodstuffs generated an acceleration of
domestic inflation, with an increase in consumer prices approaching 10%
expected (PR, para. 46).
2.6      The balai ,e of payments costs were estimated at a minimum of
US$1.0 to US$1.2 billion for the remainder of the Indian fiscal year (to
Hiarch 31, 1988) and more than US$1.5 billion over an eighteen month period.
For the period to March 1988, agricultural commodity imports (including
foodgrains and edible oils) were expected to increase by US$0.8 billion;
additional petroleum and petroleum product imports of US$150 million and
non-ferrous metal imports of US$50 million were also expected. Exports of
agricultural products were expected to fall by ove- US$200 million (PR,
para. 47).
2.7      As the severity of the drought became apparent during the summer
months, the Government acted promptly to implement a comprehensive drought
relief program. The main relief efforts were directed at minimizing crop
losses, especially for the rabi crop (the winter crop, usually grown from
October/November to February/April), and providing emergency relief for
elements of the population severely affected by the drought. Measures
taken to minimize crop losses were focussed on ensuring adequate supplies
of major inputs (e.g., seeds, water, power and credit) and increasing the
total area coverage under rabi crops and increasing the coverage of less
water-inten3ive and alternative short-duration crops in water-deficient
areas. The Center and State Governments have well-established machinery to
meet the immediate needs of the population severely affected by drought,
since India has a history of periodic droughts and one part of the country
or another experiences drought almost every year. Key elements of the
drought relief programs included: (a) rural employment programs; (b)
provision of drinking water; (c) public distribution system for essential
commodities; (d) supplementary nutrition programs; and (e) cattle
preservation (PR, paras. 48-53).



3-
3.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1      During the first three years of the Seventh Plan (which covers
1985-90), the Government undertook a series of important policy initiatives
in industry, trade and public finance. These included significant
deregulation of industry, easing some restrictions on imports, especially
capital goods for the modernization of industry, the introduction of new
export promotion measures and incentives and the introduction of a modified
value added tax system (IIODVAT), covering more than one third of India's
manufactured production (PR, paras. 10 to 12). Many of these initiatives
represented radical departures from past practice. The associated
adjustment costs (including budgetary and balance of payments costs) we,re
also potentially significant, albeit manageable. The onset of severe
drought in 1987, therefore, posed a considerable threat to the adjustment
process as budgetary, balance of payments and other resources were pre-
empted to meet the immediate needs of drought relief. As indicated (para.
2.6), the balance of payments costs of the drought were expected to exceed
US$1.5 billion over an eighteen month period.  Foreign exchange reserves
had already fallen from US$5.4 billion in January 1987 to US$5.2 billion
(excluding gold) in September 1987 (PR, para. 64). While reserves remained
adequate to meet the expected import bill, the Government was
understandably concerned that, if foreign exchange reserves continued to
fall significantly there could be a crisis of confidence, especially among
non-resident Indians, who account for substantial net inflows of foreign
exchange (about US$1.3 billion in 1986/87), and who bold very large freely-
convertible deposits (estimated at about US$7 billion in mid-1987).
3'.2     The objectives of the project were to: (a) assist India in meeting
the costs and the reconstruction/rehabilitation requirements resulting from
the drought; (b) help sustain and enhance the momentum of the economic
reform process daring the drought; and (c) support the Government's longer
term strategy for increasing India's resilience to droughts. The timely
injection of fast-disbursing foreign exchange under the project was
designed to assist the Government to manage the balance of payments
consequences of the drought while w^intaining the momentum of the economic
reform process. Without the proposed assistance from the Bank and from
Japan and other donors (the total of which was expected to amount to around
US$ 750 million over an eighteen month period), balance of payments
pressures were considered likely to lead to irresistible demands on the
Government to protect its reserves position by restricting imports, thereby
slowing economic growth and delaying the process of industrial
modernization and restructuring (PR, para. 64).
3.3      The loan of US$150 million and credit of SDR 156.3 million (US$200
million equivalent) was designed to finance imports of primarily agro-
industrial inputs (including oilseeds, edible oils, pesticides, veterinary
medicines and animal feed), petroleum and petroleum products, non-ferrous
metals, and other drought-related industrial intermediate inputs (e.g.,
textile fibers and industrial components and spares). The bulk of the
loan/credit was expected to finance: (a) petroleum and petrole "roducts
to meet the increased demand for thermal power generation--especially for
irrigation and drinking water pumping--and compensate for reduced hydro-
power generation due to the drop in reservoir levels, and for incremental
.    ('I     I       -   is



- 4 -
the production of which was curtailed due to pre-emption of power supplies
for agricultural and drinking water needs; and (c) edible oils to replenish
stocks in the private and public distribution systems and ensure adequate
supplies for the local processing industry (PR, para. 66).
3.4      In conjunction with the project, the Bank also introduced
modifications to its existing portfolio to speed up the implementation of
ongoing projects in drought-affected areas and, in selected cases, widened
the scope of projects to make them more responsive to the critical
constraints on agricultural production and village water supply arising
from the drought (PR, para. 69).
4.       PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1      Consistent with the objectives outlined above, the project was
designed to provide assistance in an amount and over a sufficiently short
time period to have a discernible impact on the Government's ability to
manage the heavy costs of its drought relief efforts while at the same time
sustaining and enhancing the momentum of the economic reform process. The
project was considered to be an appropriate response to the drought
situatLon on the following grounds: (a) the drought was one of the worst of
the century and followed two consecutive years of poor rainfall; 'b) India
has in place an effective drought relief program; (c) it has sustained
satLsfactory economic performance over time which has helped build
resilience to droughts; (d) it has a satisfactory longer term drought
amelioration program; and (e) it has an economic reform program under way
which the Bank endorses, but which was placed in jeopardy because of the
drought.
4.2      The project provided an important breakthrough in our policy
dialogue with GOI. In the context of the project, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to continue the process of modernization and
increased efficiency of the economy upon which it has embarked and outlined
its program in a letter to the Bank (ref. Annex IV of the President's
Report). This program includes deregulation of domestic industries and
streamlined decision making on the revival or exit of sick industrial
units. It also includes improvements in the support system for exporters
and review of import regulations and tariffs to eliminate anomalies in the
structure of nominal and effective protection. As noted (ref. para. 3.2),
in the context of discussions of the project the Government also indicated
its intentions to accelerate implementation of the Seventh Plan strategy
for longer term drought amelioration and rehabilitation. Key elements
include the adoption of a National Water Policy, with priority given to
intensifying efforts to improve the effectiveness of existing irrigation
schemes already underway and improve the planning and design of future
projects. At the same time the strategy includes increased attention
focussed on rainfed agriculture, with particular emphasis to be placed on
accelerating the dissemination of technologies for soil and on-farm
moisture conservation.
4.3      In accordance with the urgency of the situation, the project was
prepared and presented to the Board on a greatly accelerated timetable.
Based on initial discussions with the Government in late August 1987, the
--   -   _     s  ,     -



- 5 -
the Board in November. Given the objective of providing fast-disbursing
assistance, particular attention was focussed during appraisal on the
procurement arrangements for items on the positive list of imports of
drought-related products (including petroleum and petroleum products,
edible oils, etc.), most of which had not previously been financed under
Bank-assisted projects in India. The Regional Procurement Adviser visited
India to reach agreement with each of the purchasing (importing) agencies
on the products to be covered and the procurement arrangements to be
followed. Many of the products included in the project are purchased under
international tendering procedures. These procedures were reviewed and
found to be generally consistent with Bank requirements and, where
necessary, modifications were agreed. This approach proved to be highly
successful in facilitating smooth and rapid project implementation and
provided a model for the design of import financing components for other
projects in India.
5.       PROJECT IMPL9MTION
5.1      Implementation of the project, in terms of disbursement of the
funds to finance imports of drought-related items, was excellent. The
project was declared effective on December 16, 1987 with a Closing Date of
March 31, 1989. The Loan was fully disbursed by June 1988 Z/ and closed 8
1/2 months ahead of schedule on July 15, 1988.
5.2      The use of loan/credit proceeds was in line with understandings
reached during negotiations regardlng the coverage and composition of
drought-related imports to be financed by the Bank/IDA, incluclng GOI's
undertaking that no more than US$100 million would be used to finance
imports of edible oils. More than 80% of the loan/credit was diLs-arsed
against major contracts for which the Borrower submitted documentary
evidence to the Bank for review. All such contracts were entered on Form
384s. The loan/credit was disbursed against the following imports:
Petroleum and petroleum products           US$ 189.7m
Edible oils                        :       US$  90.1m
Non-ferrous metals                 :       US$  27.7m
Industrial spares & raw materials :        US$  57.7m
_ ,......
TOTAL                                      US$ 365.2m A/
A/ Includes currency adjustment equivalent to US$15.2 million
5.3      The excellent disbursement performance under the project was in
large part due to the determined efforts of GOI and the purchasing agencies
(comprising indian Oil Corporation, State Trading Corporation, Minerals and
Metals Trading Corporation, Bank of India and State Bank of India), and to
the close attention paid to procurement arrangements during project
preparation (ref. para. 4.3 above).
/ An amount of US$2.1 milllon equivalent was disbursed on October 6, 1988
representing a small balar-e remaining in the Special Account due to
currency fluctuations.



-6-
6.       PROJECT RESUlTS
Actual Impact of the Drought
6.1      Overall, the Indian economy withstood the impact of the drought
particularly well. Agricultural value added declined much less than had
been anticipated, recording a decline of only 1.0% compared with an initial
estimate of between 5 and 8% (ref. para. 2.5). The kharif foodgrain crop
declined by only about 8t and the rabi crop, which is largely irrigation-
based, increased by 2% compared with 1986/87. This contrasts with the
drought of 1979/80, for example, during which kharif and rabi foodgrain
output declined by 19% and 14%, respectively. The smaller kharif
foodgrains loss in 1987/88 is largely attributable to the above average
rainfall in the Eastern rice region, which in fact experienced floods while
the rest of the country was suffering drought conditions. The positive
growth in rabi foodgrain production, despite moisture stress and other                  E
growth retarding effects of monsoon failure which extended into the rabi
season, was assisted by the spread of Irrigation that has enlarged the
sector's drought-proof base and by Government actions to ensure the supply
of inputs, especially steps to achieve improved management of available
water resources.
6.2      In addition to the better-than-expected agricultural performance,
the industry and services sectors also exhibited increased resilience to
agricultural shortfalls. Industrial value added grew at 6.5%, down from
8.3% in 1986/87 but above the trend rate of growth over the previous 10
years of 5.3%; the services sector grew at 5.1%. Overall, GDP growth for
1987/88 is estimAted at 3.6%, compared with earlier projections of 1-2%.
6.3      The budgetary and balance of payments costs of the drought were
substantial. As indicated (para. 2.5), the Central Government increased
its allocation for drought-related relief and public works programs by US$1
billion. The overall cost would have beer much higher, however, after
taking into account the States' outlays from their own resources on drought
relief activities. On the balance of payments front, as expected (ref.
para. 2.6), the costs were substantial and carried over into 1988/89.
Edible oil imports increased from 1.3 mmt in 1986/87 to almost 2 mit in
1987/88 and there were further drought-related imports in 1988/89. Because
of the severity of the drought, which also followed two years of poor
monsoons, hydroelectric power generation declined by 12%. In response,
petroleum and petroleum product (POL) imports increased by 18% in 1987/88
to meet the drought-induced increase in demand for thermal power. This,
together with a firming of world petroleum prices, led to an increase in
the value of POL imports of US$1 billion. In addition, about 2 mmt of
wheat and 850,000 tons of rice were imported in 1988/89. These drought-
related imports contributed to a loss of foreign exchange reserves of
US$300 million in 1987/88 and a further loss of US$1.4 billion in 1988/89.
6.4      To ensure food supplies in the face of the drought, the Government
increased sales through the Public Distribution System (PDS) and
distribution through the relief network. Almost 23 mit of wheat and rice
were provided from the Central Pool, versus 20 mit in 1986/87. Low
procurement meant that much of this came from the buffer stocks that had
been built up in earlier years; stocks fell from 19.5 mnt in March 1987 to



9.4 -mt in March 1988. Supplies of edlble oils, for which there were no
buffer stocks, were augmented by a major increase in Government imports
(ref. para. 6.3). Overall, the Government's efforts, supported by the
Consortium members and channeled through the well-developed relief system,
played a major role in mitigating the severe economic and social
consequences of the drought.
6.5      The very good monsoon of 1988 3/ produced a strong recovery in
agricultural production and overall economic growth, as well as vital
replenishment of water resources. The drought-breaking rain even extended
to areas of the country (e.g., Rajasthan and Gujarat) which had experienced
three or four consecutive years of drought.
Achievement of Project Obiectives
6.6      In terms of its principal objective of helping to sustain and
enhance the momentum of the economic reform process during the drought
situation, the project must be considered a success. The project, together
with support from other donors, played an important role in assisting the
Government to manage the budgetary and balance of payments consequences of
the drought without rolling back the reforms already underway and, in fact,
with further progress in a number of important areas.
6.7      In particular, the industrial reform process continued in 1987 and
1988. Among the major measures adopted during this period were: (a)
automatic endorsement of licensed capacity at the maximum output reached in
1988, 1989, or 1990; (b) easing of licensing requirements, by raising the
ceiling above which licenses are needed from 1981's Rs 50 million figure to
Rs 150 million (nearly 100% in real terms) for investments outside urban
areas and to Rs 500 million for investments in the most backward areas; (c)
easing of licensing and entry restrictions facing large firms (firms
subject to .he Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices Act (MRTP) and the
Foreign Exchange Restriction Act (FERA)); and (d) reduction in the number
of products legally reserved for small-scale production. These policy
changes should increase domestic competition, at the same time making
modernization easier. The Government has also strengthened its sick
industry policy, resisting "bail-outs" of sick firms while using the
recently-created Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction and the
development banks to work out financial packages for viable firms and for
closing non-viable ones. Private and public firms are increasingly using
termination benefits to rationalize their workforce.
6.8 In addition, the considerable improvements in exMoit ]olicies and
incentives introduced in recent years were further expanded. The 1988-91
Import Export 2olicy, announced in April 1988, enhanced the programs of
imports for exporters. The types of manufactured exports entitled to REP
licenses (transferable licenses that can be used to import restricted or
canalized imports) were increased and rates of entitlement were raised for
a number of products. Also, provisions for extending export incentives to
indirect exporters were introduced. Exporters' access to imported capital
goods was improved, by reducing restrictions on capital goods imports for
/ By the end of September, only 3 of 35 districts reported poor or scanty
1  7



-8-
exporters and by reducing tariffs on some of them. The policy also
improved the rules and facilities for export and trading houses, bonded
warehouses, and free trade zones. In addition, the Budget for 1988/89
raised the export profit tax deduction to 100% of export profits, and the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) increased and liberalized its foreign exchange
allowance for export marketing. Finally, the coverage of export incentives
and import licensing for exports schemes was broadened and procedures were
further streamlined.
6.9      While the progress in imgort policy reform has been less
impressive than for industrial and export policy, the process of gradual
reform has continued. The main recent improvements in import policy have
been easier access to imports by exporters, easier application of existing
restrictions and greater reliance on prices (the exchange rate and tariffs)
to limit imports. The substitution of price rationing for quantitative
controls has had the desirable effect of transferring to the Governmei,t
(and exporters in the case of the exchange rate and REP licenses) the
scarcity premia on foreign exchange that otherwise would go to recipients
of import licenses. Increased imports of capital goods and intermediates
have been an important factor in the higher growth of total factor
productivity in manufacturing. However, protection remains high on basic
inputs and many final products.
6.10     The project also contributed to an acceleration of efforts to
tackle the problems of farming in rainfed areas as part of the Government's
longer term strategy for increasing resilience to droughts.  The severity
of the drought and the Bank's close involvement in assisting the Government
to manage its consequences provided an important opportunity to furthej. the
dialogue on these issues and advance the preparation of Bank-assisted
projects for the development of rainfed agriculture. The Government has
given priority to accelerating the dissemination of technologies for soil
and on-farm moisture conservation. In this context, increased efforts are
being made to integrate the activities of extension and soil conservation
agencies, at the Center and in the States. Stabilization of watersheds and
upgrading of wastelands is being stepped up by acceleration of tree
planting programs and increased use of vegetative soil conservation within
the framework of the National Watershed Program for Rainfed Agriculture.
The initial stages of this process are being supported by ongoing Bank-
assisted projects (e.g., Pilot Project for Watershed Development in Rainfed
Areas (Cr 1424-IN)), which have demonstrated very good results from the new
technologies.
6.11     As part of the next stage of this process, which will take these
results and introduce them to other suitable areas of the country,
preparation of two Bank projects--Integrated Watershed Development Project
(Hills) and Integrated Watershed Development Project (Plains)--is now well-
advanced. These projects will focus on an additional number of sub-
watersheds and seek to: (a) verify and demonstrate new technologies for
soil and moisture conservation, based in part on the results of Bank-
assisted pilot schemes in other parts of the country; (b) promote increased
research attention to rainfed farming technologies applicable to local
conditions, including the relatively neglected subjects of fodder
production and pasture management; (c) promote an inter-disciplinary
i I 



- 9 -
implementation of activities in the fields of soil and moisture
conservation, forestry, crop and animal husbandry, which are presently the
responsibility of four different Sta.e departments; and (d) promote
improved management of common lands, including, importantly, active
involvement of the local people in planning and implementation.
7.       PROJECT SUSTAINAILITY
7.1      The project effectively supported India's economic reform process
and contributed to an acceleration of the development of programs designed
to increase India's longer term resilience to drought in agricu.lture. The
sustainability of the latter is being addressed in the Bank's ongoing
agricultural lending and economic and sector work programs and, as noted
above (para. 6.11), there is encouraging evidence of a strong commitment by
the Government to move ahead in these areas. With respect to the economic
reform process, the prospects for continued reform over the medium ter% are
generally good. There appears to be a fairly broad consensus at the senior
levels of the bureaucracy--shared in academia and in the business community
--that the reform process must continue. The Bank has an open and
constructive dialogue with the Government on the reforms necessary to
accelerate growth, thereby permitting more rapid progress towards poverty
eradication, while holding current account deficits to prudent levels. The
Bank is actively pursuing major policy issues in the context of its
economic and sector work and in understandings being sought during
preparation of individual sector and sub-sectoral operations on actions
already taken and plans for further actions in those areas.
8.       BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
8.1      As indicated above (ref. para. 4.3), the project was prepared
within a very short time frame. Considerable flexibility was provided to
the appraisal and negotiating teams to procers the project expeditiously
while still paying due regard to project quality and consistency with Bank
standards. Elapsed time from project identification to Board Presentation
was only 12 weeks. At the same time the Borrower (GOI) gave priority
attention to the project and the professionalism and helpfulness of its
project team greatly enhanced the quality and timing of the project's
preparation. Implementation of the project by the Ministry of Finance and
the agencies responsible for managing the import programs (IOG, STC, M1TC,
BOI, and SBI) was excellent. The loan/credit #as fully disbursed within
six months of Signing. In this context, the preparatory work during
appraisal to approve and clarify procurement arrangements for the import of
bulk commodities and other imported items financed by the project was
instrumental in ensuring smooth and rapid disbursement of the loan/credit.
9.       FINANCING OF EDIBLE OILS
9.1      Kharif oilseed production was seriously hit by the drought,
especially groundnut production, which declined by 10% from the 1986/87
crop. As India has an inadequate stock of edible oils (which it imports
even in normal years, with imports averaging about US$700 million per year
(in real terms) over the period 1980/81-1986/87), this decline in
production could, unless adequate supplies were maintained to the local
processing industry, have had a severe adverse impact on the poorest



- 10
segments of the drought affected population. Hence, the Government
strongly requested that proceeds of the Loan and Credit should be disbursed
against imports of edible oils in addition to the other items proposed by
the Bank.
9.2      The Bank's policy has consistently been to assist in emergencies
by financing productive activities and investment rather than relief and
consumption. This policy should normally have precluded the Bank from
including edible oils in the list of items to be financed under the Credit
and Loan. However, in view of the fact that imports to be financed were
intended for the purposes of urgent replenishment of stocks as an integral
component of the Government's recovery program (rather than for
distribution through a relief operation) the Bank agreed to finance edible
oil imports up to a total amount of US$100 million equivalent, which was
considered appropriate to reflect the objective of urgent replenishment of
edible oil stocks. In the event, only US$91 million was utilized for
import of edible oils.
9.3      Typically, government response to an emergency will include both
short-term relief as well as longer term recovery programs. The Bank's
policy is, as stated above, to support recovery programs but not relief
operations as the latter are well beyond its institutional competence and
capabilities. The Indian Government's request for Bank financing of edible
oil imports in this case, however, raised the issue whether food items
(which are typically provided by other agencies in a relief operation)
could be included for financing under a Bank supported recovery operation.
After extensive discussions, both internal and with the Government, the
Bank responded with flexibility to accommodate the needs of the situation
and financed edible oils for the purpose of replenishing food stocks as an
integral part of the recovery program. In this event, the Bank's response
to the Government's request was adequate to achieve the objectives of the
Project, including disbursement of the assistance within the intended time
frame.
10.      Findings and Lessons Learned
10.1    The project was well conceived, was effectively implemented, and
achieved its stated objectives. The timely completion and success of the
project can be attributed to a number of factors:
(a) The Bank and the Government, in close collaboration, acted
promptly to assess the overall economic, social and sectoral impact of the
drought, and the extent of the required assistance.
(b) Agreement with the Government on the strategy and scope of
the overall recovery program was reached rapidly.
(c) Implementation arrangements were simple, made use of existing
institutions, and were commensurate with the country's implementation
capacity.
(d) The preparatory work to approve and clarify procurement
arrangements was instrumental in ensuring smooth and rapid disbursement of
the loan/credit.



- 11 -
(e) The commitment of the Government to the recovery program, and
the determined efforts and professionalism of the government officials and
other agencies involved deserves special mention.



- 12 -
PART III
PROJECT DATA
RVP Unit                          Asia
Sector                            Emergency Assistance Operation
Borrower                          Government of India
Executing Agency                  Ministry of Finance
Fiscal Year of Borrower          April 1 - March 31
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                              Date Planned   ]Date Atual
- Identification (EPS)                      09/08/87       09/08/87 (Draft
Issues Paper
Review Meeting)
- Preparation
- Appraisal Mission                         09/09/87       09/09/87
- Loan/Credit Negotiations                  11/04/87        11/04/87
- Board Approval                            11/24/87        11/24/87
- Loan/Credit Signature                     11/25/87       11/25/87
- Loan/Credit Effectiveness                 12/16/87       12/16/87
- Loan/Credit Completion                    12/31/88       07/15/88
- Loan/Credit Closing                       03/31/89       07/15/88
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
None
Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
1987/88         1988/89
Appraisal Estimate                 300.0           350.0
Actual                             363.2           365.2
Actual as % of Estimate            121.1%          104.4%
Date of Final Disbursement        10/6/88
NOTE:  Due to changes in US$/SDR exchange rate, actual amount disbursed on
IDA credit was US$215.2 million equivalent (estimated at US$200 million at
negotiations).



- 13 -
Frolect Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Cost
Estimates          Actual ExDenditures
Petroleum & petroleum
products                        A/                      189.7
Edible oils                      /                        90.1
Non-ferrous metals               A/                       27.7
Industrial intermediates         a/                       57.7
350.0                     365.2 S/
n/ Separate estimates not made for each category.
h/ Agreement reached at negotiations to limit edible oil imports financed
under project to no more than US$100 million.
/  Includes currency adjustment equivalent to US$15.2 million.
Staff Tnputs
(Staff Weeks)
EH81      fFY89          Total
Appraisal                   21.6                     21.6
Negotiations                 0.3                      0.3
Supervision                 4.6         0.6           5.2
Completion                              5.8 (est.)   _.8I (est.)
Total                     26.5        6.4 (est.)   32.9 (est.)
Field Mission Dates
Month/    No. of     Days in      Performance
.xar     Persons     Field      Rating Status
Appraisal                   09/87        2          8              --
Appraisal/Negotiations      10/87        4           7             --
Supervision                 03/88        1          4               1
Project Completion          10/88        1          3               1



- 14 -
Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Coveant                     Subjec-t          9Molsnce             Statu
Ln./Cr. Agreement
Audit Reports       Dec. 31, 1988   IOC & STC audit
for Implementing                     reports submitted.
Agencies,                            Awaiting receipt
including audit                      of audit reports
reports for Special                  for other importing
Accounts and SOEs.                   agencies. (Expected
by no later than
October 1, 1989.)



