Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I /AfS2           Report No. P-4674-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150.0 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 156.3 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR A
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 5, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 30, 1987)
US$1.00       = Rs 13.102
Rs 1.00       = US$0.76
Rs 1 million  = US$76,325
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCD   - Cabinet Committee for Drought
COI   - Government of India
NREP - National Rural Employment Program
PDS   - Public Distribution System
RBI   - Reserve Bank of India
RLEGP - Rural Landless Employment Guarantee Program
SOE   - Statement of Expenditure



-i ii-                      FOR OFFIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:             India, acting by its President.
Executing Agency:    Ministry of Finance
Amounts:              IBRD Loan:  US$150.0 million
IDA Credit: SDR 156.3 million (US$200 million
equivalent)
Terms;                IBRD Loan:  Repayment over 20 years, including five
years' grace, at the applicable rate of interest.
IDA Credit: Standard (with 35 years' maturity)
Description:          The objectives of the proposed project are to assist
India in meeting the costs and the
reconstruction/rehabilitation requirements resulting
from the drought, to help sustain and enhance the
momentum of the economic reform process during the
present drought situation, and to support the
Government's longer term strategy for increasing India's
resilience to droughts. The project would help prevent
deterioration of India's foreign exchange reserves
position at a time when imports of drought-related
items, especially agricultural productst industrial raw
materials (e.g., non-ferrous metals), and petroleum and
petroleum products, are expected to increase
substantially. The timely injection of fast-disbursing
foreign exchange under the proposed project would assist
the Government to manage the balance of payments
consequences of the drought without tightening import
restrictions or reversing the recent Liberalization of
technology- or export-related imports. The project
would also support initiatives to accelerate the design
and implementation of key elements of the Government's
longer term strategy for increasing India's resilience
to droughts. The need to ameliorate the impact of the
drought and to rehabilitate in its wake are the
essential features of the proposed loan. The loan of
US$150 million and credit of SDR 156.3 million (US$200
million equivalent) would primarily finance imports of
agro-industrial inputs (including edible oils), petroleum
' This document has a strictW .t & 'bution and may be ued by rcipients only in the perfomance
of their official dutie. Its cor%em wtv not otherwis be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



-iv-
and petroleum products, non-ferrous metals, and other
drought-related industrial intermediate goods.
Benefits and Risks:  The propoaed project would help reduce the adverse
impact of the drougnt on India's balance of payments,
thereby helping to sustain and enharce the momentum of
the process of modernization and increased efficiency of
the Indian economy upon which the C"otrnment has
embarked. The additional budgetary resources provided
under the project would also help reduce the adverse
impact on funding of development projects resulting from
the diversion of funds to drought relief. The project
would also support initiatives to accelerate the design
and implementation of longer term programs for
increasing India's resilience to drought, with
substantial resulting benefits in terms of poverty
alleviation. The major risk is that, despite the
assistance to be provided by the proposed project and by
other donors, pressures on the balance of payments
resulting from the drought may be so severe that the
Government may be forced to halt or even reverse the
economic reform progra-m. However, given GOI's stated
commitment r. maintain the tempo of economic
development, despite the drought, the risks are judged
to be acceptable.
Disbursement:         The full amount of the loan (US$150 million) and credit
(SDR 156.3 million) is expected to be disbursed by
March 1989. D;sbursements are expected to amount to
US$300 million in FY88 and US$50 million in FY89.
Economic Rate of
Return:             Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:    None.
Map:                  IBRD 'o. 19962



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED WAN AND CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR A DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan and Development Credit to India for US$150 million and SDR 156.3
million (US$200 million equivalent), respectively, for a Drought
Assistance Project. Amortization of the Bank loan would be over 20 years,
including five years of grace. The IDA credit would be on standard terms
(with 35 years' maturity).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A country economic report, "India:  An Industrializing Economy in
Trans tion" (6633-IN, dated May 6, 1987), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1987. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is the world's seventh largest country and, with a popula-
tion of about 795 million (in mid-1987), the second most populb'1s. It is
also among the poorest of nations, with an average per capita income of
about US$270. Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for over
one-half of employment. Population is growing at a rate of about 2.0% per
year, which has put increasing pressure on natural resources. Until
relatively recently, industrial development had not progressed rapidly
enough to absorb a zeapidly growing labor force and bring about sig-
nificantly higher productivity and correspondingly higher per capita
income levels. In consequence, the long-term annual growth of per capita
income has only averaged about 1.4%, and close to 40% of India's popula-
tion continues to live below the poverty line. Alleviation of poverty has
been and remains at the core of India's development problem.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, Ind. 's economy was characterized by
slow growth, moderate inflation and a su.tainable external position. GDP
grew at about 3.5%, agriculture at 1.8% and industry 4.8%; imports grew at
4.6% and exports at 5.8% a year. Following the drought-induced drop in
agricultural production in the mid-1960s, India turned to high-yielding
seed varieties. The spread of this Green Revolution has reduced India's
dependence on imported foodgrains.
5.      India's economic fortunes experienced wide swings in the 1970s,
dominated by movements of the international terms of trade and the
influence of weather on agricultural output. The steep rise in interna-



-2-
tional oil prices and accelerating global inflation led to a sharp
deterioration of India's terms of trade in the early 1970s, eroding its
capacity to import. The Government successfully responded by intensifying
export promoLion efforts and liberalizing exporters' access to imported
inputs. As a result of these efforts and the expansion of export markets,
especially in the Middle East, export growth rose from an average of 2.2%
per year during the 1950s anC 1960s to 7.3% in the 1970s. This expansion
of exports, together with continued import substitution, particularly in
foodgrains, and increased remittances, made it possible for India to
attain a surplus in its current account between 1976/77 and 1978/79.
However, towards the end of the 1970s, India experienced a series of
domestic and externel setbacks. A drought in 1979/80 -educed agricultural
output by more than 15% and GDP by almost 5%. This coincided with the
second sharp increase in international oil prices, which doubled the oil
import bill. As a result, GDP declined, the current account swung into
deficit, and the price stability that the Indian economy had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end.
The Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85)
6.      The Government responded by mounting an economic adjustment
program, which was embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85). The
principal objective of the program was to raise the GDP growth rate from
its historical level of 3.5% to 5.2% per annum through alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence,
improved efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient
import substitution.
7.      On the whole, the adjustment program was successful.  GDP grew by
5.4% per year during the Plan period, domestic inflation was moderate and
the balance of payments was kept under control. The faster growth of the
economy reflected improvements in the performance of several key sectors.
The average growth of agricultural value added of 4.5% per year exceeded
the Plan target of 3.8%, as the ambitious targets for foodgrain and oil-
seed production were virtually attained.l/ India also succeeded in rais-
ing the output of some important industrial subsectors. Domestic produc-
tion of petroleum grew at 20%, natural gas output at 19.2%, coal output at
6.9%, and the production of cement and fertilizer at 10.6% and 8.1%,
respectively.
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.4%
per annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years
because of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP growth
per annum and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two
"normal" years) are more representative of the growth rates during the
period.



-3-
8.      Despite these significant improvements in performance, several
problems persisted. Overall, the industrial sector grew much more slowly
than other sectors mentioned above. Its growth averaged about 4.9%
(1980o81-1984/85) per year--below the growth rates achieved in the 1960s
and 1970s. Industrial growth was inhibited by rigid Government controls,
slow grewth of domestic demand, power shortages, and labor unrest. Much
of the industrial sector was not internationally competitive as quantita-
tive restrictions and high tariffs on imporced inputs and capital goods
generated high costs and prices for industrial goods. India's export
performance also reflected this lack of competitiveness. Instead of the
targeted 9% per year, exports grew only by 4.5% per annum. The savings
performance of the economy also deteriorated slightly. The national
savings rate, which had risen steeply in the 1970s, fell from 24.3% to
about 23X. The shortfall in savings was most noticeable in the public
sector, reflecting low profits and financial losses of public enterprises
and lower than expected tax revenues. Savings thus remained below the
rate required (24.5%) to finance the investment program and the growth of
investment had to be limited to 6.4% a year instead of the targeted 8.9%.
The Seventh Plan (1985-90)
9.      The Seventh Plan attacks these problems directly by focusing on
the ways to achieve greater efficiency, productivity and competitiveness
in the economy. Overall, it calls for maintaining the growth momentum
achieved under the Sixth Plan, targeting real GDP growth at 5.0% per year.
In agriculture, the Plan gives highest priority to the completion of
ongoing irrigation schemes, improving operations and management of sxist-
ing schemes and raising incomes and production in rainfed areas; in
industry, it emphasizes improvements in. productivity, cost reduction, and
improved competitiveness. The Plan reaffirms enduring concerns about
poverty and attempts to ensure that the benefits of accelerated growth are
distributed equitably. It gives high priority to ensuring sufficient
availability of food, which would keep food prices down and protect real
incomes of the poor, as well as to expanding employment and raising
productivity. The Plan also gives heavy emphasis to changes in the
economic policy framework. Unlike its predecessors, the Seventh Plan
calls for a greater role for the private sector and promises to provide
the incentives needed to encourage private industrial investment.
Measures taken during the Sixth Plan already provided entrepreneurs with
greater flexibility in decision making. The Seventh Plan envisages build-
ing on this by further tasing licensing requirements and introducing more
flexibility into the pricing of commodities which are subject to govern-
ment administration. It also calls for continued trade liberalization and
emphasizes the promotion of exports.
Recent Developments
10.     A series of important initiatives in industry, trade and public
finance have been undertaken during the last three years. Several



-4-
measures, many of which represented radical depirtures from past practice,
were implemented on the eve of the Severth Plan in 1984/85. These
included opening up telecoumunication equipment manufacturing to the
private sector, liberalizing imports for the electronics and computer
industries, and allowing greater flexibility in product lines
("broadbanding") for the automotive anlI machine tool industries. Other
controls on industry were loosened: the number of industrial units fall-
i.ig within the ambit of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
was reduced by about 15%; the number of industries in which enterprises
are required to obtain licenses to install new capacity or expand existing
caDacity was cut substantially; the number of industrial activities
benefiting from "broadbanding" was increased; and procedures for obtaining
investment clearances and approval of foreign collaboration were
streamlined.
11.     Changes have also been made in trade and payments policy.
However, these were less sweeping than those in the industrial area. In
its new Import-Export policy, the Government has adopted measures to ease
restrictions on imports, especially capital goods for the modernization of
industry. This has included selective import duty reductions and a
rationalization of tariffs on machinery inputs. The Government has also
introduced new export promotion measures and incentives--which included a
simplification of the administrative requirements for duet, free imports by
exporters, a widening of the eligibility for advance licenses, and a
reduction of export taxes and improvements in foreign exchange forward
cover facilities. Perhaps the single most important set of measures was
the management of prices and exchange rate policy to improve significantly
th. profitability of exports.
12.     In parallel with the policy changes in industry and trade, the
Government introduced significant changes in fiscal policy. In order to
improve tax compliance and simplify administration, the 1985/86 budget
reduced income tdx rates for individuals and abolished the income tax
surcharge. Wealth taxes weve also lowered which, together with lower
income tax rates, reduced the maximtum marginal tax rate on income from
wealth from over 110% to 702. Perhaps tile most far-reaching policy change
in the 1986/87 budget was the introduction of the modified value added tax
system (MODVAT), coverii.6 about 35% of India's manufactured production,
which will substantially reduce  ,iie cascading uI*ects of existing indirect
taxes. The 1986/87 budget also cuntinued tax simplification, introducing
a new, more smoothly phased exciae tax concession scheme for small scale
industry and eliminating some special excise duties. The GOI also began
to shift more responsibility for financing public enterprises' capital
expenditures directly to the enterprises, mandating steps to improve
profitability and encouraging selected enterprises to issue bonds instead
of relying on capital transfers from the Government. The 1987/88 budget
extended the (MODVAT) tax to all sectors except textiles, tobacco and
petroleum, and continued the emphasis on increased self-financing of



-5-
public enterprises. It .lso initiated monetary targeting as a means of
better coordinating monetary and fiscal policies.
13.     The performance of the economy in the first two years
(1985/86-1986/87) of the Seventh Plan attests to the basic soundness of
the Goverement's policy package. Real GDP growth is estimated to have
averaged 5.0X, with industr7 growing at an average rate of 6.5%.
Agricultural GDP growth averaged 1.4X per year despite poo? monsoons, with
foodgrain production holding steady at about 150 million tons, just a
little below the peak production level of 1983/84. There was also a
marked improvement in the performance of the key infrastructure sectors.
Electricity generation increased at an average annual rate of 9.6%, well
above the Sixth Plan annual average of 8.3%, due both to capacity expan-
sion and better utilization of 'hermal plant capacity. While annual coal
production growth of 6.0% fell oelow the 6.9% Sixth Plan average, growth
has been increasing steadily and is projected to top 9.0% in 1987/88.
Railway freight traffic increased an average of 8.3%, twice the growth
rate attained during the Sixth Plan.
14.     The faster growth of the first two years of the Seventh Plan
period was sustained without increased inflation. The wholesale price
index rose by only 3.7% during 1985/86 (compared to nearly 8Z in 1984i85)
and by 5.1% in 1986/87. Ample availability of foodgrains, sugar and
edible oil, combined with a careful blend of tightened monetary policy,
import liberalization, and reform of indirect taxes were the key factors
limiting inflation in spite of the recent high public sector deficits.
15.     Performance of the external sector, which is critically important
to India's ability to finance sustained higher growth, has been mixed.
Export volumes, after showing little increase in 1985/86, grew by an
estimated 6.5% in 1986/87. Preliminary data from the first quarter of
1987/88 indicate that export growth is continuing at a relatively rapid
rete. Imports, which had been severely repressed by the extensive
restrictions applied, grew more rapidly in 1985/86, increasing in volume
terms by 18.0%. Non-oil import volume increased by 22.4%. As pent up
demand was satisfied and confidence began to build that the process of
liberalization would be maintained, the pace of import volume growth
slowed to an estimated 8.0% in 1986/87 (11.9% for non-oil imports only).
Preliminary first quarter data for 1987/88 indicate that this pace is
being maintained. The overall current account deficit dropped to 1.7% of
CDP in 1986/87, after rising to 2.6% of GDP in 1985/86; the improvement as
a result of performance on invisibles and favorable changes in India's
terms of trade, coupled with the improved export performance.
International reserves increased by an estimated US$600 million over the
first two years of the Seventh Plan, reflecting India's capital inflows
and a substantial capital gain due to exchange rate changes.



-6-
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     The outlook for the immediate future is colored strongly by the
severe drought that is afflicting India in the 1987/88 monsoon season.
While the full extent of this drought is not yet clear, GDP growth for the
balance of 1987188 and 1988/89 will be affected adversely, as will the
balance of payntents. Based on preliminary assessments (ref. para. 44),
the growth of GDP at factor cost is expected to be, at best, no more than
2% in 1987/88, and is likely to be zero. The estimated balance of pay-
ments cost through March 1988 is US$1.0 to 1.2 billion, with additional
spillover costs into the next Indian fiscal year leading to a total
balance of payments cost over the next 18 months of aL least US$1.5
billion. It will be difficult under these circumstances to maintain the
hard gained policy momentum of recent years. Yet attaining the objectives
of more rapid growth and faster progress in the alleviation of poverty in
the years ahead will require that Ind^a maintain the direction and pace of
policy reform on which it has recently embarked, further strengthening
economic policies aimed at increasing the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion and use. The Government has set out the salient features of its
policy to sustain development efforts in the contex. of the current
drought in a note to the Bank (ref. Annex IV). For the longer term, in
order to sustain rates of GDP growth sufficiently high to produce sig-
nificant reductions in the incidence of absolute poverty, India will need
to: (a) increase the growth of agricultural production; (b) further
accelerate induatrial production and export growth through policy changes
that encourage competition and efficiency; (c) further improve basic
infrastructure services and the availability of energy; and (d) sustain
high overall levels of saving and investment.
17.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth
Plan (ref. para. 7), Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the years
ahead. The seriousness of the present drought situation has highlighted
the priority that must be given to further improving India's resilience to
the uneven and highly variable behavior of the monsoon. Drought ameliora-
tion measures must be closely integrated into overall medium- to long-term
agricultural policies. As possioilities for extending cultivated acreage
shrink, the level and stability of agricultural growth will depend on
finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land and increasing its
resilience to unfavorable climatic conditions through further development
of irrigation (particularly low-cost, quick-benefitting groundwater
schemes) and better management of irrigation systems, more extensive
application of improved technologies (especially in rainfed farming), more
efficient delivery of inputs and services, and maintsnance of appropriate
pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expansion of the
country's irrigated area through completion of ongoing irrigation
projects, as well as selective investment in new undertakings. The
efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced through the
improvement of water management practices in existing irrigation systems.
Greater emphasis should also be given to obtaining higher yields under



-7-
rainfed farming conditions in non-irrigated areas. Even greater efforts
must be made to build and strengthen institutions to ensure the efficiency
of agricultural services, including input supplies, credit and farm tech-
nology and its transfer. Finally, the long-term sustainahility of
agriculture will be dependent on effective land and water resource
conservation. This is essential in the face of increasing pressure on
resources stemming from the growth in population.
18.     Industry and Trade.  Prospects for raising India's GCDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid growth of industrial produc-
tion and exports. A key requirement will be greater competitive stimulus
to industry than in the past. While the size of the Indian economy sug-
gests that some of this competitive stimulus can come from within the
domestic economy if the burden of Government regulation is ease1, greater
exposure to foreign competition both at home and in export markets would
induce greater efficiency, technological innovation and modernization.
19.     Domestic policies will need to allow greater freedom for
industrial firms to enter, exit and adjust production levels and lines in
response to market price signals. The Government has taken various
initiatives in this direction during the past several years. These chan-
ges have begun to affect the investment climate favorably, and the
manufacturing sector is beginning to respond. However, the policy changes
initiated to date begin what will be a long process of adjustment. In
order to induce the improvements in productivity and the technology
upgrading which are required for accelerated investment, production and
export growth, much more remains to be done to shift the balance of policy
from the present reliance on extensive direct control and intervention to
one which relies more on competitive stimuli from both within the country
and abroad. More specific attention will have to be paid to export
development. The measures taken to promote exports are beginning to have
a significant effect on export performance. Unless export growth
accelerates, the prospects for sustaining the import liberalization effort
and, in turn, for sustaining higher industrial and overall GDP growth will
be jeopardized. Thus, there remains a need for the Government to modify
trade policies in such a way that the net impact of the incentive struc-
ture is more neutral between exports and import substitution. To do this
it must: (a) intensify its efforts in improving export incentives and
ensuring exporters greater access to imported inputs and capital goods at
world prices; (b) reduce the high protection of the domestic market by
moving away from direct import controls to protection based on more
moderate and uniform tariffs; and (c) maintain a realistic, competitive
exchange rate.
20.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in infrastructure currently
constitute about one-third of total investment in India. The planning,
implementation, and the efficacy of management of these investments has an
important bearing on the overall efficiency of investment and the growth
of the entire economy. Better planning and management of public invest-



-8-
ments in power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns and
lower the capital-output ratios. For example, investment requirements
could be reduced and/or output increased by better water management in
irrigation projects, improving load factors in thermal power generation,
raising capacity utilization in the fertilizer industry and improving
efficiency in railway transport.
21.     Resource Mobilization.  Although India's national savings rate
(22.6% in 1980-85) is high for a country at its level of income, chronic
large public sector deficits have become a worrisome feature of the Indian
economy. Consolidated public sector deficits as a percent of GDP began to
increase in the late 1970s, growing from an average of 5.3% of GDP during
the Fifth Plan, to 7.7% of GDP during the Sixth Plan, and to an estimated
average of over 9.0% of GDP during the first two years of the Seventh
Plan. Deficits of this magnitude pose a serious threat to India's
prospects for maintaining 5% plus GDP growth with price and balance of
payments stability. To achieve 5% growth with stability, the Seventh Plan
calls for an increase in the share of public sector investment financed
from its own resources to 42% compared to 372 during the Sixth Plan
period. This, in turn, will require restraint in currenc expenditures
(including a reduction in rapidly growing food and fertilizer subsidies),
better cost recovery in the provision of social services, continuing
efforts to increase the yield of the tax system without stunting growth or
increasing the burden of the poor, and appropriate pricing policies in
public enterprises, supported by improvements in their operational
efficiency. The Government has announced its determination to stay within
the budgeted deficit during the current fiscal year. Consistent with this
approach, it has increased taxes in order to finance the expenditure
increases associated with the present drought rather than allow an
increase in the deficit.
22.     Balance of Payments.  Sustaining GDP growth of 5% per annum will
also require measures which assure a viable balance of payments position.
Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a substantial inc.ease in
import requirements, even after allowing for efficient import
substitution. Also, the present drought will place considerable short-
term pressure on the balance of payments (ref. para. 47). Bank staff
estimate that a 6% real export growth will be the minimum necessary to
support the longer term growth in import requirements without excessive
increases in external borrowing over the Seventh Plan period. Prospects
for India attaining this growth rate will depend heavily on changes in
policy to improve the profitability of exports.
23.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to
need substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for
the foreseeable future. With 6% real export growth, a 5% GDP growth
target implies an increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion
during the Sixth Plan period to US$27.5 billion for the Seventh. In the
past, the bulk of external financing was provided in the form of official



-9-
development assistance. In more recent years there has been a significant
hardening in the terms of aid from multilateral sources. For example,
while total lending from the Bank Group continued to increase in nominal
terms, the grant element declined from 71% to 412 as new commitments of
IDA declined from a peak of US$1,535 million in FY80 to US$678 million in
FY87. In addition, .ndia has had to rely somewhat more heavily on commer-
cial borrowing and, in the early 1980's, on drawings from the IMF.
24.     As a result of the larger volume and harder terms of external
capital flows during the first half of this decade, India's debt service
ratio has risen to almost 25% at present. The current high level of the
debt service ratio, in large measure, reflects the peaking of scheduled
repurchases from the IMF. However, the debt service ratio is expected to
taper off rapidly, declining to just over 20X by the early 1990s.
25.     In the near term, a relatively high level of external borrowing,
including an increased reliance on nonconcessional borrowing, will be
necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth
strategy and the drought, and to repay outstanding debt to the IMF.
Foreign exchange reserves have fallen from US$5.4 billion in January 1987
(representing 3.9 months imports) to US$5.2 billion by September (repre-
senting 3.4 months imports). India's past prudent balance of payments
management indicates that it would sacrifice its growth objectives rather
than borrow excessively or on unfavorable terms. Thus, a greater volume
of official assistance is warranted, particularly on concessional terms.
Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional aid, there remains
the imperative of assisting India in addressing the problems of pervasive
poverty. While India is now better placed than many other poor countries
to tackle its development problems, its ability to mobilize additional
resources to address poverty problems is limited. Concessional assistance
must play an important role in relieving this constraint.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
26.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 104 loans and 190 development
credits to India totaling US$11,081 million and US$14,499 million (both
net of cancellations), respectively, for a total of US$25,580 million. Of
this, US$9,898 million was undisbursed as of September 30, 1987 and
US$2,103 million had been repaid, leaving a balance of U$13,579 million
outstanding. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year
through September 30, 1987 totaled US$292 million, representing an
increase of about 61 percent over the same period last year. In response
to the unsatisfactory disbursement performance over the last few years and
the undisbursed balance of almost US$10 billion, the Bank is working
closely with GOI on the resolution of procurement, environmental, counter-
part funding and other issues which have contributed to slow
disburst;ments.



-10-
27.     Since 1959, IFC has made 49 commitments in India totaling US$514
million, of which US$284 million has been repaid, sold, terminated or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$230 million, US$219 million represents
loans and US$11 million equity.
28.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm de% opment designed to increase
agric.ltural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending
program have also been directed at: (a) helping to meet the energy needs
of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and (b) easing the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth, par-
ticularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through support of development finance
institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to
satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rueal roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastruc-
ture projects.
29.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Seventh Plan. Within this
overall strategy, however, Bank lending will be increasingly oriented
towards poverty alleviation and environmental protection, while maintain-
ing investments levels in energy and infrastructure. The proposed
loan/credit reflects this orientation. Also, high priority will continue
to be given to the agricultural program. While India has made significant
progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sustained to
improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute to
poverty alleviation and employment, as well as to help expand efforts to
increase resilience to droughts in irrigated and rainfed subsectors.
Thus, the Bank Group will continue to support irrigation, fertilizer
production and distribution, and agricultural extension, research and
credit. Increased assistance will be provided for industrial development,
to support Government efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster
development of the industrial sector. In line with the emphasis the
Seventh Plan gives to the expansion and more efficient use of basic
infrastructure capacity and to the development of India's indigenous
hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will continue to provide substantial
support to the development of the energy, transport and telecommunications
sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Finally, support of urban develop-
ment and other basic social services programs for the poor will also



-11-
continue to be essential, since despite successes in lowering birth rates,
India's population is increasing by about 16 million each year.
30.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economiclreports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
has been able to succeasfully adjust to the rapidly changing international
situation since the mid-1970s.  However, India will continue to require a
substantial level of foreign assistance to sustain the higher investment
and growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Seventh Plan
period. In order to insure adequate levels of resource transfer, bank
Group assistance for projects in India should continue to include the
financing of local expenditures.  India imports relatively few capital
goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital
goods industry. However, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in many projects, particularly in the case of agriculture and the social
sectors.
31.     India's poverty and needs are such that, whenever possible, exter-
nal capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past
was provided from IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a
peak of US$1.5 billion in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints. The
amount of IDA funds available to India is likely to remain small in rela-
tion to India's needs for external support. Thus, this requirement for
additional assistance will have to be met, in part, through larger Bank
lending. Given its development prospects and prudent macroeconomic
policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA
assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth
in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population
growth should result in sustained economic growth and improvement in the
balance of payments.
32.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the
Bank Group accounted for 22% of total commitments, 11% of gross
disbursements, and lOZ of net disbursements as compared with 49.4%, 37.4%
and 33.5%, respectively, in 1986/87. In 1986/87, about 20.7% of India's
total debt service payments were to the Bank Group. On March 31, 1987,
India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was estimated to be
about US$29.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$12.8 billion
or 44% (IDA's US$9.9 billion and IBRD's US$2.9 billion).
Bank's Involvement in Long-Term Drought Amelioration
33.     The proposed project is an integral part of the Bank's overall
strategy for assisting India in increasing the resilience of the economy



-12-
to droughts. Almost 602 of Bank/IDA resources t'ansferred to India for
the agricultural sector has gone to irrigation; all of India's major
states have benefited from at least one Bank-assisted water project.
Consistent with the Government's strategy outlined in Part IV (ref. paras.
55 to 62), which involves substantive changes in: (a) the emphasis given
to rainfed farming; and (b) the institutional approach to, and require-
ments for, assisting farmers in these areas, the Bank's proposed agricul-
tural sector work and lending programs for India reflect increased
priority for rainfed agriculture. Emphasis in the Bank's sector work is
being placed on key aspects of rainfed farming, including a review of
agricultural extension services, watershed and wastelands development. It
is expected that discussion of the findings of this work with the
Government would lead to the development of specific lending operations in
these areas. The immediate priority would be to assist the Government in
the design and implementation of the institutional changes needed to put
into effect the proposed approach to disseminate rainfed farming tech-
nologies outlined above ( e.g. through strengthened extension services).
In addition, the Bank will continue to work with the Government in the
context of ongoing operations as well as proposed new operations, to
establish improved institutional arrangements for monitoring technical
standards for the planning, design and construction of irrigation projects
and to improve the operation and management (including maintenance) of
existing schemes.
34.     In response to the present drought situation, the Bank is taking a
number of actions to assist India to deal with the effects of the drought
while sustaining the momentum of economic reform. In conjunction with the
proposed project, the Bank has reviewed its existing portfolio with the
objective of speeding up the implementation of ongoing projects in
drought-affected areas and, in selected cases, widening the scope of
projects to make them more responsive to the critical constraints on
agricultural production and village water supply arising from the drought
(ref. para. 69).
Drought Assistance by Other Donors
35.     A number of other donors have made or are considering offers of
drought assistance to GOI. The Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF) has agreed to provide India with 29.5 billion yen (US$200
million equivalent) to support the drought assistance program. Germany
has offered DM 10 million (US$5.4 milli3n equivalent) of food aid, prin-
cipally in the form of vegetable oil. Other donors, such as the EEC and
the United States, are still in the process of considering possible offers
of assistance, although the amount of such assistance is expected to total
less than US$100 million. Close contact has been maintained between the
Bank and these donors to ensure complementarity of the assistance being
provided. In addition, the Government is exploring with donors the
prospects for additional assistance to cover part of the local cost
financing of critical ongoing projects.



-13-
PART III - RELATIONS WITH IMF
36.     India's most recent Article IV consultation was held in May, 1987.
The Staff Report on this consultation (SM/87/160) was issued July 9, 1987.
India has not had any standby or extended arrangements with the IMF since
1984, and last used one of the Fund's special facilities in 1980. A
three-year extended arrangement for SDR 5,000 million, approved in
November 1981, was cancelled by GOI, effective May 1, 1984. Purchases
under the extended arrangement prior to cancellation totalled SDR 3,900
million. The amounts of principal and interest due the Fund (including
Trust Fund repayments) are SDR 985 million in 1987, SDR 1,107.6 million in
1988, SDR 1,1001.2 million in 1989, and SDR 745.0 million in 1990. India
does not plan to borrow from the Fund's emergency fund, as the terms are
relatively hard and India is already making substantial repayments to the
Fund.
PART IV - THE DROUGHT SITUATION
Background
37.     India is experiencing the worst period of poor weather of recent
years. The monsoons which normally last from June to September were
generally late and deficient: 21 of the country's 35 aeteorological zones
have had deficient or scanty rainfall, affecting 63% of the area of the
country. A composite rainfall index (the average of rainfall deviations
from normal in each rainfall subdivision weighted by the proportion of
unirrigated area) shows that in terms of overall weather conditions
1987-88 has been worse than any of the four recent years of poor monsoons:
1965-66, 1979-80, 1982-83 and 1986-87 (ref. Table 1).
38.     For many regions of the country this is the third or fourth suc-
cessive year of poor rainfall. The areas worst affected are the western
and northern regions including Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Western
Rajasthan and Eastern Gujarat where rainfall has been scanty, i.e. less
than 40% of normal. Major deficit areas (rainfall 40-80% of normal)
include some important foodgrain producing areas--the Punjab, Western
Uttar Pradesh, Eastern Madhya Pradesh and Orissa and parts of the south of
the country (Coastal Karnataka and Kerala). Ironically, much of West
Bengal and Bihar have been experiencing torrential rains and have suffered
some of the worst flooding in decades.



-14-
Table 1: Rainfall and Foodgrain Production
Composite Rainfall    % Fall From         % Falls in Output
Index Z Departure        Previous         From Previous Year
From Normal              Year
Kharif a/ Rabi b/   Total
1965-66          -18.6                -23.3         -18.7     -17.7      -18.4
1979-80          -20.2                -27.3         -19.0     -13.7      -17.0
1982-83          -13.2                -13.4         -12.5      +9.2       -2.9
186-87          -14.0                -10.2         -2.3       +3.9         0
1987-88          -27.7                -15.9         -15 to      n.a.       n.a
-21
Source: Natioual Council for Applied Economic Research.
a/ Kharif is the summer crop usually grown from June/July to
3ctober/November.
b/ Rabi is the winter crop, usually grown from October/November to
February/April.
Impact of the Drought
39.     The shortage of rainfall will largely affect the kharif crop, which
is normally sown at the onset of the monsoon (around June/July in most areas)
and is marketed between September and December. The kharif crop generally
accounts for about 60% of India's foodgrain production. This includes about
90Z of the rice, 80Z of coarse grains, over half the oilseeds and a third of
the pulses. The major winter (rabi) crop is wheat, which is to a very large
extent grown on irrigated land. Table 2 shows kharif and rabi production of
major food crops during 1985/86.
Table 2: Production of Major Food Crops 1985/86
(Millions of metric tons)
Kharif            Rabi            Total
Foodgrains                85.9             64.5            150.5
Cereals                  81.5             56.0            137.5
Rice                  (59.8)            (4.4)           (64.2)
Wheat                 ( --)            (46.9)           (46.9)
Other                 (21.7)            (4.7)           (26.4)
Pulses                    4.4              8.5             13.0
Oilseeds                   6.2              4.9             11.2
Source: Economic Survey, 1987



-15-
40.     The kharif crop loss in foodgrains as a result of the present
drought is expected to be of the order of 15 to 18 million tons from last
year's kharif crop of 86 million tons. The loss of rice production is
probably in the range of 8 to 10 million tons; the remainder is in coarse
grains and pulses. There has also been severe damage to the oilseeds crop.
In particular, the groundnut crop in Gujarat, which accounts for about 15%
of India's oilseed'production, was totally lost. Since India has no
reserves of edible oils, imports will be required to replenish the stocks
in the private and public distribution systems and to sustain the process-
ing of crude edible oils into forms traditionally used by Indian
households, such as ghee produced by the local vanaspati industry. There
has also been severe damage to fodder, especially in Rajasthan and
Gujarat, and shortages of water for livestock and human consumption are
emerging in severely affected western states and in Orissa. Except for
Rajasthan, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, the situation
has been eased somewhat in drought-affected states by rainfall in late
August and early September. This rainfall has improved the prospects for
a near normal rabi crop and for fodder and drinking water, although it
was too late to prevent major kharif crop losses in the drought-affected
areas. In the flood-stricken areas of Eastern India there has been some
washout of the rice crop, especially in Northern Bihar.
41.     Essentially, however, total foodgrain production will depend on
the success of the rabi crop and, in particular, production of wheat on
irrigated land. About 90% of wheat production is concentrated in six
states and 70% in the three largest surplus producing areas: Uttar Pradesh
(35%), Punjab (23%) and Haryana (11%). While all of these states have
been severely affected by drought, much of the area under wheat cultiva-
tion (70X on a national average) is irrigated. Nevertheless, there is a
risk of some loss in non-irrigated wheat production and even some poten-
tial problems in irrigated areas. A survey of 47 important reservoirs in
India found them to be at roughly 50% of live capacity as of the second
week of September 1987 (almost the end of the monsoon season when they
should be near their peak), compared with 75% of their capacity a year
ago. However, because reservoirs are low, farmers are expected to water
more judiciously and it is possible that a near normal rabi crop will
eventuate. On balance, while the risk of severe loss of the rabi crop
seems small, it seems unlikely that it will be significantly better than
last year's. Thus, the overall crop losses during the kharif season will
probably not be offset. Total foodgrain production for the year is
estimated at between 135 and 140 million tons, down from 150 million tons
in 1986/87.
42.     Foodgrain Supply Situation.  Official estimates indicate that
foodgrain stocks were about 18 million tons on October 1, 1987, consisting
of 6 million tons of rice and 12 million tons of wheat. Nevertheless,
there may be regional imbalances in the availability of stocks to meet
desired consumption levels. Although there is some substitutability in
consumption of wheat and rice, there are, however, clearly demarcated rice



-16-
and wheat regions of the country with strong consumer preferences. It
seems, therefore, that rice stocks may be inadequate, given the loss of 8
to 10 million tons of output, and that cereal imports may be needed to
maintain minimum desired consumption levels and minimum stocks as a buffer
against future droughts. The Government will also need to import some
pulses and coarse g%ains, for which no domestic stocks exist.
43.     Social Impact.  The macroeconomic implications of the drought will
be serious (reff. paras. 44-47). However, they pale beside the human
tragedy that will take place in India over the coming year. A large
portion of the country's population faces a significant loss of employment
and earnings. It is estimated that nearly 285 million people will be
affected in the rural areas in different states. Of these, more than 90
million would belong to the vulnerable sections of the society, consisting
of small farmers and agricultural laborers. In addition, successive
droughts in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Orissa, and other states have led to
severe drinking water scarcity, both in urban and rural areas. More than
90,000 villages are likely Lo face drinking water problems in these
states. While Government programs are being supplemented to provide
employment, food and water to the affected people, they will undoubtedly
experience severe hardships.
44.     Macroeconomic Implications.  Based on preliminary assessments of
the impact of the drought, the growth of GDP at factor cost is expected to
be, at best, no more than 2% in 1987/88, and is likely to be zerc.
Agricultural GDP will probably decline by 5 to 8%; growth in the services
sector is expected to be in the range of 3 to 5% (compared with 6%
historically); and industrial growth is also expected to be no more than 3
to 5%. Industrial growth could be further adversely affected by shortages
of electricity, as industrial load is shed (especially for energy-
intensive industries such as aluminum and other non-ferrous metals) in
order to meet demands for irrigation.
45.     The drought will also have a significant impact on the budget.
The Government has increased its allocation for drought-related relief and
public works programs from Rs 6.5 billion (equivalent to US$500 million)
to Rs 20 billion (US$1.5 billion) in response to state requests for 2 to 3
times this amount. The additional expenditures are to be covered by cuts
in other outlays in the amount of Rs 6.5 billion and a package of addi-
tional taxes of Rs 5.5 billion, which was announced on September 19.
Demands from the states for additional relief will, however, be very
difficult to resist. The budgetary costs can be expected to mount.
46.     There is likely to be some acceleration of domestic inflation as a
result of shortages of foodstuffs. While foodgrain and edible oil prices
have been held in check thus far by supply management, increases are
possible later in the year, if only in unofficial markets. On the whole,
an increase in consumer prices approaching 10% should not be ruled out.



-17-
47.     On the balance of payments side, there is likely to be a net cost
of at least US$1.0 to 1.2 billion through March 1988. Over the next 18
months, the total balance of payments cost is expected to exceed US$1.5
billion. For the period to March 1988, agricultural commodity imports
(including foodgrains and edible oils) are expected to increase by US$0.8
billion; additional petroleum and petroleum product imports of US$150
million and non-ferrous metal imports of US$50 million are also likely to
be required. In addition, exports of agricultural products are expected
to fall by over US$200 million. Additional drought-related imports will
also be needed in the next Indian fiscal year (April 1988 to March 1989)
and the decline in agricultural exports is also expected to carry over
into 1988/89.
The Government's Drought Relief Progra
48.     In response to the drought, the Government has set up a Cabinet
Committee on Drought (CCD) chaired by the Prime Minister, together with
inter-ministerial committees/working groups to monitor the drought and
flood situation, take corrective steps and report to the CCD. Similar
institutional arrangements have been set up in the affected states. The
Government has outlined the major elements of its drought relief program
in a note to the Bank (ref. Annex V). These relief efforts are directed
at minimizing crop losses, especially for the rabi crop, and providing
emergency relief for elements of the population severely affected by the
drought. Central assistance for drought relief totalling Rs.5.5 billion
(US$420 million) has been made available to the states. The need for
further assistance will be reviewed in light of the behavior of the
North-East monsoon (which normally affects the south of the country
between November and December).
49.     Measures taken to minimize crop losses are focussed on ensuring
adequate supplies of major inputs for the coming rabi crop. Priorities
have been established and plans drawn up for the procurement and distribu-
tion of seeds as well as for the replenishing of seed stocks during the
rabi season. These plans include increasing the total area coverage under
irbi crops, and increasing the coverage of less water-intensive and alter-
native short duration crops where water supplies and/or soil moisture are
inadequate for normal cropping. Water use plans have been established,
giving priority to drinking water supplies and seeking to optimize the
management of water for irrigation, including, where necessary, a reduc-
tion in the number of waterings to avoid the need to reduce the area
irrigated. State Electricity Boards have been instructed to ensure power
supply to agricultural pumpsets for at least eight to ten hours a day and
to maximize output from thermal power units to compensate for reduced
hydroelectric power. Also, steps have been taken to increase domestic
output and imports of diesel fuel to ensure adequate supplies to farmers.
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued instructions to banks to res-
chedule outstanding loans and provide crop loans to farmers seriously
affected by the drought.



-18-
50.     The Center and State Governments have well-established machinery
to meet the immediate needs of the population severely affected by
drought, since India has a history of periodic droughts and one part of
the country or another experiences drought in almost every year. Key
elements of the drought relief programs include: (a) rural employment
programs; (b) provision of drinking water; (c) public distribution system
for essential commodities; (d) supplementary nutrition programs; and (e)
cattle preservation.
51.     The National Rural Employment Program (NREP) and the Rural
Landless Employment Guarantee Program (RLEGP) are ongoing programs
designed to provide employment to unemployed and underemployed persons,
especially landless laborers, in rural areas in the creation of productive
assets o~ direct benefit to poverty groups and for strengthening rural,
economic and social infrastructure. Workers are paid partly in cash and
partly in foodgrains. In response to the drought, the Government's
drought relief machinery has been put into action and these programs are
being expanded. For example, in Rajasthan, one of the worst drought-
affected states, 1.4 million people per day were being employed under NREP
during October, compared with a normal level of 400,000 to 500,000 per
day. It is estimated that an average of 3.5 to 4 million persons per day
will have to be employed on relief works over the next eight months and
that the requirements could reach up to seven or eight millior persons per
day in some months. The NREP and RLEGP together are expected to provide
over 550 million man days of employment in the various drought affected
states. These are not adequate for meeting the above employment
requirements, however, and additional scarcity relief works are being
undertaken. These works are being dovetailed with regular Plan works to
the maximum extent possible. Priority in these programs is being given to
drought-related projects including water or soil conservation, roads and
social forestry. The Center has already released resources to the states
for the immediate provision of employment amounting to 278 million man
days.
52.     As previously indicated, priority in water management is being
given to drinking water supplies. Additional wells are being drilled or
existing wells deepened and, where necessary, drinking water will be
transported by truck or rail into severely affected areas. The Center has
already made available Rs.550 million (US$42 million) for drinking water
purposes.
53.     India has an extensive public distribution system (PDS), the
primary goal of which is to ensure adequate supplies of essential com-
modities (including rice, wheat, edible oils and sugar). In response to
the drought, supplies of commodities available for public distribution are
being augmented and the system itself is being expanded, especially in
inaccessible drought-affected areas. In this context, the Government has
stepped up substantially its imports of edible oils to make up the losses



-19-
in the domestic oilseeds crop and to ensure adequate supplies for the
local protessing industry (ref. para. 40). In addition, the Center and
State Governments are stepping up their supElementary nutrition programs,
whicb serve the more vulnerable sections of the population (women,
chi-den, and the old).  The expanded programs will cover an additional
2.6 million persons. Also, public health programs geared to disinfecting
drinking water supplies and disease prevention, are being expanded.
Cattle preservation measures include the development and implementation of
plans for increased fodder production, procurement and distribution to
deficit districts and, where necessary, the establishment of cattle camps
(in close cooperation with voluntary agencies) close to available water
supplies. Almost four million head of cattle will be covered by these
measures.
54.     These programs have been established for many years and have been
effective in mitigating the worst etfects of past droughts on affected
populations. They are well structured and appropriately focussed to deal
with the massive and complex problems associated with a drought, even one
of this magnitude. There will, nevertheless, be considerable strains on
the managerial and logistical capabilities of the various Center, State,
and local implementing agencies, and problems in implementation will
inevitably occur, especially in states with weaker administrative
capability. The Bank is involved in longer term efforts to improve
storage and distribution facilities which will enhance India's ability to
respond quickly and effectively to future droughts or other emergencies.
It is also actively supporting the Government's longer term drought
amelioration programs (see following sections).
The Government's Long-Term Strategy for Strengthening India's Resilience
to Drought.
55.     India has made major progress over the last twenty years in
i creasing the resilience of the agricultural sector to unfavorable
monsoons. In 1965, India had no buffer stocks of foodgrain and the
irrigation potential was only 34 million hectares, In 1987, buffer stocks
amount to 18 million tons (as of October 1) and the irrigation potential
has been increased to 68 million hectares. Improved crop yields, increas-
ing adoption of modern agricultural practices by farmers, and the
strengthening of agricultural infrastructure have imparted resilience to
the agricultural sector, despite a population increase of over 200
million.
56.     Much remains to be done, however, to improve the utilization of
available agricultural resources (especially scarce water resources) and
increase India's ability to withstand the vagaries of the monsoon.
Primary attention in the past has been given to the development of irriga-
tion and the Government intends to continue increasing the area under
irrigation. However, the investment costs associated with new irrigation
projects are high and increasing as the irrigation program extends to more



-20-
marginal areas. Consequently, in line with the strategy in the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1985-1990), the emphasis will be on increasing produc-
tivity in already irrigated areas. A National Water Policy has been
adopted in September 1987 by the National Water Resources Council,
presided over by the Prime Minister, Within the framework of this policy,
priority is being given to completing ongoing projects, while new starts
are restricted to medium-sized projects in drought-prone, rural and back-
ward areas. Special emphasis will be given to the planning of new
projects and to increasing the returns on existing schemes. Particular
attention will be placed on improving drainage and encouraging better
water management. Present efforts to develop effective and efficient use
of water in agricultural productiont (e.g. through the National Water
Management Project) will be intensified, as well as efforts to assess and
develop groundwater resources. Within this context, the Government
intends to strengthen and improve the enforcement of technical standards
for the planning, design and construction of projects, and to improve the
operation and management (including maintenance) of existing schemes. An
action plan for the implementation of the National Water Policy is cur-
rently under preparation for consideration by the National Water Resources
Council within a year.
57.     A large proportion of agricultural output (more than 40% of
aggregate food production) is still produced in rainfed areas (which
account for more than 70S of total crop lands) and is subject to large
year-to-year variations. These areas have lagged behind in terms of
increases in rural output and income compared with irrigated areas3. Due
to the high risks associated with high rainfall variability, farmevrs tend
to follow cropping patterns and farming practices characterized by low-
inputs and low outputs but lowered risks. Thus, crop yields have remained
low. Pasture areas are all severely degraded, deforestation and environ-
mental degradation are progressing, infrastructure such as roads and rural
power, and services such as research and extension are often insufficient,
and as a result, much of the rainfed arable land is producing well below
its potential.
58.     The Government has long recognized these problems and has
developed programs to address them. In the Seventh Plan, the Government
is placing particular emphasis on the development of rainfed agriculture
as part of its longer term strategy for increasing India's resilience to
droughts. The present drought has led Government to reaffirm the key
strategic oljectives of the Plan and to intensify its efforts to
accelerate their achievement. The Government has outlined its strategy
for development of rainfed areas and improving resilience to drought in
agriculture in a note to the Bank (refer Annex VI).  A comprehensive
program of measures is being developed which focuses on the effective
implementation of soil and water conservation measures supported by: (a)
accelerating the development and transfer of suitable technology packages
at the farm level; (b) improving support services, such as extension,
credit and marketing; (c) increasing the availability of key inputs



-21-
(fertilizer, seeds, and farming implements); and (d) expanding research on
rainfed farming techniques, including the development of varieties better
suited to rainfed farming and appropriate cropping systems. The
Covernment has recently prepared a National Watershed Development Program
for Rainfed Agriculture, to be implemented by the states and monitored
centrally. The Program's objectives are to accelerate the development of
rainfed agriculture through implementation of the integrated set of
measures outlined above. Priority will be given to rainfed areas with
moderate annual rainfall (500 to 1125 mm), for which experimental results
have been most promi4ing.
59.     The Government is also placing increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of wastelands, particularly public and communal lands which have been
degraded. The wastelands development program incorporates a balanced
approach to deal with land degradation through soil and water
conservation, afforestation and fodder development. To this end it has
established the National Wasteland Development Board to promote and guide
wasteland development. Emphasis will be placed on improving coordination
among the key agencies involved and .on promoting greater private sector
involvement in the reclamation and rehabilitation of wastelands.
60.     In the area of agricultural research, the Government has already
begun to devote greater financial and technical resources to rainfed
farming research and plans to accelerate this process. Attention will be
focussed on specific local conditions and the development of systems of
water management, soil moisture conservation and cropping systems
appropriate to each area. Special attention will be given to developing
new varieties capable of better production under rainfed conditions and to
developing suitable technological packages for rainfed areas. For the
longer term, the Government plans to intensify its research efforts in low
rainfall areas (those receiving less than 500 mm of rainfall per annum),
for which progress to date has been limited.
61.     Considerable progress has already been made in reorganizing and
strengthening agricultural extension services throughout the country along
the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) system. In order to expedite
the diffusion of existing technologies and those that evolve through
expanding research efforts, the Government is seeking to improve further
the efficiency and cost effectiveness of extension services. Special
attention is being placed on: (a) improving manpower planning and
training; (b) improving management and streamlining monitoring and
evaluation; (c) strengthening the links to the research system; and (d)
broadening the scope of extension services to cover soil and moisture
conservation, animal husbandry and fodder development.
62.     In the area of resource conservation, the Government is seeking to
improve the efficiency of public agencies charged with afforestation and
reafforestation in order to increase their planting on public lands and
encourage private woodlots. The management of comiunal properties is to



-22-
be improved through the development of an appropriate institutional
framework to: (a) develop basic and flexible land use plans for areas or
watersheds; (b) reach a consensus on plans and actions with local
populations; and (c) provide long-term technical and advisory support to
local groups which mobilize communal action to carry out and maintain land
development. Attention will be focussed on the introduction of tech-
nologies and management methods to increase the sustainable level of fuel
and fodder production and to design livestock management and control
techniques that will permit degraded communal grazing areas to be
rehabilitated.
PART V - THE DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
63.     A Bank mission visited India in September 1987 to design and
appraise the proposed project in consultation with the Government. A
Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this Report. There is no
Staff Appraisal Report. Negotiations were held in New Delhi in October,
1987. The Government was represerted by a delegation coordinated by Mr. J.
L. Bajaj, Joint Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of Finance. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
64.     The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) assist India in
meeting the costs and the reconstruction/rehabilitation requirements
resulting from the drought; (b) help sustain and enhance the momentum of
the economic reform process during the present drought situation; and (c)
support the Government's longer term strategy for increasing India's
resilience to droughts. As a result of the drought, imports of agricul-
tural products, petroleum and petroleum products and non-ferrous metals
are expected to increase by around US$1 billion and agricultural exports
to decline by about US$200 million in the period to March 1988, with
further spillover effects in 1988/89. This will place severe pressure on
the balance of payments. As indicated (ref. para. 25), foreign exchange
reserves have fallen from US$5.4 billion in January 1987 to US$5.2 billion
in September 1987. While reserves are adequate to meet the expected
import bill, the Government is understandably reluctant to allow a major
run-down below present levels. The timely injection of fast disbursing
foreign exchange under the proposed project would assist the Government to
manage the balance of payments consequences of the drought while maintain-
ing the momentum of the economic reform process. Without the proposed
assistance from the Bank and that offered by Japan and other donors (the
total of which is expected to amount to around US$750 million over the
next eighteen months), balance of payments pressures would likely ead to
irresistible demands on the Government to protect its reserves position by
restricting imports, thereby slowing economic growth and delaying the
process of industrial modarni-:ati3n and restructuring.



-23-
65.     As indicated in Part II (ref. para. 33), the proposed project is
an integral part of the Bank's overall strategy for assisting India in
increasing the resilience of the economy to droughts. This strategy
includes continued lending for irrigation, intensification of support for
rainfed agriculture, wastelands development and village water supplies,
and a sector work program focusing on institutional improvements in the
agricultural sector, especially for rainfed farming.
Project Description
66.     The proposed project will assist the Government's drought relief
program through the financing of urgently required imports needed to
sustain productive activities affected by the drought. The major elements
of the Government's drought relief program have been outlined in the
Government's note to the Bank attached as Annex V. The proposed loan of
US$150 million and credit of SDR 156.3 million (US$200 million equivalent)
will be used to finance imports of primarily agro-industrial inputs
(including oilseeds, edible oils, pesticides, veterinary medicines and
animal feed), petroleum and petroleum products, non-ferrous metals, and
other drought-related industrial intermediate inputs (e.g., textile fibres
and industrial components and spares). The bulk of the loan/credit is
expected to finance petroleum and petroleum products (diesel and kerosene)
and non-ferrous metals (aluminum, tin, and zinc). In addition, imports of
edible oils would replenish stocks in the public and private distribution
systems--depleted because of the drought, and ensure adequate supplies for
the local processing industry.
67.     During discussions of the proposed project, the Government has
reaffirmed its commitment to continue the process of modernization and
increased efficiency of the economy upon which it has embarked and has
outlined its program in the letter attached as Annex IV. This program
includes deregulation of domestic industries and streamlined decision
making on the revival or exit of sick industrial units. It also includes
improvements in the support system for exporters, including improved
access to pre-shipment financing, streamlining of administrative proce-
dures relating to export processing zones, improved access to key imported
items, and monetary and fiscal policies to ensure that Indian exports
remain internationally competitive. In addition, the Government will
continue to review its import regulations and tariffs to eliminate
anomalies in the structure of nominal and effective protection.
68.     The project would also support initiatives to accelerate the
design and implementation of key elements of the Government's long-term
strategy for increasing India's resilience to droughts, with particular
emphasis on rainfed agriculture. In the context of discussions of the
proposed project, the Government has indicated its intentions to
accelerate implementation of the 7th Plan strategy for longer term drought
amelioration and rehabilitation. These measures are reflected in a note
provided by the Government setting out its strateoy for development of



-24-
rainfed areas and improving resilience to drought in agriculture (attached
as Annex VI). Key elements include the adoption of a National Water
Policy, under which an Action Plan will be developed in the next year to
intensify efforts to improve the effectiveness of existing irrigation
schemes, speed up completion of schemes already underway and improve the
planning and design of future projects. A precise timetable is expected
to be drawn up by the end of 1987. At the same time, increased attention
will be focussed on rainfed agriculture. In particular, priority will be
given to accelerating the dissemination of technologies for soil and
on-farm moisture conservation. In this context, the Government is taking
steps to integrate the activities of extension and soil conservation
agencies, at the Center and in the states. Stabilization of watersheds
and upgrading of wastelands will be stepped up by acceleration of tree
planting programs and the increased use of vegetative soil conservation
within the framework of a National Watershed Program for Rainfed
Agriculture, currently in the initial stages of implementation. Efforts
to increase production of fodder and fuelwood, stabilize erosion and
enhance groundwater supplies are being given greater emphasis by the
National Wasteland Development Board, created in 1985. Finally, agricul-
tural research is being expanded and reoriented to include more location-
specific activities, especially in moisture conservation and development
of new crop varieties which provide better yields on a sustained basis
under rainfed farming conditions.
Related Actions in the Bank's Existing Portfolio
69.     As indicated in Part II (ref. para. 34), in conjunction with the
proposed project, the Bank has reviewed its existing portfolio with the
objective of speeding up the implementation of ongoing projects in
drought-affected areas and, in selected cases, widening the scope of
projects to make them more responsive to the critical constraints on
agricultural production and village water supply arising from the drought.
We plan to advance the release of US$100 million under the NABARD Credit
Project (Ln. No. 2653-IN, approved February 25, 1986) for term loans
which would enable farmers affected by the drought to respond quickly to
their need for investments in drought-proofing activities. This is par-
ticularly important and urgent in preparation of next year's kharif crop.
The proposed modification is consistent with the project's objectives of
helping increase agricultural production through participation in NABARD's
ongoing loan refinancing program for investments in agriculture and
strengthening the agricultural credit system. We also plan to increase
temporarily the disbursement percentages on selected projects in drought-
affected areas in order to maintain expenditures on essential development
projects during the present drought situation.
70.     We are also reviewing projects presently under preparation with
the objective of further strengthening components directed to increasing
drought resilience and adequately reflecting the financial and institu-
tional constraints arising from the present drought situation.



-25-
Loan/Credit Administration
71.     Disbursement.  The proposed loan/credit would be administered by
the Ministry of Finance in collaboration with the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI). Proceeds would be available for disbursement upon effectiveness
and would be used to reimburse 100% of foreign expenditures for eligible
imports for which payments are made after loan/credit signing.
Disbursement for reimbursement of eligible import expenditures would be
based on documentation prepared by RBI, based on Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts valued at less than US$5 million; for
contracts valued above this amount full documentation would be provided.
Applications for withdrawals based on SOEs would be submitted in amounts
of not less than US$1 million and supporting documentation would be
retained by RBI. All of the proposed project is expected to be disbursed
by March 31, 1989. To facilitate disbursement under this project, a
special account will be established in the RBI in US dollars, with an
authorized allocation of an amount equivalent to SDR 39.2 million (US$50
million equivalent). Replenishment will be made quarterly or whenever the
special account is drawn down to about 50% of its initial deposit,
whichever occurs first.
72.     Procurement.  Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Procurement will be through ICB but with the
following major exceptions; (i) subject to the prior approval of the Bank,
procurement of commonly traded commodities will be undertaken through
organized international commodity markets or other channels of competitive
procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank; and (ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost less
than $5 million each may be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement
procedures of the purchasers of such goods acceptable to the Bank.
73.     Accounts and Audits.  RBI would maintain accounts and supporting
documentation in respect of the project. Audits would be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/Association within nine months
of the closing of the GOI fiscal year (March 31) in which disbursements
under the loan/credit are made.
Environmental Impact
74.     The drought has had serious, adverse ecological consequences in
the hardest hit states, particularly in terms of soil erosion, damage to
flora and fauna and shrinking water tables. In supporting the
Government's long term drought rehabilitation efforts (ref. paras. 55-62),
the project will have a positive impact on the environment since these
efforts will be designed, in large part, to re-establish or fortify the
natural resource base in order to help avoid or mitigate the adverse
effects of future droughts.



-26-
Benefits and Risks
75.     The proposed project would help reduce the adverse impact of the
drought on India's balance of payments, thereby helping to sustain the
momentum of the process of modernization and increased efficiency -of the
Indian economy upon which the Government has embarked. The additional
budgetary resources provided under the project would also help reduce the
adverse impact on funding of development projects resulting from the
diversion of funds to drought relief. The project would also support
initiatives to accelerate the design and implementation of longer term
policies and programs for increasing India's resilience to droughts, with
substantial resulting benefits in terms of poverty alleviation. The major
risk is that, despite the assistance to be provided under the proposed
project and by other donors, pressures on the balance of payments result-
ing from the drought may be so severe that the Government may be forced to
halt or even reverse the economic reform program. However, given GOI's
stated commitment to maintain the tempo of economic development, despite
the drought, the risks are judged to be acceptable.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
By: W. David Hopper
November 5, 1987
Washington, DC



INDIA - EiOt:C INDICATMS                                           AN=E   I
1r1+-i0 P.jtatian (mits.)    75                                                                              aelo2
1986 Per Copits CM  In USS:    26
A. Sh~ares of Gross Darustic Pro.dct                    6. Growth Rates (1 per annua)
(f rem iawrrent price dots)                             (fros cwsta't price ebta)
1965    197      1960    1986.  198       1161p          1966-75 1973*80 1160.85    1165    19860
GrMs Dometic proact C.P.        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                4.0      4.2     S.6      4.8      5.0
met 1.nlret TOMe               6.6     6.8    10.       11.0    11.?       ...                      .
AV.nzr                        41.5    45.4    33.6    15.       277        .   .7                  2.1      2.7      1.4      1.1
of =t1y NL20.2    16.6    223    3.6                            24.1      ..3.7                    5.0     5.5      6.5      6.6
(o  Ad  weting)         13.9    12.0    14.9    14.3    14.7        .               4.0      4.9     5.9      6.?
ServIce                       23.?    27.1    33.2    35.9    36.41        .               4.2     5.9      7.4     7.7       7,1
Reemaeve Wara                     2.2    -0.6    -3.8    -2.6    -3.4    .1.98.                               35       37       5?
atgr   of  FS              3.9      4.5     6.9      6.71    6.3      6.7              3.2       0       .        .         7
tws"  of Wsl                   6.1     5.1    10.8      9.3      9.7     8.6              -0.3     9.1     4.6    16.1       -0.8
Totat tIitwes                   102.2   100.6   102.3   102.6   103.4   102.0                3.6      4.4     5.7      L.0      4.4
Toda Cus*ifut                 86.4    81.5    61.6    19.3    IL.?        .               3.5      4.2      6.1     9.0      3.9
144vte CMaJ4*.4            76.9    72.8    71.4    da.1    67.1         ..3.2                   3.6      5.3     8.5       3.6
Guast Gmmenewt              9.5     8.6    t0.2    111.2    t1.6        .6.6                     7.8    t0.?    n.9        4.2
Gronmms       fe1 Imwsutu     18.4    19.2    24.7   25.1    23.3          ..3.9                   5.2      4.2     4.5       6.1
U1xsd Imsnott              17.1    15.3    19.8    21.4    22.0         ..2.9                   5.5      S.3     5.6
Owuss in Stock              1.2      3.9     4.9      3.7     3.2       .                 .       .
Grms Dinete  wing               16.2    18.7    20.8    2Z.6    21.9         .              7.0      3.5      4.5    *1.1
net Fes- tram                 .0.7    04.4      0.4    *0.5    -0.4        .                .       ,
Mso cauri   raufwfs            0.3     0.3      2.       1.?     1.3       .                .       .
Gras NstfahaL lwing              1SA     18.6   23.3    23.7    22.8         ..7.7                    4.7      3.4    *4Z
in mUtiwo of LWj's              165    1973    1960    196         198     190P
(at custest 196 prfces)         -.-      ....    ....    ....      ...
arm omss tflit   Prodjct       737     976    1275    1575    1661    1766                  4      4.2      5.6     6.8        S
C"Mitytotchare                  63      85       89      109     116      135             4.4      5.3      5.8     6.4      17.3
Teiusf Truk Ajuasto             35      34        0       10      13      27..                      .
Gross Dinstic lr~m762    1010    1275    15O            164    1754.                       4.1      5.      6.9       5.8
Grews Ntfaut Proazt            724     966    1279    1567    1674    171A                 4.1     4.4      5.4     6.8       4.8
Grot" Nsttanl tri              131    1002    1279    1577    16P        170              4.2      4.2     5.6        7      5.6
;W--         ...(1160  Jo10) ..........                 ......Inf lfanS Rates CZ p.m.) ......
C. Prfce hndfcss                 190m 1                    16      195     im6p          1945-73  1973-80 19160-      1965    IflIp
CwirPrices (IF$ 44)        100.0   121.2   136.4   144.9   155.9   167.3                 5.3     5.1      9.3      7.6      7.3
liwlale Pices(IfIl 63)      100.0   112.2   122.5   131.0   136.4   144.9                6.9      6.9     6.4      4.1      6.2
IqAtics    Deltor              100.0   117.3   123.1   136.1   144.9   156.5                 6.3     6.2      7.7     6.4       8.0
1911.5t 5vwipumir  Deflator   100.0   116.8   127.4   135.2   143.4   153.7                  6.4     6.3      7.5     6.0       7.2
0. Odwther,icatms                     1968-73          1973400          1180.5........................
............................  .......  .......    .......         Notes.  Data for IedIa refers to fi sat
Groith Nato (I p.o.):                                                                   VWars  i.e. 1960 is FY 80/81.
PqxAtaticn                             2.3              2.3              2.2
Llb' Force                              ...                                .p  prelimirm-y data
Gras Netloat trau p.c.                  18.93.3
Private Cwauiptiwon P.C.               0.8              1.4              3.1
Inr-t Utesticitt -
~two    (GWlS) / 00 (OP)              -0.1              2.2              0.8
Ihginst Swings Rates:
Gross Natieal SiAvIg                  20.3             26.8             22.2
Gross Datic Savin                     20.4             22.7             23.0
cm (turfa wages):                        6.1              5.1              4.0
gise of Total                   1965    1973    1160
Labr Forc irs
Aor*A4wme7.                            11      6.
tristry                       11.9    12.8    13.2
Services                      15.2    16.1    17.1
lota                         100.0   100.0   100.0                                     .......................



AMl I
PaSe 2 of 3
INDIA. 1 9*WC USCICATWS
...........................
Vol_ tff  (1 .100)                           eas cu" a C    rt es (ouia  Us):
B. Omdwle                        110  1W  1Sw    1911 1_                      I-- 196         l9 1W   19115 i    tP
...     ..... ..  .......  .... . .. ....  .....                              ....     ....... ................................  .. ...............
Ta                                lo       91              100      1        a       up       3%       no      US       SW       414
itnnap                             a        U        7      10 11          1        Su       39      36       W        43       46t
mine Prodm                         76       92      96      100      13       101     VS       373      3W      331      310       351
cot                               111      114      105     100      la       Is      VI       1%9      176     177      193      200
moutuam                            W        a       96      100      16       110    Mm       5W       me      6146    47           54
Otw  _t"                         '140      1n       113     100       a       101    1415    133       11e      96       93       1=
towi md_          ot"  ()  *)  W            9       99      100      102    1O7         2    am       S6W      4m    931         10160
f. Nwdiwd a s1M
I1       96      140      100      76       73 9R            7      1496      79      575       211
P  ad Otr ow                     173      13       1e      100       W       118  1u3    4309    373    312                      1002
OUw  15M4                          19       9?      113     100    1is        1      Z5         W      31m              gM       a10
*11W eo      _4... ...                       ...     ...      ...      ...          ...     ...      ...      ...     .
Ow  Inrtmelas woo               U        73       76      100      9?      110    39       2716    2m        35      34       3SW
CItd               _                    101 t    119      100     111      11t    30       M2    307         34      St6ll    3321
towl N "s--Ies  Iq.   (W) a)  97            96      97      10o      114      117 I?         1430    140    14u0    171U         162
C. Ta  of trv  (196  a  W        1        19a1    19W      19       1105      M..p *---a..-....-------
lmrh. UI*      Prce td105I0   103.0   10LO   100.0   100.0    10.0
Ireh. Itrwt  Prle tWd.          113.0  t1.O0   103.0   100.0    960          97.0         p a petla    y dots
Madwdlse Tla   of Trb            91.2     9.3    97.1   100.0   102.0   103.1
tu  mlUlion (at arrm* pric")                        a) liulitu statistIcal dlsirq y; net of
N. Ibla;                               . of  ..  1  . 1 ... 1;.5   19.1  1W  ..iip
..................................    ....     ....
Ests of 6ub ad we               111    II=        116   12z13    1          1431t
Nardedla (109) >a)           *      )     6    SW       076    9351 1WO
kbte#_ tezaI~UM                       239       S1      3n       3316    11
15WU of _ob ad W$               174      1a6     185    167        130    1661a
nodwl  (   09)               "W       1435    It4    14Ao0D  t170    1t9
Mn4s_w  thvkc                  lStj    16       2m1   m    o    211. 2 7
Raaen   tm                        16"    .50s     .44-7   -"1      .4      .4
Not FaMtu :                       611     *15 2    *5-     .5        77    -10
(I "t pr   )                   402      d       75       606    10W     1213
Wt o s    fas                   7m         W      am70    a2        3319    1975
-     ralttM)                    3766    316    25         25a    2241    3m
luter                   -281O    *2U2    -2614    -9      -5%    -U61
Li-TawCittl ldtow           2      7?    2my    2656    40          3wU  46W
0iet1ncee t                     a       (i        3      a1      140      19t
O"feffl cCitut &ats             663     39       3       453      359      3
not LT Lon                    2125    2213    2U6    3514    3g9    4057
Toult Ot   Its* (Net)             48    -115       -445             1490     73
Cital Floo NE.t.               -43    *1496       29    -2       207      734
Etter  ad  lasola             -no       210     474      275      s10
I  Intot anWm                   07     1Uit      43      -196      5      -a91
Not Creit ftom tw              312    196       Ms        67    .209    -0
om buam  a.we                  345    -50       -86     -263    _54?    -151
As udsute of UP:
_mmse                         -3j      -3.9    -2.5    -2.6    -3.4    -1.9
lMteP e                        03   0.4   0.4   0.5   OA   0.
Dome AesM bIptom              -I.?    -1.A    .1.4  *1.6          2.6     1.
xww8" It_s
tstMiatl __rv        ldtl. MO)     "     431      49W  504t         4       6
_m_ave last.  fid Il. U55)   13M0          8W      W24      W              1082
officitl  X_ W'm                T7        9.      tai3    11.8    123       12.79
de  el ft". X3. St 10   100.00   99t   107   101.35   95.13X   64                    .
W   adltfas  o = tU )   161472  1                156   185   19             4010



UAMX I
Pae. 3 of 3
t11A- IbO4IC I2I1ATt
...........................
5a   ofWC)Get'iRt (1 h G.e.)
1.   -   CcwwlItn               19o 6    155     1983    1984    19        1t6              1960 U          ,        ii       ss
...... .....  . _...... ....          . .... . . ....  .... .    ....  .....                .... .....       ....      ..... ............................. .. .. ... ..
1wvet g1pta                     1.3    20.0    18.9    19.8    20.6    21.6                  9.7             0.7    129       15.9
arm*   b imu l                   18.6    203     20.2    22.1      W.?     2W4              11.9             15.5    13.5      16.2
O,ft    apt lae"03                       -L$    -t.3    -2J       -25 *2.?                                           1..       1 104
cmiuealEIss                      0.7 b.8          7.6      6.      6.1    8a5               1.6              16.0     5.$     16.0
.waU oefitt                      .9.0     6.2     4.9   -10.6   -10.7   -11.2              -*.7              2.0      0.5      14.8
GreW a)                          0.4      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2            *14.9             34A     -2.3    *16.7
btunu  vt rS (t)                  1.0     05      0T       0.t     0.8      1.0             -3.7             11.2    30.2     29.?
_m ttc Nutr4u  P1'wfh            3.6      4.      6.2      6.2     6.1      58              A.9               4.8     5.8      8.8
onm-'e  SW* Pflcigr               4.0     2.8      1.6     3.5     36       4.2            -1.1             14.7      9.8     29.1
U.t Of1d ott (  M ailis)                      Osbt 0utatf* A Sidaso (U  sit.)
J. ljtmvl clitad  wloFa,t is.-D...........                                          .........................
ad   to Wdi atWas             1900    15"      19      19"at    196     19p   190    "a           196     18   l90S   1iiP
Adis , A cmlety Swwtud LT I 3               7    158   1a6        24       31    1m7   t15    21410   230    27    3024?
offfelat Crdits               160    12          26    15       1501      ..   14   1            1T      2m      Z
IAtIf at"l                 143    1350    1240       9       1208      ..    60    t9n    1 25t                12746
of Atchle                 99      214     3        1is     21      410      au    1in       11               2178     244?
of hAcd IDA              67    1061    841        7        9.      "J    514S2    an2   i            4a      9150    109
-tatAl                      1is       2       8a     6        an       .. *   om      9m       Wt    111151   10.2
P?i%Vft cram to                291     495      521    1        90r       ..       9    1269    17        309    4159
*44              *         .34     .30              154      15       ..      151              9       w       411
Firuta 35st              525                 515    1232 M             ..     52u    120t   t1Z          1    3am . 8
PriVt Nm4inwauui LT              194      36      3m       530     43       v7      30      159    177    2511    3093        3190
.to   LT                        21       22U     MS       514    20    4          189    200    5177   18114   30            164
U  lot Credit                    3A      166    158       49    .177    .30         39    219    3S         31    4102        424
wat owit-TVs cap9ta              30  6s           49      251    25        12m      us    16        15n     174      1516     1750
Toa Iuwtliirw U  & at p          Ml    21        453    43    53          452   193    50          2NW    3177   3W7         42461
Nw  ad iA RkatIs                96      12    196    19a         196      "GAP
............. w.....            ....        ....    ....     ..... .....                 .............................................
owe of Total LorT m am                                                                 bos
1. I1M an  of tota              4.57    6.44    7.67    7.52    7.03    r.2
2. IOA asof raTol              2S46   33.       3.74   32.72   31.49   26.90               etlta
3. toll*U as Xot Tout          33.03   39.91   41.41   40.5   3.53   322
a) Grnts    clamtmf tad as forign an
Owr of Total LT  ibt Seavia                                                            wue not bron dm into Off iiL/rawmoffIcial
1. IO  a X of Tot              13.06   15.03   17.94   19.59   18.21        ..         or epitalleju.
2. ICA a X of Totl              4.61    6.19    6.66    7.81    6.99
3. I6SFnA cI of totl           17.6?   21.21   24.0   27Q   25.20
O     4 torts Ratios
.....................
1. I   taiu  oh               146.98  176.94  1.17  206.79  55.51   24.87
2. IM  C td       t             2.76   19.43   30.03   31.05   31.98   26.72
3. hT  omr O.                           15.55   12.77   13.20   11.5    11.76
4. LT.I.T DiLpat              157.25  213.95  230.97  251.6   29.00  25S.1
owto-u  aatoa
.....................
I. LetgT    0ow                11.19   12.24   12.32   l4.46   15.54   16.87
2. Ilt Cr6111W                  0.21     1.30    1.9?    2.1?    2.11    1.90
L3 Uw-Ter Dsbte0                0.57    1.07    0.S4    0.97    0.-7      0.81
4. LT."Wo  OSlO                 11.9    14A     15.12   17.42   18.43   19.
..........  . 
1. AMle *    1wa nad LT         6.20    9.90   11.10   11.10   13.50   18.10
2. v"b"t"  4weted LT            0.98    2.#    3.74    4.22    6.99    6.10
S TOl Lt Omt btraI              9.16   12.60   14.86   15.32    A.48   24.20
4. IW RY_dasas * .v Cw.
S. bese  Oty an V    in
L Totl (fi         1t*4 .1                                                         ..................................................)



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OP BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK WANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1987)
Us$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 21
61 Loans/                                             3,142.9          -
122 Credits fully disbursed                               -        7,749.6            -
842-rN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0          20.35
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -             4.64
963-IN   1980       Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0           5.81
981-Il    1980      Population II                         -          46.0           7.51
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0           5.69
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0          39.68
1012-Il    1980     Cashewnut                             -           22.0           8.36
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0          19.99
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0           9.11
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          25.53
10S3-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0          11.13
i8a7-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -             7.93
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rtkral Roads                   -           35.0           6.60
1078-I    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          14.90
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0           8.73
1108-IN    1981     H.P. Mtedium Irrigation               -          140.0          36.19
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          14.75
1125-Il    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          399.1          25.51
1135-Il    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0           0.08
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0           4.03
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          15.31
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0          23.50
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         135.84
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         107.29
1178-Il    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          16.06
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          10.11
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           152.69
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           4.01
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -            29.22
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -            59.69
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0           4.37
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            18.66
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          55.96
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kaskmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0          17.65
1288-IN    1983     Chiambal Madhya Pradesh
Irrigation II                      -           31.0          11.53
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0          59.44
2205-IS    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -            37.02



-AM= II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1299-1N    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -         200.0          69.48
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0         -            197.04
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       139.3          -            34.57
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0          67.63
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0          51.67
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         117.26
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development IIr        -          147.0         118.09
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission          250.7          -           245.74
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            40.27
1383-iN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          19.74
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -            19.50
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0          54.93
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          35.55
1426-IN    1984      Population III                        -           70.0          57.80
143Z-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          18.44
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0          -           153.96
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                      151.0          -           109.38
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5          -           186.14
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6          -            83.60
1454-IN    1984      Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -           36.5          37.65
SP-12-IN   1984      Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -           36.5          45.17
1468-IN    1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5           3.84
SP-16-IN   1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5          17.96
1483-IN    1984     Upper Canga Irrigation                 -         125.0         128.29
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation              -         172.0         141.42
2416-IN    1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric        157.4          -           153.01
SP-20-IN   1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric          -          129.8         155.46
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification            280.7          -          245.17
2442-IN    1984      Parakka II Thermal Power            300.8          -          294.08
2452-IN    1984      Fourth Trombay Thermal Power        135.4          -            81.38
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III         -         220.0         210.49
1514-IN    1985      Kerala Social Forestry                -          31.8          29.53
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I            -          39.1          45.45
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development               -         138.0         147.62
2497-IN    1985      Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power   200.0            -          200.00
1552-IN    1985     Narmada (Cujarat) Dam and Power        -         100.0         105.65
1553-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Canal                -         150.0         177.73
1569-IN    1985      Second National Agricultural Ext.   -            49.0          49.99
1611-IN    1985     National Social Forestry               -         165.0         177.47
1613-IN    1985      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric          -           13.2          15.87
2498-IN    1985      Jharia Coking Coal                  248.0          -          226.56
2505-IN    1985      Maharashtra Petrochemical           300.0          -          240.53
2534-IN    1985      Second National Highway             200.0          -          193.84
2544-IN    1985      Chandrapur Thermal Power            300.0          -          270.45
2555-IN    1985      Rihand Power Transmission           250.0          -          222.01
2582-IN    1985      Kerala Power                        176.0          -           175.97
1619-IN    1986     West Bengal Minor Irrigation           -          99.0         129.24
1621-IN    1986     Maharashtra Composite Irrigation    -            160.0         205.25
1622-IN    1986     Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation  -             41.0          48.46



Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  fiscal                                                (nlt of Cancellations)
Credit   Yer of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Sauk        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 21
1623-IN    1986     West Bengal Population                -          51.0          60.46
1631-I   1986      National Agricultural Research II   -            72.1          81.98
2629-I   1986      Industrial Export Dev. Finance       90.0         -            89.31
2630-IN    1986     ICICI-Indus. ap. Dev. Finance    160.0           -           149.48
1643-Il    1986     Cujarat Urban                         -          62.0          69.84
26S3-IN    1986     VBARD I                             375.0         -           272.48
2660-XE    1986     Cement Industry                     165.0         -           162.52
2661-1E    1986     ICICI - Cement Industry              35.0         -            33.67
1665-IN    1986     Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation*         -         140.0         163.15
2662-IN    1986     Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation*       131.0         -           131.00
26?4-IN    1986     Combined Cycle Power                485.0         -           484.54
2729-XN    1986     Cooperative Fertilizer              150.2         -           150.20
2730-IN    1986     Cooperative Fertilizer              152.0         -           104.82
1737-IE   1987      Bihar Tubewells                       -          68.0          70.50
2769-IN    1981     Bombay Water Supply &
Sewerage III *                    40.0         -            40.00
1750-IX   1987      Bombay Water Supply &
S Sewerage III *                       -          145.0        135.00
1754-IN    1987     National Agric. Extension III *       -          85.0         91.75
1757-IN    1987     GuJarat Rural loads                   -         119.6         129.24
1770-I    1q87      National Water Management             -         114.0         119.26
2785-XE    1987     Oil India Petroleum                 140.0         -           140.00
2796-IN    1987     Coal Mining & Quality Improvement 340.0           -           340.00
2813-IN    Il87     Telecomunications IX                345.0         -           34S.00
Total                                  11,081.2    14,499.3
of which has been repaid              1,761.8       341.6
Total now outstanding                   9,319.4    14,1S7.7
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/       9,319.4   714,157.
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         6,158.72    3,739.43
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUtS dollar exchange
rate in effect on Karch 31, 1987, while original principal is based on the exchange
rate in effect at negotiations. This accounts for the fact that in some cases, the
undisbursed balance as shown in $ equivalent is higher than the original principal.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*    ot yet effective.



AN= 1 
Page 4 of 4
B.  8 TUE T OF INC !UYESTHI
(As of September 30, 1987)
Fiscal                                                  Aount (188 mllion)
mma                     COMDaaX                      t5US      Amity    IQUI
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil BEgine. Ltd.             0.8        -        0.8
1960            Ass=m Silliman:te Ltd.                 1.4        -        1.4
1961            R.8.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0,2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloater Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jaysbree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian ESplosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Cbemicals Ltd.             15.2       3.8      19.0,
1976-87         Escorts Limited                       15.6        -       1S.6
1978            Rousing Development FinanCe Corp.   4.0          1.6       5.6
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemitals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertil4zers Limited        15.9        -       15.9
1981-86         Tate Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    51.4          -       51.4
1981             Rahindra, )ahindra Limited           15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nsagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           1.5       0.3       1.8
1981-86/87      Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3       0.3       2.6
1981            Ragarjuna Steels Limited               2.9       0.2       3.1
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.9        -       15.9
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           14.6        -       14.6
1984-86         The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      16.0         -      16.0
1985            Bihar Sponge                          15.1       0.7      15.8
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                       23.9        -       23.9
1985            Rodi Cement                           13.0        -       13.0
1985            India Lease Development Ltd.           5.0       0.3       5.3
1986            Larsen and Toubro Ltd.                21.8        -       21.8
1986            India Equipment Leasing Ltd.           2.5       0.4       2.9
1986            Bajaj Tempo Limited                   30.5        -       30.5
1986            The Great Eastern Shipping
Company Ltd.                       8.0        2.0     10.0
1987            Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizer   35.6          -       35.6
1987.           Rero Bonds Motors Ltd.                 7.7        -        7.7
1987            Wimco Limited                          4.7        -       4.7
1987            Titan Watches Limited                 15.2       0.4      15.6
1987            Export-Import Bank of India           15.0        -       15.0
1987            Gujarat Fusion Glass Ltd.              7.5       1.7       9.2
1987            The Gujarat Rural Housing
Finance Corp.                       -         0.2      0.2
1987            Rindustan Motors Ltd.                 37.6               IL 37
TOTAL GROSS COMMITNENTS        495.5       18.5    514.0
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           276.4        L0   24.4
Now Reld                    219.1      10.5    229.6
._90=81    gama _   nmmmm
Undisbursed                 149.8       2.9    152.7
_am         _m    _a



ANNEX III
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project    :    Two months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project  :    Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Agriculture
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   :      September 1987
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission   :      September 1987
(e)  Completion of negotiations        :    October 1987
(f)  Planned Date of effectiveness    :    December 1987
Section II:  Special Rank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
None



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
J.L. BAJAJ                                  Ministry of Finance
Joint Secretary                         Department of Economic Affairs
At Camp Washington
October 1, 1987
Dear Mr.Alisbah,
Please refer to the discussions that Indian Delegation had with
you and the Senior Management of the Bank regarding   World Bank's
proposal to support Government of India's efforts to sustain its
development programmes in the context of the current drought
situation. The information needed by the Bank is set out below:
India is currently experiencing one of the severest droughts in
the current century.   This drought will have serious effects on the
economy.   The Government is making determined efforts to meet this
challenge.  We have a stock of foodgrains of about 20 millinn tonnes.
With it the employment generation through public works programmes has
been accelerated in rural areas.  Additional funds have been allocated
to projects for drinking water supply in rural and urban areas. Fodder
for cattle in drought affected States is being supplied from States
which are somewhat better placed in this regard.  Larger quantities of
edible oils are being imported and their total imports are likely to
reach about 1.5 million tonnes.   Additional quantities of pulses are
also being imported.
The Government has demonstrated its intention to maintain
overall fiscal balance despite this extreme natural calamity.  In order
to mobilise resources to meet the additional drought relief expenditure
commitments, the Government has recently announced revenue measures
which are expected to yield equivalent of about $500 million in the
current fiscal year.  In addition, the Government has restructured its
expenditure priorities to reduce non-developmental expenditure by about
the same magnitude.
The Government is determined to manage the situa8ion while
protecting investment and maintaining the tempo of development of the
economy. In line with this the Government remains committed to continue
the process of modernmiation and increased efficiency of the economy
upon which it has embarked.
ever the past several years we have taken significant measures
to increase the flexibility that firms have in making investment and
production decisions, and to allow a greater degree of domestic
competition. We have launched a series of industry-specific initiatives



EINEX IV
Page 2 of 3
to revitalize and modernize key subsectors. We are carrying out large,
well-targeted   invqstment   programmes   to   remove   infrastructure
bottlenecks. We have also undertaken far reaching fiscal reforms of the
tax structure to promote investment, savings and growth.
In line with the need for upgrading industrial processes and
improving product quality, we have eased the access of Indian firms to
advanced technology embodied in imported capital goods and processes.
The Government has also taken steps to encourage the development Of a
dynamic export sector that can meet international standards of price,
quality and reliability.   Access of exporters to imported inputs at
international prices has greatly increased and incentives to export have
been greatly strengthened.
Considerable   progress   has   already   been   made,   through
delicensing, broadbanding and other mechanisms, in reducing requirements
for  Government  approval  of  key  business  decisions.    We  envision
continued monitoring and review of the regulatory mechanisms to make
them  more  expeditious  and  transparent.    In  order  to  deal  more
effectively with the problem of industrial sickness, a Board for
Industrial and Financial Reonastruction has started functioning.  This
will rationalise and quicken the decision making process on the revival
and/or closure of sick units. An amendment to the Companies Act, which
is currently before Parliament, aims to eliminate the requirement of
prior Government approval of high-level executive appointments.
These and other policies have facilitated speedier decision
making  and  have  fostered  increased  domestic  competition  in  the
industrial sector.   The growth rate of industrial v3utput has averaged
8.7 per cent in the past three years.   The full impact of the policy
initiatives relating to investment, which have promoted economies of
scale and technology upgradation, will be reflected in output growtn
only over the next few years.  The Government"s commitment to the course
it has set remains firm.
The Government continues to give high priority to the needs of
export industry. The existing schemes to provide exporters with access
to imported inputs at world prices have been expanded and their
administration  has  been  streamlined.    Credit  programes are  being
reviewed to ensure that exporters have adequate access to pre-shipment
financing.  The administrative procedure relating to export processing
zones  are  being  reviewed.    The  Government will  continue  to  take
necessary monetary and fiscal measures to ensure that Indian exports
remain internationally competitive.
Government has announced in the long-term Fiscal Policy tneir
intention to reduce dispersal of the customs tariff.   However,  the
present  circumstances  of  acute  balance  of  payments  stringency
exacerbated  by  drought  and  floods  make  any  further  significant
relaxation of import control inadvisable. Nonetheless? Government will



AN4NEX IV
Page 3 of 3
continue to review its import regulations and taritfs to eliminate
anomalies in the atrtacture of nominal and effective protection.  The
Government also intends to maintain and improve the access or exporters
and high technology subsectors to key imported inputs instituted over
the last few years.
Yours sincerely,
( J. L. BaJaJ )
Mr. Bilsel Alisbah
Director
India Department
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433



ANNE V
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE GOVERNMENT'S DROUGHT RELIEF PROGRAM
1.      The failure of the Southwest monsoon in 1987 has resulted in one of
the worst droughts the country has faced since 1965. Out of the 35
meteorlogical subdivisions in the country, only 14 had excess or normal
rainfall, the rest of the country having received only deficient/scanty
rainfall. The extremely poor precipitation has affected 63% of the area in
the country resulting in crop damages and scarcity of drinking water.
2.      Fifteen states and six Union Territories have been affected by
drought conditions resulting in crop losses on an area of 44 million ha.
spread over 269 districts. Fifteen states have been affected. The worst
affected states are Rajasthan, Gujarat, and parts of Orissa where the current
year's drought has followed previous years' droughts. Other states,
including Punjab and Haryana, have also reported crop damages because of long
dry spells. The two major crops which have been severely affected by the
drought conditions are rice and groundnut; in addition, significant damage
has been caused to pearl millets and maize.
3.      While the southern, central, and northern parts of the country have
been affected by drought, the eastern parts have been ravaged by floods. In
the states of Assam, Bihar, Sikkim and West Bengal rainfall has been more
than normal, leading to heavy floods and widespread damage to crops and
property.
JP4.    Successive droughts in Rajasthan and Gujarat, Orissa and other states
have led to severe drinking water scarcity both in urban and rural areas.
Nearly 93,260 villages are likely to face drinking water problems in these
states. Another unfortunate aspect of the current year's drought is the
severe fodder shortage which has been felt in Rajasthan and Gujarat, because
of extremely inadequate precipitatien and prolonged dry spell since the
beginning of the monsoon. Even in respect of other states, the continued dry
spell in the beginning and middle of the monsoon had strained the
availability of fodder. However, except for Rajasthan, Gujarat, Himachal
Pradesh, Punjab, and Haryana, the rest of the states had significant rainfall
towards the end of August and beginning of September; this rain has
substantially brightened the prospects of fodder and drinking water in these
states. Because of a very high level of irrigation facilities, the crops in
Punjab and Haryana have been able to survive, though the output would be
substantially reduced.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
5.      Of the nearly 285 million people affected in the rural areas in
different states, nearly 93 million would belong to the vulnerable sections
of the society consisting of small farmers and agricultural labourers. The
drought conditions of 1987 have disrupted agricultural operations on a
massive scale in all the states and this has led to a substantial loss of
income and employment, particularly among small farmers and agricultural
labourers. Therefore, substantial public effort is required to provide
employment to these rural sections. It is estimated that nearly 3.5 to 4
million persons per day will have to be employed on relief works. The NREP
and RLEGP together are expected to provide 553 million mandays of employment
in the various states. These are not adequate for engaging a labour force of
3.5 million per day for a period of nearly eight months. Speeding up ongoing
Plan works and opening of relief works are expected to provide the additional
mandays of employment required.
6.      Even though the drought conditions have severely affected the kharif
crops, because of contingency planning, which was put into operation from the
beginning of the monsoon and the optimum use of water resources, the loss in
kharif production could be somewhat reduced. Current assessments indicate
that kharif foodgrains production could be the order of 70 million tons. The
late rains in August and September have given hope of a near normal rabi
production even though much would depend on the day temperatures in the North
and rains in the North East monsoon season in the South. The strategy for
rabi production is designed to compensate for the loss of production in
kharif. The emphasis is on:
(a) increasing area coverage under rabi crops with high-yielding
varieties;
(b) better water management and increased use of fertilizers;
(c) increasing the coverage of less water-inte!e.ive crops; and
(d) improving the credit availability.
Arrangements have been made for ensuring availability of adequate seeds
through Seeds Corporations. An extension campaign is being mounted for the
introduction of high yielding varieties and short duration varieties and
integrated input management. Credit availability for production purposes is
being ensured by relaxing, where need be, conditions of eligibility. ICAR
and State Agriculture Universities are being involved in dissemination of
technology packages to the farms.
7.      In the current year the Government had already worked out an
Agricultural Contingency Plan, even before the commencement of the monsoon in
order to ensure that the technological inputs were made available to ensure
maximization of agricultural output. This contingency planning had taken
note of the need of adjustment in cropping pattern and choice of varieties in
response to the outcome of the monsoon. States were advised, through
communications and a conference, on the need for dissemination of information
regarding contingency planning. Therefore, in a sense even early in the
season, the Government has prepared partly to meet the drought situation,
which started unfolding as the monsoon period further progressed.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
8.      In the month of August, when it was evident that the drought
conditions may result in serious adverse affect on the Indian agriculture, an
Action Plan was formulated by the Cabinet Committee on Drought, which was
specially set up for initiating timely and prompt measures and monitoring
the Action Plan in the various spheres. The Action Plan, inter alia,
envisaged the preparation of water budgets to optimise the use of available
water in major reservoirs, supply of power to agricultural sector and
drinking water purposes to ensure proper utilization of ground water to save
crops, strengthening the Public Distribution System# undertaking public
health measures, provision of fodder and drinking water in rural areas and
taking effective measures for providing special nutrition to the young and
needy children in the drought affected areas. This Action Program was
communicated to the states for proper implementation to ensure speedy relief
to affected persons.
9.      The Centre took initiative in seeking out the states to ascertain the
kind of assistance required for the effective implementation of relief
measures. Assessment and Reconnaisance teams and Central teams were deputed
to states for assessing the requirements of the states for finance. Central
assistance has been sanctioned to the states to ensure that relief measures
do not suffer for want of resources.  The Centre, on its own, took immediate
steps to provide funds to the tune of Rs 55 crores for drinking water
purposes.
10.     Among the further measures taken by the Central Government, are the
special programs for financial assistance to small farmers for growing
fodder, growing vegetables and provision of seeds for rabi cultivation.
11.     The activities of the State Forest Departments and Animal Husbandry
Departments are being coordinated to ensure that forest meets some of the
requirements of fodder in the affected states. Enlistment of the cooperation
of voluntary agencies in preserving thq,!iAttle wealth of the states has also
been pursued in a big way.
12.     Resources have been released to the states for immediate provision of
employment to the tune of 278.4 million man days, agricultural inputs on
nearly 3.3 million hectares and preservatien of nearly 3.7 million cattle
heads and providing additional special nutrition to nearly 2.6 million
persons. The Government has initiated steps for provision of drinking water
to cover nearly 93,000 villages in the 15 drought-affected states.
13.     In an effort to supplement nutrition to the population in the
drought-affected areas, the Government of India is providing Central
assistance for the purpose of providing supplementary nutrition to the young
and needy children in drought-affected areas not covered by the ongoing
program for Integrated Child Development Services on the same scale as
obtaining in the areas covered by the program. Further, foodgrains are
proposed to be released for distribution to workers on relief works as
payment of wages in kind on a systematic basis.
14.     Central assistance for different purposes has been sanctioned to
states to the tune of Rs 550 crores, which will take care of the immediate
requirements of the states. The total assistance for the States is likely to
be around Rs 1500 crores by the end of March, 1988. After the North East
monsoon further assistance would be decided depending upon its behavior.



AMNNU V
Page 4 of 4
15.     For implementing the drought relief program and in order to manage
the drought situation, ensure adequate food supplies and maintain the pace of
economic modernization and development, increased imports during the current
financial year of essential comnodities are expected, inter alia, to include
the following:
edible oils - incremental requirements of not less than 600,000 tons
due to the widespread failure of the groundnut, must:rd seed and
other edible oil crops;
pulses - about 400,000 tons because of the expected reduction in
production of about 20 percent in 1987/88;
cereals - some imports of maize may be required and other cereal
imports may be authorized to rebuild stocks, once prospects for the
rabi (winter) crop are better known;
crude, kerosene and other petroleum products - hydroelectric power has
been affected by the drop in reservoir levels. To meet the increased
demand for thermal power generation--especially for irrigation and
drinking water pumping--and for incremental transport costs for food
distribution, additional imports of petroleum products of at least
1 million tons is envisaged; and
non-ferous metals - because of the diversion of power supply to
agriculture, production levels in certain manufacturing industries
have been reduced. Also, to meet other urgent foreign exchange
needs, imports of non-ferrous metals for industry have been
restricted. To rebuild production levels, additional imports of
aluminum, copper, zinc, and other non-ferrous metals totalling about
40,500 tons will be needed.
16.     Overall, we expect the additional foreign exchange cost of these
imports, together with the decline in agricultural-based exports of US$200-300
million, to be about US$1.0 billion to US$1.2 billion in FY1987/88. There
will also be incremental requirements in the coming fiscal year regardless of
the success of the rabi crop. While India's foreign exchange reserves can
cover these anticipated requirementst a drawdown of reserves by 20X would be
undesirable. Some compensatory financing would be appropriate to meet a
portion of the incremental need and ensure maintenance of a prudent foreign
exchange reserve position.
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
November 1987



AMU VI
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
DROUGHT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOTE ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF RAINFED AREAS AND
IIIPROVING RESILIENCE TO DROUGHT IN AGRICULTURE
1.      The failure of the South-West monsoon in 1987 has left India in the
grip of the worst drought since 1965. About two-thirds of the country has
had sharply lower rainfall than normal As a result, crop production, fodder
supplies and drinking water availability have been greatly reduced in many
areas. The worst affected States are Rajasthan, Gujarat and parts of Orissa
but Raryana, Punjab, Western Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh
are little better. The most severely affected crops are groundnuts and rice,
followed by coarse cereals, particularly maize. In sum, foodgrain production
is likely to about about 16 million tons lower (about 19%) than normal kharif
production. Oilseeds production may be 30% lower (about two million tons).
These details, however, understate the human cost. Nearly 300 million people
will be directly affected of which about one-third will be small farmers and
agricultural labourers.
2.      Government has reacted swiftly and decisively to alleviate the worst
short-run effects on employment, incomes, supplies of food and water and is
paying particular attention to the needs of the most vulnerable, especially
children. Steps being taken under a long-standing Contingency Plan include
much enhanced provisions for public employment programs (NREP and RLEGP),
actions to strengthen the Public Food Distribution System, the provision of
fodder and drinking water in areas of greatest need and expanded child
nutrition programs. In all, direct budgetary allocations have been increased
by about Rs 550 crores (approximately US$420 million). These measures are
considered adequate to meet the worst short-run CcOcts of the drought,
especially as there is reasonable hope of a near-normal rabi crop early in
1988.
3.      The effects of the drought would have been much worse without the
tripling of India's irrigation potential between 1950 and 1985--from 22.6
million ha to 67.5 million ha. Some 25% of this increase was added during
the Sixth Plan (1980-1985). The first two years of the Seventh Plan are
expected to add a further 4.0 million ha. Ultimately, it should be possible
to command, through surface and groundwater systems, over half of the
country's cultivable area. Hence, irrigation must remain at the centre of
the strategy to protect agriculture against future droughts. This is to be
done within the framework of the National Water Policy which, inter alia,
recognizes the need to plan water resource development on the basis of
drainage basins, improve the effectiveness of existing irrigation schemes
through Command Area Development, and to speed up the effectiveness of
existing irrigation schemes without jeopardising the interest of farmers in
the unirrigated areas. In this context, it may be noted that in 1987-88, an
amount of Rs 236 crores has been allocated under special drought relief to
accelerate completion of works on selected ongoing projects in drought prone
areas. A National Water Management Project (NWMP) is being implemented with



Page 2 of 3
World Bank assistance. It may further be noted that planning, design,
coordination and maintenance of irrigation systems have an important bearing
on these measures and hence special cells have been set up in the States and
at the Centre for attending to these aspects. Maintenance funds have been
increased by the State Governments for operation and maintenance from Rs 75
per ha. earlier to Rs 100 per ha. in the Seventh Plan.
4.      As noted above, there are limitations to the expansion of irrigation
and enhanced attention to rainfed farming is essential coupled with
efforts to restore the productivity of large areas of severely degraded
public and communal land. At present, about 103 million ha of farm land are
entirely dependent on rainfall. Additionally, there are about 67 million ha
of forests, 17 million ha of culturable waste and 13 million ha of pasture.
The pasture areas are all severely degraded public and communal land; only
about half of the forest area has adequate tree cover and much rainfed arable
land is producing well below its potential. Yet it is to these rainfed areas
that the country must look in the years ahead for a substantial growth in
output. Moreover, these dry areas are home to most of the rural poor (both
farmers and landless). As the Seventh Plan notes, increased productivity in
them will thus do much to reduce poverty and will help increase agricultural
and economic growth. The main features of the attack on these problems will
be the restoration of the ecological balance and the promotion of
economically sustainable production systems.
5.      However, farming in rainfed areas is risky largely as a result of the
absolute, spatial and temporal variability of rainfall. Thus, farmers are
reluctant to invest in fixed assets and to increase expenditures on variable
inputs. Rence, cropping patterns and farming practices are characterized by
low inputs and low outputs but lowered risks. The Government has long
recognized these facts and has developed programs to combat them (e.g.,
Drought Prone Areas Program, and Desert Development Program). Building on
the experience thus gained and on additional knowledge arising from national
and international research organizations (e.g., CRIDA and ICRISAT at
lyderabad, the Soil Conservation Institute at Dehradun, IGFRI at Jhansi and
CAZRI at Jodhpur) and taking into account recent evidence from the National
Watershed Program , the Indo-UK operational Research Program in Madhya
Pradesh and several World Bank assisted projects, there are now available
effective, simple and less expensive technical solutions to the primary
problems of soil and moisture conservation. The main feature is the use of a
blend of contour farming and vegetative barriers on grade using either khus
(a non-palatable grass) or subabool planted as hedgerows to greatly increase
la situ moisture conservation and even to reduce soil erosion. These methods
must be supplemented by timely and effective land preparation. The kharif
fallows can be brought to farming through improved drainage systems by
strengthening the existing waterways. Given the prospects of possible rapid
adoption by a large number of farmers, full extension and input support for
the speedy dissemination and use of these technologies are proposed to be
provided. The State Governments, through their departments of Agriculture
(and extension services in particular) are expected to be the main
instruments in the implementation of this approach, with support from the
Centre. Steps are being taken now to broaden the scope of extension services



Page 3 of 3
and to provide a wider range of advice to farmers. In particular, the
concept of dovetailing soil and moisture conservation and crop production in
rainfed areas is being added to State Extension Services. This echoes the
establishment in the Centre of the Rainfed Farming Cell to belp bridge the
present gap between crop production strategies and soil and moisture
conservation objectites.
6.      The importance of conserving a,d increasing the productivity of
natural resources in areas that lie outside the farm is also recognized.
There is a pressing need to stabilize watersheds (and wastelands) through
tree and other planting programs and increased use of vegetative soil
conservation measures associated with appropriate engineering structures
wherever necessary. The broad principles of this approach are now
established but application is difficult, as watershed development is
essentially site-specific, requiring technical and institutional solutions
adapted to local circumstances. To ;his end, State Governments are starting
to establish Agricultural Planning Cells to improve the coordination of
actions at both the State and lower levels. This is being done within the
framework of the recently formulated National Watershed Program for Rainfed
Agriculture currently in the initial stages of implementation.
7.      In parallel, more emphasis will be placed on finding and implementing
solutions to common property resources management so as to increase the
production of fodder and fuelwood, stabilise erosion and improve moisture
infiltration to enhance groundwater supplies. Several initiatives have
already been taken in this area, folloving the creation of the National
Wasteland Development Board in 1985. Efforts are being made to formulate
investment programs which will foster more eZfective coordination among the
agencies involved, and increase the active involvement of the local
populations in the planning and implementation of these programs.
8.      Such developments will aepend on sustaining and to some extent
redirecting efforts in agricultural research. For example, there is need to
expand research in all facets (especially moisture couservation) of crop
husbandry in rainfed farming systems and to develop new crop varieties which
provide better yields on a sustained basis under very variable rainfed
farming conditions. These objectives will be aided by the intention to speed
up the preparation of research status reports in all the 121 Agro-Ecological
Zones and by improving and rationalising the capabilities of the State
Agricultural Universities to carry out location-specific research.
9.      Finally, it is recognized that increased agricultural production
depends not only on new investments but also on efficient use of existing
physical, human and budgetary resources. As a step in this direction, the
Rainfed Farming Cell has been created at the Centre to help bridge the
present gap between crop production strategies and soil and moisture
conservation objectives.
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
November 1987



MAP SECTION
l



IBRD 19962
-           4- '1;                         - imnachal    0  30
~9t'- -' '~  " -  ~'. ''                                                                          '~ Punjab   Pradesh  40  -
14231                                                   L2 2 a 7
BHUTAN
PAKISTAN                                                                                Su HI.., .an i'
N                                 Ij-aat aa a  y    ,/\k  Urant Sikkdim  L   E7]
034
Plains of
';jesthan -. , >  MdhaPaWest Uttar;
Vast             (8       Pradesh         1792 
t [5~~~~~198 1 o 
and       MallShYa                                                                        and
Rajasther
e ah ashtr                 Uttar Cradesh f+~UurPae
LADESH
260 1_.[ I                          Toan1a32    N D 
ane Nagar                                                                c 14)  738  (-6)
|hya P   d4sh-Pt Iangetic
670aVldarbha 654
ad        Madhya                (-)
Gan       Maharasfttra                                                    N     orrna
IifIILES ~~29 0-aa  490                                     1987 M1so 0Per atonod:pt
Coastal ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ u=-   RltllSbDliln
K2LOMETR5 0   10 203040
Karnataka ~~~   718             souR Sato inia etortarlcas Dprm
Icddntna   etto niortnatle:o
[~4eF1                                                       Normal +10%Ntot-12
t    Pondapplyito suce arars  -    Intornatlonal e Bn 7orl ta
MILES 0   oas00    20                                   )     Nain,       aia
KILOMETERS 0   100 200   040Rainfall Sun- m                                       imo:
Interior     . e
Khai may apprynatsuch areas,         iternationak  Bondies
1683 1            L!~~~~~~~~~NOEBE 18



