Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2886 IN
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1852 IN
                   (Drought Assistance Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 25, 1987
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 25,  1987, between INDIA, acting by
its President (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development  Credit  Agreement  between  the  Borrower and the
International Development  Association  (the  Association) of even
date herewith (the  Development  Credit  Agreement), has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  has  also  requested  the  Association to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project
and by the Development Credit  Agreement the Association is agree-
ing to provide such  assistance  in  an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to one hundred fifty-six million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 156,300,000) (the Credit);
     (C)  the Borrower and the Bank  intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  provided  for  in the
Development Credit Agreement be  disbursed  on account of expendi-
Page  2
tures in  respect  of  the  Project  before  disbursements  of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  paragraph  11  of  Section   2.01  is  deleted  and  the
following is substituted therefor:
               "11. The term "Project" means the Project described
          in  Schedule  2  to  the  Development  Credit  Agreement
          between the Borrower and  the  Association of even date
          with this Loan Agreement  as the description thereof may
          be amended from  time  to  time  by  agreement among the
          Borrower and the Association."
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement,  in  the Development Credit Agreement,
in the General  Conditions  Applicable  to  the Development Credit
Agreement and in the Preamble  to the Development Credit Agreement
have the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the term
"Development Credit Agreement"  means  the  agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended  from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions  Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated  January 1, 1985, as applied
to such agreement, and  all  schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement  for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to  be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services  required  for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development  Credit Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  March 31, 1989 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
Page  3
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Subject  to  paragraph (b) of this Section,
Section 2.02 (b), Articles  III  and  IV of the Development Credit
Agreement and Schedules 1, 2,  3  and  4 thereto, as such Articles
and Schedules  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  are hereby
incorporated in this Loan Agreement with the same force and effect
as if they were fully  set  forth  herein with (unless the context
otherwise requires) the  following  modifications in said Sections
and Schedules 2 and 3:
          (i)   the term "Credit"  and  "Credit  Account" shall be
                read as "Loan" and "Loan Account" respectively;
          (ii)  the term "this  Agreement"  shall  be read as "the
                Development Credit Agreement"; and
          (iii) the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank".
     (b)  So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement shall remain unwithdrawn or outstand-
ing and unless the  Borrower  has  been  notified otherwise by the
Bank:
          (i)   all actions taken,  including  approvals given, by
                the Association pursuant  to  any  of the Sections
                of,  and  Schedules  to,  the  Development  Credit
                Agreement, enumerated  in  paragraph  (a)  of this
                Section, as well as  pursuant  to Section 2.02 (b)
                of  the  Development  Credit  Agreement,  shall be
                deemed to be taken  or  given  in  the name and on
                behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and
          (ii)  all information or  documentation furnished by the
                Borrower  to  the   Association  pursuant  to  the
                provisions  of  any   of   such  Sections  of  the
                Development Credit Agreement  or Schedules thereto
                shall  be  deemed  to  be  furnished  to  both the
                Association and the Bank.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  4.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent  to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement.
     Section 4.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.03. If the  Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of  this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred  to  in this Agreement shall
continue in full force  and  effect  between  the Borrower and the
Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  5.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary,  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                        953-32354
               New Delhi
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   INDIA
Page  5
                   By /s/ P. K. Kaul
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                             SCHEDULE
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
     beginning July 1, 1993
     through   January 1, 2008                       5,000,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
Page  6
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
