Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1852 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2886 IN
                   (Drought Assistance Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 25, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1852 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2886 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 25,  1987, between INDIA, acting by
its  President  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and  Development  (the  Bank)  to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing  of  the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith  between the Borrower and the Bank
(the  Loan  Agreement),  the  Bank  is  agreeing  to  provide such
assistance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to one
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) (the Loan);
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on  account  of  expenditures in respect of
the Project  before  disbursements  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the  "General  Conditions   Applicable   to   Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement; and
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one hundred fifty-six million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 156,300,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  March 31, 1989 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
Page  3
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  January  1  and July 1
commencing  January  1,  1998  and   ending  July  1,  2022.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on July 1,
2007,  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The  currency  of  the  United States is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative  and  financial   practices,   and  shall  provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
Page  4
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Project
and to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  or  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
Page  5
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the  Loan  Agreement  have  been fulfilled, other
than these related to the effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  6.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ECOFAIRS                        953-313546
                New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          INDIA
                          By /s/ P. K. Kaul
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  6
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                    of the Credit and the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  and the Loan, the
allocation of the  amounts  of  the  Credit  and  the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                     Amount of     Amount of
                    the Credit      the Loan
                     Allocated      Allocated         % of
                    (Expressed     (Expressed       Expendi-
                      in SDR        in Dollar       tures to
    Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)     be Financed
Oilseeds,            156,300,000   150,000,000     100% of
pesticides,                                        foreign ex-
veterinary                                         penditures
medicines,
animal feed,
textile fibers
including cotton,
agro-industrial
inputs including
edible oil,
petroleum and
petroleum products,
petrochemicals,
non-ferrous metals,
industrial
components
and spares, and
industrial inputs
including steel.
     TOTAL          156,300,000    150,000,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower to
ameliorate the adverse effects of the drought by meeting immediate
needs and sustaining the  momentum  of the economic reform process
in the drought situation, as well as support the Borrower's longer
term strategy for reducing vulnerability to droughts.
     The  Project  consists  of  the  provision  of  assistance to
drought affected  areas  and  sectors  in  India  pursuant  to the
Borrower's  drought  relief  program  and  includes  the following
parts, subject to  such  modifications  thereof as the Association
and the Borrower may agree upon  from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A
     The provision of  imported  materials  and commodities needed
pursuant to the Borrower's drought relief program.
Page  7
Part B
     Strengthening  the  Borrower's   longer   term  strategy  for
reducing vulnerability to droughts.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank  in   May   1985   (the   Guidelines)   with   the  following
modifications:
     Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to the  prior  approval  of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets  or  other  channels  of competitive procurement
acceptable  to  the  Association,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each may  be  awarded  on  the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the  purchaser  of such goods acceptable
to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish  to the Association, prior to
the submission to  the  Association  of  the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in
respect of such contract,  two  conformed copies of such contract,
together  with   the   analysis   of   the   respective  bids  and
recommendations for award,  a  description  of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed  and  such  other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and
2 of Part B of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to  the  submission  to  the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of  funds from the Credit Account
or the Loan  Account  in  respect  thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association  may  reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
3.   Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2 of
Part C of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be
made out of the  proceeds  of  the  Special Account, the copies of
such contract  or  the  documentation  and  the  information to be
furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule, as the case
may be, shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence  required  under  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to  this
Agreement.
4.   The provisions of  the  preceding  paragraphs  1,  2 and 3 of
Part C of this Schedule shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Association has  authorized  withdrawals from the Credit
Account  or  the  Loan  Account  on  the  basis  of  statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
Page  8
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means  the Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from  time  to time to the eligible Category
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to  SDR  39,200,000  to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit
Account or the Loan Account  and  deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit in the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit  Account or the Loan Account under
the eligible Category, and  in  the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall  have  been  justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
               Development  Credit  Agreement;  or  from  the Loan
               Account  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of
               Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of
               the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
Page  9
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Credit and the
               Loan allocated to the  eligible Category, minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered  into  by  the   Association  or  the  Bank
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the respective General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account or the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Category shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so  request, refund to the Association or
the Bank) an amount equal  to  the  amount  of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into  the  Special  Account shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to  the  Association  or  the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount for
crediting to the Credit  Account  or  to  the Loan Account, as the
case may be.
