Report No. 371a-UNI
Appraisal of                                                                         FILE COPY
Rice Project
N igeria
September 23, 1974
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit Naira (N)      Since January 1973
W1.00                  =    100 Kobo (k)
US$1.00                      No.66
N1.00                  =    US$1.52
N1,000,000                   US$1,520,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and measures used in the
report are metric.
1 hectare (ha)           =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (k1m)              0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                    39.37 inches (in)
1 cubic meter (m3)       =    35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
=     1.31 cubic yards (cu yd)
1 metric ton                    2.2o5 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
AA      = Agricultural Assistant
ADA     = Agricultural Development Authority (East Central State)
AO      = Agricultural Officer
FGN     = Federal Government of Nigeria
FRRS    = Federal Rice Research Station
IITA    = International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LEA     = Licensed Buying Agent
MNRAE   = Ministry of Natural Resources and Agricultural Extension
NAB     = Nigerian Agricultural Bank
SAO     = Senior Agricultural Officer
SECWA   = South Eastern State Cooperation Wholesale Association
SWR     - Shadow Wage Rate
WARDA   = West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1   Since April 1, 1974 the Naira has floated independent of the
US dollar. Twice weekly, the Central Bank sets buying and
selling rates for the US dollar and £ sterling. The Naira has
appreciated steadily via-a-vis the US dollar, and by July 1,
1974 the average quotation was N 1 - US$ 1.622 or 6.7 percent
above the previous central rate of N 1 - US$ 1.52. The latter
has been used for currency conversions throughout this report.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............ ..               ...............      i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION             ........................................
II. BACKGROUND ................                                     .                  1
General            ...........................                          1
Agricultural Sector  ....0 ...............  ........                    2
Rice Production ....................                                    4
Institutions         .......................................            4
The Role of the Project in Nigerian Agricultural
Strategy   .................................. .                      5
IIII.   PROJECT AREA  ........................................                          6
G7eneral ...................................................            6
Climate,  Soils and Topography  .............. .                        6
Population .......................                                      6
Rice Development  ........ ....................... .                    7
Farm Size and Tenure  .....          .............                      7
Farm Systems ......................                                     7
Agricultural Support Programs  ...............                          8
Marketing and Credit  ..... ..............                              8
Agricultural Research  ..... ............ .                             9
Communications .....................                                    9
IV.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                          9
A.    General Description  ............................                        9
B.    Detailed Features  ......             ........................          11
- Land Clearing  ...            ...........................         11
- Drainage and Irrigation .....                ...............      11
- Land Settlement  ............................                     13
- Road Improvement  ...........................                     13
- Rice Mills, Storage and Transport  ....                ......     13
- Training  ...................................                     14
- Farm Service Centers  .......................                     14
- Credit  ...          ...................................          14
- Operation and Maintenance  ....                ..............     15
- Phase II Studies  ...........................                     15
- Ecology and Health  .........................                     16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
K.E. Ireland and F. X. Leduc (Bank) P. de Boer and R. Parker (West Africa
Rice Development Association) and A. Arben and J. Rice (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ........................                16
Proposed Financing .............      ..    ..............    17
Procurement ..................          ..................    17
Disbursement .................          ..................    19
Acccunts and Audit .............      ..    ..............    21
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................. ........             22
General Introduction ............      ..    .............    22
Development        ..................   ..................    23
Operation and Maintenance ......... .. ...........            23
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, FARM INCOME and
RECOVERY OF COSTS ...................................               24
Production ...................          ..................    24
Market Prospects and Prices ....................              25
Farm Income ..................          ..................    25
Recovery of Costs .............     ..     ...............    26
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................                 27
IX.   RECONMENDATIONS ....................................................  29
ANNEXES
1.       Agriculture
Table 1:    Project Areas and Location
2.       Rainfall and Climatological Data
Table 1:   Mean Temperature, Humidity and Sunshine Data
Table 2:   Rainfall Data
3.       Water Requirements for Rice Growing
Table 1: Computed Pan Evaporation
Table 2: Consumptive Use for Rice (Two Crops)
Table 3:    irrigation Water Requirements for Rice (Two Crops)



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
4.      Organization and Staffing
Table 1:  Staffing -  East Central State
Table 2:  Staffing - South Eastern State
Table 3:  Training Costs
Chart 1:  East Central State Agriculture Organization (WB 8231)
Chart 2:  South Eastern State Agriculture Organization (WB 8230)
Chart 3:  Project Organization (WB 8229)
Chart 4:  Operations Chart (WB 8228)
5.      Project Works
Table 1: Construction Quantities & Manual Labor
6.      Road Improvement Program
7.      Rice Milling
Table 1:  Project Rice Mills
Table 2:  Rice Mills Capital Costs vs Capacity
Table 3:  Rice Mills - Equipment & Vehicle Costs
Table 4:  Rice Mills - Operation Costs vs Capacity
Table 5:  East Central State Project Milling and Marketing Costs
Table 6:  South Eastern State Project Milling & Marketing Costs
8.      Equipment and Vehicles Lists
Table 1:  List of Equipment
Table 2:  List of Vehicles
9.      Phase II Studies
10.      Construction Schedule (WB 8150)
11.      Cost Estimates and Disbursement Schedules
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costs
Table 2:  East Central State Project Costs
Table 3:  South Eastern State Project Costs
Table 4:  Building Requirements
Table 5:  Staff Requirements - East Central State
Table 6:  Staff Requirements - South Eastern State
Table 7:  Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
12.      Crop Yields and Production
Table 1: Areas Cultivated (ha)
Table 2: Paddy Yields and Production (tons)



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
13.      Labor Requirements
Table 1:  Upland Farm Labor Requirements
Table 2:  Swamp Rice Farm Labor Requirements
Table 3:  Irrigated Farm Labor Requirements
Table 4:  Combined Farm Labor Requirements
Table 5:  Labor Requirements During Buildup Period - Swamp Rice Farm
Table 6:  Labor Requirements During Buildup Period  - Irrigated Rice Farm
14.      Farm Budgets
Table 1:  Upland Farm
Table 2:  Swamp Rice
Table 3:  Irrigated Rice 1.25 ha Double Crop
15.      Financial Analyses
Appendix: Explanation of Annex 15 Tables
Table 1:  Illustrative Project Cash Flow, East Central State
Table 2:  Illustrative Project Cash Flow, South Eastern State
Table 3:  Illustrative Cash Flow for Federal Government
Table 4:  Milling and Marketing Cash Flow, East Central State Project
Table 5:  Milling and Marketing Cash Flow, South Eastern State Project
Table 6:  Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund, East Central State Project
Table 7:  Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund, South Eastern State Project
16.      Economic Analyses and Rate of Return
Table 1: Allocation of Proceeds from Rice Imports
Table 2:  Economic Costs and Benefits - Both States
Table 3:  Economic Costs and Benefits - East Central State
Table 4:  Economic Costs and Benefits - South Eastern State
Table 5:  Internal Rate of Return Calculation
MAP      Location of Project Areas       (IBRD 10780)



NIGERIA
NIGERIA RICE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) requested Bank assistance
to finance two rice projects, one in East Central State and the other in
South Eastern State. The rice projects were identified by a Bank mission in
November, 1972 and prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This report
is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Nigeria in
September - October 1973.
ii.       FGN is giving high priority to agricultural development, particularly
to achieving the increase in food production needed to keep pace with popula-
tion growth and rapid urbanization and industrial development. The need for
this increase is particularly urgent in East Central State and South Eastern
State where agricultural production has not yet fully recovered from the ef-
fects of the 1967-1970 civil disturbances. These two rice projects are con-
sidered first phase nuclei for a potentially much larger development of swamp
rice and irrigated rice in the two states. The two projects would increase
food production and would improve the economic well-being of a large number of
farmers with small holdings. Equally important the projects would strengthen
Nigerian agricultural institutions by focusing on specific projects for rice
production as the initial effort in systematic development.
iii.      This report appraises two projects for expanding swamp rice and
irrigated rice in Nigeria, the East Central State Rice Project and the South
Eastern State Rice Project. The two projects would consist of 11 areas in
which 7,060 hectares of swamp would be developed by drainage and control of
water levels for growing one crop of rice during the rainy season and a further
1,850 ha of swamp which would be irrigated thereby growing two crops of rice
per year. The East Central State Project would consist of 4,790 ha swamp rice
plus 1,410 ha irrigated. The South Eastern State Project would consist of
2,270 ha swamp rice plus 440 ha irrigated. The projects would provide land
clearing, drainage and field bunding to all project lands and irrigation diver-
sion and distribution systems to part of the land as local water supplies
permit. Other elements of the projects would be improvement of feeder roads;
erection and operation of rice milling, marketing and storage facilities; pro-
vision of credit for farm inputs; provision of agricultural extension services;
establishment and operation and maintenance during the development period and
further studies for Phase II projects.
iv.       About 6,000 families farming in the area at a subsistence level
would each receive an irrigated plot of about 1.25 ha or 1.5 ha swamp rice
plot. Each farmer would retain about 1.5 ha upland crop land outside the
projects boundaries. Per capita consumption of rice in Nigeria is low, about
4 kg per year. Both production and imports of rice are increasing. In 1972
around 240,000 metric tons were produced and 6,000 tons were imported. There
is a growing preference away from starchy root crops that are hard to prepare



- ii -
for consumption towards cereals, especially rice. Furthermore, with existing
varieties and technology wheat is not extensively grown in Nigeria. Therefore,
as the diet changes from yams and cassava, rice consumption can be expected to
increase.
v.        The two projects would be carried out independently by two Project
Organizations established separately within the State Ministries of Agricul-
ture, one in the East Central State and the other in the South Eastern State.
Experienced expatriate specialists would be employed for certain key posts
in each of the two projects to assist in project implementation and to prepare
further studies for Phase II rice projects. The specialists role would be
to direct certain activities and to train Nigerian counterparts to take over
from them. During the project development period the Project Organization
would work closely with existing State agencies who would take over agricul-
tural extension and maintenance of feeder roads once project development is
complete.
vi.       Costs of the two projects combined are estimated at $35.0 million
during the project implementation period, 1975-1979, consisting of $6.1
million for project headquarters, extension and credit services; $7.3 million
for land development including irrigation systems; $3.0 million for road
improvements; $4.4 million for rice milling marketing and storage facilities;
$3.3 million for farm inputs, specialists services and training; and $10.9 for
physical and price contingencies. These amounts include full operation and
maintenance costs through the 1975-1979 implementation period. Foreign
exchange costs would amount to $10.3 million, about 30%. The total project
costs of the East Central State Project would be about $21.5 million and that
of the South Eastern State Project about $13.5 million. The proposed loan
of $17.5 million would cover 50%' of project costs covering the foreign
exchange component estimated at $10.3 million and the balance of $7.2 million
would cover 29% of the local costs. Tne Bank loan would be made to FGN,
repayable at 8% over 20 years including a 5-year grace period for principal
during which interest and commitment charges on the loan would be paid. $10.2
million (58%) would be onlent to the East Central State Government (ECSG) and
$6.5 million (37%) to the South Eastern State Government (SESG). The remain-
ing $0.8 million (5%) would be retained by FGN for project monitoring, for
Phase II studies and for new facilities at the Federal Agricultural Research
and Training Station at Umudike. The terms of onlending by FGN to the States
would be the same as applied to the Bank loan to FGN. Each of the States
would be responsible for providing the remainder of project cash, but the
FIGN recognises the necessity of providing financial assistance to successfully
complete the projects.



- iii -
vii.      Procurement of vehicles, plant, equipment, rice mills, fertilizers
and chemicals estimated at about $6.5 million would be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IBRD Guidelines. Contracts for
construction of buildings, houses and purchase of construction materials
valued at $4.7 million are not suitable for ICB, due to the dispersed location
of the work and the small size of individual contracts, and would be awarded
under local competitive bidding. Construction of roads and the land develop-
ment program would be done on force account. A large part of the project
costs, estimated at $19.8 million, would be for labor, local staff salaries
and allowances and maintenance and operation of vehicles, buildings, etc.
Of this, hired labor would amount to $8.0 million.
viii.           The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over 5 years
(1975-1979) to cover 50% of total project costs and would be expended to
cover (a) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures for rice milling and parboil-
ing equipment and related facilities, vehicles, tractors, plant, heavy equip-
ment, buildings, houses and construction materials amounting to $4.3 million;
(b) 100% of the cost of expatriate staff and specialists, training program,
monitoring program and fertilizers and agricultural chemicals (net of subsidies)
amounting to $2.8 million; (c) 50% of hired farm labor amounting to $200,000
(d) 45% of local staff, hired labor and operating all project vehicles, equip-
ment and facilities (except those for rice milling and marketing) amounting
to $5.4 million and (e) $4.8 million to cover unallocated expenses. Disburse-
ments would be against import documentation, contracts and certified records
of expenditures. For disbursements made against certified records of expendi-
tures documentation would not be submitted for review as a matter of course
but would be retained for inspection by the Bank supervision missions.
ix.       At project maturity, in 1983, the two projects would produce about
30,000 tons of paddy annually which would yield about 21,000 tons of milled
parboiled rice for the domestic market. The net saving in foreign exchange
would amount to about $4.3 million annually at maturity in 1983 and thereafter.
Production and marketing of rice (and therefor foreign exchange saving) by
the projects would begin in 1976. At maturity, farmers' annual net cash
incomes are expected to rise to about $1,225 for the irrigated rice farms (2
crops per year) and $450 for the swamp rice farms growing one crop during the
rainy season.
x.        On the basis of cost estimates, yields and prices developed in
appraisal and assuming a 30-year project life, the economic rate of return
would be 14% for the total project. For the two state projects separately
the rate of return would be 18% for ECS Project and 9% for SES Project. Start-
ing rice development at scattered locations throughout the two states as
nuclei for expansion has obvious long-range advantages but creates short-range
imbalances in both investment costs and operating costs. This is particularly
noticeable in the lower rate of return for the SES Project due to higher
management and equipment costs per unit in the smaller areas separated by the
Cross River which would be a physical barrier during both project implementa-
tion and operation thereafter.  However, several of the SES Project areas,
being near major streams have high potential for a higher proportion of irri-
gation in future expansion.
xi.        On the basis of assurances received during negotiations the two
rice projects coubined are suitable for a Bank loan of $17.5 mifllion.






I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested a Bank Loan
of $17.5 million to assist in financing the development of swamp rice cultiva-
tion in the East Central State (ECS) and South Eastern State (SES). This
report appraises two projects, one for each state, which together would
develop 8,900 ha for rice production, including 1,850 ha irrigated, to benefit
some 6,000 farm families, about 40,000 people in all. The total cost per
family, about $6,000, is high because it includes roads, corplete rice milling
and marketing facilities and all agricultural extension services which are
disproportionally high due to the nuclei development concept resulting in cost
imbalances for these first phase projects. The cost of land development and
irrigation systems alone amounts to about $1,200 per family. The projects
involve eleven areas at scattered locations in the two states, and are expected
to serve as the first phase of a much larger program of rice development.
Provision is made in project costs for the studies needed for second phase
projects.
1.02      FGN is giving high priority to agricultural development, particularly
to achieving the increase in food supplies required to keep pace with a 2.5
percent per annum population growth rate, and rapid urbanization and industrial
development. The need for this increase is particularly urgent in the densely
populated East Central and South Eastern States, where agricultural production
is yet to recover fully from the effects of the 1967-1970 civil disturbances.
1.03      The rice projects were identified by a Bank mission in November,
1972 and prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This report is based
on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission in September-October 1973, con-
sisting of Messrs. K. Ireland and F. X. Leduc (Bank), P. de Boer and R. Parker
(llest Africa Rice Development Association), and A. Arben and J. Rice (Consul-
tants).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01         neral.  The 12-State Federal Republic of Nigeria covers about
930,000 km  and in 1972 its population was estimated at 70 million.  About
50 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), estimated at US$9.5 billion in
1971, is generated in the agricultural sector which employs some 70 percent
of the labor force. In 1972, total domestic exports amounted to US$2.2
billion of which petroleum represented about 80 percent (US$1.8 billion).



-2-
Reflecting recent price increases the value of petroleuM production
is expected to be around US$7.6 billion in 1974., and increase
to around US$10 billion by 1980. The main agricultural exports are cocoa,
groundnuts, and groundnut oil and cake and in 1972 all agricultural exports
were valued at US$290 million or 13 percent of all exports. Currently, food
and beverage imports are estimated at the relatively low figure of about
US$2.60 per capita annually. Of these wheat imports costing about US$33
million annually constitute the largest single item.
2.02      East Central State, one of the three states formed in 1967 out of
the former Eastern Region of Nigeria, is landlocked and bounded by the South
Eastern, Mid-Western, Kwara, and Benue Plaieau States.  With a population of
about 9.5 million and an area of 28,500 km , it is one of the most densely
populated areas of Africa. Its economy which is predominantly rural suffered
considerable damage during the 1967-1970 civil disturbances.  Agriculture in
the state is of a subsistence type, under which soil fertility is maintained
by a system of bushfallow where a period of cropping is followed by one in
which the bush is permitted to regenerate. Due to population pressure in the
upland areas fallow periods are becoming shorter and fertility is declining.
Annual crops grown in this way are supplemented by tree crops and particularly
by the harvest of wild oil palm groves for the production of palm oil and
palm kernels. Staple food crops are cassava, yams, and cocoyams; maize and
rice are also important with demand for the latter increasing rapidly.
2.03      South Eastern State, also formed out of the Eastern Region, is
bounded by the Gulf of Guinea to the South, the Republic of Cameroon to the
East and the Benue Plateau, East Central and Rivers States to thy North and
West. With a population of 24.5 million and an area of 28,000 km , population
density averages 160 per km . The State's economy is also predominantly rural,
and it is estimated that agricuiture contributed about two thirds of the 1972
State GDP. The principal crops are as in East Central State.
2.04      Agricultural Sector.  Agriculture, including livestock, forestry
and fishing, is the most important sector in terms of output and employment;
provides all but a small proportion of the nation's supply of food; and is a
significant earner of foreign exchange. Nigeria's agriculture is primarily
domestic market oriented. Output of staple foods, animal products, palm oil,
cotton fibre and a substantial part of groundnut production - together account-
ing for over 90 percent of agricultural production - is entirely consumed in
the country. Food imports, mostly fish, wheat and sugar, account for only a
small fraction of total food consumption. In 1970/1971, agriculture con-
tributed about 50 percent of value-added and provided employment for around
70 percent of the labor force. However, even before the civil disturbances
and the current oil boom agriculture was growing more slowly than overall GDP,
so that the contribution of agriculture to GDP had fallen from an average
of 65 percent in the period 1958/59 - 1960/61 to 59 percent in that of 1963/64
- 1965/66. The disruption of production in the eastern states during the civil



- 3 -
war accelerated this trend. Since then, the recovery of agricultural produc-
tion has been hampered by short term factors, such as drought in parts of the
north in 1972/73 and 1973/74, but more importantly by underlying long-term
influences, especially the rising age-profile of tree crops, and technical
and other constraints to accelerated food crop production, importantly the
lack of improved crop varieties and credit for farmers to purchase modern
inputs.,
2.05      Production consists of a wide variety of crops and animal products
and, because of the varied ecological conditions encountered in such a large
country, agricultural activity is highly specialized by region and function.
The rain forest zone covering Western, Mid Western, East Central, South Eastern,
and Rivers States is characterized by relatively high rainfall and practically
all tropical tree crops are grown here. Of the most inportant of these, cocoa
is dominant in Western State; oil palm, mostly wild, grows throughout but with
marked concentration in East Central and South Eastern States; and rubber is
mostly grown in the Mid-Western State. Cassava, yams and cocoyams are the
main food crops of the rain forest zone followed by maize and rice. The middle
belt of the country, which includes the Kwara and Benue Plateau States, and
the southern portion of North Western, North Central and North Eastern States,
constitutes an intermediate savannah zone (the Guinea Zone) well-suited for
arable agriculture. Sorghum and pulses are the principal crops, but there
are also sizeable acreages under root crops, groundnuts and cotton. The dry
savannah zone (the Sudan Zone) of the far north, encompassing Kano State and
the northern parts of North Western, North Central and North Eastern States,
produces most of Nigeria's sorghum, millet, cowpeas, cotton and groundnuts.
In the northern states rice, sugarcane and other high value crops are grown
in the flood plains ("fadamas") of the rivers.  This northern area, unlike the
rest of the country apart from a few high altitude areas, is tsetse fly and
thus trvpanosomiasis free, and the main cattle raising area of Nigeria.
2.06      Agricultural productivity is very low, both because of low per capita
land use and the under-utilization of cultivated land. The average size of
holdings is less than 2.0 ha for the country as a whole, and between 1 and 1.5
ha in the more densely populated eastern areas. This small size is not due to
scarcity of arable land, the cultivated area is estimated at around 11.0 million
ha compared to the 21.5 nillion ha of arable land believed to be available,
but to the mal-distribution of surplus land relative to population, and socio-
economic obstacles to developing such land. For example, in the so called
"middle belt" the low intensity of land use results from the necessity to
employ bush fallowing to maintain soil fertility and the fact that the great
majority of farmers work with only a few simple hand tools. Farmers have
adjusted to the constraints of the traditional technology by using mixed
cropping, which when uKsing traditional varieties produces higher outputs per
hectare than sole cropping, due to the insurance it provides against pest and
disease attack and the vagaries of weather. However, yields remain low because
of an insignificant use of improved seeds and agro-chemicals. For example
total fertilizer consumption in 1972 was between 17-18 thousand nutrient tons
or less than 2 kg per ha cultivated.



- 4 -
2.07       Rice Prod'xctienT.  After Sierra Leone, Nigeria is the largest pro-
ducer of rice in West Africa. Production is estimated at about 240,000 tons
and most is grown in the North Western, Benue Plateau, Western and North
Eastern States. About 300,000 ha are planted annually. Yields averaging
about 800 kg/ha are low and variable, because of the low yield potential of
local varieties, low fertilizer use, poor water control, lack of pest and
disease control, and generally poor cultural practices. While currently not
a major constraint, processing and marketing facilities are ill-developed and
relatively inefficient. All production together with a small amount of imported
rice, 6,000 tons in 1972, is consumed domestically.
2.08       The old Eastern Region contributed about one third of Nigeria's
estimated production of 160,000 tons of rice in 1965/66. During the 1967-
1970 civil disturbances, the need for food accelerated rice growing in the
Region, but with normalization of the situation production in many areas
fell back due to the lack of support given to growers and the poor maintenance
of water control structures. Producing areas are located on the inland
and rainfed swamps of the main rivers, particularly the Imo, Anambra, and
Cross. Almost all of these areas are located in East Central State, and
it is officially estimated that the area in this State under rice is 40,000 ha,
and produces about 25,000 tons of rice. Corresponding figures for South
Eastern State are 10,000 ha, and 9,000 tons; these estimates, however, may
be too high. On the basis of these estimates, the East Central and South
Eastern States together accounted for about 13 percent of estimated
national production in 1973.
2.09       Institutions.  The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
(IITA) has a station at Ibadan (Western State) for the testing and develop-
ment of rice varieties and has a research program that includes field trials
at, amongst other sites, Bende in East Central State, to test these varieties
under varying local conditions.
2.10      The West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA) with head-
quarters in Monrovia, Liberia collates all available information on rice
agronomy and development throughout Western Africa and disseminates this
information to interested parties. It also conducts a research program in
collaboration with member Governments using basic information and plant
material from IITA which itself uses material and information from its sister
organization, the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the
Pliilippines. Nigeria, as a member of WAPnA and having ITTA operating within
its boundaries, is thus well served for basic research on rice production.
2.11       The Federal Rice Research Station at Badeggi (North Western State)
is the focus of the national rice research program. Badeggi concentrates on
applied research and has out-reach programs with all the States. Cooperative
trials with WARDA are conducted at Badeggi.



-5-
2.12      The Federal Agricultural Research and Training Station at Umudike
in East Central State is financed and administered by the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources. The station has two functions (a)
research, particularly on root crops, but also rice for which it has a sub-
station at Bende and (b) providing agricultural training (a two-year course)
to secondary school leavers to qualify them for appointment as Agricultural
Assistants in the Federal and State services, as well as diploma courses
(an additional year) for upgrading Assistants to Agricultural Superintendents,
and training courses for farmers.
2.13      The Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB) was established in March, 1973,
by FGN to provide credit services to agriculture. At this early stage of its
development its role and mode of operation particularly in relations to small-
holders are yet to be finalized.
2.14      The University of Nigeria has its campus at Nsukka (East Central
State), and there is also an East Central State University at Enugu and a
University College at Calabar. (SES)
2.15      State agricultural development programs and agricultural extension
services are the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), in Calabar,
South Eastern State and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Agricultural
Extension (MNRAE), in Enugu, East Central State. 1/ Both Ministries provide
a range of services to farmers including extension, input supplies and plant
protection. In South Eastern State the activities also include seed farms,
rice milling, veterinary and livestock services. In East Central State the
Ministry covers veterinary and livestock services, fisheries and forestry, but
seed farms and commercial agricultural developments are run by the Agricultural
Development AAuthority (ADA), which is a commercially oriented organization
responsible to the Commissioner of Agriculture. In addition both states manage
a number of relatively small development schemes concerned among others with
food production and irrigation.
2.16      In general, it can be said that while the national and state institu-
tions in East Central and South Eastern States dealing with agricultural pro-
duction and services to farmers are well established organizations staffed
with a considerable number of trained people, they lack a coordinated program
for strengthening and developing the agricultural sector. There is no short-
age of graduates but due to the lack of project execution experience and funds
there are no well planned projects for large-scale rice development in the
two states.
2.17      The Role of the Projects in Nigerian Agricultural Strategy.  The
two rice projects would increase food production and would improve the
economic well-being of a large number of farmers with small holdings. Very
important, the projects would strengthen Nigerian agricultural institutions
by initiating a program of-specific and properly designed and managed projects
for the development of swamp rice production in the two states.
1/   During negotiations it was learned that in ECS the State Agricultural
Organization had been split into two ministries, one dealing with "pro-
duction" aspects and the other with "agricultural extension". The rice
project would come under the "production" ministry as would the Agricul-
Cural Development Authority (ADA).



-6-
III. PROJECT AREA
3.01      General.  The project area consists of 11 swampy valleys, six, the
valleys of the Adim, Ajiabo, Assiga, Nkari, Oniong Ono and Odoro Atasung/Ubium
Rivers in South Eastern State and five, the valleys of the Ifite, Uzouwani,
Ogboji, Uboma-Etiti/Ulonna and Bende Rivers in East Central State (see map).
3.02      The valleys are mainly uncultivated and uncleared.  Forest cover
varies considerably from very heavy to light. Most have some cleared areas
where rice is grown, but mainly this is on a rainfed basis without drainage
or control of water levels. Such rice grows well but yields are low because
of poor water control, low fertilizer use, and low yield potential varieties.
However, there is a great demand for rice and interest is high in expanding
rice areas and improving cultural practices.
3.03      Climate, Soils and Topography.  Rainfall varies from 1,500 mm per
year in the north to around 3,000 mm in the south and east of the project area.
Most of the project valleys receive 2,000 to 2,500 mm of rainfall in an average
year with about 85% of rainfall occurring in the 6-month period from mid-April
to mid-October. Generally rainfall is adequate to grow one crop of rice if
satisfactory water levels in the swamps can be maintained throughout the
growing season.  Temperatures vary little, the range being from 25C to 28C,
and relative humidity is consistently high. Sunshine hours are relatively
low near the coast in South Eastern State, but increase northwards. Insola-
tion is generally satisfactory for rice cultivation.
3.04      Soils are mainly brown alluvial loams or sandy clays varying to
depths of several meters in some valleys, but fairly shallow and overlying
impermeable shales in others. Soils are fairly uniform with 30-40% clay
content, 10% silt and 50-60% sand. The soils are moderately rich in the
important plant nutrients and having a pH around 5.0 are suitable for rice
growing.
3.05      Most of the specific project locations are rainfed inland swamps,
typically being fairly level valley floors subject to seasonal flooding. The
others are river terraces above the flood line, typically these are level
areas with impeded drainage and which flood with run off from higher levels.
The sides of the valleys are sandy loams with gravel or laterite concretions
and often eroded.
3.06      Population.  Population of the three administrative divisions in
which lie the five valleys to be developed in East Central State is about
500,000, and population density very high at around 500/km2. In the four
administrative divisions in which the six valleys to be developed in South
Eastern State are located, population is about 1 million and density about
300/km2. Average family size in both States is 6 to 7 persons, and as such
usually able to provide labor equivalent to about 3 adult workers.



-7-
3.07      Rice Development.  In both States farmers are being activelv en-
couraged to grow rice, and both Mtinistries of Agriculture have swamp valley
develonment programs. Currently the area developed is small totalling only
about 300 ha and comprising many small Plots. However, these have been ade-
quate to demonstrate the practicabilitv of intensive swamp rice production
and are the previsions of the project described in this report. Most rice
now produced in the States is grown as an upland rainfed crop, and it is esti-
mated that about 42,000 ha are grown annuallv. Yields are low, however, and
probably less than 1,000 kg per ha.  Measures are being taken to improve the
productivity of upland rice cultivation by introducing high yielding varieties
and expanding the amount of land utilized for rice growing. There is a short-
age of suitable upland areas, however, as they are now overcultivated and must
be fallowed neriodically. Swamp rice develooment is being encouraged to in-
crease cultivated area by reclaiming alluvial swamps, and to take advantage
of the higher fertility level and better moisture holding characteristics of
the swamp soils.
3.08      Farm Size and Tenure.  Accurate data on farming systems in the
project areas are minimal, but information collected by the University of
Nigeria and the Rural Economic Survey of Nigeria, and the experience and ob-
servations of staff of the Ministries of Agriculture indicate that due to
population pressure farms in the project areas are small, averaging about 1.5
ha with a range of from 0.1 ha to over 5 ha. Characteristically the farms are
fragmented and the different plots may be widelv scattered.
3.09      Land is held under customary rights usufruct.  Land allocated to
families or individuals by the traditional authorities is normally kept by
that familv while it continues to cultivate or use the land, and is inherited
on the death of the family head bv his male heirs. While there is no land
registration or formal titles, customary title is strictly upheld. Thus while
land can be, and is, reallocated by the community heads if it is abandoned, in-
dividuals cannot reallocate or dispose of familv land without the consent of
all members of the family who have rights of use of the land. An individual
wishing to acquire land to develop a "commercial" farm or for anv other pur-
nose must thus go through a very complex procedure of obtaining the agreement
of the traditional heads ascertaining all who have rights to that land, ob-
taining the agreement of all these to the release of the land, and thereafter
of paying compensation. Some land is owned bv communities, notably sacred
areas, undeveloped land and some of the swamp valleys but family or individual
rights of usufruct predominate over both upland and swamD areas. In the
project locations all the land is family owmed and there lhas been no acquisi-
tion by individuals.
3.10      Farm Systems.  The swamD valleys are virtuallv undeveloped although
in some tihere is some individual rice growing.  Mfostly the swamps are ex-
ploited through the tapping of the palms which grow wild in them for wine.
Consequently the development of these swamn valleys for rice will not result
in any significant loss in current economic production.



- 8 -
3.11      The upland farms produce the farm family's food and in some cases
a surplus for sale. Net cash income after home consumption is estimated at
around N 75 per year for a 1.5 hectare holding and much less for smaller
holdings which constitute a large proportion of the upland farms. This amounts
to per capita income of N 11 as comDared with the 1971 per capita GDP of about
N 70. The principal crops are yams, cassava and cocoyams sunplemented by
maize, chillies, okra and leafy vegetables. Intercropping is the general rule,
with the root crop yams, cassava and cocoyams being grown on raised mounds,
and the other crops planted on the sides of or between the mounds. Tree crops
have some importance, for example fruits such as citrus and banana; wild oil
palms are harvested for oil and kernels which are sold to nrovide the principal
cash income of the family.
3.12      Yields of all crops are generally low, basically because of poor
yield potential varieties and the problem of maintaining soil fertility.
Little fertilizer is used reflecting both the noor response of the traditional
crop varieties to fertilizers, the limited cash reserves of the average farmer,
and the lack of agricultural credit on all but usurious terms.
3.13      Livestock are scarce as the area is infested by the trypanosomiasis
bearing tsetse fly. Most families keep a few small stock, sheep, goats, pigs
and poultry, around their houses and these provide most of the families very
limited intake of animal protein.
3.14      Agricultural Support Programs.  The Fxtension Divisions of the two
Ministries provide advisory services throughout the proiect areas, and assist
farmers to obtain inDuts such as the seed of improved varieties,.fertilizers
(which are heavily subsidized at 50% of farmgate cost) and pest control chemi-
cals. The Ministries are encouraging the formation of Farmers Associations
at the village level in an effort to establish a more efficient medium for
extension activities. In general, however, the extension services have been
unable to achieve the results they have sought because they have lacked any
"package' of improvements to offer to farmers capable of resulting in signifi-
cant increases in productivity and incomes.
3.15      Marketing and Credit.  The marketing of rice and other foodcrops
is in the hands of private merchants, although the South Eastern State Co-
operative Wholesale Association (SECWA) and Agricultural Development Authority
(ADA) in East Central State buy and mill paddy particularly from State sponsored
development schemes. Rice is normally parboiled. Some farmers parboil their
paddy before sale; some pay to have their parboiled paddy milled at privately
owned mills and then sell the rice on their own account; others have both the
parboiling and milling done for them by private millers: and a few sell paddy
directly to merchants. Marketing and processing facilities are adequate for
current production levels, but new processing facilities will be needed at
the project sites when these are fully developed.
3.16      Over the years various agricultural credit schemes have been ope-
rative in the project areas. All have failed, basically because of poor
appraisal and supervision techniques and an inability to enforce debt collec-
tion. The last of these schemes ceased to operate in 1972.



-9-
3.17       Agricultural Research.  Research in the project area is directed
principally to varietal testing and to a lesser extent to cultivation methods,
water and fertilizer requirements, and pest control. The research program
would be expanded to serve the project, see para 4.14. There are not thought
to be any particular pests or diseases or other fundamental barriers to rice
production that would require special investigation or which are not being
handled adequately at the present time.
3.18       Communications.  The project areas road networks are extensive,
with tarmac roads extending to about 650 kmin South Eastern State and 2,000 km
in East Central State. In addition there are many times this amount of unpaved
roads in both states, to varying extents these can be difficult during the
rainy season. In East Central State most of the roads, even the tarmac roads,
are in a poor state of repair. Off the roads there is a network of tracks and
paths largely unsuitable for vehicles. All-weather access is available to very
few of the valleys to be developed by the project for rice production.
3.19       There is a rail link from Port Harcourt to Enugu and on northward
through East Central State. The port at Calabar is suitable for coastal
vessels. There are airfields at Calabar and Enugu and regular scheduled air
services for passengers and freight. The Cross River which divides South
Eastern State can be crossed only by ferry, taxi-boats or private launches
(see map). There are plans to construct a bridge across the river at some
time in the future.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01       The ECS and SES Projects, involving about 9,000 ha and some 6,000
farm families would be the first phase in development of the verv large po-
tential for rice projects already identified in swamp forest areas in the two
states. Through land clearing, drainage, and water control about 7,000 ha
of swamps would be developed to produce one crop of wet season rice; a further
2,000 ha of swamps would be developed to produce two crops of rice annually,
a rainfed wet season crop and a dry season crop irrigated by a simple run of
river diversion system. In ECS five locations would be developed to give an
approximate 4,790 ha of swamp rice (one wet season crop) plus 1,410 ha of
irrigated rice (two crops). Development in SES would be at six locations,
and involve about 2,270 ha of swamp rice and 440 ha of irrigated rice.
4.02       The project and disbursement of the Bank loan would be completed
in the 5-year project development period, 1974/75-1978/79. The projects in
each state, which would be similar in all aspects except size and geographical
location, would consist of:



- 10 -
(a) clearing and developing some 9,000 ha of swamp land and
allocating the land so developed among some 6,000 farm
families;
(b) constructing irrigation diversion and distribution systems
needed to serve second dry season rice crops on such parts
of'project lands as local water supplies permit; currently
it is estimated that water supplies can serve 1,850 ha;
(c) procuring, erecting and operating eight rice mills (4 in ECS
and 4 in SES) and associated parboiling and storage facilities
together with necessary paddy purchasing installations and
transport vehicles;
(d) rehabilitating about 186 km of existing feeder roads (87 km
in'ECS, 99 km in SES) and constructing 117 km of new feeder roads
suitable for all-weather access (77 km in ECS, 40 km in SES);
(e) providing seasonal credit for farm inputs and hired farm labor
to project participants;
(f) providing extension and other support services to project
participants and establishing and operating farm service centers
which include demonstration farms and seed multiplication units;
(g) monitoring and evaluation of increase in agricultural
production and income of project farmers and economic
impact on surrounding communities;
(h) conducting the studies necessary for the further expansion
of swamp rice development in the two States; and
(i) providing an agricultural training program at Federal
Agricultural Research Training Center, Umudike and at the
College of Agriculture, Obubra including additional build-
ings and staff and expenses of projects trainees.
The projects would be managed by the State Ministries of Agriculture which
would be strengthened as necessary for this purpose by specialist staff.
4.03      The first project year (PY1-1975) would be utilized in general
mobilization and staffing, procuring equipment and vehicles, completing
detailed topographic maps, collecting hydrological data of the project loca-
tions, and conducting other essential preparatory activities. Important
preparatory work would be the delineation of areas to be developed for rice,
surveying, designing project structures, and preparing detailed work schedules
for the execution of the project. Detailed land development and road improve-
ment plans and detailed designs of irrigation diversion works and canals
together with supporting hydrological data would be included in an annual
work plan presented each year for Bank approval. Assurance to this effect
was obtained during negotiations. First rice planting on project lands would
be made in April (PY2-1976). The schedule for land development would be:



- 11 -
Project Year              1976       1977      1978       1979      Total
Hectares
Swamp Rice
East Central State               770     1,290      1,310     1,420       4,790
South Eastern State             650        650        650       320       2,270
Swamp Rice Total:          1,420      1,940     1,960      1,740       7,060
Irrigated Rice
East Central State               640       260        310       200       1,410
South Eastern State              130       130        130        50         440
Irrigated Total:             770        390       440        250       1,850
Grand Total:                          2,330     2,400      1,990       8,910
B. Detailed Features
4.04      Land Clearing.  Land clearing could be done by several methods but
probably would be carried out by a combination of machine and manual work,
in the latter case handwinches would be used. To avoid disturbance of the
very thin layer of top Boil that characterizes the swamp areas, it would be
necessary to drain the land before using heavy land clearing machinery. Con-
sequently manual clearing would be preferable and used wherever practical;
where mechanical land clearing is used, the major drainage works would be
completed first. An alternative method of land clearing would be to poison
the trees and so minimize disturbance to the top-soil (Annex 5). This method
has the disadvantage that it takes 12 to 18 months for the trees to die, but
it would be used in those areas where sufficient time is available within the
land development program. There would be considerable scope for clearing by
poisoning in the future as swamp rice development is expanded in the two
states.
4.05      Drainage and Irrigation.  The swamp areas to be developed are rela-
tively small ranging in size from 400 to 1,130 ha and were selected from
ground reconnaissance and examination of topographic maps, scale 1 to 50,000
with a 50-foot contour interval. Due to insufficient map detail, design of
a precise layout of drainage and irrigation systems tailored to the exact
land to be developed under the project was not possible during project pre-
paration. Aerial photography is scheduled for October-November, 1974 to be
followed by preparation of new and more detailed topographic maps essential
for carrying out the projects. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that photomosaics suitable for initiating engineering layouts would be avail-



- 12 -
able in January, 1975 and that new topographic maps would be available by
June 1, 1975. Receipt of the photomosaics is a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.06      The project areas typically are long, narrow valleys, a few hundred
meters wide with a natural stream meandering through their length. These
streams would be developed as the principal drainage channels by clearing,
cleaning and straightening. The swamp area would be protected from storm
run-off from the surrounding high land by small floodways constructed around
the perimeter of the swamp. A drainage network would be constructed to
control water levels in each bunded rice field through a system of field,
secondary, and collector drains connected to main drainage channels.
4.07      Perennial streams with a sufficient dry season flow would be diverted
to irrigate as much of the swamp area as estimated dry season flows permit.
The irrigation system would consist of storage and diversion structures, a
main supply canal, and a distribution and drainage network. The system would
supply supplementary (to rainfall and runoff) water supply to the wet season
crop as well as the full supply needed for the dry season crop. Water levels
would be manually controlled by turnouts and checks in irrigation and drainage
channels.
4.08      Non-irrigated swamp rice would depend for its water supply on rain
and surplus water draining from adjacent higher land, but would have controlled
drainage and water levels. Individual farmer plots would be laid out and
bunded. The timing of the various agricultural operations would be controlled
by the onset and duration of the long rains which usually begin in April and
last into October. The complete agricultural cycle of soil preparation,
planting, fertilizing and weed control would take place during this period
with harvesting commencing in October/November and lasting for approximately
4 to 6 weeks. The maturation period from seed planting to harvesting would
be approximately 120 days for the new high yielding varieties that would be
planted under the project. Details of the farm inputs to be used and the
general rice growing system proposed are set out in the farm budgets at
Annex 14.
4.09      Water for irrigated rice would come from rain supplemented by
gravity irrigation. Simple earth dams, culverts and sluice gates would be
required to permit manual control of the water supply to optimize growing
conditions. The first irrigated crop would follow the timing of the swamp
rice crop, i.e., April through October but with somewhat earlier harvesting.
Planting of the second crop would take place in October/November, and the
crop would be harvested in the following February/March.
4.10      All project costs and benefits are based on the assumption that
all cultivations would be by hand. however the project would include some
small scale trials of low cost simple mechanization, such as power tillers
and power threshers. The trials would be aimed at determining whether mecha-
nization should be a feature of future phases of the swamp rice development
program.



- 13 -
4.11      Land Settlement.  The State Government would acquire land required
for project use through the Public Lands Acquisition Laws and vest the project
organizations with authority to develop the areas for project purposes.
Negotiations for the use of the land could result in the owners receiving
compensation for the land and for any economic tree crops, such as oil and
wine palms, which are destroyed. Following discussions with the State Govern-
ments, this report allows for annual rental payments of N5 per ha to be made
from project revenues. Any other acquisition costs would be borne by the
States. Farmers would be selected by local settlement committees comprising
of project officials and representatives nominated by the village and clan
(extended family) leaders. Priority would be given to members of the commun-
ity. Selected farmers would be registered and provided with a renewable two-
year temporary title which would be followed by long-term leases in cases
where farmers met fully their obligations under the temporary lease. Selec-
tion procedures and lease arrangements are described further in Annex 4.
Advice and supervision on land levelling, soil preparation and rice cultivation
would be provided by project staff. Seasonal credit would be provided for seed,
fertilizers and agricultural chemicals, see para 4.18. Farmers would pay an
annual development charge for the use of the land, see para 7.09, and under the
terms of their leases, cultivate to prescribed standards and maintain farm
irrigation and drainage works and a condition of participation in the project
is that they would sell all paddy produced on their project holdings to the
project organization.
4.12      Road Improvement.  The development of rice in the projects areas
would require the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 186 km of feeder
roads, 87 km in ECS and 99 km in SES; and construction of about 117 km of new
feeder roads, 77 km in ECS and 40 km in SES. The two-State road improvement
program would provide all-weather roads with 5 m wide roadway and 15 cm
laterite surfacing to handle 7-ton trucks and would include appropriate cul-
verts and bridges. Construction would be over the 4-year period (1976 through
1979) and would proceed in line with the need induced by the land development
program. The maintenance of project constructed and rehabilitated roads
would be undertaken by the project organization up to 1979. Thereafter the
Ministries of Public Works (MPW) in the two States would assume such responsi-
bility.
4.13      Rice Mills, Storage and Transport.  Six new rice mills, 2 in ECS
and 4 in SES with a total capacity of about 6.5 ton per hour (TPI), (SES 3 TPH;
ECS 3.5 TPII) would be erected and operated by the project organization to
parboil and mill all project paddy. In addition, the project would take over
from the ECS Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) a partially erected
2.5 TPH and an operative 0.5 TPH rice mill now located at Uzouwani.  The 0.5
TPII mill would be moved to another project location and the larger mill com-
pleted in situ. Individual mill capacity and location would be related to
paddy production at different project localities.  The mills would be operated
by the project organization and would have two buying seasons, 4 to 8 weeks
for the first crop in September/November, and 4 weeks for the second crop
from irrigated farms in March-April, processing would extend over about 36
weeks in all assuming double shift processing. All new and existing mills
would be equipped with parboiling facilities. The rice mills would be the



- 14 -
focal point for farm input delivery, credit collection, and other financial
dealings with participating farmers. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the existing ADA mills would be handed over to the ECS project
organization without cost. Storage capacity for 60% of the paddy crop would
be provided, and the mills would have their own lorries and be self sufficient
in transport needs. Paddy husk would be disposed of by burning on site.
However, husk is suitable as support for molasses in animal feed and its
possible use would be investigated. The quality bran produced would be
readily saleable for poultry feed; commercial mills producing such feed are
located in ECS.
4.14      Training.  No facilities exist in the two states for specialist
training in irrigation or rice agronomy. To overcome this, the project would
include training programs consisting of (a) scholarships for professional
officers to travel to established rice stations to study irrigation techniques
and to take post graduate courses in irrigation agronomy, and (b) the expansion
of classroom and dormitory facilities at the Federal Agricultural Research
and Training Station at Umudike, Umuahia and at the College of Agriculture,
Obubra for the training of agricultural assistants in irrigation and rice
agronomy. These facilities would be adequate to provide the projects with
24 agricultural assistants per year (see Annex 4).
4.15      Each of the five schemes would support a training center that
would provide non-residential courses for 25 students and would be directed
toward farmer training, pre-service training of field overseers and in-service
training for staff.
4.16      Farm Service Centers.  Each State project would include farm service
centers which would be supervised by a project agronomist. The centers would
be used for field trials with new varieties, fertilizers, agricultural chemi-
cals, water management and low cost mechanization, as well as for seed multi-
plication. All work would be of an applied nature and would be conducted in
liaison with Federal and State research stations and programs.
4.17      Field trials would be conducted to choose varieties of rice best
suited for local use. Foundation seed would be obtained for recommended
varieties from Badeggi or Ibadan and multiplied at seed farms. This regis-
tered seed would be further multiplied by selected farmers for distribution
as certified seed to all settlers on the schemes. The fertilizer requirements
of rice would be investigated and adequate supplies made available for sale
to farmers. Chemicals for disease, pest and weed control would be assessed
and stocks of the chemicals and equipment to apply them would be available
to farmers.
4.18      Credit.  Seasonal credit would be provided in kind for seed, ferti-
lizers and agricultural chemicals and in cash for hired farm labor. Credit
arrangements would be very simple with leases to project lands being credit
collateral and a condition of continuing land lease to participating farmers
would be repayment of credit. Loans would be made to the farmers by the
project organization's credit services (see Annex 4). It is not believed that
a very great amount of cash credit will be needed, firstly because the farmers



- 15 -
would pay their annual development charge for use of the land after harvest-
ing and selling their paddy and secondly, hired labor requirements are small.
Farmers should be able to pay for most labor from their own resources as the
bulk of hired labor would be employed when cash sales of rice and other crops
would be in progress. Farmers would pay interest on seasonal credit at a
rate between 5 and 9-1/2% yet to be decided. All credit would be repaid at
the end of each season from paddy proceeds. Farmers would enter into a simple
loan agreement with the project organization. Credit records and administra-
tion would be maintained at each project site.
4.19      Operation and Maintenance.  The project organization would operate
and maintain all project facilities and services through the project develop-
ment period. Appropriate staff, equipment and workshop facilities for such
work would be provided under the project. Annual costs of such work in ECS
at the end of the project development period (1979) are estimated to amount
to N 312,000 (US$475,000) and by maturity of project (1983) to N 179,000
(US$273,000). Operation and maintenance costs for the road program amounting
to N 23,000 (US$35,000) from 1980 onward would become the responsibility of
the State Government. In SES, annual operation and maintenance costs are
estimated at the end of project development period (1979) at N 198,000
(US$300,000) and at maturity of the project (1983) at N 125,000 (US$190,000).
Operation and maintenance cost for the road program amounting to N 17,000
(US$26,000) from 1980 onward would become the responsibility of the State
Government. The above figures do not include the cost of agricultural exten-
sion services.
4.20      FGN would be responsible for conducting a program to monitor the
economic and social impact of the project development. This would include
measuring the changes in gross and net income of project participants and how
they use it, changes in volume of production, efficiency of resource utilize
tion, changes in gross and net income of off-farm population in surrounding
villages and the impact on infrastructure and programs of social services.
Socio-economic aspects would be contracted to appropriate universities. (See
Annex 4)
4.21      Phase II Studies.  The project would be a first step in the syste-
matic development of swamp valleys for rice growing in the two States; and
indeed would serve as a pilot for such development in much of Nigeria. The
physical and other data needed for large scale development are presently limited.
Consequently during project implementation additional data would be gathered,
expansion potential would be identified and project experience evaluated for
application in a large program of development. The Federal Government would
be responsible for conduct of studies leading to expansion of swamp rice devel-
opment and for preparation of a detailed feasibility report for Phase II proj-
ects to be completed in 1976. Studies for Phase II would examine the feasi-
bility of (1) development of additional dry season water supplies to maximize
irrigation of swamp rice lands developed in Phase I project, (2) expansion of
Phase I areas by developing nearby swamp valley lands and (3) development of
other swamp valley lands as nuclei for expansion of rice growing in new areas.
Draft terms of reference for the feasibility studies and project preparation
are in Annex 9.



- 16 -
4.22      Ecology and Health.  The areas to be developed are covered in swamp
forest which contain wild groves of oil and rafia palms, and are sources of
roofing and other building materials, palm wine, and firewood. However, the
project localities are small in comparison with the total swamp area and
their loss as source of these materials would not be significant, particularly
as kerosene is rapidly replacing firewood as a cooking fuel. The project is
not expected to have any adverse impact on either the ecology or climate,
although careful monitoring of the project catchment areas would need to be
undertaken by the State Governments and measures introduced as necessary to
prevent excessive deforestation and resulting soil erosion. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained from the Governments that execution and opera-
tion of the project would be carried out with due regard for health, ecological
and environmental factors. Some pesticides and possibly some arboricides would
be used in rice cultivation and land clearing but their use would be under the
control of project extension service agents. Project irrigation and drainage
works would to some extent delay run off from the swamps to the main rivers,
thereby diminishing flood levels during the rainy season and prolonging dry
season flows. Shistosomiasis (bilharzia) is found in the area but so far is
not severe. Onchocerciasis (river blindness) has not been observed and condi-
tions are not suitable for its occurrence.   A preproject survey of disease and
health problems in the project areas will be made. During project implementa-
tion and operation, impact of the projects on health aspects will be monitored
and annual surveys made. The social infrastructure such as health, general
education and public utilities are presently average or above average for
Nigeria and no special provision of these services would be needed under the
project to ensure that its production and income targets are met.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
5.01      Total project costs for the 5-year project development period 1975
through 1979, net of import duties and taxes and excluding interest charges on
the proposed IBRD loan, are estimated at N 23.0 million (US$35.0 million),
consisting of N 14.1 million (US$21.5 million) for the East Central State
Project and N 8.9 million (US$13.5 million) for the South Eastern State Project..
The foreign exchange component is about 30% or N 6.8 million (US$10.3 million)
of total project costs. Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 11 and
summarized on page 18.
5.02      Project costs include contingencies amounting to N 7.2 million
(US$10.9 million) or 31 percent of total project costs (7 percent physical
and 24 percent price).  Costs are based on current quotations for vehicles,
plant, equipment, materials and farm inputs; on current contract rates for
building construction; and on up-to-date salary and wage scales with some
additional responsibility allowance for senior personnel. Costs of specialist
staff, who may need to be recruited from abroad, are based on current inter-
national salaries, and include benefits and allowances. In the case of farm
inputs only incremental requirements are costed. Participating farmers
would, as now, receive a 50 percent subsidy on the cost of phosphatic and
nitrogenous fertilizers and agricultural chemicals which is included in the



- 17 -
cost estimates. Project cost estimates were prepared on the assumption that
as an agricultural project all major imports, such as construction equipment
and vehicles, would be free of import taxes and duties. The income tax ele-
ment of staff salaries is included in project costs, except for that of
internationally recruited staff. Assurance was obtained during negotiation
that present fertilizer subsidies would be continued.
5.03      Annex 11, Table 1, shows that 17% of costs (N 4.0 million) is for
project management, agricultural extension and credit services; 21% (N 4.8
million) for land development; 9% (N 2.0 million) for road improvement; 13%
(N 3.0 million) for rice milling and marketing; 9% (N 2.0 million) for farm
inputs, specialist services and training etc; and 31% (N 7.2 million) for
contingencies.
5.04      Proposed Financing.  An IBRD loan of US$17.5 million to FGN is
proposed, repayable over 15 years following a five year grace period for
principal during which loan interest and commitment charges would be paid.
The loan would be equivalent to 50% of total project costs and would cover
the foreign exchange component of US$10.3 million and 29% of local costs
amounting to US$7.2 million. Approximately 58% of the loan (US$10.2 million)
would be onlent by FGN to East Central State Government (ECSG) and 37%
(US$6.5 million) would be onlent to the South Eastern State Government (SESG),
the remaining 5% (US$0.8 million) being retained by FGN for project monitoring,
for Phase II studies and for new facilities at the Federal Agricultural
Research and Training Station at Umudike.
5.05      The terms of onlending to the States and how the remaining 50% of
project costs would be split between FGN and the States is yet to be decide
(see para 5.07). The proposed financing plan follows on page 20.
5.06      Unless onlending procedures are carefully worked out deficits in
State Government projects cash flows could result even after assuming milling
and marketing surpluses would accrue wholly to State Governments. Annex 15,
Tables 1 and 2 present illustrative cash flows for the two State projects.
It is likely to become necessary for FGN to provide some financial asaiat-e
toward the recurrent costs stemming from such development projects.
5.07      During negotiations assurances were obtained from FGN that the
terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements between FGN and ECSG
and SESG shall have been approved by the Bank. These subsidiary loan agree-
ments are a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.08      Procurement.  Procurement of vehicles, plant, equipment, fertilizers,
insecticides, farm tractors and implements, where orders or contracts had a
value of more than US$ 25,000, would be through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IBRD guidelines. Such procurement is estimated
to have a value of about N 4.3 million (US$6.5 million). Domestically manu-
factured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or tariff, whichever is lower,
when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers. The oppor-
tunities for turn-key contracts to design, supply, erect and commission t;



- 18 -
SumTumary of Project Costs 1975 through 1979
N Thousand                 US $ Thousand
East Central State Project                Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreiign   Total
1. Land Development                     2,o97.1    330.8  3,227.9  4,403.6    502.5  4,906.4
2. Road Improvement                       708.9    419.6  1,128.5  1,077.5    637.8  1,715.3
3.  Rice Milling                        1,029.9    730.5  1,760.14  1,565.5  1,110.3  2,675.8
4.  Training                               107.6     38.6   146.2    163.6       58.6    222.2
Subtotal                         4,743.5  1 ,519.5 °6,260  7,210.2  2,309.5  9,519.7
5.  Headquarters & Extension Services  1,753.7    452.7  2,206.4  2,665.6    685.1  3,353.7
6.  Land Acquisition                       106.8       -     106.8    162.3         -     162.3
7.  Project Monitoring                      65.0       -       65.0    100.0       -      100.0
8.  Farm Inputs                            296.4   257.8    554.-2    450.6   391 .8    842.4
9. Specialist Staff & Phase II Studies        -     429.8    k9-                653.3    6
Subtotal                         6,965.4  2,659.8  9,625.2 10156d.7  ti,042.7 l ,7
10. Physical Contingency                   908.8    201.6  1 ,110.4  1 ,381 .4    3o6.4  1,687.8
11. Price Contingency                   2,270.5  1,135.3  3 405.8  3 451.2 1,725.6  5,176 8
East Central Total              10,1)44.7  3.956.7 14,141.4l           6.073.7
South Eastern State Project
1. Land Development                     1,367.4    230.2  1 ,597.6  2,07d.5    349.9  2,428.4
2. Road Improvemaent                      520.6    299.1    819.7    791.3    454.6  1,245.9
3. Rice Milling                           608.3   481 .5  1,089.8    924.6    731.9  1,656.5
4.  Training                               107.6     38.6    146.2    163.6      58.6    222.2
Subtotal                         2,603.9  T1,049.4  3,6'3.3  3-,95B.0  1 ,595.0  5,553.0
5.  Headquarters Staff & Extension
Services                          1,428.6   401.3  1,829.9  2,171.4    610.0  2,781.4
6. Land Acquisition                        50.6        -      50.6      76.9       -       76.9
7.  Project Monitoring                     65.o        -      65.0    100.0        -      100.0
8. Farm Inputs                            126.2    113.0    239-2    191.8    171.8    363.6
9.  Specialist Staff & Phase II Studies       -     41Q.0    410. 0       -     623.2    623.2
Subtotal                         4,274.3  1,973.7  6,245.0  6,49.]1  3,000.0  9,495.1
10. Physical Contingency                   65.2    139.5    604.7    707.1    212.0    919.1
11. Price Contingency                   1,361.6    680.8  2 042.24  2-069.6  1 034.8  3,104.4
South Eastern Total              6,101.1  2,79L..0  5,595.1  9,274   t3 1j256  l3,521.
Grand Total                     16,245.8  6,790.7 23,036.5 24,696.1 10,321.5 35,017.6
Note:  Physical contingency 25g of land development costs and 10% of road, rice milling
and training costs.
PZice contingency variable rates in accord with "interim  guidelines" of
March, 1974 compounded annually.



- 19 -
rice mills including training of staff and supervision of the first three to
six months operation would be explored. There is a range of international
suppliers who would be capable of doing this on a competitive basis. Contracts
for the construction of buildings, houses, and the purchase of construction
materials and furnishings valued at N3.1 million (US$4.7 million) are not
suitable for ICB, due to the dispersed location of the work and the small size
of individual contracts and orders, and would be awarded under local competi-
tive bidding. The land development program would be done on force account
because of the very tight time schedule and lack of suitably equipped local
civil works contractors to handle the large number of operations to be carried
out simultaneously. For the same reasons the road construction program would
be done on force account where necessary; however, where local qualified petty
contractors are available and the works could be done within time and cost
limitations, local contractors would be used through local competitive bid-
ding. In the case of civil works contracts domestic contractors would be
granted a 7-1/2% preference. A large part of project costs, an estimated
N 13.0 million (US$19.8 million), would be for labor, local staff salaries
and allowances and maintenance and operation of vehicles, buildings, etc.
and is unsuitable for competitive bidding. Of this hired labor would amount
to N 5.2 million (US$8.0 million).
5.09      Disbursement.  The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$17.5 million)
would be disbursed over five years (1975-1979) against the followings
A.   100% of foreign exchange expenditures for:
(a) rice milling and parboiling equipment and related
storage, buildings and vehicles totalling  US$1.4
million;
(b) vehicles, tractors, heavy plant and other equipment
totalling US$2.2 Million;
(c) buildings, houses and construction materials, except
those in (a), totalling US$700,000j
(d) fertilizers and agricultural chemicals on incremental
basis net of subsidies totalling $700,000;
B.   10C%  of total expenditures for:
(a) training program (including new facilities at
Obubra), specialist staff internationally recruited,
and Phase II studies totalling US$ .3 million;
(b) the monitoring program to be conducted by FGN with
funds provided by the project and new training
facilities at Umudike totalling US$800,000;



- 20 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
(NEooo)
East Central State                               Total     IBRD     FGN/State
Investment Costs
Rice mills, equipment, vehicles             1,079.8    662.5   417.3
& buildings
Vehicles, plant and equipment                 971.2   749.3   221.9
Buildings, houses, construction materials     719.7   269.5   450.2
Hired labor for construction                2,561.0  1,152.4  1,408.6
Local staff for construction                  294.2   132.4   161.8
Training - buildings, vehicles & staff, etc.    146.2   146.2
Farm inputs
Incremental                                   374-4   309.5    64.9
Fertilizer subsidy                            179.8             179.8
Monitoring & Evaluation                          65.0     65.0
Land Acquisition                                106.8             106.8
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicles, equipment & buildings             1,126.8    507.1   619.7
Rice milling equipment, staff, etc.           680.6             680.6
Local staff, extension & development          889.9   400.4    489.5
Specialist staff & studies                    429.8   429.8
Contingencies
Physical                                    1,110.4    555.2    555.2
Price                                       3,405.8 1,691.4  1,714.4
Total                                        14v141.4  7,070.7  7.070.7
South Eastern State
Investment Costs
Rice mills, equipment, vehicles &             625.6   386.7   238.9
buildings
Vehicles, plant & equipment                   745.8   577.5   168.3
Buildings, houses & construction materials    544.3   183.1    361.2
Hired labor for construction                1,086.0   488.7   597.3
Local staff for construction                  264.8   119.2   145.6
Training - buildings, vehicles, staff etc.      146.2   146.2
Farm Inputs
Incremental                                   158.0   130.1    27.9
Fertilizer subsidy                             81.2              81.2
Monitoring & Evaluation                          65.0    65.0
Land Acquisition                                 50.6              50.6
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicles, equipment & buildings               950.9   427.9   523.0
Rice milling, equipment, staff, etc.          464.2             464.2
Local staff, extension & development          655.4   294.9   360.5
Specialist staff & studies                    410.0   410.0
Contingencies
Physical                                      604.7    302.3   302.4
Price                                       21042.4   91690  1 126.4
Total                                         8,895.1  4,447.6
Grand Total N1000                              23,036.5 11,518.3 11,518.2
US $1000                           35,000   17,500   17,500
Distribution %                                            50      50



-21 -
C.   50% of the cost of hired farm labor totalling $200,000;
D.   45% of the cost of local staff, hired labor and operat-
ing and maintaining all vehicles, plant, buildings and
equipment (except for rice milling and marketing) during
the development period totalling US$5.4 million; and
E.   Unallocated totalling US$4.8 million.
5.10      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made
against certified records of expenditures documentation would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by the project organization for scrutiny by
Bank supervision missions. Upon completion of the project, any undisbursed
bank funds due to cost savings would be cancelled.
5.11      In order to achieve a prompt and efficient flow of funds to the
project and participating farmers the following procedures would be used:
the project organizations would prepare and endorse all the supporting documents
needed for reimbursements. These documents would then support the reimburse-
ment claims that would be prepared and signed by an appropriate representative
of the Federal Ministry of Finance.
5.12      Accounts and Audits.  Annual budgetary procedures would be initiated
by the project organizations.  The initial budgets would use as their bases
the cost estimates set out in this report, but would be amended where necessary
to reflect changes in costs and project policies and development schedules,
as these occurred and where appropriate would be approved by the Bank. Project
organizations would thereafter amend their budgets on a monthly basis, and
establish a monthly cash flow statement indicating costs, revenues and working
capital requirements. These monthly statements would be submitted to the
Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry of Agriculture for monitoring, but
project management would be authorized to operate on such monthly budgets
unless officially informed to the contrary by the Permanent Secretary.
5.13      On the basis of the annual budget approved by the State MIinistries
of Agriculture and Finance the ECSG and SESG would make allocations in their
annual development budgets to cover their contributions to project costs as
well as provide working capital for the project. In order to insure an ade-
quate flow of funds during negotiations assurances were obtained that ade-
quate guaranteed drawdown procedures would be made with commercial banks of
their choice to allow the POs full access to funds within the limitations of
the approved annual budget.
5.14      Separate accounts would be maintained for the two State project
organizations to provide cost accounting data and for audit control. The
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors, mutually accept-
able to ECSG, SESG, FGN and the Bank. Audited annual accounts, balance sheets,
and operating statements for the project organizations would be submitted
simultaneously to thie ECSG, SESG, FGN and the Bank within 4 months of the
closing of the financial year. During negotiations assurances to these
effects were obtained.



- 22 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      General Introduction.  Currently agricultural services in the two
States are organized on an area basis with an agricultural officer (AO) usually
a university graduate in charge of the smallest administratively autonomous
unit, the district. 1/ The district AO may report to a provincial unit, often
headed by a Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO); or be part of a "Circle
Organization" covering more than one province and in the charge of a Principal
Agricultural Officer (PAO). Typically the PAO reports to a Chief Agricultural
Officer (CAO) at Ministry headquarters who is supported by assistants (ACAO)
organized on a subject matter basis. Under this system, development schemes
in any given district are managed by the local AD through a chain of respon-
sibility emanating from the CAO. With construction of the proposed projects
completed, their subsequent management would be within the capacity of the
present organizational system strengthened as necessary by specialists in
irrigation and by the training that would be received by district and provincial
personnel in the project development phase. Different organizational arrange-
ments would be needed, however, for the project development phase which would
last for five years and which would require specialist skills either non-
existent or in short supply. Consequently, a project organization would be
established in each State, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
to implement the projects' development phases, and which at each project site
would hand over responsibility for the operational phase to the regular admin-
istration of the MA.  Staff required to carry out the projects would be seconded
or attached to the two projects as needed and assurances to these effects
were obtained during negotiations. Establishment of the project organizations
is a condition of loan effectiveness.  The ECS project organization would be
set up with headquarters at Enugu, and the SES project organization with
headquarters at Calabar.  Each project organization would be responsible
directly to the Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry responsible for
agricultural development, see Annex 4, and would liase closely with the CAO
who ultimately would assume responsibility for the completed schemes.
6.02      The project organizations would have a similar degree of financial
and administrative autonomy to that enjoyed by the Divisions 2/ of the
Ministries, and would be headed by a Project Manager (this title is employed
until such time it or another is approved officially). To ensure full
cooperation and coordination with other State activities, a Project coordinat-
ing Committee would be formed by March 31, 1975, with terms of reference and
1/   Below the AO the district is staffed by Agricultural Superintendents (AS)
and Agricultural Assistants (AA) see Annex 4. These "junior staff" are
the extension agents with, in the theoretically perfect management
pyramid, as an AS supervising a number of AA.
2/   Each Ministry is organized by Divisions, thus in ECS the divisions are
Agricultural Extension, Fisheries, Forestry, Veterinary and Agricultural
Engineering.



- 23 -
membership satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman), Project Manager (Secretary), representatives
of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, the Nigerian
Agricultural Bank and representatives of the State Ministries of Finance, Trade
and Cooperatives, Economic Development, Public Works, Agriculture and Natural
Resources and(in EC State)ADA. Assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations.
6.03      The project organizations would consist of:  (a) a headquarters unit
responsible for the organization, development and supervision of the
project areas; (b) mobile units responsible for field surveys, land develop-
ment including irrigation, road improvement and physical development; (c)
scheme units responsible for settlement, agricultural extension, pilot farms,
credit to farmers, etc; and (d) milling and marketing units responsible for
purchase of paddy, milling and sale of rice.
6.04      The PO would be staffed by qualified Nigerian personnel wherever
possible; however it would appear that for a few senior staff positions it
would be necessary to recruit expatriate specialists and technicians on a
temporary basis to strengthen the PO. Such specialists could be needed, in
both ECS and SES to fill the positions of project accountant/credit special-
ist and irrigation engineer; also, and in view of an overall shortage of such
qualified technical personnel in Nigeria the posts of civil engineer and mill-
ing specialist in both States may have to be filled by expatriates. Job descrip-
tions for key positions are presented in Annex 4. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that these positions would be filled by personnel satis-
factory to the Bank. Appointment of the project manager and the senior staff
in each state project organization is a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.05      Development.  For implementation purposes the project would be
divided into five schemes, three in ECS and two in SES. Work would commence
with surveying and delineating areas to be developed and follow through acqui-
sition of project land (see para 4.11), design and layout of drainage and
water control systems, clearing of land, design and layout of holdings, selec-
tion of rice farmers, supply of farm inputs and extension services to farmers,
control and distribution of water and planting of rice, location and preparation
of mill sites, and establishing milling and marketing organizations. During
project development the POs would prepare a plan for takeover by regular state
organizations for the operational phase.
6.06      The equipment and staff of each scheme would be concentrated on
single swamp valleys to complete all of the construction and implementation
events in the above schedule leaving the valley completely ready for planting
to rice before moving on to the next valley. This would also facilitate the
takeover by the regular administration of MA in the operational phase. In
SES two construction groups would operate simultaneously, one east of the
Cross River and the other west of the River.
6.07      Operation and Maintenance.  Until takeover by the regular agri-
cultural services, the Project Organizations would be responsible for and
fund, all project staffing and the operation and maintenance of all buildings,
facilities, vehicles and equipment. The project would continue through the



- 24 -
20-year project period to be funded and to operate and maintain project drain-
age and irrigation systems, rice milling and marketing facilities, credit
services and extension services. The operational phase of the projects would
be taken over by regular state organizations in accordance with the plans to
be prepared by the POs by the end of the fourth year of the development period.
Assurances were obtained during negotiation that takeover plans would be pre-
pared by December 31, 1978 and that the projects operational phase would be
properly carried on through the 20-year period of the Bank loan.
6.08      The takeover of projects operation by regular state administration
could free the POs for other development work or to become nuclei for
irrigation divisions or swamp rice divisions within the MAs organization.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, FARM INCOME & RECOVERY OF COSTS
7.01      Production.  Yields of paddy from project developed farms at maturity
are estimated to average 2,500 kg per ha for swamp rice; and 3,750 kg per ha
per crop for irrigated rice (see Annex 1). Maturity is estimated to be
reached in the fourth year of cropping for swamp rice and in the fifth year for
irrigated rice. For several reasons including the timing of agricultural oper-
ations, labor availability and general farmer inexperience, cropping intensity
on irrigated land is not expected to exceed 180%, i.e. only 80% of the irri-
gated area would grow a second crop in any given year. Thus the total annual
average yield from an irrigated ha would average 6,750 kg. In the absence of
rice yield data from the project area the foregoing yields are based on experi-
ence elsewhere in West Africa, climatic conditions, cultural practices and
probable water availabilities. They are considered conservative.
7.02      After 1983, with all project areas at full maturity, the two
projects would produce about 30,000 tons of paddy which would yield after
processing approximately: 20,800 tons of milled parboiled rice (69%), 1,800
tons of bran suitable for animal feed (6%) and 6,600 tons of husk (22%).
Milled parboiled rice is a superior product with higher protein content, a
long storage life, resistance to deterioration of quality and discoloring,
and as such preferred by urban populations who at present are the major
consumers of rice in Nigeria. The parboiling process also produces bran of
superior value over non-parboiled bran for animal, and particularly poultry
feed. At present both states suffer a shortage of animal feed.
7.03      At maturity in 1984 and subsequent years, the sale of 20,800 tons
of milled parboiled rice would produce incremental average annual income of
about N5.2 million, in the project areas, assuming continuation of the current
local sale price of N250/t, and save US$4.5 million in net foreign exchange,
assuming an import substitution price of US$216/t cif Port Harcourt (US$182



- 25 -
fob Bangkok) for Thailand milled rice 5% broken. 1/ This price is used in
the economic analysis of the project. Bran sales are estimated to produce
N90,000 annually assuming a local sale price of N50/t.
7.04      Market Prospects and Prices.  Market prospects for rice in Nigeria
are very favorable. Rice consumption, presently some 250,000 tons or about
4 kg per capita, is expected to rise to about 600,000 tons or 6.2 kg per capita
by 1985. This projection is based on the following assumptions: (a) an
increasing need for food, due to increasing population; (b) increasing per
capita consumption as a consequence of a continuation of increasing per capita
income and a high income elasticity of demand for rice; (c) the present shifting
of dietary preferences away from starchy root crops that are laborsome to
prepare for consumption towards cereals, especially rice; and (d) a rapidly
increasing (5% per year) urban population in which demand is keen for foods
that can be easily prepared such as rice. Project production, about 21,000
tons of rice by 1983, would satisfy only about 3.5% of estimated total demand
in 1985. Nigeria hopes to become self-sufficient in rice by 1985 but in the
absence of any planned and clear cut Government programs to increase production
it is doubtful whether this target will be achieved; consequently it appears
there would be a ready domestic market for project production.
7.05      The national retail market price for rice has increased by about
22% during the 1970-72 period, and food prices have doubled in the project
area in the past ten years. However, there has been a decline in rice prices
in the project area since the immediate 1971 post-war period. This decrease of
about 10% is expected to level off since prices in late 1973 were higher than
the corresponding figures for 1972. The financial analysis of the proposed
project is based on an average ex-mill prices of N250 per ton of milled par-
boiled rice in line with the late 1972 (N220 per ton)--mid 1973 (N304 per
ton) wholesale price of rice.
7.06      The majority of participating farmers would continue to operate
their upland farms and to produce a range of crops which would be the principal
source of food for the farm family and in most cases produce a small cash
income. Because of wide variations in practices, crops, prices, and farm
sizes, it is difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the production
and income from an average upland farm. Nonetheless the upland holding budget
shown in Annex 14 represents the best judgement of the mission as to what would
be reasonably typical operation. As the upland holding would not be influenced
by the project, no account is taken in the economic rate of return calculation
of the costs of, and returns from, its cultivation.
7.07      Farm Income.  Annex 14 contains model budgets for a 1.5 ha swamp
rice holding and a 1.25 ha irrigated rice holding. Basic assumptions used in
the models are: a) a producer price for paddy of N100 per ton, b) auto
consumption by the farm family of 120 kg per annum c) service charges for
use of land of N5 per hectare d) the credit terms for provision of seeds,
agricultural chemicals, and fertilizers, the latter 50% subsidized, e) a
1/   Non-parboiled, but assumed to be the nearest internationally provided
equivalent.



- 26 -
cost of hired labor of 60 k daily, the current cost in cash and kind for
casual labor in the project area and f) a cost of zero for family labor.
With these assumptions net cash income at full maturity of the holding i.e.
gross proceeds from sale of paddy less costs--is estimated at N295 for swamp
rice and N815 for irrigated double cropped rice. In the case of swamp rice
the average return for all mandays employed, both family and hired labor on
the holding is NO.90 or about 50% higher than the ruling agricultural wage
rate in the project area. The corresponding return per manday employed for
irrigated rice is higher at N1.47 or about 145% higher than the ruling agri-
cultural wage rate. The models show that rice growing under the project with
its relatively high labor requirements - 505 mandays per farm annually for
swamp rice and 733 mandays for irrigated rice, and satisfactory levels of
remuneration, is an ideal occupation in an area where employment opportunities
are restricted and population increasing rapidly.
7.08      For a typical upland farm of 1.5 ha the net cash income (see Annex
14) is estimated to be N74 per year amounting to a per capita income of Nil.
With project development annual net farm income, including the upland holding
which the participating farmer would keep, would increase to about N370 for
the 1.5 ha swamp rice holding and N890 for the 1.25 ha irrigated holding.
This amounts to per capita income of N57 and N137 respectively. It is recog-
nized that the typical farm sizes selected for study may change somewhat as
experience and future events dictate; for example it might be desirable to
partially equalize farm income by reducing the irrigated farm size or in-
creasing the swamp rice farm size or both.
7.09      Recovery of Costs.  Project development charges that would be col-
lected from participating farmers annually would be sufficient to pay the
costs of operating and maintaining project drainage and irrigation works and
to recover costs of direct investment in land development over a 50-year
period without interest. The charges would be N10/ha for swamp rice land and
N25/ha for irrigated rice land. Total collections would amount to N83,000
annually in ECS and N33,700 in SES by project maturity in 1983 and thereafter
(Annex 15). In addition, on a seasonal credit basis, project farmers would
pay for all farm inputs consisting of seeds, fertilizers and chemicals less
the 50% subsidy on fertilizers and agricultural chemicals borne by FGN and
a small amount of hired farm labor. The fertilizer subsidies are common
throughout Nigeria and are principal components of FGN's agricultural develop-
ment and income distribution policies. While future paddy prices are probably
sufficient (para 7.07) to induce project participation without such subsidies
it would be impossible to operate the project without subsidies in an environ-
ment where neighboring non-project agriculture receives such subsidies.
7.10      The recovery of direct investment and maintenance costs would be
achieved mainly through profit on sale of milled, parboiled rice. At maturity
of project yields in 1983 and annually thereafter, the sale of project milled
rice would amount to N3.6 million for ECS Project and N1.4 million for SES
Project (Annex 15). After deducting purchase of paddy, annual milling and
marketing operating costs and adding returns from sale of bran, the annual
profit on rice milling at project maturity would amount to N 1.1 million on ECS



- 27 -
Project and N389,000 on SES Project. Over the 20-year loan period the rice
milling profit would amount to N17.3 million on ECS Project and N5.9 million
on SES Project.
7.11      In addition to the easily quantifiable project benefits, a portion
of which would be recovered directly in project charges from the farmers and
in profit from rice milling, there are indirect benefits, both local and
national, which are not readily identifiable either in terms of beneficiary
or quantity. A partial measure of these is increased tax collections which
in this case would accrue primarily to FGN. This report adopted 12% of the
gross incremental farm income as the amount which would be recovered by FGN
as increased revenues generated by the project (three years after generation).
The exact multiplier cannot be accurately calculated and 12% was used as being
more than 8% and less than 20% generally accepted for Nigerian conditions.
These collections would amount to N 4.0 million from ECS Project and N1.6 mil-
lion from SES Project over the 20-year loan period (Annex 15). Annually at
maturity of project paddy production these increased revenues would amount to
N250,000 from ECS Project and N100,000 from SES Project.
7.12      While the project charges collected from the farmers would be
nominal in relation to their gross income, the profit from rice milling
resulting directly from farm production and the margin between purchase
price of paddy (NlO/ton) and selling price of milled rice (N250/ton) would
be, in part, a direct recovery of project costs from the farmers. Should
Government wish, or market forces dictate, there could be some opportunity
to decrease the selling price of rice and/or raise paddy prices to the farmers.
However, a margin would have to be maintained which would not jeopardize the
financial viability of the projects. This report does not provide for sale of
the rice mills to cooperatives, but it is recognized that this may be desirable
at some stage of the project.  To protect the financial integrity of the pre-
jects any such sale should (a) recover capital costs and (b) produce an
equivalent cash income during the remainder of the loan term by means of a
cess or levy on milled rice. Assurances were obtained from FGN and State
Governments during negotiations that the existing price level for paddy pur-
chase and sale of milled rice would not be substantially changed without
prior consultation with the Bank.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's principal economic benefit would be the annual in-
cremental production of about 21,000 tons of rice at full maturity for domestic
consumption. This production, valued at $4.3 million at economic prices, would
help meet the need for food in East Central and South Eastern States. Apart
from increasing the employment opportunities and incomes of about 6,000 farm
families, or about 40,000 people, the project would generate 3.6 million man-
days of employment during its construction phase and create employment for
at least 230,000 man-days of hired farm labor annually at full maturity there-
after.



- 28 -
8.02      There are also important non-quantifiable benefits, these include:
the demonstration effect of high yielding rice cultivation on farmers in the
two States, especially on those already growing rice; the construction and
upgrading of roads, which would improve communications in the project areas
generally; the development of efficient seed multiplication and milling
facilities; the strengthening of extension staff and farmer expertise through
training; secondary economic activities stemming from farmers' increased cash
incomes; the assessment of the social and economic impact of this type of
project; and the preparation of plans for expanding rice cvltivation.
8.03      On the basis of cost estimates, yields, and prices developed in
appraisal with appropriate adjustments and assuming a 30-year project life,
the economic rate of return would be 14.4% for the project ov-erall, and for
the individual state projects would be 17.6% for the ECS Project, and 8.9%
for the SES Project. Starting rice development in scattered locations through-
out the two states as nuclei for development has obvious long range advantages
but creates short-range imbalances in both investment costs and operating costs.
To partially correct for this imbalance one-third the cost of agricultural
extension and all of the training costs were assigned to future projects.
The lower rate of return for South Eastern State reflects the higher manage-
ment and equipment costs per unit in the smaller project areas spread over a
wide geographical area and separated by the Cross River which would be a
physical barrier during both project implementation and operation thereafter.
However, several of the SES Project areas, being near major streaps have high
potential for a higher proportion of irrigation in future expansion.
8.04      In calculating the economic rate of return the following important
adjustments were made to the cost and benefit streams (see Annex 16 for details):
(a) a shadow exchange rate for the Naira of Ni = US$ 1.27 was
used instead of the official rate to better reflect the real
value of the Naira;
(b) daily wage rates were shadow priced at 60% of their financial
cost, amounting to NO.60 for hired construction labor and NO.35
for hired farm labor, on the grounds that these rates better
represent the opportunity cost of labor;
(c) family labor for the reasons in (b) is shadow priced at
NO.30 per day;
(d) 50% of investment costs in road construction have been deducted
to compen§$f J3G,n9on-accoufted benefits.su*ch as road_ugnce
savings for users not connected with the project.
(e)  deducting of 75% of investment cost for expatriate staff houses
for which future uses are identifiable, and of one-third of
investment and operating costs (including local staff) deducted
and identified with fiture groject expansion.
(f)  Expatriate specialists   50% of costs deducted and identified
with future project exi- nsion.



- 29 -
8.05      Sensitivity tests were run on project costs and benefits to determine
the most sensitive parameters and the effects on economic rate of return for
the total project and the two state projects separately. These tests show
the following:
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Project
Costs as Investment Operating
adjusted     Costs       Costs    Benefits Benefits Combined
(para 8.04)  +10%       +10%        +10%     -10%    +10% all costs
-10% benefits
Both States        14.4         13.4       13.0       17.2      11.3     8.6
East Central       17.6         16.5       16.2       20.8      14.3    11.3
South Eastern       8.9          8.2        7.6       11.4       6.2     3.7
The economic rate of return for these Phase I projects and Phase II combined
is estimated to be 22% for ECSP, 15% fr SESP and 20% for the two state pro-
jects together.
IX.  RECNMMENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Federal
and State Governments that:
(a)  annual work plans showing details of road improvement and
land development work to be done together with engineering
and hydrological support would be prepared each year for
Bank approval (para 4.03);
(b)  photomosaics of swamps to be developed by the projects would
be completed in January, 1975 and new topographic maps com-
pleted by June 1, 1975 (para 4.05);
(c)  the ESC project would take over (without cost) the two ADA
rice mills at Uzouwani and the existing price level for pur-
chase of paddy and sale of milled rice would not be substan-
tially changed without prior consultation with the Bank
(paras 4.13 and 7.12);
(d)  execution and operation of the project would be carried out
with due regard to health, ecological and environment factors
(para 4.22);



- 30 -
(e) present subsidies for fertilizers and other agricultural
chemicals shall be continued (para 5.02);
(f) the Federal and State Governments would enter into loan
agreements satisfactory to the Bank providing for onlending
of the Bank loan to State Governments (para 5.07);
(g) funds required for the projects would be made available to
project units from a guaranteed drawdown procedure on the
basis of estimates prepared by the Project Managers (para
5.13);
(h) projects accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Governments and to the Bank. These
audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank within four
months of the closing of each financial year (para 5.14);
(i) project organizations to manage separately each project would
be established in each State with terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank (para 6.01);
(j) staff required to carry out the projects would be seconded
or attached to the two project units as and when required
(para 6.01);
(k) a Project Coordinating Committee would be established in
each state by March 31, 1975 with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.02);
(1) the project manager and senior staff to assist each state
in the implementation of each project would be engaged by
the Governments on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para
6.04); and
(m)  by December 31, 1978 plans would be prepared for take over
of projects operation by regular administration of the MAs
and the operational phase properly carried on through the
period of the Bank loan (para 6.07).
9.02      Effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would be conditional upon
the Federal and State Governments having entered into the loan agreements
referred to in para 9.01 (f), having established project organizations re-
ferred to in para 9.01, (i) having engaged specialists and assigned staff as
referred to in para 9.01 (1) and having received the photomosaics of the
swamp areas referred to in para 9.01 (b).
9.03      With the above assurances the projects are suitable for a US$17.5
million loan, of which US$10.7 million would be for East Central State Project
and US$6.8 million for South Eastern State Project.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Agriculture
General
1.        The areas proposed for development consist of swamp valleys which
drain the watershed between the Niger and Cross Rivers in East Central State,
and swamp valleys in the Cross River watershed of South Eastern State. Devel-
opment of some of these areas for rice production was started on a limited
scale in the 1960's and was continued through the civil disturbances. Since
1970 very little new land has been developed and production in some areas has
declined.
2.        The project areas lie mainly in the forest zone, though the Ifite
and Uzouwani areas of East Central State border on the derived savannah zone.
The forest zone is typified by a rainy season of six months or so followed
by a dry season in which monthly rainfall is generally less than 25 mm, much
less than essential for crop production. The heavy rains usually begin in
April and continue into October. Sunshine hours average 1,600 to 2,000 per
year and relative humidity ranges from 75 to 85%. Temperatures are fairly
uniform throughout the year, mean monthly values range from 250 C in August
to 280 C in February. Climatological data in relation to crop water require-
ments are given in Annex 2.
3.        The swamps to be developed lie in areas of rolling hills in some
cases having quite marked relief, particularly in East Central State. The
swamp valleys are generally flat and narrow with very little slope either
longitudinally or toward the principal small stream which usually meanders
through the valley. Vegetation in the uncleared swamps varies from fairly
heavy, up to 150 trees per hectare, to open raffia palm woodland with less
than 50 trees per hectare. Swamp soils, alluvial in origin, are predominately
clay well suited to rice cultivation. Valley floors are subject to flooding
during the rainy season, a condition which would be controlled by project
construction of drainage and water control facilities.
Present Cultivation
4.        Only a small portion of swamp valley lands has been cleared and
cultivated. What clearing has been done usually has been at the instigation
of the agricultural extension services who have cleared or encouraged the
clearance of valley floors in small plots. Usually field bunds have been
constructed; it is unusual, however, for drainage and water control facilities
to have been provided.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        Cropping in the swamD valleys is restricted to rice.  Yields are
generallv low, less than 1,000 kg per hectare, because of inadequate water
control, low yielding varieties, poor cultural practices and very little use
of fertilizers, weedicides and pesticides. Even when higher yielding rice
varieties have been introduced, the use of fertilizers has been inadequate
for them to perform at their full potential.
6.        On the upland farms around the swamp valleys, cultivation is inten-
sive. Food crops, mainly yams, cassava and cocoyams are interplanted on
holdings which are quite small, averaging only around 1.5 ha.  Yields of food
crops on such farms are low but sufficient to provide a small cash income in
addition to supplying the bulk of food consumed by the family. Oil palm pro-
duces some revenues and there is a small trade in fruit and vegetables.
Characteristically the upland areas are densely populated and are being
overcultivated to the detriment of yields. The greatest constraint on live-
stock is the presence of trypanosomiasis which is carried by the tsetse fly.
Because'of this, there are few cattle and what there are cannot be used for
work purposes. Other small livestock, such as pigs, poultry, goats and
sheep are maintained in small numbers by most families.
7.        There is very little documented information on upland farming sys-
tems in terms of labor requirements, economics, yields, or farm size. The
importance of the upland farms, as opposed to the swamp land farms, in
providing food and income is reflected in the tighter tenure of upland farms.
The farms are known to be small (average 1.5 hectare) and the principal crops
grown (cassava, yam, cocoyam and unimproved oil palm) are not demanding in
terms of labor, their main purpose being to feed the family and have something
left over for sale. On the average 1.5 ha holding the net cash income after
allowance for home consumption is estimated to average around N75 per year.
On smaller holdings which constitute a large part of the farms, net cash
income would be very little. In these circumstances, there would be no con-
flict with rice growing which would be more rewarding, though more exacting
and requiring more labor.
8.        Current production in the areas to be included in the project con-
sist mainly of rainfed swamp rice with some small areas of double cropping
where minor storage and diversion works exist to provide dry season irriga-
tion. Drainage systems are not provided, and field bunds to retain rainfall
on farm plots in most instances are not provided or are only partially com-
pleted. Consequently, water control is inadequate and production only a
fraction of the potential even when the older long-straw rice varieties are
used. Newer and higher yielding rice varieties, developed at IRRI in the
Philippines and adapted to Nigeria, have been introduced through the Interna-
tional Institute of Tropical Agriculture at Ibadan and are now available on
a limited scale to farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        The older rice varieties have a growing period of ln to 150 days
or more; and in the project area most rice is transplated. Customarily
nurseries are established in the latter half of April and early May. Trans-
planting begins in late May or early June when the wet season is well estab-
lished, and harvesting and threshing are done in late September and October.
With irrigation the second rice crop follows during the dry season with
transplanting in November and harvesting in March. Rainfall during the
rainy season is generally adequate for rice production provided water levels
are maintained properly in the rice paddies. However, during the month of
August rainfall is sometimes less than needed. Without irrigation, rice
yields are frequently reduced when planting is delayed because the rains are
late in starting and when weather conditions interfere with harvesting.
Rice Development Under The Project
10.       Table 1 of this Annex summarizes the areas to be developed in the
two states. Lands would be cleared and a system of field bunds and drains
constructed to control water levels and grow a rice crop during the rainy
season. Irrigation systems would be constructed to grow a second rice crop
during the dry season on part of the project lands as local water supplies
permit.
11.       With project development and water control more use would be made
of newer varieties of rice which have a growing season of 120 to 135 days, for
some varieties and under ideal conditions somewhat less. Potential yields are
much higher particularly with a controlled water supply. In addition there
is less straw which is an advantage in some respects but the short straw is
a disadvantage where drainage works are not adequate to control water levels.
12.       Stubble of the previous crop is normally burned to reduce the amount
of roughage to be worked into the soil. Good stubble removal makes soil
cultivation easier, reduces the weed problem, reduces the number of insects
remaining in the field and makes for more regular growth of the next rice crop.
Stubble clearing requires about 10 mandays per ha manually. Seedbed prepara-
tion normally takes place after the first rains when soils are moist as work
is then easier than when soils are dry. With irrigation water the soil can
be cultivated at any time. Nurseries sown about 30 days before the expected
date of transplanting would take about 40 m2 of nursery for each hectare to
be planted. Transplanting would be by hand but could be done with a stick or
an iron rod with a U-shaped fork at one end and a handle at the other end to
reduce transplanting labor. Under wet conditions row sowers, such as those
developed at IRRI can speed up the work considerably. Also under irrigated
conditions the seed could be sown pregerminated to secure a better start of
the rice seeds in comparison to the weed seeds. Pregermination is done by
soaking the seed in bags for 24 hours, followed by keeping the bags under a
cover for another 12-24 hours and sowing when the sprouts are no longer than
1 to 2 mm to avoid damage during sowing.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.       Under the project weeding, very labor intensive work, would be
reduced by use of weed killing chemicals. Against grass propanil would be
used at the 2 to 3 leaf stage of the grass seedlings, at the rate of 8 to 10
liter per ha. Against broadleaved weeds 2-4D Amanine would be applied at the
3 to 4 leaf stage of the seedlings at a rate of 1.2 liter per ha. These two
chemicals can be mixed and applied in one operation. Chemical weed control
kills the weeds in a very early growth stage. With fairly level fields the
weed problem would be less as the paddy can be grown through a water layer
which suppresses weed growth.
14.       In the project area three important pests are reported, rodents,
white stemborers and birds. Rodent damages can be very severe. The occur-
rence of rats indicated by gnawed-off stems and rat paths on the bunds should
be noticed early and controlled by poisoning. During a poisoning campaign,
rodents would be unfit for human consumption.  The white stemborer, although
currently not a serious problem, should be kept under control in early stages
by spraying with an insecticide like parathion or endrin if necessary; however,
clean fields and burning the straw directly after harvesting should control
the pest. Bird control is very difficult and usually not very effective.
Consequently, loss of grain to birds in some areas is quite high although
bird scaring is a coummon practice. As single ripe fields are subject to mass
attacks by birds, planning the harvest in an area to take place in a fairly
short period would divide the damage among all farmers.
15.       Use of fertilizers is essential to attain the high yield potential
of new rice varieties. Rice grown on project soils responds well to nitrogen
application. The need for and response to phosphate and potassium is not
well known. Nitrogen fertilizers distributed to the farmers under the pro-
ject would be applied as urea in two applications, the first at the initia-
tion of the panicle, and the second just before the flowering stage. The
total applied would be in the order of 80 kg pure N per hectare at about 40
days and 80 days after sowing in the nursery.
16.       The harvesting operation in the project areas consists of the col-
lection of the panicles from tall varieties or cutting the straw for short
varieties and threshing in the neighborhood of the fields by beating after
which the seed is winnowed by running or shaking in the wind. This practice
is expected to continue under the project; however, a simple threshing table
could reduce labor requirements. The threshing table could be placed direc-
tly on the field, greatly reducing the transport distance of the sheaves.
Further labor saving could be made by introducing a small rice thresher.
17.       Paddy yields under the project are expected to build up to 2,500 kg
per ha for swamp rice and 3,750 kg per ha per crop for irrigated rice. These
yields are consistent with experience in other areas and with indications
from the limited data for new varieties and fertilizers in the project areas.
However, both yields and buildup are considered conservative in light of the
agricultural extension, credit and farm input package to be provided by the
project and first year experience for swamp rice on the Sierra Leone Inte-
grated Agricultural Development Project (Credit 323 SL) showing paddy yields



ANNEX 1
Page 5
of around 2.7 tons per ha. Build-up to maturity on project lands is estimated
to take place as follows:
Year           Paddy Yield (kg per crop)
Swamp rice land   Irrigated rice land
1               1,000              1,500
2               1,500              2,250
3               2,000              3,000
4               2,500              3,750
Full yield build-up for the second crop on irrigated land would be
harvested in the fifth year. Rice growing experience in other areas shows
that for a number of reasons two crops are not grown on all lands each year.
A cropping intensity of 180% is expected for project irrigated lands.
18.       Crop yields and production are given in more detail in Annex 12.
The conversion factors from paddy to milled rice is taken as 69%. Labor
requirements are presented in Annex 13 followed by farm budgets and related
information in Annex 14. Farm budgets are based on a typical 1.25 ha irrigated
rice farm and a 1.5 ha swamp rice farm. It is recognized however that farm
sizes may be somewhat different as experience and future events dictate. For
example, to partially equalize the net farm income between the two types of
farms, it might be desirable to reduce the size of the irrigated farm or in-
crease the size of the swamp rice farm or a combination of the two.
Additional Rice Development
19.       The two rice projects are considered pilot schemes for much larger
development under Phase II projects. Initially development would be
focused on eleven scattered locations in the two states rather than concen-
trated in fewer locations which in the short term would be more efficient in
allocation and use of resources. The selected locations are expected to
become nuclei for expansion of rice growing in both states and as such would
have long-range advantages in spreading modern rice growing techniques in
Nigeria. Phase II Studies (terms of reference in Annex 9) would examine the
potential for (1) expanding rice growing areas adjacent to first phase loca-
tions, (2) irrigating a larger portion of first phase lands as supported by
hydrological findings and (3) development of other swamp valleys in the two
states. The findings and experience of first phase projects are expected to
play an important role in Phase II Studies which conclude with feasibility
reports on Phase II rice projects.
20.       The project farm service centers (see Annex 4) would run field trials
on new rice varieties, fertilizers and chemicals and would conduct farming
demonstrations serving as a training center for farmers. These would include
testing of light mechanization for use by the farmers. Information and ex-
perience gained from the farm service centers is essential to project success
and would be directly applicable to expansion of rice growing in ECS and SES.






NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Project Areas and Location  - Mean Temperature. Humidity and Sunshine Data
(hectares)
Location                      Presently Cleared                    Project  Situation
Valley         Latitude   Longitude      and Partially Cultivated           Swamp      Irrigated     Total
Rice       Rice
East C2antral State Project
Ifite           6G361N      6"59'E                   40                       770         i40           810
Uzouwani i°43'N             7 021E                  $50                        --         600          600
Ogboji
#1            6°01'N      70I11E                   60                       370         40           -410
#2            60 o5'N     7°010E                   --                       690         120          810
Uboma-Efiti/    5°37iN      7 i26E                   60                       520         210           730
Ulonna
Bende
Bende        5°34'N      7039'E                   20                       470          20           490
Amaeke       5036'N       7%0WE                    70                     lO9D          40          1130
Igbere       50%4'N       7 37'E                 110                        550        180           730
Ndiebe       5039'N      7 42'N                   20                       330         160          490
East Central  State Total                            430                      4790
South Eastern State Project
Assigo          547'N        8111'E                   --                       450          160         610
Ajiabo          5045'N       8008'E                                            340          60          400
Adim     Ubium  5041 '       8001'F                   __                       470           20         490
Odoro Atasung/ 5°45tN        7058'E                                            280         120          400
Oniong Ono      5022'N       7°43'E                   --                       430          60          490
Ukari           5025'N       7 4WsE                   1                        300           20         320
South Eastern  State Total              2      270                            2270                     _CD
1-H
Grand Total                                              445                      7060         1850        8910



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Mean Temperature, Humidity and Sunshine Data
Mean Temperature  C         Jan   Feb    Mar   Apr    May    Jun    Jul   Aug    Sept   Oct    Nov   Dec    Year
Enugu (1956-1960)         26.6  27.8  28.8  28.1  27.4  26.3  25.7  25.7  25.8  26.3  26.8  26.8   26.7
Umudike (1923-1962)       26.3  27.3  27.2  27.5  26.9  26.0  25.5  25.5  25.7  26.1  27.2  26.5   26.5
Calabar (1951-1965        26.7  27.6  27.4  27.1  26.8  25.7  24.8  24.7  25.2  25.7  26.3  26.5   26.3
Average Minimum Humidity at 4 pm in %
Enugu                     39    37    48       59    64      68     70    68      71     66     57    4o       58
Calabar                   62     6o    66      72    75    78       84    85      83     78     73    65       73
Total Annual Sunshine in Hours
Annual
1951  1952   1953    1954    1955   1956    1957    1958    1959    1960          Mean
Enugu                    2,227  2,o44     -       -     2,081   2,081   2,154   2,081   2,227   2,227      2,140
Umudike Research
Station (1956-1964)                                                                                       1,777
Port Harcourt                                                   1,497  1,570   1,497   1,606   1,497       1,533
CD~



ANNEX 2
Table 2
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Rainfall Data (mm)
Mean Monthlv                                 Umudike
Month        Afikpo       Uyo        Ikot Ekpene    Abak       Umudike         80%
Probability
January        18          38           36           23          13           3
February       36          84           58            51         35          13
March           74        142          119          122         106          58
April         154         215          190          175         198         175
May            254        274          246           281        248         205
June          258         266          290          259         277.        228
July          292         313          343          340         325         243
August        282         277          318          333         243         154
September     325         375          343           268        322         272
October       250         310          262           254        240        ,175
November        48        154          102          102          76          41
December       10          33           30             3          8           0
Totals       2001        2481         2337         2211        2091        1567
Source:  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program preparation report.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Computed Pan 7raporation
Solar           Mlean           Relative         Sunshine        Wind         Computed
Month            Radiation    Temperature        Humidity         (percent       Velocity       Pan
Equivalent       (°s)              %             insolation)      km           Evaporation
Evaporation                                                     per day            E
(mm)                                                                          (mm)
January              441.          26.3             75                51            220             190
February             419           27.4             75                55            220             188
March                482           28.0             78                44            200             193
April                467           27.6             81                46            185             172
May                  468           27.0             81                45            155             160
June                 442           26.1             84                36            195             140
July                 162           25.1             86                23            180             119
August               477           25.0             86                30            175             130
September            469           25.5             86                23            175             122
October              472           26.o             84                35            160             140
November             43L4          26.5             81                47            135             142
December             434           26.3             76                53            185             175
Total                                                                                              1871
Note: From "Dhristiansen formula, climaatological data for Umudike and elevation 150 meters or less.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Consumptive Use for Rice (Two Crops)
Seedbed,                 Crop     Percent    Crop            Pan            Consumptive
Month         land          Crop       mid-     growing    Coefficient    evaporation         use
preparation    period    point    season          K              (mm)           (mm)
period
October          1-31
November                     1-30       15        11            o.96          142             136
December                     1-31       46        34            1.16          175             203
January                      1-31       76        56            1.30          190             247
February                     1-28      105        78            1.12          188             210
March                         1-15     128        95            0.80           96              77
April           16-30
May              1-15       16-31        8         6            0.91           80              73
June                          1-30      30        22            1.07          140             150
July                          1-31      61        45            1.25          119             150
August                        1-31      91        67            1.23          130             160           r
September-                    1-30     122        90            0.90          122             110          1|
TOTALS                                                                       1382            1516



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements for Rice (Two crops)
(km)
Consumptive    Seedbed                            Effective  Net                Requirement
Month          use          and land             (1 + 2)      Rainfall   Irrigation   at Farm       at heading
(CU)         preparation                         70%         (3-4)       65% eff.      85% eff.
(1)            (2)                  (3)          ()         (5)           (6)         (7)
October        -                100                 100         122           0            0             0
November       136                                  136          29         107           164          194
December       203                                  203           0         203           312          368
January        247                                  247           0         247           375          440
February       210                                  210            9        201           310          365
March 1 - 15    77                                   77          20          57            88          102
April 16 - 30    -              100                 100          60          40            62           73
May 1 - 15       -              1OC                 100           71         29            45           53
May 16 - 31     73                                   73           71          2             3            4
June           150                                  150         160           0             0            0
July           150                                  150         169           0             0            0
August         160                                  160         108          52            80           94
September      110                                  110         190           0             0            0|
Totals        1516              300                1816        1009         938          1439         1693
a/  70% of Umudike rainfall, 80% probability.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
A. Organization
Existing State Agricultural Organization
1.        Programs for production of rice in Nigeria are the responsibility
of agricultural agencies at the Federal and State levels. The two rice pro-
jects being appraised in this report will come under the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Agricultural Extension 1/ in East Central State and under the
Ministry of Agriculture in South Eastern State. Charts 1 and 2 to this Annex
show the organizational structure of the Ministries.
2.        Within the Ministries there are four broad categories of staff (a)
professional officers holding professional qualifications, usually a degree
in agriculture or related subjects, and who fill senior administrative and
technical posts; (b) technical officers holding suitable qualifications,
usually at diploma level plus field experience, and who fill intermediate
technical and supervisory posts; (c) agricultural assistants who have taken
a two-year certificate course in agriculture or related subjects and who are
responsible at field level for extension work with the farmers; and (d)
support staff, the non-technical staff at various levels providing support
services.
Projects Organization
3.        The two rice projects would be carried out by project organizations
(PO) established for this purpose and empowered with the necessary authority
to do so. The following discussion of both organization and staffing is
common to both State projects. Each PO would enjoy similar administrative
autonomy to the technical divisions of the Ministries, see organization chart;
but would have greater flexibility in its financial dealings, albeit that
these would be within the frame of a budget approved by the Ministries of
Finance and Agriculture, see Chapter IV of main report. The PO would be headed
by a Project Manager 2/ who would report directly to the Permanent Secretary
(chart 3 to this Annex) in the same way as other Division Chiefs in the
Ministries.
1/   During negotiations it was learned that in ECS the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Agricultural Extension had been split into two ministries,
one dealing with "production"' aspects and the other with "agricultural
extension". This rice project would come under the production ministry a
as would the Agricultural Development Authority (ADA).
2/   So talled for the purposes of the report.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The Project Managers (PM) usually would be recruited from within
the State civil services, although a direct appointment might be made, would
be a professional and be appointed by the Permanent Secretaries. The PM
would be assisted by a Project Coordinating Committee consisting of representa-
tives of other State agencies as needed to coordinate project implementation
and operation with related State activities and programs. With the Permanent
Secretary Ministry of Agriculture as chairman and the Project Manager as a
member, the Project Coordinating Committee would include representatives from
the Ministries of Finance, Economic Development, Natural Resources, Works and
Housing, and Trade and Cooperatives. The Committee would meet quarterly,
or oftener as called by the chairman, to assist in coordination with related
programs, to advise on policies, and generally to be the main forum for dis-
cussion on project operations and policies.
5.        Each PO would consist of four main sections established along
functional lines.  Chart 4 shows the relationship of the sections which are
Headquarters Unit, Mobile Units, Scheme Units and Milling and Marketing Units.
6.        The Headquarters Unit, consisting of the Project Manager, senior
technical and administrative staff and necessary support staff would be re-
sponsible for project planning and would organize, administer and provide
technical supervision and leadership to the other project units.
7.        The Mobile Units would be responsible for surveys, and the design
and construction of project works and the surveys of potential Phase II devel-
opment areas. The East Central State Project would have one Mobile Unit; and
because of the Cross River, South Eastern State Project would have two.
8.        Scheme Units, two in South Eastern State Project and three in East
Central State Project, would be responsible for establishing and operating
all agricultural extension, farm service centers, training, credit and field
services to the farmers.
9.        The Milling and Marketing Units would be responsible for erection
and operation of project rice mills and storage facilities, purchase of paddy
from farmers, marketing of milled rice and operation of transport as needed.
B. Staffing
10.       The numbers of staff needed to carry out the projects are shown
in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. These staff fall into the following general
categories:
Professional Officers                           Technical Officers
Project Manager                                Milling Officers
Irrigation Engineers                           Survey Assistants
Civil Engineers                                Engineering Assistants
Agronomists                                     Farm Managers
Credit Officers                                Mill Managers
Scheme Managers                                Plant Engineers



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Support Staff                                  Technical Assistants
Financial Controller                           Extension Assistants
Administrative Officer                         Training Assistants
Clerical Officers                              Farm Assistants
Accountants                                    Credit Assistants
Typists, storemen                              Land Settlement Assistants
drivers etc.                                 Field Overseers
11.       In view of the increasingly high level of economic activity in
Nigeria, critical shortages of experienced personnel have developed in many
areas. Consequently it is probable that some specialist staff (professional
officers) may have to be recruited internationally. At this time it appears
that for each of the two projects these could be the Project Accountant/Credit
Specialist, Irrigation Engineer, Civil Engineer and Rice Mill Engineer.
12.       The Project Accountant/Credit Specialist would be responsible for
setting up and supervising financial systems including credit services, disburse-
ments under the project, and preparing annual accounts and financial informa-
tion for management. The Irrigation Engineer, would have extensive experience
in rice irrigation, would be responsible for survey, design and construction
of all drainage, field bunds, irrigation and eater control facilities as well
as conduct of Phase II Studies. The Civil Engineer would have extensive
experience in irrigation systems and in construction equipment and would be
responsible for (1) the procurement and operating and maintaining construction
equipment and vehicles; (2) planning, design, and construction of project
roads; (3) making specialized inputs to Phase II Studies and (4) assisting
the Irrigation Engineer as needed. The Rice Mill Engineer would be respon-
sible for procurement of rice milling equipment, erection and operation of
rice mills, recruitment and training of milling and marketing staff, and for
implementing the paddy purchase and milled rice marketing programs.
13.       Large numbers of technical assistants would be needed both during
project development and for operation (see Tables 1 and 2). Annual recruit-
ment needs for ECS and SES combined would be:
Assistant                       Numbers Requiredd              Source
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Land Settlement        12     12    -       -      -             A
Extension              11     12      11     10    -             B
Training              -        6      2       2    -             B
Farm                    3      1       1                         B
Credit                  3      4      5       2      2           C
Field Overseer         11     18      13     12                  D
A    -    School Certificate holders with knowledge of chain and compass
survey. Agricultural knowledge useful. From present Ministry
of Agriculture ranks plus training on job.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
B    -    Certificate of Agriculture holders (Agricultural Assistants)
from Schools of Agriculture or Ministry of Agriculture ranks.
C    -    School Certificate holder, trained on the job, local employ-
ment.
D    -    Locally recruited and given on-the-job training at farm level.
Project Implementation
14.       The Mobile Units would be under the control of the Irrigation Engi-
neer, and be staffed with suitable qualified professional or technical
officers and plant operators would perform field surveys and would design and
construct project works. Survey Assistants would make field surveys.
Engineering Assistants would be in charge of design and construction team.
Plant operators and vehicle drivers would operate project equipment.
15.       The Scheme Units would be directly controlled by the Project Manager
with technical advice from senior technical staff. A Scheme Manager, a pro-
fessionally qualified Agricultural Officer and with experience in agricultural
extension would be in charge of each Unit. An Agronomist would be responsible
for the seed multiplication and testing functions and related field trials
and the training center. A Farm Manager would be responsible for the day-to-
day running of each farm service center. Agricultural Assistants would provide
settlement services on a ratio of one to each 300 farmers initially and a 1:1000
ratio after two years and extension services on a ratio of one to each 140
farmers. Credit Assistants would be on a ratio of one to each 400 farmers.
C. Operation
General
16.       Senior staff, both Nigerian and expatriate, would be recruited as
rapidly as possible so that preparation of the initial work program, pro-
curement of equipment and vehicles, recruitment of more general staff, and
mobilization to carry out the projects could proceed without delay. Field
work would commence with the survey and delineation of the first areas to be
developed. This would entail the organization of mobile survey teams supported
by a drafting office at project Headquarters. The initial work would include
survey of the area to be developed; design of the necessary drainage, irriga-
tion and water control works and access roads; and siting and layout of farm
service centers, scheme headquarters, markets, mills and training centers.
Before construction, the land settlement team under the scheme manager would
measure all holdings that would be affected by development and assess with the
appropriate State authorities the compensation payable to the land owners. The
construction teams would clear the area of trees and brush, construct the
project works, prepare building sites and construct the access roads and/or
upgrade the present roads. The settlement teams would then plan the layout
of new farms, mark boundaries clearly, select settlers from applicants and
allocate holdings to the settlers.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
17.       A year before the smallholders' first season of cultivation the
Agronomist would open up a farm service center and obtain a high yielding
variety of rice adapted to that area and bulk it up in order to provide
farmers with seed for their first plantings. The Agricultural Assistants and
Field Overseers would be recruited in time for pre-service training on the
schemes, so that they are fully conversant with rice irrigation and agronomy
prior to the arrival of the first settlers. The Agricultural Assistants would
be responsible for ensuring that all smallholders are advised on approved rice
growing techniques while the field overseers would be responsible for water
control and distribution of irrigation waters and the maintenance of ditches
and drains. By the time the farmers would be ready to plant their first crop
the farm service centers would be planting their second crop and would have
expanded their facilities and organization to start training courses and field
trials on varieties and fertilizers and to provide advice on pest and disease
control measures. A credit service would be established under the Credit
Assistants to provide farmers with their needs in terms of seed, fertilizer
and chemicals, to recover the costs of these and to collect project charges
from the farmers. This service would liaise with the agronomy section to
ensure that the correct seeds and chemicals were purchased and made available
and with the land settlement and extension teams to procure and distribute
the correct quantity and type of fertilizers.
18.       When the survey and construction teams complete their work in any
area they would move to the next area scheduled for development leaving behind
the land settlement, extension, farm service center, farmer training and credit
services. The settlement teams would remain for a further year to ensure that
the farmers were established properly before they too moved on to another area
leaving behind one land settlement assistant to deal with demarkation differ-
ences or replacement of farmers. Meanwhile, the Milling and Marketing Unit
would erect the rice mills and markets to handle the rice crop; they would
purchase the paddy, transport it to the mills, parboil and mill it and arrange
for wholesaling the milled white rice.
Land Settlement
19.       All prospective smallholders would apply to the Project Organization
for a farm holding in the swamp valleys to be developed. A Selection Com-
mittee, consisting of project officials consulting with traditional leaders
of the villages, would be established to screen and evaluate applications and
select farmers to be settled on project lands. Interested farmers from the
surrounding uplands are expected to be more than adequate to fully develop
the land.
20.       Initial screening would give preference to farmers cultivating sub-
economic upland holdings, say less than 4 ha. Following this, preference
would be given to applicants in the following order:
(a) those previously cultivating land in the swamp valleys;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(b) those living in surrounding villages and farming adjacent uplands;
and
(c) other farmers
All applicants would have to have farm experience, be physically
able to work the rice lands, have adequate family labor resources and be
credit worthy.
21.       Successful applicants would be given a two-year lease for a 1.25
ha irrigated rice plot or 1.5 ha swamp rice plot. They would be trained in
rice growing techniques and provided with supplies of rice seeds, agricultural
chemicals, extension services and crop marketing services. In return they
would be required to sign an agreement to:
(a) cultivate all of the plot and not subdivide it;
(b) grow rice only and to sell that rice to the project mills;
(c) follow the advice of the project technical staff in respect
to methods of cultivation and farming practices;
(d) repay to the project all credit for farm inputs and project
charges at the times stipulated; and
(e) maintain the bunds and drains within the holding.
22.       The two-year lease would be renewable automatically for further
periods totalling at least 20 years in those cases where farmers met fully
their obligations under the agreement.
Farm Service Centers
23.       A farm service center would be established for each Scheme Unit,
three in East Central State at Uzouwani, Ogboji and Bende and two in South
Eastern State, at project sites near Uyo and Ugep. The purpose of the centers
would be to provide adequate supplies of seed of improved varieties and to
run field trials on new varieties, fertilizers and agricultural chemicals, to
conduct farming demonstrations, and to serve as a training center for farmers.
The farm would consist of a training center and 4 ha irrigated plot to produce
two rice crops per year divided into seed multiplication (2.0 ha), field trials
(1.5 ha) and demonstration farm (0.5 ha). Each farm service center would come
under the schemes' agronomist, with the daily running the responsibility of a
farm manager who would be supported by farm assistants to do the field super-
vision, including recording, and training assistants at the training center
plus field overseers for general duties. In addition, a small model farm
would be developed at each of the other project swamp sites for farmer train-
ing in both irrigated and swamp rice cultivation to minimize movement of
farmers and ultimately turned over to one of the selected farmers.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
24.       To introduce new varieties or to maintain the purity of existing
varieties, "foundation" seed would be obtained from IITA and be bulked up at
the pilot farm; 60 kg foundation seed, enough for two ha under seed multipli-
cation at 3,600 kg/ha yields 7,200 kg of improved seed, which would be dis-
tributed to selected farmers who could plant 240 ha and produce enough "cer-
tified" seed to satisfy the largest scheme and have some remaining for sale
to non-project areas.
25.       Field trials would be performed to test varieties, fertilizers and
chemicals recommended by, or part of, the program of rice research stations
at Ibadan and Badeggi. In addition mechanized equipment suitable for small-
holder rice cultivation would be tested and water used in growing rice and the
water flow of the small streams within the scheme area would be recorded.
The agronomist would be in overall charge of the program assisted by the farm
manager and his staff on a day to day basis. The demonstration plot, as part
of the training program would demonstrate correct farming practices to farmers.
Rice Milling and Marketing
26.       The project would be responsible for buying paddy from project farm-
ers, milling the paddy and marketing milled rice. Each rice mill would be
responsible for buying all project paddy in that area and would buy at the
mill door and operate extra buying stations to cover other areas served by
that mill.  Buying stations and mills would be sited at:
27.       Each buying team would consist of one buyer, one or two produce
inspectors, one or two scale operators, one or two credit assistants and one
or two cashiers (one for stations serving less than 500 farmers and two if
more). Paddy would be collected by project trucks at the farm or collection
stations and taken to buying stations where it would be inspected, weighed
and purchased by the project. Credit assistants stationed at all buying
stations would collect credit repayment from farmers in accordance with pre-
scribed terms when the paddy is purchased. More specifically the farmer would
accompany his paddy to the buying station and produce his market card as
identification; the farmer would accompany his paddy to the scales where it
would be weighed and recorded on his market card which would be pased to the
cashier; the cashier would pass the card and cash to the credit assistant who
would check the farmer's credit account, deduct the agreed credit payment,
record the transaction on the famer's card and make payment to the farmer.
Training
28.       Farmer training in rice growing would be carried out at the small
training center on each pilot farm to give farmers and their wives an oppor-
tunity to see and learn more than can be taught on individual farms. The
center would consist of a classroom, a kitchen and a 0.5 ha demonstration
plot and would have a staff of two training assistants, two field observers,
a cook and a driver. A personnel carrier would be provided for transport.
In addition to farmer training, the centers would be used to conduct staff
training courses.



ANNEX 4
Page o
Mill                Buying Station              Buyers
East Central State
Uzouwani            Uzouwanii    )
Ifite        )                1
Ogboji              Ogboji I      )
Ogboji II    )                1
Uboma-Etiti/        Uboma-Etiti / Ulonna          1
Ulonna
Bende               Bende        )
Amaike        )               1
Ndiebe       )
Igbere       )                1
EC State Total         4                    9
South Eastern State
Adim                Adim          )
Ajiabo       )                1
Assiga              Assiga                        1
Odoro Atasung /    Odoro Atasung/ Ub%um           1
Ubium
Oniong Ono          Oniong Ono   )
Nkari        )                1
SE State Total        4                     6                          -



ANNEX 4
Page 9
29.       Training outside the project area would be provided for professional
officers and technical officers. Few professionally qualified agricultural
officers in Nigeria have had the opportunity to train in the disciplines of
irrigation or rice agronomy; without this specialized knowledge they cannot
be completely effective on the project. The project would offer four scholar-
ships for 12-month post-graduate training, two scholarships for irrigation
specialists and two for rice agronomists. In addition, ten six-month scholar-
ships would be granted to technical officers enabling them to travel to rice
stations in or outside Nigeria to study irrigation, rice agronomy, economics,
mechanization and problems of rice development. The agronomist would be
responsible for this training and in consultation with the project manager,
would arrange the program and screen the applicants.
30.       Additional training is needed for agricultural assistants (AA) who
would be the backbone of the extension services staff. AAs are trained at
the schools of agriculture at Obubra (SE State) or Umudike (EC State). The
output of Agricultural Assistants in 1975 is expected to be 40 at Obubra and
95 Umudike. They enter the schools as school certificate holders and take a
two-year certificate course of which the first year is basically sciences
related to agriculture and the second year is specialized agricultural train-
ing in the subjects of agricultural extension, farm mechanics, livestock, home
economics, etc. Unfortunately neither Obubra nor Umudike have adequate
facilities for training in rice agronomy or irrigation. Both, however, have
access to out-stations where field trials and seed multiplication of rice can
be carried out. The project would provide additional buildings and staffing
at Umudike and Obubra to train each year 24 agricultural assistants (12 at
each) specializing in rice and irrigation. The project would provide funds
to build a block of apartments for 24 students, a lecture room, a small
laboratory, houses for two extra teaching staff and transport at each school.
31.       Project training costs summarized in Table 3 to this Annex amount
to N71,400 for scholarships and an investment of N95,000 at the Umudike and
Obubra schools with annual costs of N28,000. The project investment at the
schools would not result in full output until July 1977 at the earliest.
Therefore it would be desirable for both states to modify the program at their
schools of agriculture to provide rice and irrigation training for selected
students.
Credit
32.       The projects would be responsible for the procurement, distribution
and sale of fertilizers, seeds, agricultural chemicals and other necessary
farm supplies; would decide on the suitability and composition of all packages
of inputs offered to the farmers;.and would make loans to project farmers with
project funds utilizing the projects credit services handled in conjunction
with the rice milling services to facilitate collection. Cash flow for the
revolving credit fund of each project is shown in Annex 15.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Project Monitoring
33.       FGN would be responsible for the project monitoring function which
would comprise two parts (1) technical and financial and (2) socio-econoiic.
The technical and financial component would be handled by the Federal SAOs in
Enugu and Calabar. The socio-4conomic survey would be cofi*acted with appro-
prlate universities.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
SENIOR STAFF
General
1.        There would be separate staffs for the ECS and SES projects which
would be developed and operated separately, one in each state. The Project
Organizations (POs) to carry out the two projects would be identical. The
following job descriptions apply equally to both state POs.
Project Manager
2.        The Project Manager would be selected from experienced Nigerian
staff within the MA. He would have formal qualification in agriculture and
be highly experienced for agricultural development through having held re-
sponsible positions within the existing agricultural organization over a
period of 10 years or more. A high degree of administrative ability, experi-
ence in dealing with the highest level of Government Civil Servants, especially
in committee work, previous involvement in extension in small farmer commu-
nities and a good record in public relations would be essential.
3.        The Project Manager would be responsible to the Permanent Secretary,
LA, for overall and complete control of all project activities and the coor-
dination of all project activities with the relevant Federal and State govern-
ments and local authorities. His duties would include:
(a) complete financial control of all project funds with the
assistance of the Project Accountant/Credit Specialist;
(b) the establishment of a cost analysis and record keeping
system which would enable project targets and achievement
to be examined and a meaningful evaluation of project pro-
gress to be kept and looked at;
(c) selection of project staff and all personnel problems
with the assistance of the Administrative Officer;
(d) the co-ordination of all project development and opera-
tional activities through the various project disciplines
as well as other bodies outside the project;
(e) regular reporting of project progress to Government through
the various committees to be established as a result of the
project and
(f) ensuring the training of local project staff to enable them
to assume increasing responsibilities for project activities.



- 2 -                       ANNEX 4
Appendix
Project Accountant/Credit Specialist
4.        The Project Accountant would be a fully trained accountant with
additional training in business management. He would have had at least 10
years' experience as Senior Accountant of a large corporation or commercial
company. Previous employment working with high ranking government officlals
in developing countries preferably on agricultural projects, would be
essential. He should also have knowledge of banking and associated credit
financing procedures.
5.        His main responsibility would be the complete control of all the
projects' finances on behalf of the Project Manager. His duties would
include:
(a) setting up and supervising the project financial system;
(b) preparation of budgets, cash flows and estimates of expenditures
for the project;
(c) ensuring correct application for, and timely reimbursement of,
project funds;
(d) assisting the Credit Officer in establishing an efficient
system of recording agricultural credit and ensuring its
repayment;
(e) responsibilities for all agricultural stores and requisites
with the assistance of theasection and department heads, Credit
Officer and Farm Managers;
(f) preparation of project progress reports with specific reference
to reports required to assist project evaluation;
(g) internal auditing of the project and preparing annual accounts
as required by the Bank loan and
(h) training of all accounts staff.
Administrative Officer
6.        The Administrative Officer would be selected from senior civil
servants or someone at present administering a large public organization in
Nigeria. His previous employment would have shown him capable of undertaking
senior administrative responsibility and would have given him a thorough and
complete understanding of government procedures. His duties would include
responsibility for all project personnel, project transportation, the mainte-
nance of a project registry, the physical control and checking on project
stores and the general security of the project. He would also be responsible
for all the public relations aspects of the project.



-3-                         ANNEX 4
Appendix
Senior Agronomist
7.        The Senior Agronomist would be selected from experienced agronomists
in regular agricultural organizations within the MA. He would be a qualified
agronomist with at least 10 years experience in agricultural extension includ-
ing responsibility for farm development schemes.
8.        As the senior agricultural staff on the PO, he would be responsible
for all agricultural aspects of project development and operational matters.
His duties would include:
(a) selection and settlement of participating farmers;
(b) establishment and operation of pilot farms, seed multiplica-
tion units and farmer training centers;
(c) conduct of field trials on new rice seed varieties and response
to fertilizers and the farm demonstration program;
(d) agricultural extension programs to participating farmers and
(e) agricultural inputs to studies for project expansion and
Phase II projects.
Irrigation Engineer
9.        The Irrigation Engineer would function as project engineer.  He
would be a fully qualified irrigation engineer with at least 15 years experi-
ence in planning and construction of rice irrigation schemes. At least 10
years of this experience should be in responsible charge of work on rice
irrigation schemes in developing countries.
10.       As the senior engineer on the PO staff, he would have overall
responsibility for engineering aspects of land development for rice growing
and for the road improvement program. His duties would include:
(a) preparation of topographic maps and in consultation with the
Senior Agronomist, delineation of areas to be developed for
growing rice;
(b) gathering of hydrological basic data and conduct of hydrolo-
gical studies;
(c) planning, design and construction of project drainage systems
and irrigation and water control facilities in land develop-
ment;
(d) through the Civil Engineer, the road improvement program and
preparation of tender documents as required for procurement
of equipment and vehicles and as may be needed for construction
of project facilities; and



-4 -                        ANNEX 4
Appendix
(e)  engineering and hydrological inputs and preparatory work
for studies of project expansion and Phase II projects.
Civil Engineer
11.       The Civil Engineer would be a fully qualified engineer with at
least 10 years of responsible experience in construction of agricultural
projects including roads and irrigation systems. He would assist the Irriga-
tion Engineer as required and would be responsible for:
(a) preparation of tender documents and procurement of construction
equipment and vehicles;
(b) planning, design and construction of project roads;
(c) preparation of tender documents and construction of project
buildings and houses;
Cd) operation and maintenance of all equipment and vehicles used
in constructing roads and drainage, irrigation and water
control facilities; and
(e) input as appropriate to studies of project expansion and
Phase II projects.
Rice Mill Engineer
12.       The Rice Mill Engineer would be fully qualified in procurement,
erection and operation of modern rice mills, parboiling equipment and related
facilities. He would have at least 10 years experience in responsible charge
of such work, a substantial part of which would have to have been in develop-
ing countries.
13.       As the principal staff specialist on rice milling, he would be
responsible for all activities related to purchase of paddy, milling of rice
and delivery of milled rice. His duties would include responsibility for:
(a) preparation of tender documents and procurement of rice
milling and parboiling equipment and storage and related
buildings;
(b) erection and operation of items in (a);
(c) recruitment and training of operators and other staff
as needed;
(d) operation of paddy buying stations and transport of paddy
to project mills;



- 5 -                       ANNEX 4
Appeind,x
(e) storage and control of paddy and milled rice;
(f)  transport and delivery of milled rice to sale points as
needed; and
(g)  input to studies of project expansion and Phase II projects
on rice mi1lling and marketing matters.






NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Staffing - East Central State
Position                     1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Project Manager                              1       1      1       1      1       1      1       1      1       1
*Project Accountant/Credit Specialist         1       1      1       1      1
Project Accountant (replacement)                                           1       1      1       1
Administrative Officer                       1       1      2       2       2      3       2      2       2      2
Senior Agronomist                            1       1      1       1      1       1      1       1       1      1
*Irrigation Engineer                          1       1      1       1       1
Irrigation Engineer (replacement)                                   1      1       1
*Civil Engineer                               1       1      1       1      1
Civil Engineer (replacement)                                               1       1      1
*Rice Mill Engineer                                   1      1       1       1      1
Rice Mill Engineer (replacement)                                                   1       1      1       1      1
Credit Officer                                       1      1       1      1       1      1       1       1      1
Scheme Manager                                       1      2       3       3      3       3      3       3      3
Agronomist                                           1       2      3       3      3
Farm Manager                                         1      2       3       3      3      3       3       3      3
Survey Assistant                                     3      3       3       2      2      1       1       1      1
Engineering Assistant                                2       2      2       2      1       1      1       1      1
Draughtman                                           3      4       4       4      3       1      1       1      1
Equipment Operator                                  13     13      13     13      10
Heavy Vehicle Driver                                10     10      10     10      10
Driver                                              14     28      32     33      47      38     38      37     37
Agricultural Assistant                              16     35      46      56     50      44     44      44     44
Credit Assistant                                     1      3       6       8     10      10     10      10     10
Field Overseer                                       7     17      27      37     37      37     37      37     37
Buyer                                                       1       3       1      5       5      5       5      5
Produce Inspector                                            2      4       5      7       7      7       7      7
Milling Officer                                              1      2       2      4       4      4       4      4
Plant Engineer                                              1       1       1      3       3      3       3      3
Accountant                                                   1      2       2      4       4      4       4      4
Mill Operator                                                3      5       5     10      10     10      10     10
Parboil Operator                                            3       6       6     12      12     12      12     12
Mill Mechanic                                                2      4       4      8       8      8       8       8
Mechanic                                             3       5      6       6      9       6      6       6       6
Clerical Officer                              1      4      6       6       6      6       5      5       4       4
Account Clerk                                        2       5      6       6      9       9       9      9       9
Typists                                       1      5       7      8       9      9       8      6       5       5  
Storemen                                             2       7     11      12     17      17     17      17      17    a
Miscellaneous Junior staff                    2     19      31     35      34     48      48     48      48      48
* Because of the heavy demand for these skills in Nigeria, it is probable that
initially it will be essential for these positions to be filled by expatriates.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Staffing - South Eastern State
Position                     1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Project Manager                               1       1      1       1      1       1       1      1       1       1
*Project Accountant/Credit Specialist          1       1       1      1       1
Project Accountant (replacement)                                            1       1       1      1
Administrative Officer                        1       1       1      1       1      1
Senior Agronomist                             1       1      1       1       1      1       1       1      1       1
*Irrigation Engineer                           1       1       1      1       1
Irrigation Engineer (replacement)                                    1       1      1
*Civil Engineer                                1       1       1      1
Civil Engineer (replacement)                                         1       1      1
*Rice Mill Engineer                                    1       1      1       1      1
Rice Mill Engineer (replacement)                                                    1       1       1      1       1
Credit Officer                                        1      1       1       1      1       1      1       1       1
Scheme Manager                                1       2       2      2       2      2       2       2      2       2
Agronomist                                            2       2      2       2      2
Farm Manager                                          2       2      2       2      2       2       2      2       2
Survey Assistant                                      3       3      3       2      1
Engineering Assistant                                 2       2      2       2      1       1       1      1       1
Draughtman                                            2       3      3       3      2       1       1      1       1
Equipment Operator                                   10      10     10      10      5
Heavy Vehicle Driver                                 12     12      12      12      8
Driver                                        3      16      22     30      30     32      26      26     26      26
Agricultural Assistant                               10      22     25      27     21      21      21     21      21
Credit Assistant                                      2       4      6       6      6       6       6      6       6
Field Overseer                                        4     12      15      17     17      17      17     17      17
Buyer                                                        1       3       4      4       4       4      4       4
Produce Inspector                                             2      4       4      4       4       4      4       4
Milling Officer                                               1      3       3      4       4       4      4       4
Plant Engineer                                                       2       2       2      2       2      2       2
Accountant                                                    1      3       3      4       4       4      4       4
Mill Operator                                                 2      6       6      8       8       8      8       8
Parboil Operator                                              3      9       9     12      12      12     12      12
Mill Mechanic                                                 2      6       6       8      8       8      8       8
Mechanic                                              2       4      6       7      6       4       4       4      4
Clerical Officer                              1       4       4      4       5      5       2       1      1       1
Account Clerk                                         2       3      5       5       6      6       6       6      6         s3
Typists                                       1       5       5      5       6      6       24    24    24         4a
Storemen                                              5       7     11      11     13      13      13     13      13       r 7
Miscellaneous Junior staff                     2     13      32     44      44     42      32      32      32     32
Because of the heavy demand for these skills in Nigeria, it is probable that
initially it will be essential for these positions to be filled by expatriates.



ANNEX 4
Table3
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Training Costs
N0ooO
Scholarships           Unit Cost*       Number          ECS Cost   SES Cost
12-month                 9.1            4               18.2        18.2
6-month                  3.5           10               17.5       17.5
Scholarship total                                       35.7        35.7
*  Based on annual salary of 14.,300 plus expenses
Investment Costs
1 residential apartment for 24 students
1 lecture room
1 laboratory including equipment
2 staff houses
2 staff offices
1 14-seater personnel carrier
500 m2 at N85/m2             42.5
vehicle                       5.0
Investment total               7.7                      47.5       47.5
Annual Costs
1 lecturer                      4.3
1 assistant                     2.9
4 junior staff                  2.8
subtotal                     10.0
vehicle operating             2.0
miscellaneous                 2.0
annual total
4-1/2-year total                                        63.0       63.0
Total training cost                                      146.2      146.2



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
EAST CENTRAL STATE AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
|COMMSSIONER, MINISTRY OF NATURAL 
------___ _ _ _ _ .   ~~~SECRETARY                                                                                       DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (ADA)
EAST CENTRAL         AGRICULTURAL                                                                         A    U VELTNRAL 
STATE                                    FISHERIES            FORESTRY             VETERNARYUCTON
RICE PROJECT   I      EXTENSION                                                                           ENGINEERIINGMAKTNPRDCINROEIG
CHIIEF               CHIF                 CHIEF                CHIEF
AGRICULTURAL            FISHERIES           FORESTRY             VETERINARY                                         FARM CENTERS               ESTATES
OFFIOFFICFFICER                           OFFICER               OFFICER
EXTENSIONMARKETGARDEN                                        CREDIT SrRVICG   E      FERTILIZER            DISEASE             AGRICULTURE
SERVICES                                MARKET               C      SERVICES         PROMOTION             CONTROL             ENGINEERING
H t
INFOMTIN38 DIVISIONS
SECTION
847 COMMUNITIES
World R,.nk-8231



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
SOUTH EASTERN STATE AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
Commissioner
Ministry of Agriculture
Permanent
---   ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~in ~~~~~Secretary
U-________________ 
_-.                                                            _P
South Eastern State                                   FChief Agricultural                                                                                                                                   Chief Veterinary
Rice Project                                                                                                                                                                                                Offic er
AgriculAtugral                                                                        ricuItural                                     Agricultural                                            ng
Extension                        Model Farmers                                     Engineering                                      Reserc &                                          Panistics
Services                                                                                                                            Education
4 Zones         ~~Central &               Mainland                 IriainEngineering                                Research               Euation                  Statistics &              Panning
3 Farms                 4 Farms                                                                                                                   Credit
14 Divisions                                                                                                                                                                                                            i0 >
58 Counties
World Bank-8230



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Permanent Secretary
Project Manager
nistrasive Officer                                     A      Pc t Acontant
Irrigation Engineer   |    |  Civil Engineer  |                                           |Senior Agronomistj         Credit Officer        Rice Mill Engineer
_    _   |                        e                                      |                        |              L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mill Officer |
Tr    ieeig siasutipiantioriigCne
Technical Advice       DemonstratioiLand Developmeng                         Scheme Manage      a                S
Studies                          ~~~~~~Roads..                                                    
T                               ~~~~~~~~~~Civil Works                                                ;;b
1      _     _     _    _     _ grnmist    i_ _ _ _mmmm                          ______                    IN|
I                                                I                                  |I iS A     I
|~ ~~~~odr Far Mange |          [                                                                        --- 1J3[E
| Farm Assistants |               | Training AssistantsW
Seed
Trials              Mutiliato         -      Ra n ng Cntr            _          1                           
|Technical Advice  | Demonstration   |             riig         |      Husbandry              Irrigation    |      Settlement      |       Credit       |       Marketing 
ffi-----^-----~~~~~~---g e-| ~~                         Holders      |     g      -     -      ^       -     -~~
World Bank-8229



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Operations Chart                                    ANNEX 4
CHART 4
.I|  Project Coordinating Committee
Guidance
Coordination
.,                   l
...................   Headquarters Unit   .         ......................
,                                                    , : Organization
Administration
Technical Leadership
Phase 11 Studies
Procurement
. .               ......        Mobile Units   ...........................
Survey
Land Clearing & Site Preparation
Design
Construction
'k ].........      .          Sheme Units Z.....................
Land
Settlement
Advice
Credit
Training
Small
, C ........ Holders  .......................
Cultivation:
...........................   Buying
Stations
Paddy Payment
Credit Repayment
r                               Li
Rice Sales
World Bank-8228






ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Project lWorks
General
1.        Due to insufficient map detail, design of a precise layout of drainage
and irrigation systems tailored to the exact land in the scattered small areas
to be developed under the project was not possible during project preparation.
Consequently project cost estimates have been prepared from quantities of work
computed from a model layout, converted to per hectare rates, and then applied
to the total areas to be developed, see para 21. New more detailed topographic
maps to be prepared during the 1974/75 dry season would be available for carry-
ing out the projects.
2.        Local water supplies are not adequate to irrigate all of the swamp
valley land to be developed. Estimates of irrigation water available during the
dry season were made by the FAO/IBRD preparation mission toward the end of the
1972-1973 dry season. The State Governments have been requested to initiate
immediately a program to regularly measure water supplies during the current
1973/74 dry season in all streams to be developed for project irrigation.
This hydrological information would be available to permit the design and
construction of irrigation layouts scheduled for the first years' work plan;
thereafter through the project development period information would be avail-
able from a continuing program of measuring dry season water supplies and
flood flows at selected points.
Description of East Central State Areas
3.        The Ifite Area consists of 810 ha of swamp subject to seasonal
flooding by two streams, the Adana and the Iyakwa which flow into the Anambra
River, a major tributary of the Niger River. About 40 ha are presently develop-
ed for rice. The streams are ungauged but it is estimated that 40 ha could
be irrigated for two crops from local water supplies. The scheme area is
only part of a much larger area suitable for development, and lies only 4-5
kilometers from the Anambra River which could be developed as a source of
irrigation water.
4.        The Uzouwani Area of 600 ha of irrigated rice is part of a 2,500 ha
area scheduled for development as a farm settlement and which was to include
600 ha of irrigated rice. Construction was initiated in 1965. A rockfill
diversion weir on the Ishe River and a 10 km main canal were constructed,
but development was suspended during the civil disturbances. The canal is
inoperative because the intake gate hoisting mechanism has been destroyed and
the canal partially filled fren disuse and lack of i,iaintenance.  Dry season
flow appears to be adenuate to serve the entire 600 ha cleared area, and the
canal capacity Co.-4-inallv 1.5 m3/sec) would be m re than adequate.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The Ogboji Area is located on the Ugbo and Ota-Alu Rivers parallel
tributaries of the Manu River which drains into the Anambra River. About 60
ha are presently developed to some extent for rice, part of which is irrigated
from a canal taking off from a silted up low diversion weir across the Ugbo
tributary. A new diversion dam being constructed upstream is nearly completed.
Project development would amount to 410 ha on the Ugbo and 810 ha on the Uta-
Alu including irrigation of 40 ha and 120 ha respectively. The remaining
hectarage would be of single crop swamp rice.
6.        The Uboma-Etiti/Ulonna Area would be carried out in several swamp
valley tributaries of the Imo River which flows southward to the sea. About
60 ha are now partially developed for rice. Project development would amount
to 730 ha of which 210 ha would be irrigated for two crops, with the remainder
developed for a single rice crop. The Imo River, a large stream, would be
a potential water source for irrigation, in a second phase project, of a fairly.
large area of bottom lands and perhaps some terrance lands by pumping.
7.        The Bende complex would be located in four swamp valleys on tri-
butaries of the Igwu River which drains southward to the Cross River. The
areas to be developed under the project vary in size from 490 ha to 1,130 ha
including irrigation portions varying from 20 ha to 180 ha. Small portions
of the four swamps have been cleared and are devoted to growing rice; but
water control is inadequate.
Description of South Eastern State Areas
8.        The Assiga Area would be located along the Okwa River a short dis-
tance above its confluence with the Cross River. Presently a small area of
a few hectares has been cleared and planted to rice. Project developments
would consist of 610 ha of which 160 ha would be irrigated. The assumed dry
season flow of the Okwa River appears to be in the order of onem3/sec, and
downstream and along the Cross River a much larger area could be developed in
subsequent projects with a large portion of it irrigated either from the Okwa
River, or by pumping from the Cross River.
9.        The Ajiabo Area lies along the Udam River (a Cross River tributary)
a short distance above the Adim swamp area to be developed by the project.
The Ajiabo Area would consist of 400 ha including 60 ha irrigated. About
30 ha are presently planted to rice although land development is only partially
completed.
10.       Adim Area receives water from both the Udam River and a smaller
parallel stream, both tributaries of the Cross River and flows along the lower
edge of the swamp. tInder the project, 490 ha including 20 ha to be irrigated,
would be developed along the smaller tributary where a small amount of clearing
and rice planting already has been done. A much larger area along the Udam
River portion of the swamp and along the Cross River itself could be developed
in subsequent projects.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       The Nkari swamp and the Oniong Ono swamp areas are located at the
two ends of a large area comprising of several thousand hectares and identified
as a potential rice development area west of the Cross River. The project would
develop 320 ha at Nkari and 490 ha at Oniong Ono including 20 ha and 60 ha
irrigated from small streams respectively. The Nkari area lies adjacent to
the Inyang-Itu River, a large stream (tributary to the Cross River) which would
be a potential source of water for future expansion of rice development.
Present rice cultivation amounts to about 15 ha at Nkari.
12.       The Odoro Atasung/UbLum Area swamp would be located along one side
of the Ubium River, a tributary of the Kwa Ibo River, a coastal stream west
of the Cross River. The project would develop 400 ha of which 120 ha would
be irrigated from a tributary of the Ubium River where there is now no devel-
opment. The area capable of development is much larger and the dry season
flow of local streams should support a much larger irrigated area.
Development Sequence
13.       The small amount of construction work at scattered location would
result in small contracts unattractive to international firms in competitive
bidding. Furthermore, due to the very tight time schedule and lack of suitably
equipped local civil works contractors to handle the large number of operations
to be carried out simultaneously, construction of all project works, except
buildings, would be done on force account. All project construction equipment
(Annex 8) and staff (Annex 11) would be assigned to construction units, each
of which would concentrate on a single swamp valley bringing the work to
completion and readiness for rice planting before moving on to the next swamp.
Work handled in this manner would include road construction and improvemerlt
and land development. Because of the physical barrier to movement of equipment
and staff imposed by the Cross River, there would be two construction units for
the SES Project, one on either side of the Cross River.  Equipment and staffing
needs for ECS Project were determined on the basis of one construction unit
which would be the most economical arrangement not only for construction staff
and equipment but for scheduling erection of project rice mills as well. How-
ever, it would be possible to carry on some activities, such as manual land
clearing, concurrently in several areas.
14.       As soon as detailed topographic maps and hydrological data are
available and staff is mobilized, land to be developed in each swamp valley
would be delineated precisely and surveying and design layouts prepared follower1
by the following sequence of development. Feeder roads would be constructed;
land would be cleared; drainage and water control systems constructed; lands
to be irrigated would be identified and irrigation diversion and distribution
systems would be constructed. To complete the construction in four dry seasons
would require a highly organized and well managed construction program. The
amount of land to be done each year would amount to about 1,550 ha in East
Central State and 680 ha in South '-astern State. The sequence for preparatory
activities and for development of the swamps is shawn in Annex 10.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Land Clearing
15.       Lands to be cleared vary from heavy forest, 75 to 100 trees per ha,
to light forest of mostly brush and small trees. Generally the forest cover
increases with rainfall toward the south. However, there are some heavy forest
areas in the north in ECS and conversely some forests in SES swamps are
moderate to light with a large proportion of palm which is easily removed.
Both manual and mechanized methods have been used in clearing and stumping
swamp lands in the project areas. At Uzouwani in ECS heavy equipment (bull
dozers, etc.) have been used to clear and totally destump land at costs varying
from N100 to N300 per ha depending on density of forest and size of trees. At
Assiga in SES in heavy forest, clearing has been done manually at a cost of
N300 per ha.
16.       Another method of clearing used successfully and at less cost in
other parts of the world is chemical poisoning of trees followed by machine
clearing some 12 to 18 months later after the wood has decaved. The arboricide,
sodium arsenite and 245T are two, are applied to a band or girdle around the
tree that had been stripped of its bark. This method would cost about N50
for chemically treating heavy forest and another N150 for chain clearing with
two crawler tractors dragging a heavy chain and ball between them.
17.       Another alternative is manual clearing using hand operated ratchet
winches and cables. A large anchor tree would be left about every 60 meters
to which the winch would be anchored. Clearing in this way could be done with
or without first poisoning the trees depending mainly on size and number of
trees. Local cost experience for this method is not available. It is estimated
that costs would not be more than N200 per ha for the heavier forests in the
project areas, and that this would be the cheapest method of land clearing.
18.       Most project clearing is expected to be done by hand and winch in
order to minimize disturbance of swamp soils. For estimating purposes, the
cost of clearing for all project lands has been taken as N220 per ha of which
75% would be payments to hired labor, and 25% the costs of project equipment.
While some usable timber probably would be extracted and marketed, no account
of this has been taken in project revenues and benefits.
Drainiage and Water Control
19.       The rainfed swamps are mostly flooded during the rainy season
because runoff from the surrounding uplands and rainfall on the swamp surface
combined are more than the restricted natural drainage channels through the
swamps can carry. Under the project drainage and water control systems would
be contructed to remove surplus water and maintain water at levels satisfactory
for rice in bunded fields. Where dry season water is available, irrigation
diversion and distribution systems would be constructed to augment rainfall
by delivering dry season water and maintaining water levels in the fields for
a seconcl rice crop. Wherever possible, facilities for drainage and irrigation
would be combined to reduce costs and simplify operation.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
20.       Principal natural channels through the swamps would be cleared,
cleaned and strightened by dragline to become the main drains; these drains
would be provided with structures to control water levels as needed, protective
floodways would be constructed by motor grader along the perimeter of the
swamps to carry runoff from upland areas around the controlled area and deliver
it below into the natural channels. Field, secondary and collector drains would
be constructed by hand in conjunction with the construction of field bunds.
The drains would be equipped with control structures to maintain water levels
at appropriate levels. Drain design would be based on a rainfall intensity
at the rate of 13 mm per hour for the time of concentration for field and
secondary drains; 8 mm per hour concentration time to collectors; and 5 mm
per hour for main drains.
21.       For estimating purposes a model field layout was used consisting of
10 ha blocks divided into 0.1 ha fields. Field bunds 40 cm high with 30 cm
top width and 1:1 side slopes would be constructed to form the fields and
retain rainfall. Field drains 25 cm deep with 15 cm bottom width and 1:1 side
slopes would be constructed and linked to the larger drains which would carry
surplus water away from the fields to natural drainage channels. Material
excavated from the field and secondary drains would be used for building the
field bunds. This would provide about 60% of the material required leaving
about 53 m /ha to come from other sources. Field leveling as needed would
be done by the farmers, and would be a condition of being granted a permanent
title to the land.
Irrigation Works
22.       The irrigation distribution layout would be tailored to the drainage
layout so that dry season irrigation permitting double cropping could be added
to the existing land development module at any time when dry season water
supplies were identified and made available. The distributary canals would
be constructed on compacted embankments 40 to 60 cm high. Both compacting
the embankment and excavating the canal section would be done manually.
23.       Main canals would be sized to deliver 1.5 llsec per ha to swamp
areas, and somewhat higher rates to irrigated blocks depending on minimum
heads of water needed to properly irrigate the rice. Each field would be
supplied by 15 cm plugged plastic pipe through the head ditch wall. Head
ditches serving 12 fields would be served by simple gated turnouts from
feeder canals. Turnout structures on the main canal would serve the feeder
canals. Wherever possible turnouts would be prefabricated or precast and
brought to the field for installation.
24.       Diversion sites and minor storage sites on local tributaries have
yet to be located and surveyed. This will be possible only when essential
detailed topographic maps and estimates of dry season water supply are avail-
able. It is envisaged that typically these structures would be low earth
fill dikes or dams with small overflow section for handling unusual floods,



ANNEX 5
Page 6
and precast concrete pipe for controlled water releases. Detailed designs of
irrigation diversion works and canals together with supporting hydrological
data would be included in the work program presented each year for Bank
approval. Assurances would be obtained from the Governments during negotiation.
25.       The existing rockfill diversion weir with concrete overflow spillway
section of the Uzouwani scheme is in good repair. The concrete canal headworks
needs only some rehabilitatioi to repair the gates and hoists and replace a
wooden footbridge. The 1.5 m /sec main canal would be cleaned and reshaped
over its entire 10 km length. Existing secondary canals would be rehabilitated
and new ones added as needed. Drainage, field bunds and distributary canals
would be added under the project to make the 600 ha now cleared and partially
cultivated fully operational for growing two crops of rice each year.
Construction Quantities and Cost Estimates
26.       The land development program would be completed along with the road
improvement program over four construction seasons (four dry seasons) ending
in March 1979. The amount of land cleared, developed and made ready for
planting would amount to about 1,550 ha per year in EC State and 680 ha in SE
State. Table 1 to this Annex summarizes the construction quantities and
identifies the large amount of work to be done manually. Cost of the land
development program, exclusive of contingencies, to be implemented over the
1975-1979 period amounts to:
C'omponent                      EC State   SE State       Total
---N - OOOs 
Equipment                                   278.5       210.0       488.5
Materials                                   158.0        76.0       234.0
Hired Labor                               2,450.0    1,012.0      3,462.0
Salaries and wages                          147.1       138.3       285.4
Operation & Maintenance of Equipment        194.3       161.3       355.6
Total                                3,227.9    1,597,6      4,825.5



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Construction Quantities & Manual Labor
Hectares      m3/ha              Volume m3 1000             |   Cost of Manual Works N1000
or Ion
East Central State Project                                 Total      By Machine   Manual        Total        Labor     Materials
Clearing                        6,200                                 25%         75%          1,023      1,023          _
Drainage                        6,200         336       2,083         1178        905            588         588         _
Field bunding                   6,200       a)53          329            0        329            214         214
Irrigation distribution         1,410                                                           (503)       (401)       (102)
Compacted fill                             193          272            0        272            354         354         -
Excavation                                   52          73            0         73             47          47         _
Irrigafion diversion & supply  1,410         L.S.                                                280         224          56
Road-upgrade                       87                     200          200          0             52          26          26
n  -new                           77                     180         180           0            169          85          84
East Central State Total                                                                       2,529       2,561         =2
South Eastern State Project
Clearing                        2,980                                 25%         75%            492         492           _
Drainage                        2,710         336         911         515         396            257         257           _
Field bunding                   2,710        a)53         144           0         144             94          94           -
Irrigation distribution           440                                                           (157)       (125)         (32)
Compacted fill                              193          85           0           85           110         110           -
Excavation                                   52          23           0           23            15          15           -
Irrigation diversion & supply    440          L.S.                                                 88         44           44
Road-upgrade                       99                     230         230            0             59         30           29
't -new                           40                      90          90           0             88          44           44
South Eastern State Total                                                                      1,235       10166
a)  About 40% of total.  Other 60% from material excavated
from field and secondary drains.                                                                                 HlUn
H \,






ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Road Improvement Program
General
1.        The existing networks of tarmac and natural soil roads in both States
are extensive but inadequate for accelerated agricultural development and at
present are poorly maintained. Much of the road system is impassable during
the rainy season, and inadequate for heavy truck traffic even in the dry
season. Several of the swamp valleys to be developed under the project now
lack road access of any sort.
2.        The success of the project would depend upon all-weather feeder
roads capable of moving heavy trucks to all areas being developed for rice
production and to all project rice mills. Such a service would be essential
for efficient construction activities and for bringing farm inputs in, and
taking out farm produce. In addition, substantial social benefits by way of
easier and more economical transportation of people and other supplies would
accrue to the communities and to the States as a consequence of improved
access.
3.        The project road improvement program, amounting to 303 km, would
put every project farmer within three kilometers of a reasonable road. The
program would be carried out by the project organization and the PO would
maintain the roads so constructed and improved throughout the project
development period until 1979. At that time all road-making equipment would
be transferred to the State Ministries of Works who would then take over
maintenance of project-constructed roads.
4.        The road work to be done is in small pieces at scattered locations
and not suited to large contracts which would attract international firms.
Furthermore, there is a lack of contractors locally available or geared to
the tight time schedule essential to coordinate road construction with the
land development program. In addition there is a lack of locally available
construction plant for hire. For these reasons, cost estimates were prepared
on the basis that the Project Organizations would carry out the road improve-
nient program on force account; however, where local qualified contractors
are available and the work could be done within time and cost limitations,
local contractors could be used. The roads program and land development
program would be handled together by the Construction Units to optimize use of
project equipment (Annex 8) and -ersonnel (Annex 4).
Design Standards
5.        New roads and those ,elected for upgrading would be located, wherever
possible; every effort would be made to avoid roads in the valleys which would
require numerous bridges or box culverts and would be subject to flooding



ANNEX 6
Page 2
during the rainy season. Generally soils on the ridges are lighter in texture
with better internal drainage thereby making both construction and maintenance
easier. Access would be provided to the vicinity of heavily populated areas
only to avoid interference with buildings or highly productive farm land.
6.        Both existing roads to be upgraded and new roads would be constructed
to standards to handle 7-ton trucks; these would be:
Roadway width                   - 5 meters
Running course width            - 4 meters
Surface material                - compacted laterite layer 15 cm thick
Ditch width                     - 1 meter
Ditch depth                     - 0.5 meter
Maximum vertical grade          - 8%
Culverts and bridges            - as required
Improvement Program
7.        The detailed topographic maps to he prepared following aerial
photography in October-November, 1974 are essential for the detailed layout
of project roads. Consequently the layout prepared in the preparation
report was adapted during appraisal to make it indicative of the magnitude
of the program, the type of construction to he used and consequently an
adequate basis for costing purposes. The length of roads involved would be:
Kilometers
East Central State                         Upgrade        New
Uzouwani                                13          23
Ifite                                   16           0
Ogboji                                  13           1 
Uboma Etiti/Ulonna                      18           16
Bende                                   27          19
EC State Total                          87           77
South Eastern State
Assiga                                   8           10
Ajiabo                                   6            5
Adim                                     5            8
Odoro Atasung/Ubium                     34            6
Oniong Ono                              35            6
N'kari                                  11            5
SE Stato Total                                      4n0
Grand Tot.l                                 186          117



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        After a phased program of road improvement is drawn up by the PO civil
engineer, and coordinated with the land development work, upgrading road
work would commence with ripping and forming base course and shaping ditches
and drainage ways; hauling, spreading and compacting laterite surface material;
constructing in place or laying precast circular concrete culverts (about 0.5 m
diameter) and constructing in place concrete box culverts over streams too wide
for circular culverts. 1Ter.7 roads would also involve route surveying and clearing
of land as required.
9.        The estimated costs for culverts and bridges amounting to N600/km
for upgrading and N2,200/km for new roads were estimated on the basis of
doing the work with hired labor. Where contractors are available, and the
work could be completed within the scheduled time, the culvert and bridge
work could be done through small contracts. All road earth work would have
to be done by the project construction unit during the dry season. Some of
the clearing for new roads could be done during the rainy season. The
volume of earth work involved in forming the base course and in the running
course amounts to about 380,000 m3 for the ECS Project and 320,000 m3 for the
SES Project.
Cost of Road Improvement
10.       The road program would be completed along with the land development
program over four construction seasons (dry seasons) ending in March 1979.
The amount of land cleared, developed and made ready for planting would be
evenly spread over the four seasons as would the road program. Thus road
construction, new and upgraded combined, would amount to about 40 km per
year in EC State and 35 km in SE State. The total cost of the road improvement
averaging about N6,000/km is estimated to be:
Component                                   N1000
EC State   SE State         Total
Equipment                           389.5       278.0           667.5
Materials                            110.0       73.0           183.0
Salaries & wages                     147.1      126.5           273.6
Hired labor                          111.0       74.0           185.0
Fauipment Operation &
Maintenance                       370.9       268.2          639.1
Total                        1,128.5       819.7        1,948.2






ANNEX 7
P5age 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Pice Milling
General
1.        Information on existing rice mills in both ECS and SES is incomplete
in its geographical coverage and in its content. Most existing rice mills are
small and fairly inefficient, but appear to be adequate for present level of
local paddy production. If there is surplus milling capacity at existing
operating mills, it is small in relation to anticipated proiect production
and not located where it could be used efficiently for milling project paddy.
At Uzouwani in ECS, the Agricultural Development Authority (ADA) has a partly
assembled 2.5 ton per hour (TPH) mill and a 0.5 TPH operating mill both of
which would be taken over by the project. The 2.5 TPH mill would be completed
in situ to handle increased paddy production generated by the project, and
the 0.5 TPH mill equipment would be moved to provide processing for another
project site.
2.        The project would provide farmers with rice parboiling, milling
and marketing services, and modern rice mills and associated facilities would
be provided under the project to ensure this.
Operation of Project Mills
3.        The number, location, and capacity of the new mills needed are
presented in Table 1. They would be multi-stage mills, and have associated
parboiling, drying, and rodent proof storage facilities. Such mills working
at full efficiency should achieve milled rice out-turns as high as 71 - 72%
using parboiled paddy with a 14% moisture content. However, as it will
take some time to achieve these standards of efficiency, a conservative out-
turn has been employed in project calculations: milled rice 69%, bran 6%,
husk 22% and losses, etc. 37.
4.        It is anticipated that given a paddy price free of seasonal fluctu-
ation, as would be the case under the project, farmers would sell their paddy
as nuicl]v as possible after harvest, and especially if there is hired harvest-
ing labor to be paid. Consequently, it is anticipated that all project pro-
duced paddy would be sold to proiect mills within a six-week period following
harvest of the rainy season crop (first irrigated and the swamp paddy crop);
and within four weeks of harvest of the second irrigated dry season crop.
i'¶illing would begin as soon as sufficient paddy was available to ensure a
minimum of continuous single shift operation and continue until the total



ANNEX 7
Page 2
crop *was processed. It is estimated that at full project maturity, project
mills would operate for 36 weeks on a double shift of 44 hours each, and
the parboiling plants for the same period but on a three-shift basis.
5.        In some instances, the size and location of scheme areas would not
justify their own mills. In such cases a buying market with storage facilities
would be set up and onerated by a project mill at another location which would
be responsible for processing the scheme production.
6.        The project organization (PO) of each state would employ a rice
mill engineer whose function would be to locate, design, supervise the
erection and commissioning of project mills, and be responsible for control
of their day to day operation. In consultation with the project manager,
he would recruit mill management staff, fix paddy price to farmers, arrange
processing schedules, negotiate wholesale prices for milled rice and bran,
and supervise delivery schedules of milled rice. During the latter part of
his appointment, which would be for four years, the rice mill engineer if he
were an expatriate, would pay particular attention to the training of replace-
ment to whom he would hand-over his responsibilities. Individual mill staffing
requirements and staffing costs are set out in Table 4. It would be imperative
that suitable staff be recruited in adequate time to allow for their training
before the commissioning of project mills. Such staff would be given "on
the job" training at an operating mill, and one mill in each state, the first
constructed, be designated as a training mill at which both the project milling
specialist and the suppliers of mill and parboiling equipment would provide in
depth training to potential mill personnel.
7.        In view of the present lack of commercial transport in the project
areas, the project initially would provide transport at each mill capable
of handling all the mills paddy and milled rice transport needs. Due to
generally poor road conditions, the life of these vehicles has been taken
as three years. Project costs provide for one replacement for each initial
vehicle purchased; thereafter with the anticipated general improvement in
roads under the project and other State programs it is expected that adequate
commercial transport will be available for hire at reasonable rates. Farmers
would be paid a fixed farm price whatever their location, the project bearing
farm to mill transport costs. Whilst free collection of paddy from farms may
appear an unnecessary luxury, current nargins are large enough to cover the
cost and it is felt desirable to nrovide this service to ensure the orderly
purchasin!v of paddy by the project organization.
8.        Bran produced by parboiling and multistage hullers is of a superior
standard and readily acceptable as poultry feed. As there is a chronic
shortage of animal feeds within both States, no problems are envisaged in
disposing of the bran at economic prices. Bran would be packed in 50 pound
locally produced plastic bags. A biproduct of processing is husk, and a total
of some 6,000 tons annually would be produced by project maturity in 1983.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Husk is basically cellulose and as such of no value as animal feed. However,
it provides a good support for other ingredients, such as molasses, in compound-
ing animal feeds. If no such use can be found for the husk, normal practice
would be to burn it at some distance from the mill.
9.        Crop finance would be needed to cover the purchase of paddy and
its storage, processing and marketing. Such finance could be provided by
the Nigerian Agriculture Bank (NAB). In project calculation interest on such
finance has been taken at 8% per annum pending negotiation with NAB. Crop
insurance in storage has been provided for in mill operating costs at 1% of
the value of total production. The P0 should evaluate the economics of
carrying their own insurance risk in view of the geographical spread of mill
locations and thus of risks.
Milling Equipment and Facilities
10.       At present there are two mills at IJzouwani in ECS owned by the
Government and operated by ADA. One is a 0.5 TPTI mill which is in operation.
The other is a 2.5 TPH mill partially complete and partially erected. In
view of the large sunk cost and the cost of removing the 2.5 TPH mill to
another location; the project would take over the 2.5 TPH mill at Utzouwani,
complete it and erect storage and ancillary equipment. The cost of completion
and ancillary equipment is estimated at approximately N258,000. The existing
and onerating 0.5 TPH would be transferred to Uboma-Etiti in 1977 at an approx-
imate cost of N73,000 including the construction of necessary buildings and
storage.  It is anticipated that the ECS Government would transfer these two
mills to the project without cost.
11.       Each project mill would operate an adjacent buying point and where
appropriate buying points in other scheme areas, see para 5. The Bende mill
due to the size of the Bende scheme will operate three buying points within
its scheme area. A description of buying operations and procedures are detailed
in Annex 4. Storage space would be provided at each mill equivalent to 60%
of annual paddy milling capacity. All storage would be in paddy bags to reduce
storage construction costs, and to simplify handling problems. Paddy bags would
be provided free to farmers on a controlled basis. The same bags would be turned
and reused for bagging the milled rice. The P0 would need to decide whether
or not to charge rice buyers for the bags; this report assumes that no charge
would be made and that new bags would be purchased by the P0 each year.
Within the stores, simple mechanical handling devices such as trolleys,
conveyors and stackers would be used.
12.       Mill buildings and storage would be of simple construction consisting
of a concrete floor, steel frame, walls of either locally made brick and/or
corrucated metal or asbestos sheeting, and roof of corrugated metal or asbestos
sheeting. Sliding metal doors capable of being adequately secured would be
fitted. The building could be easily handled by local building contractors.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
13.       Milling equipment would consist principally of a multi-stage huller,
energized by a diesel electrical generator set including stand-by, which would
also supply adjacent project facilities with electricity; a parboiling plant
including drier and temporary silo storage, water pump and associated equipment;
conveyors, bagging silos, mechanical handling equipment, and a dial platform
scale preferably equipped with an automatic weight printing device. The
equipment would be suitable for procurement under international competitive
bidding. A condition of bidding would be that manufacturers had local re-
presentatives in Nigeria able to provide an acceptable and adequate standard
of after sales servicing and spares. Standardization would be practiced where
possible and desirability of, and opportunities for turn-key contracts to
design, supply, erect and commission the mills including training of staff
and supervision of the first three to six months of milling operations would
be explored. Given the lack of milling experience in Nigeria, this would
reduce the supervision and administrative load on the project organization.
Costs
14.       The size, location, and timing of project mills have been determined
from paddy production estimates, the rate of build up of production at different
schemes and consideration of the investment and operating costs for mills of
different size, tables 2, 3 and 4. No project mill would operate in the first
year after its erection at more than 50°' of capacity, and would he designed
for build-up to full capacity to take a further two to three years. This
would enable staff to be trained and to acquire operating skills during a
transitional period.
15.       Capital costs of mills of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.5 TPI- capacity with
equipment, storage and buying points are detailed in Tables 2 and 3. Building
costs are based on N40 per sq meter and equipment costs are CIF Lagos or Port
Ilarcourt. Allowance has been made for internal clearance, transport, erection
and commissioning. No provision has been made for import duties as it is
assumed that all project eauipment would be imported free of duties and taxes.
A provision for essential spares has been made in the cost of equipment.
Operating costs of different size mills, ancillary equipment, storage and
buying points are detailed in Table 4. Table 5 (ECS) and 6 (SES) show by
years investment costs and annual operating costs of the rice milling and
marketing services. Cash flows for the milling and marketing services of
both State projects are shown in Annex 15.



ANNEX 7
NIGERIA                          Table 1
RICE PROJECT
Project Rice Mills
Paddy (tons/year)
Installation           Capacity                          Buying                              C/Production
Year                  TPH           Location         Station      at Maturity    Capacity-
East Central State
1976                   2.5       Uzouwani (completion)                 6,250         8,000
1976                                                      Ifite
1978                   0.5       Uboma-Etiti/Ulonna                 b/ 2,700         1,600
(move from Uzouwani)
1979                   1.0       Ogboji II (new)                       3,700         3,200
1977                                                      Ogboji I
1979                   2.5       Bende (new)                           8,800         8,000
1979                                                      Amaeke
1979                                                      Ndiebe
1978                                                      Igbere
South Eastern State
1977                   1.0       Assiga (new)                          3,500         3,200
1976                                                      Adim
1979                   0.5       Ajiabo (new)                          1,250         1,600
1976-1977              0.5       Odoro Atasung/Ubium (new)             1,500         1,600
1977                   1.0       Oniong Ono (new)                      2,350         3,200
1978                                                      Nkari
a/ Approximate tonnage before deduction for home consumption, etc.
b/ Surplus paddy would be transferred to Uzouwani.
c/ Mill capacity based on 36-week operation - double shift 44 hours each.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJET
Rice Mills Capital Costs VS Capacity
00oo00)
0.5 TPH           1.0 TPH                    2.5 TPH Capacity
Capacity          Capacity       StandaEq             to complete  Bende, ECS
mill-               Uzouwani  (3 buying points)
Equipment
Milling                               50.0              85.o             245o.               50.0bl          245.o
Storage & handling                     -                 2.0              15.0               15.0             15.0
Buying station at mill                 4.9               4.9               4.9                4.9              4.9
Office                                 3.5               3.5               3.5                3.5              3.5
Equipment total at mill               58.4              95.4             268.4               73.4            268.4
Buying point away from mill            4.9               4.9               4.9                4.9             14.7
Buildings and Storage (N40/m2)
Mill (including compounds              7.0              14.0              30.0                 -              30.0
& fencing)
Storage                               33.6              67.2             168.0              168.0            168.0
Buying station at mill                 3.4               3.4                4.5               4.5              4.5
Office space                           2.6               3.0                4.o               4.o              4.o
Building total at mill                46.6              87.6             206.5              176.5            206.5
Buying points away from mill           3.4               3.4               3.4                3.4             10.2
Transport
5-ton trucks N5500                     5.5              11.0              27.5               27.5             27.5
Grand Total                            118.8             202.3             510.7              285.7            527.3
ID' 
a/  One buying station at mill and one buying point away from mill.                                                   X
b/ Includes some rehabilitation of existing equipment.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Rice Mills - Equipment & Vehicle Costs
(N1000)
0.5 TPH           1.0 TPH                  2.5 TPH Capacity
Capacity          Capacity          New mill       to complete Uzouwani
Milling
Milling equipment CIF Port Harcourt                   6.8                12.0               70.0               7
Diesel generator
25 kw for 0.5 TPH mill, etc.                        5.6                10.0               16.9              16.9
Parboiling plant, including boiler & dryer           18.0                30.0               69.1               -
Water pump for parboil plant                           3.5                5.6               10.0              10.0
Mechanical handling equipment,scales, etc.            1.6                 2.4                8.o               8.o
Subtotal                                             35.5                60.0              174.0              42.0
Unloading, port charges & transport to site (10%)    3.5                  6.o               17.0               3.5
Erection & commission (15%)                           5.3                 9.0               32.0               _
Electrical & wiring                                   1.5                 2.0                4.5               4.5
Spares                                                4.2                 8.o               17.5
Milling equipment Total                               50.0               85.o              245.o              50.0
Storage & handling (misc. conveyors, stackers,etc.)    -                    2.0               15.0              15.0
Office (desk, chairs, files, misc.)                   3.5                 3.5                3.5               3.5
Buying station (scales, conveyors, stackers, etc.)   4.9                  4.9                4.9               4.9
Equipment total at mill site                        58.4               95.4              268.4              73.4
Equipment for each separate buying point               4.9                4.9                4.9               4.9
Transport Costs N5,500 each                            5.5               11.0               27.5              27.5
Number of Mills by Capacity
EC State Project                                 1-'                 1                  1                 1
SE State Project                                 2                   2                                            CD
a/ Rehabilitation of existing equipment.
b/  Move from Uzouwani at cost of N15,000 for milling equipment
plus other equipment as for new plant.



ANNEX 7
NIGERIA                                              Table 4
RICE PROJECT
Rice Mills - ODeration Costs VS Capacity
(11'000 per year)'
0.5 TPH '7ill           1.0 TPH Mill              2.5 TPH Mill
Fixed Mill Costs
Milling Of'ficer                                        3.3                      3.5                       4.3
Plant Engineer                                           -                       3.0                       3-4
Accountant                                              3.0                      3.0                       3.4
Buyer/adm. officer                                       -                        -                        3.0
Mill operators                                      (2) 1.2                  (2) 1.2                   (2) 1.4
Parboil plant operators                             (3) 2.4                  (3) 2.4                  (3) 2.7
Mill mechanics                                      (2) 1.2                  (2) 1.2                   (2) 1.4
Clerks                                                  o.6                      o,6                  (2) 1.2
Paddy storemen                                      (2) 1.4                  (2) 1.4                   (2) 1.4
Milled rice storemep                                     -                                                 0.7
Watchmen                                            (2) 0.8                  (2) 0.8                   (2) o.8
Messengers                                              0.4                      0.4                  (2) 0.8
Laborers                                                0,4                      0.4                  (2) 0.9
Subtotal wages & salaries                              14,7                     17.9                      25.4
Insurance of buildings & machinery                      1.1                      1.8                       4.8
Maintenance of buildings                                0.7                      1.3                       3.1
Maintenance of machinery                                2.3                      3.8                      10.7
Overheads                                               0.5                      1.0                       2.5
Fixed cost total                                       19.3                     25.8                     46.5
Variable mill costs
Insurance of crop                                       1.6                      3.2                       8.o
Fuel-mill generators                                    0.5                      0.9                       2.2
Fuel-dryer, parboiling                                  1.6                      3.2                       8.o
Casual labor                                            1.0                      1.8                       3.7
Variable cost total                                     4.7                      9.1                      21.9
Total Mill Operating Costs                               ?4.0                     34.9                      68.4
Buying Station Costs*
Buyer                                                   3.4                      3.4                 (2)  6.8
Produce inspectors                                      1.35                     1.35                (2)  2.7
Cashier                                                 1.35                     1.35                (2)  2.7
Scale operator                                          0.7                      0.7                 (2)  1.4
Casual labor                                            0.2                      0.2                       0.4
Buying station total                                    7.0                      7.0                     14.0
Transport Costs
Vehicle operators                                   (1) 3,0                 (?) 6.o                  (5) 15.o
Drivers                                             (2) 1.2                  (4) 2.4                (10)  6.0
Mechanics & assistants                              (   1.0                  (2) 1.0                 (4)  2.0
Casual labor                                            0.3                      o.6                       1.5
Transport total                                         5.5                     10.0                      24.5
Grand Total                                              36.5                     51.9                    106.9
aSelf contained buii_g  i4t"04riW b0t *s' th4t 7f 0",5 T=  ni.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
East Central State Peoject Milling and Marketing Costs
(NPOOO)
Total      1980 and
1976         1977        1978         1979       1976-1979    thereafter
Capital Costs
Equipment
Uzouwani                                 73.4
Ifite                                    4.9
Ogboji I                                               4.9
Ogboji II                                              4.9                      90.5
Uboma Etiti/Ulonna                                     4.9         18.5
Bende-Bende                                                         4.9        263.5
Amaeke                                                                     4.9
Igbere                                                        4.9
Ndiebe                                                                     4.9
Equipment Total                          78.3         14.7         28.3        363.8         485.1            -
Buildings, storage & offices             179.9          10.2         50.0        294.1         534.2            -
Transport                                  11.0         11.0         27.5         11.0          60.5           11.0
Capital Cost Total                      269.2         35.9        lo5.8        668.9       1,079.8           11.0
Operating Costs
Purchasing (buying points)                 14.6         29.5         36.5         44.1                         51.7
Processing                                 68.4         68.4         92.4        195.7                        195.7
Transport                                  10.0         20.0         45.5         55.5                         64.5
Operating Cost Total                       93.0        117.9        174.4        295.3         680.6          311.9
Grand Total                                 362.2        153.8         280.2       964.2       1,760.4



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
South Eastern.State Project Milling & Marketing Costs
(NlOOO)
1976         1977            1978            1979           Total         1980 and
1976-1979       thereafter
Capital Costs
Equipment
Assiga                                    95.4
Ajiabo                                                                   58.4
Adim                         4.9
Odoro Atasung/Ubium          4.9          53.5
Oniong Ono                                95.4
Nkari                                                     4.9 
Equipment Total              9.8         244.3            4.9            58.4           317.4
Buildings, Storage & Offices   6.8         218.4            3.4            46.6           275.2
Transport                       -           16.5            5.5            11.0            33.0
Capital Cost Total            16.6         479.2           13.8           116.o           625.6
Operating Costs
Purchasing (buying points)    15.2          22.5           22.8            29.8                           29.8
Processing                     -            93.8           93.8           117.8                          117.8
Transport                      -            16.5           21.0            31.0                           31.0
Operating Cost Total          15.2         132.8          137.6           178.6           464.2          178.6    |
Grand Total                     31.8         612.0          151.4           294.6         1,089.8                       
o1--j



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
List of Equipment
(Exc1u mdi-imng in Annex 7)
East Central State   South Eastern State             Annual Operating Costs(N1000)
Unit Cost         Project              Project       Grand      Unit     East       South
N]000    Quantity    NIOO1   Quantity   N1000       Total     Cost*    Central   Eastern
Crawler tractor dozer-140 HP         36.0        6         216.0       4       144.0      360.0      9.5       57.0      38.0
3-Tooth ripper for tractor            3.0        3           9.0       2         6.0       15.0       -         -         -
Dragline -3/4 cu.yd.                 30.0        3          90.0       2        60.0      150.0      8.0       24.0      16.o
Motor grader - 115 HP                29.0        3          87.0       2        58.0      145.0     6.5        19.5      13.0
Front end loader-with 2-1/2 cu
yd bucket-130 HP                   25.0        2         50.0        2        50.0      100.0     5.5        11.0      11.0
Dump truck - 4 ton                    6.0        6          36.0       4        24.0       60.0      3.9       23.4      15.6
Wheeled tractor - 65 HP               5.0        1           5.0       2        10.0       15.0     2.5         2.5      5.0
Sheep's foot roller                   2.0        1           2.0       2         4.0        6.o       -         -         -
125 HP Flat deck truck
(a) with water tank &sprinkler      5.0        1          5.0        2        10.0       15.0     2.5         2.5      5.0
(b) with service equipment          6.0        1          6.o        2        12.0       18.0     2.5         2. 5     5.0
(c) as mobile workshop              7.0        1          7.0        2        214.0      21.0     2.5         2.5      5.0
Equipment for mobile workshop        10.0         1         10.0       2        20.0       30.0       -          -        -
Concrete mixer - 1 cu yd              2.0        2           4.0       2         4.0        8.0      1.2        2.4      2.4
Low bed trailer - 15 ton & truck     20.0        1          20.0       -         -         20.0      5.0        5.o       -
Chain Saws                            0.5      120          60.0      55        27.5       87.5       -         2.0      1.0
60.0                143.5                          13.3   117.0
Spares 10 percent                                        61.0                44.5      105.5
Total                                                   668.0               488.0    ,s156.0
*  Excluding operators and drivers                                                                                      JC



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
List of Vehicles
(Excluding rice milling & marketing in Annex 7)
Calendar Year
Unit Cost 1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979 Total  Cost
NlOOO                                                NlOOO
East Central State Project
4-Wheel drive passenger              4.5       3     8    1            2     5     19    85.5
Pickup ( V2 ton)                    3.0              3     5     5     4     8    25    75.0
Passenger Car                        3.5       1                 1                  2     7.0
Motorcycle                           0.6             1     1    2      1     2      7     4.2
5-ton TrucksPersonnel Carrier(25-30) 7.0                   1     1     1     1      4    28.0
i  t t" Flat bed (wood body box)   5.5                    2      2    5      2     11    60.5
7-ton Truck,Flat bed                 8.0                   1                 3      4     2.0
Total East Central State                 *.. .......... .*.... .   ...             292.2
South Eastern State Project
4-Wheel drive passenger              4.5       3     8                 2     5     18    81.0
Pickup (1/2 ton)                     3.0             5     4     3    5      5     22    66.0
Passenger Car                        3.5       1                                    1     3.5
Motorcycle                           0.6             2           2           2      6     3.6
5-ton Truck,Personnel Carrier(25-30) 7.0                   2                 2      4    28.0
t "I    " Flat bed (wood body box)    5.5                       3      1     2      6    33.0
7-ton Truck,Flat bed                 8.0                         2                  2    16.o
Total South Eastern State                .. ..........................    ....... .... . 231.1
Grand Total                                                                               3.3



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Phase II Studies
Objective
1.        Phase II studies would inventory opportunities for expansion of
swamp rice growing in ECS and SES; identify the most promising areas; apply
the experience gained in the first phase projects; make agricultural, engi-
neering and economic studies; and prepare a feasibility report suitable for
financing decisions by an international organization. The studies would con-
sider swamp rice development by drainage and water control and also by adding
irrigation systems where local dry season water supplies would permit. The
studies would explore opportunities to (a) increase the proportion of irriga-
tion under first phase projects where local water supplies or adjacent major
water sources might permit; (b) enlarge first phase projects or expand into
adjacent areas; and (c) introduce swamp rice nuclei development into new areas
of both states.
Scope of Studies
2.        The studies would make maximum use of first phase projects develop-
ment and operational experience on all aspects, particularly agricultural
matters, engineering and costs and rice milling and marketing. Utilizing this
and other information gathered by the POs as a point of take off the short-term
specialists would make the detailed studies and prepare the feasibility report.
Thus, the studies would consist of two parts.
3.        Part A would be conducted by staff of the POs for development of
first phase projects with the Irrigation Engineer being responsible for their
execution and adequacy. Part A work would:
(a) inventory potential areas for additional swamp rice
development;
(b) establish hydrological data collection programs and estimate
dry season water supply available for areas in (a) and from
major water sources to increase irrigation under first phase
projects;
(c) ensure that detailed topographic maps would be prepared as
needed for engineering and agricultural work; and



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d) evaluate development and operational experience on first
phase projects as pertains to agricultural, staffing, en-
gineering and costs and rice milling and marketing for
application to Phase II studies.
4.        Part B would be conducted by short-term specialists responsible to
the Federal Government, one of whom would be responsible for overall conduct
of this work and for preparation of the feasibility report. Part B work
would:
(a) make full use of the information from Part A;
(b) identify specific swamp areas for further study;
(c) confirm the hydrological findings for selected areas;
(d) conduct soil surveys and determine the suitability for swamp
rice development;
(e) conduct agronomic and agricultural studies;
(f) prepare engineering studies and develop estimates of cost of
construction and annual operating costs;
(g) prepare organization and staffing studies to develop Phase II
projects and for their operation;
(h) prepare economic and financial studies;
(i) determine the need for and cost of rice milling and marketing
equipment and related facilities; and
(j) prepare the feasibility report complete with supporting
appendices and recommendations.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND STAFFING
5.        Part A of the studies dealing with first phase projects experience
would be the responsibility of the Irrigation Engineer of the POs with input
from appropriate PO staff.
6.        Part B of the studies would be conducted by the Federal Government
with the following short-term specialists having individual assignments of
from 3 to 6 months:
(a) one Irrigation Engineer with experience in the planning,
design, and construction of irrigation and drainage systems
with sufficient experience and seniority to function as team
leader;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b) one Hydrologist experienced in rainfall-runoff relationships,
flood studies and general water supply studies for rice irriga-
tion;
(c) one Soil Scientist experienced in conduct of soil surveys for
rice cultivation in swamp areas;
(d) one Agronomist with experience in rice agronomy and agricul-
tural development projects;
(e) one Rice Milling and Marketing Specialist with experience
in erection and operation of modern rice mills and marketing;
(f) one Organization and Management Specialist with experience
in organizing, staffing and operating agricultural extension
and rice development schemes; and
(g) one Financial Analyst with experience in economic and fi-
nancial aspects of agricultural development projects.
TIME SCHEDULE AND REPORTS
7.        Phase II studies and preparation of the feasibility report would be
concentrated and completed in FY 1976. This would allow time for report pro-
cessing and appraisal in time to utilize first phase POs in executive of Phase
II projects provided the findings were favorable. Part A, information from
first phase projects experience would be gathered from the initiation of first
phase development and continued into FY 1976 to make full use of first phase
experience.
COST OF STUDIES
8.        In addition to the time spent by staff of first phase POs on Part A,
the following costs are estimated for Part B, conduct of Phase II studies and
preparation of the feasibility report:



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Short-term staff                    Months
Irrigation Engineer                   6
Hydrologist                           3
Soil Scientist                        3
Agronomist                            6
Milling & Marketing Specialist        3
Organization Specialist               3
Financial Analyst                     6
Total                           30
Cost&CUS $4,500/month             $135,000
Specialist cost in Naira          N 89,000
Expenses, travel, subsistence,
report printing, etc.             33,000
Total Costs                  N122,000
50% ECS                      N 61,000
50% SES                      N 61,000



NIGERIA: RICE PROJECTS CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974           197 5                         ~~~~~~~~~1976                    1977                            197 8                           1979
WORK  ITEM              i  F M  AM  J jjA SOND              MA        iAS          DJF          MijjASO              iFM           i          O      iFM          i J S ND                   AM          A O  
PROCUREMENT OF EOUPMNT                  ,''," Ri-i ,,'','i                  R                               Rae RA ¼SH, Non,D                                                       , T
PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES                  ii ,,,,, , ,,i    '''"'','''
Cip,mian photo  oacms .~',', ,                                                                                                                    ~         ~          ,',, ,~,,                  ',' ',''',',,
Surveys,, an  ein                       ,i'i,,'ii                                                                                           '   ,'                               //'i,H                  /
ii
L-AND CLEARING & DEVELOPMENT            ''/,','                         'il
AND ROD IMPROVEMENT                                                                                             J/ ,,i /' 'i/i,,i/ii                                             i, i                  ijiii     ii ii
1,  I  I~I                                  I                                     '
Rende                                                                                                                   i,i' 'H,  '/i    i i'H  ','i,'  1220    (200)   '.,~~~, ii'81'l''i, l-2t(4000Y
Ogb.j,  III"', l"I";   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffl""~~~i',         'i
Ansiga  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f   ,II;IIl   '
Ub.m Eta,                    I                                11, 1, 1  (160)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii
400 (110)~~~i.',                      i    A
16    y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,
S..th                                                                                                  1120 (210)   ,,       'I!"I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,
Aj,.b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiI,~i,i                                                                                     320'ei'60b
EAst Cnrl Saed-ii    'ii'i,i,,                                               Qi i,H                     ttt    H  i      RRa        ,,2RS      >i,        Ot.       ,  '49    a    /.    2Ra'y ,,r
South   Eastern State  ,~~ii¼i,.  'i',,'n  ,iii  ~   H        ,'iH290  ma' ,',  i,i  t3tha                i ~'     290 ha    'H  '''i 2340    . ' i,i  ~ gg ha  ,,i,, h0  i, ,),33440 ha



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(   '000)
Calendar Year                                            N '0o0                                     US $ 1000
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        Total        Foreign         Local        Foreign         Local       Total
1974-1979
East Central State Project
1 Land Development                            -          661.8       735.6      735.6      736.1      358.8     3,227.9         330.8          2,897.1        502.8        4,403.6      4,906.4
2 Road Improvement                            _          494.2      185.4       185.4      190.6       72.9    1,128.5          419.6            708.9        637.8        1,077.5      1,715.3
3 Milling & Marketing                                               362.2       153.8     280.2       964.2     1,760.4          730.5         1,029.9      1,110.3        1,565.5      2,675.8
4  Training                                   -54-5                   42.7       21.0       14.0       14.0       146.2           386            107.6         58.6          163.6        222.2
5 Subtotal                                             1,210.5   1,325.9    1,095.5   1,220.9    1,409.9        6       ,263.0  1,519.5         ,7T35       2309.5          7,210.2     9,519.7
6  Project Monitoring                                     13.0        13.0       13.0       13.0      13.0         65.o           -               65.o         -             100.0        100.0
7 kdeadquarters & Sxtension Service          42.5        478.3      371.1       379.6      397.9      537.0    2,206.4        452.7            1,753.7        688.1        2,665.6      3,353.7
8 Famnp Acquisition                           -            7.1       14.8        22.9       31.0       31.0       106.8         0                106.8        -              162.3        162.3
9 Farm Inputs (includes fertilizer subsidy)  -            -         115.0      125.6       149.7      163.9       554.2       257.8              296.4        391.8          450.6        842.4
10 Specialist Services & Phase II             31.3         80.0      141.0       80.0        80.0       17.5       429.8       429.8               -           653.3           -           653.3
11 Subtotal                                   73W       1,78 8     1,y80.8    1,716.9    1,892.5    2,172.3      9.625.2     2,659.8            6,965.4      4,042.7       10,588.7    14,631.4
Contingencies
12 Physical A!                                -           220.3      242.9       219.9      232.5      18.8      1,110.4        2(4.6             908.8         306.4        1,31.4      1,6878
13 Price i/                                    4.3        316.9      497.7      528.4       771.3    1,257.2     3,405.8     1,13M.3            2,270.5      1,729.6         3,451.2     5,176.8
14 East Central State Project Total           78.1      2,326.1    2,721.4    2,465.2    2,896.3    3,654.3    14,141.4       3,y96.7          10,144.7      6,o74.7       15,421.3    21,906.o
South Eastern State Project
15  Land Development                           _          389.7      345.6      350.8       346.1      165.4    1,597.6        230.2            1,367.4        349.9        2,078.5      2,428.4
16  Road Improvement                                      3 353.1    136.3      141.5       14o.8       48.0       819.7       299.1              520.6        454.6          791.3     1,245.9
17  Milling & Marketing                                    -          31.8      612.0       151.4      294.6    1,089.8        481.5              608.3        731.9           924.6      ,656.5
18  Training                                  _54.5                   4P 7       21.0        14.0       14.0       146.2         8                107.6         58.6           16A.6       222 2
19  Subtotal                                              797.3       554    1,125.3        652.3      522.0     3,653.3     l,049.L            2,603.9       ,595.0         i,9o. C      5
20   Project Monitoring                                    13.0       13 .0      13.0       13 .0       13.0        65.o        -                  65.0         -              100.0       l0o.o
21  Headquarters & Extension Services        41.2         556.3      296.4       269.1      316.3      350.6    1,829.9        401.3            1,428.6        610.0         2,171.4     2,781.4
22  Land Acquisition                                        3.9        7.8        11.7       13.6       13.6        50.6         0                 50-f         -              76.9         76.9
23  Farm Inputs(includes fertilizer Subsidy)  -                      954.o       63.4        70.7       51.1       239.2        113.0             126.2         171.8          191.8       363.6
24  Specialist Services, & Phase II          31.5          80.0      141.0        80.0       60.o       17.5       410.0       410.0                0          623.2             -         623.2
25  Subtotal                                 72.7       1,450.5    1 o68.6    1,562.5    1,125.9       967.8     6,248.0     1,973.7            4,274.3      3,200.0        6,498.1      9,498.1
Contingencifese
26  Physical 1                                -           138.1      107.4       165.1      117.1       77.0       604.7        139.5             405.2        212.0           707.1       919.1
27  Price  i2                                 4.2         272.1       252.0      562.4      450.3      501.4      2,042.4       680.8           1,361.6      1,034.8         2,069.6     3.10)4.
28  South Eastern State Project Total        76.9       1,860.7    1,428.0    2,290.0    1,693.3    1,586.2      8,895.1      2,794-o           b,101.1      4,246.8         9,274.8    13,521.6
29  Grand Total                             159.0       4,186.8    4,149.4    4,755.2    4,589.6    5,200.5   23,036.5        6,790.7          16,245.8     10,321.5        24,696.1    35,017.6
/  25% Df land development and 10% of road, training and rice milling costs                                                                                                             a 
2/ Variable rates from "interim guidelines" of March 1974, compounded annually.
DH



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
East Central, State Project Costs
(   '000)
* '000                    XUS $ 1000
1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979       Total     Foreign   Local      Foreign   Local       Total
1974-1979
Land Development
Equipment                                 -       278.5        -         -          -         -        278.5     222.8        -
Materials                                          19.0       40.0      40.0       40.0      19.0      158.0      79.0        -
Hired Labor                               -       307.0      612.0    612.0       612.0     307.0   2,450.0        -          -          -          _         _
Salaries and Wages                        -        30.9       30.9      30.9       31.4      23.0      147.1       -          -          -
Operation and Maintenance                 -        26.4       52.7      52.7       52.7       9.8      194.3      29.0
Total                                     0       661.8     735.6      735.6     761        35.   3,227.9        330.8   2,897.1       502.8   4,403.6   4,906.4
Road ImProvement
Equipment                                 -       389.5        -         -          -         -        389.5     311.6        -          -
Materials                                 -        13.0       28.0      28.0       28.0      13.0      110.0      55.0        -
Hired Labor                               -        14.0       28.0      28.0       28.0      13.0      111.0       -          -
Salaries and Wages                        -        27.0       27.8      27.8       33.0      31.5      147.1       -          -
Operation and Maintenance                 -        50.7      101.6     101.6      101.6      15.4      370.9      53.0        -          -                    -
Total                                     0                  198.2  15.4   -1.    190.6      72.9   1,128.7      49T.       708.9      637.8   1,077.5   1,715
Hilling and Marketing
Buildings                                 -         -        179.9      10.2       50.0     294.1      534.2     213.7        -          -          -         -
Equipment                                 -         -         78.3      14.7       28.3     363.8      485.1     400.4        -          -                    -
Vehicles                                  -         -         11.0      11.0       27.5      11.0       60.5       48.4       -          -          -
* Operation and Maintenance                 -         -         93.0     117.9      174.4      295.3     680.6       68.o        -         -          -         -
Total                                     0         0       362 2. 2   153.4                                     730.2 99 1,0.9      1,110.3   1,565.5   2,675.8
Training                                     -       54.5        42.7      21.0       14.0      14.0      146.2      38.6      107.6      58.6       163.6     222.2
Project MonitorinR  *  .                             13.0         13.0      13.0      13.0       13.0      65.0                 _6.o                 100.0     100.0
Headquarters and Extension Service
Buildings                                 -       252.4       88.5      43.6       12.2      55.0      451.7     135.5
Vehicles                                 17.0      45.6       35.1       26.7      28.6      78.7      231.7      185.4
Equipment                                 -        38.7       13.7       9.8        6.3       3.0       71.5       29.5
Salaries and Wages                       15.6      91.7      150.3     189.3      220.7     223.3      889.9        -
Operation and Maintenance                 9.9      49.9       83.5     110.2      130.1     178.0      561.6      102.3
Total                 472                      . 478.3       371.1     379.6      397.9     537.0   2,206.4      452.7   1,753.7       37T   7            3,353.7
Land Acquisition                                        7.1      14.8       22.9      31.0       31.0     106.8        -       106.8        -        162.3      162.3
Farm InPuts - Incremental                    -          -        95.8      89.9       95.9      92.8      374.4      114.0    26o04       173.2    395.8       569.o
- Fertilizer Subsidy                        -       19.2       35.7       53.8      71.1      179.8     143.8       36.0      218.6      54.8      273.4
Specialist Services and Phase II
Specialist Services                      31.3      80.0       80.0     80.0        80.0       17.5     368.8      368.8        -          -         -          -
Phase II                                  -         -         61.0        -         -          -        61.0       61.0o                 -                     -
Total                                    31.3      80.       17o       80.0                   77       7297      727                   73          -        7
Contingencies
Physical                                          220.3      242.9    219.9       232.5      I94.8   1,iio.4      201.6    908.8       306.4   1,381.4   1,687.8
Price                                     4.3     316.9      497.7    528.4       771.3   1,287.2   3,405.5   1.135.3  2.270.5    1,725.6   3,451.2   5.176.8
East Central State Project Total            78.1   2,326.1   2,721.4  2,4b5.2    2,896.3   3,056.3  14, 14i.4   3.996.7 10,144.7    6,074.7  15,421.3  21,490.0i
* Includes Salaries and Wages



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
South Eastern State Project Costs
(NIOO)
N1000                           US$1000
1974      1975         1976          1977         1978         1979       Total         Foreign      Local        Foreign      Local        Total
1974-1979
Land Development
Equipment                                       210.0                                                            210.0          168.0
Materials                                         9.0          19.0         19.0         19.0         10.0        76.0           38.0
Hired Labor                                     127.0         253.0        253.0        253.0        126.0    1,012.0
Salaries and wages                               21.9          29.9         35.1         30.4         21.0       138.3
Operation & maintenance                          21.8          43.7         43.7         43.7          8.4       161.3           24.2
Total                                   -       389.7         345.6        350,8        346.1        165.4    1,597.6           230.2    1,367.4           349.9    2,078.5       2,428.4
Road Improvement
Equipment                               -       278.0                                                            278.0          222.4
Materials                                        10.0          18.0         18.0         18.0          9.0        73.0           36.5
fHf ed Labor                                     10.0          18.0         18.0          18.0        10.0        74.0 
Salaries & wages                                 18.5          27.0         32.2         31.5         17.3       126.5
Operation & maintenance                          36.6          73.3         73.3         73.3         11.7       268.2           40.2
Total                                   -       353.1         136.3        141.';       140.8         48.0       819.7          299.1       520.6          454.6       791.3      1,245.9
Milling and Marketing
Buildings                                                       6.8        218.4          3.4         46.6       275.2           93.7
Equipment                                                       9.8        244.3          4.9         58.4       317.4          266.6
Vehicles                                                                    16.5          5.5         11.0        33.0           26.4
*Operation & maintenance                 _                      15.2        132.8        137.6        178.6       464.2           46.4
Total                                                          31.8        612.0        151.4        294.6    1,089.8           481.5       608.3          731.9       924.6      15
Training                                           54.5          42.7         21.0         314.0        i4.0       ]46.2            38.6      107.6          58.6       163.6          222.2
Project Monitoring                                 13.0          13.0         13.0          13.0        13.0        65.o            -         65.o             -         100.0         100.0
Headquarters and Extension Services
Buildings                                        308.5          C2.0          2.6         22.2                    395.3          118.6
Vehicles                                17.0      52.2          26.0         26.2         24.0         52.7       198.1          158.5
Equipment                                         52.0           1.9          1.5          2.9          1.4        59,7           28.6
Salaries and wages                      15.3      89.8         125.0        135.8        146.6        142.9       655.4
Operations and maintenance               8.9      53.8          81.5        103.0        120.6        153.6       521.4           95.6
Total                                   41.2    556.3          296.4        269.1        316.3        350.6    1,829.9           401.3    1,428.6           610.0    2,171.4       2,781.4
Land Acquisition                                     3.9           7.8         11.7         13.6         13.6        50.6             -          50.6           -          76.9          76.9
Farm Inputs - Incremental                                         65.3         46.2         45.1         21.4       158.0           48.0       110.0           73.0       167.2        240.2
- Fertilizer Subsidy                                 8.7         17,2          25.6         29.7        81.2           65.0        16.2          98.8         24.6        123.4
Specialists Services & Phase II
Specialists Services                    31.5      80.0          80.0         80.0         60.0         17.5       349.0          349.0          -
Phase II                              __61.0                                                                       61.0           61.0
Total                                   31.5      80.0         141.0         80.0         60.0         17.5       410.0          410.0          -           623.2         -          623.2
Contingencies
Physical                                -       138.1         107.4        165.1        117.1         77.0       604.7          139.5       465.2          212.0       707.1        919.1
Price                                   4.2    272.1          252.0        562.4        450.3        501.4    2,042.4           680.8    1,361.6        1,034.8    2,069.6        3,104.4
South Eastern State Project Total         76.9  1,860.7        1,428,0      2,290.0      1,693.3      1.546.2    8,895.1          2,794.0    6,101.1        4,246.8    9,274.8    13,521.6
* Includes Salaries and Wages



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Building Requirements
( Excluding milling and marketing buildings in Annex 7 )
Building                   Area    Unit   Building                   Number                            Total
(m2)    Cost    Cost     1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   Total          Cost
N/M2     '000                                                     Nf '000
East Central State Project
Headquarters Building            5°°     85       42.5      1       -      -      -       -       i           42.5
Scheme Office Complex            135     64        8.6      1      1       -      _       -       2           17.2
Uzouwani rehabilitation           -      -         5.0      1       -                     -       1            5.
Training Center                  14f0    64        9.0      1      1       -      -       -       2           18.0
Farm Service Center Complex      180     43        7.7      1       1      -       -      -       2           15.4
Meeting House                     60     43        2.6      1       2      1      2       -       6           15.6
Housing                        4,310     -          -      13      7       5      1       7      33          338.0
East Central State Total                                                                                     71T.7
South Eastern State Project
Headquarters Building            477     85       40.5      1      -       -      -       -       1           40.5
Scheme Office Complex            135     64        8.6      2       -      -      -       -       2           17.2
Training Center                   30     43        1.3      2       -      -      -       -       2            2.6
Farm Service Center Complex      170     64       10.9      2       -      -       -      -       2           21.8
Workshops                        150      43       6.4      2       -      -       -      -        2          12.8
Meeting House                     60      43       2.6       1      -      1       2      -        4          10.4
Housing                        3,630     -          -      17       8      -      2       -      27          290.0
South Eastern State Total                                                                                    395.3
Grand Total                                                                                                     8147.0 -
Note:  Does not include rice milling bui-Ldings shown in Annex 7.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Staff Reujuirements - East Central State
(Excluding milling and marketing workers in Annex 7)
Unit                    Numbers in Post                                  Cost
Cost  r  1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979         Total    i1000
N1000                   .an
Years
Project Manager                               10.4      0.5       1        1        1       1        1      5.5       57.2
Project Accountant/Credit Specialist          20.0      0.5        1       1        1       1                4.5      90.0
Project Accountant (replacement)               5.2                                          1        1       2        10.4
Administrative Officer                         5.0      0.5        1       1        1       1        1      5.5       27.5
Agronomist (Senior)                            5.2      0.5       1        1       1        1        1      5.5       28.6
Irrigation Engineer                           22.5      0.5        1       1        1       1                4.5     101.9
Irrigation Engineer (replacement)              5.2                                          1        1       2        10.4
Civil Engineer                                20.0      0.5       1        1        1       1                4.5      90.0
Civil Engineer (replacement)                   5.2                                          1        1       2        10.4
Credit Officer                                 4.3                 1       1        1       1        1      5         21.5
Rice Mill Engineer                            17.5                 1        1       1        1       1       5         87.5
Rice MiU Engineer (replacement)                5.2                                                   1       1         5.
Scheme Manager                                 5.2      0.5        2       3        3       3        3      14.5      75.4
Agronomist                                     4.3                 1       2        3       3        3     1?         51.6
Farm Manager                                   2.9                 1       2        3        3       3      12         34.8
Survey Assistant                                4.7                3       3        3       2        2      13        61.1
Engineer's Assistant                           4.7                 2       2        2       2        1       9        42.3
Draftman                                       0.8                 3       4        4       4        3      18        14.4
Equipment Operator                             1.0                13      13       13       13      10      62        62.0
Heavy Vehicle Operator                         1.0                10      10       10       10      10      50         50.0
Driver                                         0.7      2         114     18       20      21       19      94        65.8
Clerical Officer                               1.0      0.5        4       6        6       6        6      28.5      28.5
Accounts Clerk                                 O.6f                2       3        3        3       3      14         8.4
Typist                                         0.6      0.5        5        7       8        9       9      38.5       23.1
Storeman                                       0.6                 2       4        6        7       7      26         15.6
Settlement Assistant                           1.4                 8      16       16      16       13      66         92.4
Extension Assistant                             1.4                7      15       23       31      31    107         149.8
Training Assistant                              1.4                         2       4        6        6     18         25.2
Farm Assistant                                  1.4                1        2       3        3       3      P1'        16.8      e 
Credit AVssistant                               1.4                1        3       6        8      101   28           39.2
Field Overseer                                 0.6                 7      17       27       37      37    125          75.0    CD
iMIiscellaneous Junior Staff                    0.5     1          L       28      314      37       41   97163        81.      Krtj
East Central State Total



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Staff Requirements - South Eastern State
(Excluding milling and marketing workers in Annex 7)
Unit                     Numbers in Post                            Cost
Cost      1974   1975    1976    1977    1978      1979   Total    N1000
N1OOo                                                      Man
Years
Project Manager                       10.4       0.5      1       1       1       1         1     5.5     57.2
Project Accountant/Cred. Specialist   20.0      0.5       1       1       1       1               4.5    90.0
Project Accountant (replacement)       5.2                                        1         1     2       10.4
Administrative officer                 5.0       0.5      1       1       1       1         1     5.5     27.5
Agronomist (Senior)                    5.2       0.5      1       1       1       1         1     5.5     28.6
Irrigation Engineer                   22.5       0.5      1       1       1       1               4.5   101.2
Irrigation Engineer (replacement)      5.2                                1       1         1     3       15.6
Civil Engineer                        20.0       0.5      1       1       1                       3.5     70.0
Civil Engineer (replacement)           5.2                                1       1         1     3       15.6
Credit Officer                         4.3                1       1       1        1        1     5       21.5
Rice Mill Engineer                    17.5                1       1       1        1        1     5       87.5
Rice Mill Engineer (replacement)       5.2                                                  1     1        5.2
Scheme Manager                         5.2      0.5       2       2       2       2         2    10.5     54.6
Agronomist                             4.3                2       2       2        2        2    10       43.0
Farm Manager                           2.9                2       2       2        2        2    10       29.0
Survey Assistant                       4.7                3       3       3       2         1    12       56.4
Engineer's  Assistant                  4.7                1       2       2        2        1     8        37.6
Draftsman                              0.8                2       3       3        3        2    13       10.4
Equipment Operator                     1.0                5      10      10      10         5    4o        40.0
Heavy Vehicle Operator                 1.0                6      12       12      12        8    50        50.0
Driver                                 0.7       1.5     16      20      20       19       17    93.5     65.5
Clerical Officer                       1.0       0.5      4       4       4        5        5    22.5     22.5
Accounts Clerk                         o.6                2       2        2       2        2    10         6.o
Typist                                 0.6       0.5      5       5       5        6        6    27.5     16.5
Storeman                               0.6                5       5       5        5        5    25        15.0
Settlement Assistant                   1.4       1.4      4       8       8        8        2    30       42.0
Extension Assistant                    1.4                4       8      11       13       13    49        68.6
Training Assistant                     1.4                        4        4       4        4    16        22.4
Farm Assistant                          1.4               2       2        2       2        2    10        14.0
Credit Assistant                       1.4                2       4       6        6        6    24        33.6
Field Overseer                          0.6               4      12       15      17       17    65        39.0
Misc. Junior Staff                      0.5      1       15      31       35      35       28   145        72.5
South Eastern State Total                                                                       719     1268.9



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
East Central State                South Central State              Total (Both States)
Cumulative                      C.umulative                     Cumulative
(US$ Million)  (US$ Million)   (US$ Million) (US$ Million)   (US$ Million) (US$ Million)
FY 1975
Quarter 1                              1.5              1.5              1.0            1.0             2.5             2.5
Quarter 2                               0.2             1.7              0.2            1.2             0.4             2.9
Quarter 3                              0.2              1.9              0.2            1.4             0.4            3.3
Quarter 4                              0.3              2.2              0.3            1.7             0.6            3.9
FY 1976
Quarter 1                               0.8             3.0              0.4            2.1             1.2             5.1
Quarter 2                               0.3             3.3              0.2            2.3             0.5             5.6
Quarter 3                              0.3              3.6              0.2            2.5             0.5             6.1
Quarter 4                              0.6             4.2               0.4            2.9             1.0             7.1
FY 1977
Quarter 1                               0.7             4.9              0.8            3.7             1.5             8.6
Quarter 2                               0.2             5.1              0.2            3.9             0.4             9.0
Quarter 3                              0.2              5.3              0.2            4.1             0.4             9.4
Quarter 4                               0.5             5.8              0.4            4.5             0.9            10.3
FY 1978
Quarter 1                               0.9             6.7              0.4            4.9             1.3           11.6
Quarter 2                              0.4              7.1              0.2            5.1             0.6           12.2
Quarter 3                               0.3             7.4              0.3            5.4             0.6           12.8
Quarter 4                              0.7             8.1               0-3            5-7             1.0           13.8
FY 1979
Quarter 1                              1.5              9.6              0.4            6.1             1.9           15.7
Quarter 2                              0.4             10.0              0.2            6.3             0.6           16.3
Quarter 3                              0.4            10.4               0.3            6.6             0.7           17.0
Quarter 4                              0.3            10.7               0.2            6.8             0.5           17.5
CD 
- j



ANNEX 12
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Rice Yields and Production
1.        The eleven swamp valleys to be developed by the projects are now
almost entirely uncleared and uncultivate. Small plots have been cleared
and planted to rice but generally field bunds were only partially completed
and drainage channels were not constructed to control water levels on the
fields. Yields of paddy have been very low probably in the 500 to 1,000 kg
per ha range because of poor preparation, inadequate water control, low
yielding varieties, poor cultural practices and very little use of fertilizers
and insecticides and pesticides. Pre-project production of rice on swamp
lands to be developed is very little because of the low yields and the fact
that on the average less than 5% of the lands are now cultivated and planted
to rice.
2.        The projects would provide a complete package of land development,
farm inputs, improved rice varieties and agricultural extension services.
With these conditions paddy yields are expected to increase from 1.0 ton
per ha to 2.5 tons per ha over a 4-year period on swamp rice land and from
1.5 to 3.75 tons per ha for irrigated rice land (see Annex 1, para 17). The
irrigated land would also grow a second crop of rice in the dry season.
3.        Development of project lands, for both swamp rice and irrigated
rice would be carried out over four construction seasons starting in 1975
and ending in 1979. The first planting of rice would be in 1976. Full
build up in yields would take place over a 4-year period reaching project
maturity in 1983. Cropping intensity on irrigated rice land was taken as
180%.
4.        Paddy production was reduced for home consumption and for seed
requirements. Home consumption was taken as 120 kg per family which would
be in addition to consumption of upland crops grown on family holdings. (see
Annex 14). All paddy production not consumed on the farm or used as seed
would be processed and marketed by project mills. At full project maturity
in 1983 paddy production would amount to about 30,100 tons, 21,500 tons on
ECS Project and 8,600 tons on SES Project. Yields and production are presented
in Tables 1 and 2 to this Annex.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Areas Cultivated (Hectares)
1976                      1977                  1978                          1979
New     Cumulative      New      Cumulative     New          Cumulative      New           Cumulative
SW  IRRR. S       I      SW   IRR. SW     IRR.   SW    I       S      IRR.     SW    IRR.   Si   IRR.
East Oentral State..
1. Uzouwani               -   600           600        _             600                        600                           600
2.  Ifite                 770   40   770     40               770     40                  770    4o                     770    40
3. Ogboji I                -    -     -      -      370   40  370     4o                  370    40                     370    40
4: OgboJi II               _    _            -      690  120  690    120                  690   12b                     690   120
5   Ubcna Etiti/Ulonna                              230  100  230    100      290   110   520   210                     520   210
6.  Bende area- Bende                                                         470    20   470    20                     470    20
7. Bende area- Amaeke                                                                                   1,090    40  1,090    40
8.  Bende area- Igbere                                                        550   180   550   180                     550   180
9.  Bende area- Ndiebe                                                                                    330   160    330   160
EC State Total       770  640   770    640  1,290  2602,060    900   1,310   310 3,370 1,210    1,420   200  4,790 1,410
South Eastern State
ZONE I.(East of Cross R
1. Assiga                                           210   80 210      80      240    80   450   160                     450   160
2. Ajiabo                                                                      60    10    60    10       280    50    340    60
3. Adim                  370   10   370      10    100   10  470      20                  470    20                     470    20
ZONE II.(West of Cross i)
4. Odoro Atasun_J         280  120   280    120      -    -   280    120       -      -   280   120        -      -     280   120
5. Oniong Ono  Ibiua                                340   40  340     40       90    20   430    60        -      -     430    60
6. Nkari                   -    -     -       -      -    -    -       -      260    20   260    20        40    -      300    20
SE State Total       650  130   650    130    650  130 1,300   260        650   130 1,950   390       320    50  2,270   440
MTOTL-Doth States         __9 77  120                    390 3,360 1,160   1,960   440 5,320 1,600    1,740   250  7,060 1,850
1/ Swamp Rice
Irrigated Rice. Cropping intensity 180%.
H H



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Paddy Yields and Production (Tons)
Paddy Yields : (tons per ha)              1976       1977      1978       1979        1980      1981          1982          1983
Swamp paddy                              1.0        1.5       2.0        2.5
Irrigated paddy first crop               1.5        2.25      3.0        3.75
Irrigated paddy second crop              -          1.5       2.25       3.0        375
East Central State Production
Total production                     1,730     5,o43      8,909    1h,444      17,996        20,207        21,373        21,493
Less:
Seed requirement                      (134)     (257)      (387)      (512)       (512)        (512)         (512)         (512)
Farm consumption - Swamp (80 kg/ha) ( 62)        (165)     (270)      (383)       (383)        (383)         (383)         (383)
- Irrigated (96 kg/ha) ( 61)       ( 87)     (116)      (135)       (135)        (135)          135)         (135)
Net Production                  1,473     4,534      8,136    13,414      16,966        19,177        20,343        20,463
South Eastern State Production
Total Production                       845     2,269      4,193      6,268      7,503         8,310         8,616         8,646
Less:
Seed recuirement                       (62)      (124)     (185)      (214)       (214)        (214)         (214)         (214)
Farm consumption - Swamp (80 kg/ha)  (52)        (104)     (156)      (182)       (182)         (182)        (182)         (182)
- Irrigated (96 kg/ha)  (13)       ( 25)     ( 38)      ( 42)       ( 42)         ( 42)        ( 42)         ( 42)
Net Production                    718     2,016       3,814    5,830       7,065         7,872         8,178         8,208
W~ N
Total Production Project Mills         2,191      6,550    11,950    19,244       24,031        27,049        28,521        28,671  (D
rM



ANNEX 13
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Labor Requirements
Land Clearing
1.        To minimize disturbance of the thin layer of top soils in swamps,
hand labor, supplemented with machines, would be used to clear the land.
1Whenever possible, trees would be cleared by hand winching to an anchor tree;
alternatively, they would be felled by chainsaws or by pairs of tractors
pulling a ball and chain. It is estimated that hired labor amounting to 3.6
million mandays would be needed during the 1975-1979 period. This type of
labor in the amount needed is available in the project areas.
Cultivation
2.        Project rice farmers would continue to cultivate their upland farms.
There are no detailed studies on farm labor in either East Central or South
Eastern States. Table 1 shows the mission's estimate of labor required on
this type of farm based on discussions with Government officials and officials
of the University of Nigeria, the findings of studies undertaken in the Southern
rain forest zone of the Western State in 1971 and experience in other West
African countries. At full maturity, labor required on a 1.5 ha swamp rice
farm is 327 mandays (Table 2); and on a 1.25 ha double cropped irrigated farm,
555 mandays (Table 3). Combined labor requirements for: (a) upland and
swamp rice farms; and (b) upland and irrigated farms are shown in Table 4.
It has been assumed that average family size is 6 to 7 people, with 3.0 labor
force available 25 days per month amounting to 75 mandays per month. This
estimated family labor falls short of total labor requirements by 33 mandays
on upland and swamp rice farms combined, and by 48 days on upland and irrigated
farms combined. These mandays are required mostly for soil cultivating,
transplanting and weeding. The supply of non-family labor available for hire
in the project areas is adequate and it is expected there will be no difficulty
in hiring labor for this.
Adjustment for Start-Up Period
3.        Table 5 shows total labor requirements for a model swamp rice farm,
and Table 6 for an irrigated farm during production build-up period, i.e.,
to year four for the swamp rice, and to year five for the irrigated farms.
Both tables are based on labor required to harvest paddy, 20 mandays per ton
for swamp, and 13-1/3 mandays per ton for irrigated rice. The use of famiIy
labor increases with harvesting requirements as yields build up. As putting
the farm into production requires the same amount of work each year regardless
of yield and production, non-family labor which is necessary for that purpose
remains unchanged through the build-up period.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Upland Farm Labor Requirements
(Farm size, 1.5 ha of which 0.4 fallow)
(Mandays)
Jan.  Feb.   Mar.  Apr.  May   Jun.   Jul.   Aug.  Sep.   Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
Clearing            4      4     12      5                                          6                      31
Planting                                10      25     9      11                            5      5      65
Weeding                                                               7      8       8      9              32
Harvesting and      4      4      4              4     5       6      5                    10      8       50
Storing           _                                                        -       -      -              -
Total               8      8     16     15      29    14      17    12       8     14      24     13     178
CD~
HH
IJ



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Swamp Rice Farm Labor Requirements
(Farm size 1.5 ha)
(Mandays)
Jan.    Feb.   Mar.    Apr.   May       Jun.    Jul.   Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
Clearing                                                                                                 15                 15
Soil cultivation                                        30      45                                                          75
Maintenance                                     15       1       1        2      1        2       1                         23
Nursery                                                 15                                                                  15
Transplanting                                                   15      30                                                  45
Weeding                                                  8      23       23     23                                          77
Fertilizing                                                      2                                                           2
Harvesting (includ-                                                                              45       30                75
ing threshing &
winnowing)
Total                                           15      54      86       55     24       2       46      45                327
'-i
R) H



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Irrigated Farm Labor Requirements
(Double Cropped Rice Farm 1.25 ha)
(Mandays)
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May   Jun.  Jul.  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov. Dec.    Total
Clearing                                    13                               12                          25
Soil Cultivation                             25    38                             38    25              126
Maintenance              2      2    13       2     2    2      2     2      13    2      2     2        6
Nursery                                      13                                   13                     26
Transplanting                                      19   19                               19    19        76
Weeding                 19                    6    19   19    19                   6    19    19        126
Fertilizing                                         1    1                                1     1         4
Harvesting(including           38    25                              38      25                         126
threshing &
winnowing)
Total                   21   |40    38       59    79   41    21    4o       5o   59    66    41        555
CD~



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Combined Farm Labor Requirements
(Mandays)
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   Jun.   Jul.   Aug.   Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.   Total
A.   Upland and Swamp Rice Farms
1/
Upland Farm (1.1 ha)                8      8      16     15      29     1)4    17      12      8     14    24    13       178
Swamp Rice Farm (1.5 ha) 2/         -      -      -      15      54     86      55     24      2     46    45    -        327
Total                               8      8      16     30      83    100      72     36    10      60    69    13       505
Non-family labor required 3/        -      -             -        8     25      -      -       -     -      -     -        33
B.  Upland and Irri-ated Rice Farms
Upland Farm (1.1 ha)l/              8      8      16     15      29     14      17     12      8     14    24    13       178
Irrigated Farm (1.25 ha)4/         21     40      38     59      79     41      21    l4o    50      59    66   )41       555
Total                              29     48      5)4    74    108      55      38     52      58    73    90    54       733
Non-family labor required 3/    | _               - _            33     -   | _   | _                       15   4- |       8
1/  SeeAnnex, Table 1
2/  See Annex,  Table 2
3/  75 man-days available per month.                                                                                           4 1
IV See Annex, Table 3.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Labor Requirements During Buildup Period
Swamp Rice Farm (1.5 ha)
Year      Production         Mandays Required for              Mandays of Labor
(tons)         Harvest      Production         Total    Family   Hired
1           1.50            30            252               282      249      33
2           2.25            45            252               297      264      33
3           3.00            6o            252               312      279      33
4           3.75            75            252               327      294      33
I:2 .
a0'



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Labor Requirements During Buildup Period
Irrigated Rice Farm (1.25 ha)
Year    Production       Mandays Required for              Mandays of Labor
(tons)       Harvest     Production         Total       Family      Hired
1         1.90           25           430              455        407          48
2         4.70          62            430              492        444          48
3         6.6o          88            430              518        470          48
4         8.10         112            430              542        494          48
5         9.40         125            430              555        507          48



ANNEX 14
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Upland Farm
1.        Detailed and reliable data from the project areas needed for the
preparation of farm budgets are not available. Table 1 however, shows a model
budget for a standard upland farm designed by the mission and based on its
estimates of yields, waste and home consumption, product prices to farmers,
and production costs. Yield figures are based on the Rural Economic Survey
of Nigeria (RES), and farm studies undertaken in 1963 in Uboma (East Central
State), and in 1971 in the southern rain forest zone of the Western State.
Waste estimates are based on comparable figures for other areas in West Africa,
home consumption on RES and the Uboma studies, prices on local retail market
data and official estimates, and production costs, excluding family labor,
on the Western State studies and on information supplied by officials of ECS
and SES. From this model, the estimated family net cash income from cultiva-
tion of starchy roots and growing of some vegetables, fruits, and poultry,
etc., would be N 74, which amounts to a per capita net cash income of about
N 11. These figures exclude costing of family labor and income from non-farm-
ing activities, like trading, basket making, etc.
Rice Farms
2.        Mbdel budgets are shown for a 1.5 ha swamp rice farm (Table 2) and
for a 1.25 ha double cropped irrigated farm (Table 3). Yield figures are
detailed in Annex 12. Allowance has been made for home consumption in all
models. Home consumption of 120 kg paddy per family is in addition to con-
sumption of, large quantities of casava, yams and cocoyams grown on the
farmers' upland holdings and shown in Table 1. Farmers in the project area
are cash oriented and are expected to continue consuming mainly upland crops
and sell their paddy. If, however, home consumption of rice were to increase,
more upland crops would be sold. The price of paddy is taken as N 100 per
ton (See Annex 7). Annual project charges to farmers to cover operation and
maintenance costs and repay allocated land development costs amount to N 10
per ha for swamp rice farms, and N 25 per ha for irrigated farms at full
maturity (see Annex 15). Credit for seeds, fertilizers, and chemicals, pro-
vided in kind to farmers, would be made at full cost for seeds, and 50% sub-
sidized cost for fertilizers and chemicals. Cash credit would be provided
for hired farm labor at the rate of 50% of total expenditure not to exceed
N100 per farmer in any twelve months. Interest rates on all credit would be
between 5 and 9-1/2% per annum. Non-family labor has been assumed to be
hired at the N 0.60 per manday rate in cash and kind, current in rural areas
of ECS and SES for this type of labor. From the model budgets, tables 1 and
2, family labor at yield maturity would have a net cash value of N 1/manday
on the swamp rice farm and N 1.60/manday on the irrigated rice farm.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
3.        Under these assumptions, and at full maturity, estimated net cash
income -- gross proceeds from sale of paddy less all cash costs -- is esti-
mated at N 295 per year for swamp rice and N 815 for irrigated double cropped
rice. For swamp rice, the average return on all mandays employed -- both
family and hired labor -- is N 0.90, or about 50 percent higher than the
agricultural wage rate in the project area. The corresponding return on all
mandays employed for double cropped irrigated rice is higher at N 1.47, or
145 percent higher than the ruling agricultural wage rate.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Farm Budget - Upland Farm
Family Size:6-5                                  Size of Holding           1.5 ha
Area Cultivated Annually      1.1 ha
Crop                 Area      Yield      Gross   Losses &  Produce    Price         Gross  Production  Net cash
home
Production consum-      for                income   costs        income
tion 1/    sale
(ha)     (tons/ha)  (tons)   (tons)       (tons)    (N/tons)  (N)       (N)           (N)
Yams                       .62/       7          4.2     2.9         1.3        110       143     139           0
Cassava                   .6          8         4.8      3.4         1.4         30       42        3           39
Cocoyams                                          .5    0.3          0.2        110        22      17./         5
Others (vegetables,                                                                                   3
fruit, poultry, etc.)   .1                      -        -           -          -        45       15 y         30
Fallow                                                                                     -
Total                                                                                                        N74
Figures include waste and loss in storage and allow for per capita weekly use of about 8.2 kg of cassava,
7.3 kg of yam, and o06 kg of cocoyams.
' Partially inter-cropped, area harvested annually.
30 percent of gross production value.  Figure excludes costing famly labor. No fertilizers used.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Farm Budjet - Swamp Rice 165 ha.
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4
Paddy yields        kg/ha        1,000            1,500           2,000           2,500
Farm production     kg           1,500           2,250            3,000           3,750
Own consumption     kg             120              120             120              120
PaddyT for sale     kg           1,380            2,130           2,880           3,630
Sale Proceeds
(at 1 100/t)       N            138.00          213.00           288.00          363.00
14              4               14               14
Less Costs
Project charge                6.00             9.00           12.00            15.00
Fertilizers at sub-
sidized cost                12.40            12.40           12.40           12.40
Agricultural_chemicals at
subsidized cost              6.60            6.60             6.60            6.60
Seed (transplanting)         11.00            11.00           11.00            11.00
Tools                         3.00             3.00            3.00             3.00
Hired labor (33 mandays
at X 0.60)      20.00           20.00            20.00           20.00
Total Costs                   59.00           62.00           65.00            68.00
Net cash income              79.00           151.00          223.00           295.00
,=.==  =aS,w, = s. ss===s '-I=
Family labor                                                                                                    (IE
Mandays                      249             264             279              294
Net cash value N/day           -               0.60            0.80            1.00



NIGERIA
RICE PRDJECT
Farm Budget - Irrigated Rice 1.25 ha Double Crop
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5
Paddy yields              kg/ha  1,500         3,750         5,250        6,750         7,5oo
Farm production           kg      1,880        4,690         6,570        8,440         9,380
Own consumption           kg        120          120           120          120           120
Paddy for sale            kg      1,760        4,570         6,450        8,320         9,260
Sale proceeds (at N 1i00t)N         176.00       451.00        645,00       832.00        926.00
Less  Costs                            N            N             N             N            N
project charge                 6.25        16.25         22.50        27.50         31.25
Fertilizers at
subsidized cost             19.80         19.80        19.80         19.80         19.80
Agricultural
chemicals at subsidized      11.00        11.00        11.00         11.00         11.00
cost
Seeds (transplanting)         18.15        18.15        18.15         18.15         18.15
TociLs                         3.00         3.00          3.00         3.00          3.00
Hired labors (48 man-
days at N 0.60)              28.80        28.80         28.80        28.80         28.80                  d >
Total Costs                  87.00         97.00       102.25        108.25        111.20
Net Cash income               89.00       360.00       542.75        723.75        814.80
Family labor
Mandays                     407           445           470          495           507
Net cash value N/day         -              0.80          1.20         1.50          1.60



ANNEX 1 5
Appendix
Page 1
EXPL,ANATION OF ANNEX 15 TABLES
A.        List of Tables
Table 1    nllustrative Project Cash Flow, East Central State
Table 2    nlustrative Project Cash Flow, South Eastern State
Table 3    Illustrative Cash Flow for Federal Government
Table 4    Milling and Marketing Cash Flow, East Central State Project
Table 5    Milling and Marketing Cash Flow, South Eastern State Project
Table 6    Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund, East Central State Project
Table 7    Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund,Soqth Eastern State Project
B.        Tables 1 and 2 illustrate the project cash flow for East Central
State and South Eastern State respectively.
Cash Inflow
(a) Cash inflow loans from FGN of the sub-loan from IBRD for 50%
of project costs and a loan of 50% of project costs from FGN/State Government
in proportions as yet undecided. The FGN/State Government loan is applied
first to the operation costs of milling and marketing (Tables 4 and 5) which
form part of the overall project costs and secondly to the balance of project
costs. Milling and marketing operation costs contain a large element of
start-up; training and initial recruitment expenses.
(b) Project charges are land development charges recovered from
project farmers through the Revolving Credit Fund operated by the project.
(Tables 6 and 7).
Cash Outflow
(c) Project costs are set out in detail in Annex 11, Tables 1, 2
and 3. Milling and marketing operation costs have been shown separately on
the Milling and Marketing Cash Flow Statement (Annex 15, Tables 4 and 5).
(d) After the end of the project disbursement period in 1979,
the cost of operating and replacements cover the extension services, model
farms and land rents on a progressively reducing basis.
(e) Following past practice, interest has been provided for on
lending of the IBRD sub-loan at 8% during the disbursement period.
period.
(f) Following past practice, it has also been assumed that the
commitment fee of 3/A of 1% on the outstanding portion of the IBRD loan will
be charged to the two projects.
(g) The repayments of principal and interest, after the five-year
grace period for the IBRD sub-loan has been calculated over 15 years at
interest rate of 8%.



ANMEX 15
Appendix
Page 2
(h) It has been assumed that the surplus or deficit arising from
milling and marketing operations will accrue to the State Governments. The
State Governments in turn will apply these funds in full to the cash deficits
of the projects.
(i) After applying the surpluses from milling and marketing
operations, the projects will still incur cash deficits during the loan
repayment period 1980 through 1994.
C.        Table 3 sets out the cash flow of FGN and assumes that:
(a) The IBRD loans of 50% of project costs are onlent to the
two projects at 8% with repayment over a 15 year period after the initial
5 year grace period.
(b) FGN/State Government loans of 50% of project costs less milling
operating costs are lent to the two projects at interest rates and terms yet
to be decided. This table, therefore, does not reflect repayment of the FGN/
State Government loan.
(c) FfGN charges to the respective State Governments the commitment
fees on the IBRD loans.
D.        Tables 4 and 5 set out the milling and marketing operation cash
flows of the East Central State and the South Eastern State respectively.
The cash flows do not contain anv capital expenditurF as this is included
in the proj-ct cash flow statements in Tables 1 and 2. The operating costs
during the disbursement period contain a substantial element of start-up,
recruitment and training costs and as such have been considered part of the
project costs. However, these costs are in part offset by the net income
from the milling and marketing operations during the disbursement period and
have been considered the direct responsibility of the State Governments.
Consequently, the .GN/State Governments 50% share of project costs have been
applied firstly to the operation costs of milling and marketing with the
balance to other project costs (Tables 1 and 2).
The milling and marketing operation cash flow statements include:
- income from the sale of project milled rice at N 250/t
and bran at N 50/t;
- purchase of all paddy from project farmers ar N l00/t
- purchase of bags;
- operation costs of project mills, transport and marketing.
No depreciation charge has been included in the operating costs as-
capital replacements have been provided for in the project cash flow statements
(Tables 1 and 2). It has been assumed that the total surpluses arising from
milling and marketing operations will accrue to the 3tate Governments who will
in turn apply the amounts in full to the projects cash flow.



ANNEX 15
Appendix
Page 3
E.         Tables 6 and 7 set out the cash flow of the Revolving Credit Fund
for seasonal finance to project farmers in each State which will be set up
and operated by the project. During the disbursement period each Revolving
Credit Fund will operate as follows:
Year 1976
(a) Project will credit to the Fund the cost of farm inputs
to be provided. Cost of farm inputs will be fertilizer and agricultural
chemicals at 50% subsidised cost; seeds at 100% cost from project farms
(Cash Inflow), and hired farm labor at 100% of cost to farmer.
(b) Fund then raises credit loans in farmer's name on issue of
farm inputs at 50% subsidised cost for fertilizer and agricultural chemicals,
100% cost of seeds and hired farm labor at 100% of cost to farmer.
Project management unit purchases fertilizers and agricultural
chemicals and receives 50% cost subsidy from State Government; and supplies
seeds from project multiplication farms at cost.
(c) Farmers repay credit in same year for swamp crop and first
irrigated crop from harvest proceeds (approximately 80% of total credit).
Second irrigated crop credit will be repaid in subsequent year when crop is
harvested (approximately 20%). For this calculation a 10% charge is added
to the loans to cover servicing, handling and interest (Cash Inflow). The
interest rate to be charged is yet to be established, but will be between
5 and 9-1/2%o
(d) The Fund will also act as collecting agent for project
(through deduction from crop proceeds) for land service charges (project
charges on Tables 1 and 2). Shown as cash inflow from farmers and cash
outflow for payment to project.
(e) Bad debt provision is created by setting aside 5% of farmers
credit including land service charges.
Years 1977 through 1979
Fund is operated the same as for Year 1976 except that the further
inputs into the Fund from projects are restricted to the incremental require-
ments for fertilizer and agricultural chemicals at subsidised cost and seeds
at full cost.
Year 1980 onwards
No further replenishment is made from the project as the Fund now
has sufficient cash reserves (assuming a reasonable credit history) to be self-
financing on a seasonal and self-liquidating basis.
The Fund contains no charges for administration costs. These could
be met possibly from interest which could be earned by placing surplus funds
with NAB or commercial bank on a day-to-day basis. No credit has been taken
for any possible income from outside employment of surplus funds.
It has been assumed that the Fund will not be required to make any
capital repayment to the project.



NIEURIA
RIGE PEWPCT
st Central State
Illustrative Project Cash Plowa
oMIO0O)
Poat
Total                                                                            l.oan
Disburseient                                                                      Period
1975         1976         1977         197S         1979          Period           1980        19S1         1982        i983       1984 - 1994    1995
C&sh Inflows
Loan FGN:  IBRD Sub-Loan    1/                    1,202.1       1,360.7      1,232.6     i,448.1      1,827.2         7,070.7            -           -            -           -
Loan -PaOfY/CG8  Y                                1,2D2.1       1,235.9      1,066.8     1,189.8      1,381.8         6,07b.4                  -                 -             -
Project Charges                                      -              6.3         19.4         35.6         55.4          116.7            69.5        78.0         82.6        82.9          83.0       83.0
Sub-total                                     2,460.2       2,602.9     2.318.8      2,673.5      3,264.4        13,263.8           69.5        78.0          82.6        82.9          53.0       83.0
Cash Outflows
Project Costs                                     2,404.2       2,596.6      2.299.4      2.637.9     3.209.0        13.147.1            -           -            -           -             -
Operating Costs anrd Replacements                    -             -            -           -            -             -                423.9      406.2         388.8       373.9         253.3      253.3
Interest paable to FGN during Disbrse                48.1         150.6        254.3       361.5        492.6         1,307.1
Comnitment fee                                       44.o          33.8         24.6         13.7          -             116.1                       -            -                          -
Repayment of Loan with Initerest:
IBRD Sab-Loan at 8%                                                    -                                                               826.1        826.1        826.1       826.i        826.1
Sub-Total                                     2,496.3       2,781.0     2.578.5      3,013.1      3.701.6        14,570.3       1,250.0      1,232.3      1,214.9    1,200.0       1,079.4        253.3
Surplust(Deficit)                                       (92.1)       (178.1)     (259-5)      (339.6)      (437.2)       (1,306.5)    (1,180.5)   (1,154.3)   (1,132.3)  (1,117.1)           (996.4)    (110.3)
Surplusl(Deficit) from Milling and
Marketing Operation                                     -           100.6       319.3        574.9        944.8          1,939.6          875.2    1,026.1       1,104.5    1,113.8        1,113.8   1,113.8
Net Surplusl(Deficit)            4/                     (92.1)        (77-5)       .59.8       235.3        507.6           633.1          (3    G53)    (i2.2)      (27.8)       (3.3)        ii..L      9L3.5
I/  507 of Project costs. (Annex 31, Tabel 1)
2/  50% of Ploject costs, (less nilling operating costs - see Annex 15, Table 4) to core  from FGN sd EOSG in such proportions as tiby zhall decide.                                                           x
3/ Repayable in 15 years after 5 years grace period: Interest IBRD at 8%.
41 See Annex 15, Table 4.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
South Eastern State
Illustrative Project Cash Flow
(U '000)
Total                                                                                      Post Loan
Disbursement                                                                                     Period
1975           1976            1977           1978          1979           Period             1980         1981          1982          1983          1984 - 1994           1995
CASH INFLOWS
Loan FGN-  IBRD Sub-Loan   1/                968.8          714.0         1.145.0          846.7         773.1          4,447.6               -            -            _              _
Loan FU.N/SESG 2/                            968.8          693.9           958.8          645.5         510.7          3,777_7              -             -                                           _ 
Project Charges                                -              3.3              8.9          16.4          24.1              52.7             29.2        32.5          32.5           33.7            33.7                33.7
Sub-Total                           1,937.6         1,411.2         2,112.7       1,508.6       1,307.9           8,278.0             29.2        32.5           32.5          33.7             33.7               33.7
CASH OUTFLOW
Project tosts                              1,937.6        1,407.9         2,103.8        1,492.2       1,283.8          8,225.3                     -             -                    -                -                 -
O0perating Costs and replacements              -              -                -              -             -              -                255.6        248.5         256.8         228.5            150.5              150.5
interest Ptyable to FGN during
Disbursesent period.
1BRD Sub-Loan 8%                             38.8          106.2           l0.4           2ou.i         324.9              1u.4
Cosmitment Fee                                26.1           27               12.2           5.8           -                o4.8
Repayment of Loan with Interest
to FSN: 31
For IBRD Sub-Loan at 8%                        -              -                -             -              -              -                519.6        519.6         519.6         519.6            519.6
Sub-Total                             2,002.5         1,534.8         2.296.4        1,758.1       1,6o8.7           9,200.5           775.2         768.1        776.4         748.1            670.1               150.5
Surplus/(Deficit)                               (64.9)         (123.6)         (183-7)        (249.5)       (300.8)           (922.5)         (746.0)       (735.6)      (743.9)       (714.4           (636.4)             (116.8)
Surplus/(Deficit) from Milling 4/
and Marketing Operations                        -             45.1            138.2         265.7          405.4            854.4            310.9        366.0         386.9         388.9            388.9               388.9
Net Surplus/(Deficit)                           (64.9)          (78.5)           (45-5)        (16.2)        104.6             (68.1)         (435.1)       (369#6)      (357.0)       (325.5)          (247.5)              272.1
1/ 50%. of Project costs. See Annex 11, Table 1.
2/ 50% of Project costs (less milling operatirg costs - see Anrex 15, Table 5) to corne from FGN and SESO in such proportions as they shall decide.
3/  Repayable in 15 years after 5 years grace period.  Interest IBRD at 8%.
4/  See Annex 15, Table 5.
FIRD 



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Cash Flow for Federal Government
(N 1,000)
Post loan
_riod
1975          1976          1977          1978         1979           1980            1981           1982          1983       1984-1994            1995
CASH INFLOW
Loan from IBRD   1/                                 2,170.9        2,074.7       2,377.6      2,294.o       2,b00.3             -               -              -            -           
Repayment from Projects 2/
East Central State (ECS)
-  Principal and Interest                              -              -            -             -             -           826.1           826.1         82b.1          826.1         826.1
-  Interest                                           48.1         150.6         254.3        361.5         492.6            -               -              -
-  Cosmitment Charge                                  44-.           33.8         24.6          13.7                          -              -              -                     -               -
South Eastern State (SES)
-  Principal and Interest                              -              -             -            -             -           519.6           519.6         519.6          519.6         519.6
-  Interest                                           38.8         106.2         180.4         260.1        324.9            -               -                            -              -
-  Comsitment Charge                                  26.1          20.7          12.2           5.8                         --
Sub-Total                                    2,327.9        2,386.0      2.849.i       2,935.9      3,417.8        1,345.7        1345-7         1,345.7        1,345.7      1,345.7                -
Revenue from taxation   3/                               -              -             -            -            25.7           80.3           147.5         237.1         294.4          350.0  4/        350.0
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                                       2,327.9        2,386.0       2.849.1      2,935.9       3,417.8       1,426.0         1,493.2         1,582.8      1,640.1        1,695.7             35C.0
CASH OUTFLOW
Project Costs ECS  5/                                2,404.2       2,721.4       2,465.2       2,896.3      3,654.3             -               -            -                            -
Project Costs SES  3/                                1,937.6       1,428.0       2,290.0       1,693.3      1,546.2
Sub-total                                       4,341.8        4,149.4      4,755.2       4,589.6       5,200.5            -               -             -             -              -                 _
REPAYMENT TO IBRD
Principal and Interest   6/                              -              -             -             -            -         1,345.7   *    1,345.7          1,345-7      1,345.7        1,345.7
Interest                    7!                          86.9          256.8        434-7         621.6         817.5            -               -             -             -              -
Commitment Charge           3/                          70.l           54-5          36.8         19.5           -              -               -             -             -              -
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                                      4,498.8        4,460.7       5,226.7       5,230.7      6,(18.0        1,345.7         1,345.7         1,345.7      1,345.7       1,34'5.               -
Surplus (Deficit)                                       (2,170.9)      (2,074.7    (2,377.6)   (2,294.8)   (2,600,2)              80.3           147.5           247.1        294.4          350.0            350.0
1/  50% of Project costs; See Annex 11, Table 2.
2/  See Table 1 and 2.
3/  Multiplier revenue estimated at 127, of gross income generated by project to farmers.  Collected three years after generation.                                                                                      aX
4/  1986 figure
5/  Total Project Costs including on-lending of part of IBRD Loan.  The proportions of FGN and State Governments contributioris have not yet been decided.
6/  N 11.5  million repayable in 15 years.
7/  At 8,  for 5 years on disbursed loan.
8/  3/4 of 1. on undisbursed amounts of IBRD Loan.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
East Central State
Milling and Marketing Cash Flows - Revenue Income and Expenditure
(N1000)
Total
Disbursement
1975             1976            1977             1978            1979      Period              1980           1981          1982          1983       1984-1994
Cash Inflow
Loan from E.C. State Government        1/     -                 124.8          165.8           258.4             445.3      994.3                 -             -             -             -            -
Sale proceeds - milled rice and bran          -                 258.9          819.0         1,474.5           2,423.9   4,976.3             3,047.4        3,435.5       3,639.0       3,661.1       3,661.1
-                383.7          984.8         1,732.9           2,869.2   5,970.6             3,047.4        3,435.5       3,639.0       3,661.1        3,661.1
Cash Outflow
Purchase of paddy  2/                         -                 147.6          466.6           840.2           1,381.2   2,835.6             1,736.4        1,957.5       2,074.1       2,086.1        2,086.1
Purchase of bags (rice and bran)               -                 10.7           33.1             59.4             97.9      201.1               123.9         140.0         148.5          149.3         149.3
Project Costs:
Operating expenses (including start-
up and training costs)                     -                  93.0          117.9           174.4             295.3      680.6              311.9          311.9         311.9         311.9          311.9
Operating expenses - contingencies          -                  31.8           47.9            84.0             150.0      313.7                 -             -             -              -           -
-                283.1          665.5         1,158.0           1,924.4   4,031.0             2,172.2        2,409.4       2,534.5       2,547.3        2,547.3
Surplus/(Deficit)   3/                                             100.6          319.3            574.9            944.8   1,939.6                875.2       1,026.1       1,104.5        1,113.8       1,113.8
I/  Sale proceeds - milled rice N 250/t, bran N 50/t                                                                                                                                                       Wx
2/ Price of paddy N 100/t.
3/ Transferred to Annex 15, Table 1.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
South Eastern State
Milling and M.rketing Cash Flow - Revenue Income and Expenditure
(NlOOO)
I                         Total
Disbursement
1975                1976            1977            1978             1979       Period             1980           1981          1982          1983      1984-1994
Cash Inflows
Loan from South Eastern State
Government                                  _                   20.1          186.2           201.1             262.4        669.8              -             -              -             -           -
Sale Proceeds- milled rice and bran  1/   -                     116.6          355.4           682.4           1,041.4      2.195.8           1.258.0       1,399.7       1,453.5        1.458.7       1,4<8.7
_                 136.7          541.6            883.5          1,303.8      2,865.6           1,258.0       1,399.7        1,453.5       1,458.7       1,458.7
Cash Outflows
Purcahse of paddy                       2/   -                   66.3          202.5            388.8            593.4      1,251.0             716.9         797.6          828.2         831.2         831.2
Purchase of bags                                                  5.2           14.7             27.9             42.6         90.4              51.6          57.5           59.8          60.0          60.0
Project Costs:
Operating Expenses (including
start-up and training costs)                                  15.2          132.8           137.6             178.6        464.2             178.6         178.6          178.6         178.6         178.6
Operating Expenses (Contingencies)         -                    4.9           53.4             63.5             83.8        205.6              -              -             -             -             -
91.6          403.4           617.8             898.4      2,011.2             947.1       1,033.7       1,066.6        1,069.8       1,069.8
Surplus/(Oeficit)                          3/   -                   45.1           138.2           265.7            405.4         854.4            310.9          366.0         386.9          388.9         388.9
1/  Sale proceeds - milled rice at N 250/ton, bran N 50/ton.                                                                                                                                             3
2/  Price of paddy N 100/ton.
3/  Transferred to Annex 15, Table 2.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT                      ANEX 15
Table 6-
East Central State
Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund
(N 000
1976           1977             1978            1979            1980            1981
CASH INFLOW
Project finance i/                      76.5            73.5             77.8            75.5
Repayments by Farmers 2/
Current Year Crop                     61.0           120.0           182.0           242.0           242.0           242.0
Previous Year Crop                     -             15.5              30.0           45.8            61.3            61.3
61.0          135.5            212.0           267.1           303.3           303.3
Interest uinarge 31                      6.1            13.6             21.2            28.8           30.3            30.3
Land Service Charge  4/                  6.3            19.4             35.6            55.4            69.5           78.0
149.9          242.0            34b.u           447.5           403.1           411.6
Less:  Allowance for Bad Debts  5/    (7.5)              (12.1)           (17.4)          (22.4)          (20.2)          (20.6)
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                        142.4           229.9            329.2          425.1           382.9           391.0
CASH OUTFLOW
Farmers seasonal credit
76.5          150.0            227.8           303.3           303.            303.3
Payment to Project of Land
Service Charge recovered  4/            6.3            19.4             35.6            55.4           69.5            78.0
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                        82.8           169.4            263.4          358.7           372.8           381.3
Net Cash Flow before Capital
Debt Servicing                          59.6            60.5             65.8           66.4            10.1             9.7
Balanc_s brought forward from
previous year                            -              59.C          lo.i            185.9           213c.3          252.L
Balance on hand at Year End               59.b           120.1           115.9           242.3           252.4           262.1
1/  The inflow of funds from project is the incremental project coet of' farm inputs after Government subsidy
on fertilizer and agricultural chemicals.
2/  Farmers will repay swamp and first irrigated crop inputs  (80%)  in Year one, second irrigated crop
inputs (20%) will be repaid in following year.
3/  10;s service charge used in this table will be repaid as for inputs - see 2/.  During negotiation it was agreed
that the interest rate for onlending to farmers would be between 5% and 9ji  per annum.
4/  Fund will act as a collecting agency for annual land service charges.  Fund will then
pay out these amounts to project.
5/  5% of total repayments (farmers) including servicing and interest charges.
6/  Farmers seasonal credits  consist  of fertilizers and agricultural chemicals at 50% subsidized cost
and seeds at cost. Credit will be paid out in lump sum to project who will provide inputs in kind to
individual farmers.
Government pays 50% subsidy on fertilizer and agricultural chemicals direct to project which then
purchases farm inputs at cost for distribution to farmers as agents for the revolving credit fund.



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
South Eastern State                     ANNEX 15
Illustrative Revolving Credit Fund
(N '000)
1976          1977            1978           1979           1980           1981
CASH INFLOW
Project finance           1/          36.7          37.6            36.7           17.3
Repayments by Farmers    2/
Current Year Crop                  29.4           59.0            89.0          103.0          103.0           103.0
Previous Year Crop                  -              7.3            15.3           22.0           25.3            25.3
29.h          66.3           104.3          125.0          128.3           128.3
Interest Charge                        2.9            6.6           10.4           12.5           12.8             12.8
Land Service Charge   4/               3.3            8.9            16.4           24.1           29.2           32.5
72.3         119-4           167.8          178.9          170.3           173.6
Less:  Allowance for Bad Debts  5/    (3.6)           (6-5)            (8-L)          (9.0)          (8.5)           (8.7)
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                      68.7          112.9           159.4          169.9         l1l.b            164.9
CASH OUTFLOW
Farmers seasonal credit              36.7           74.3           111.0          128.3          128.3           128.3
Payment to Project of Land
Service Charges recovered            3.3            8.9            16.4          24.1           29.2           32.5
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                     40.0           83.2           127.4          152.4          157-5          160.8
Net Cash Flow before Capital
Debt Servicing                       28.7           29.7            32.0           17.5            4.3            4.1
Balance brought forward from
Previous Year                          _            28.7            58.4           90.4         107.9           112.2
Balance on hand at Year End            28.7           58.-4           90.24         107.9         112.2           116.3
1/ The inflow of funds from pro,iect is the incremental proSeot cost of farm inputs after Government subsidy
on fertilizer and agricultural chemicals.
2/ Farmers will repay swamp and first irrigated crop inputs (80%) in Year one, second irrigated crop
inputs (20%) will be repaid in following year.
3/ 10% service charge used in this table (will be repaid as for inputs - see 2/ ).  During negotation it was
agreed that the interest rate for onlending to farmers would be between 5gand 9- per annumn
4/ Fund will act as a Collecting Agency for annual land service charges. Fund will then
pay out these amounts to project.
5/ 5% of total repayments (farmers) including servicing and interest charges.
6/  Farmers seasonal credits   consist of fertilizers and agricultural chemicals at 50% subsidized cost
and seeds at cost. Credit will be paid out in lump sum to project who will provide inputs to
individual farmers.
Government pays 50% subsidy on fertilizer and agricultural chemicals direct to project which then
purchases farm inputs at cost for distribution to farmers as agents for the revolving credit fund.






ANNEX 16
Page 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Economic Analyses and Rate or Return
1.        The following assumptions were made in calculating the internal
economic rate of return, as shown in Tables 2 (Both state), 3 (East Central
State), and 4 (South Eastern State):
(a) Project Life: The economic life of the projects is assumed
to be 30 years.
(b) Costs: Costs (including physical contingencies but not
price contingencies) are those shown in Annex 11, with the
following adjustments:
(i) A shadow wage rate of 60% of the current Nl.0 daily
wage rate, or NO.60, has been used to cost hired labor
required for land and road development. Cost of labor
hired on the rice farms was costed at about 60% of the
NO.60 current wage rate, or NO.35. Family labor on the
farms was costed at NO.30;
(ii) 50% of road development costs were excluded from project
costs as these roads would greatly benefit a large
nonproject area;
(iii) 75% (or about N60,000 for each project) of the costs
of 4 management houses for expatriate specialist staff
were excluded from project costs, as these houses would
be identified with second phase studies and projects
and long-term use;
(iv) one-third of headquarters and extension services costs
were excluded from project costs to compensate for the
imbalance caused by the nuclei development concept at
scattered sites over a wide geographical area and the
long-range benefits to rice development in the two states;
(v) 50% of the cost of expatriate specialist services were
excluded in recognition of the long-range training
aspects and the benefit to future development;



ANNEX 16
Page 2
(vi) Costs of training, project monitoring, and Phase II
studies were deleted as they are essential to future
development but would have limited effect on the two
first phase projects;
(vii) Since benefits were based on projections in terms of
constant prices, the price contingencies were deleted;
(viii) Foreign exchange was shadow priced at Nl=$1.27, or
20% above the official exchange rate of NI = $1.52;
(c) Benefits
(i) Acreage of paddy, yield and production are as in Annex 12.
Production was adjusted for seed requirements. Presently
cleared and partially cultivated schemes in the projects
areas are estimated at only 445 ha and no account was taken
of the possible minimal output from these partially devel-
oped areas. Rice and bran extraction rates were estimated
at 69 and 6% respectively, of paddy.
(ii) Average ex-mill value of rice (based on Thailand 5% broken
FOB 1980 price expressed in 1973 constant terms) was com-
puted to be N203 per ton, using the shadow foreign exchange
rate (see Table 1). The current price for bran, N50 per
ton, was used.
(iii) Benefits from possible sale and use of husk was not taken.
2.        With the above criteria the economic rate of return would be 18%
for ECS project, 9% for SES project and 14% for the two combined. Table 5
contains the results of sensitivity tests carried out to measure the impact
of changes in assumptions made on project costs and benefits.
3.        Project roads amounting to 303 km total (164 km rehabilitated and
139 km new) would greatly benefit a large non-project population who would
be in a position to use them. All project participants would be within 3 km
of all-weather project roads. From the 3 km criteria and population estimates
for administrative divisions in which project development would take place,
non-project population benefited would be 680,000 for all project roads and
280,000 if only new roads are considered. On a population basis (with 40,000
project population) users of all project roads would be 94% non-project and
for only new project roads the figure would be 757 non-project. On a pro-
duction basis, recognizinp the difference in agricultural production between
project participants and upland farms (see farm budgets in Annex 14), in terms
of net cash income to farmers, benefits to non-project population would be
76% for all project roads and 57% for only new project roads. From these
comparisons, 50% of road development costs were excluded from project costs
in economic analyses.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
4.        Houses would be constructed by the project including those for
four expatriate staff in each state, in Enugu (ECS) and in Calabar (SES).
These houses would have a useful life of many years. It is assumed that the
expatriate staff for these first phase projects would occupy the houses for
the four-year development period after which they would be used for Phase II
expatriate specialists. Following this, they would be used by senior staff
engaged in project operation or for other long-term uses. In lieu of com-
puting salvage value, 75% of the cost of four houses in each state identified
with expatriate staff was deducted from project costs for economic analyses.
5.        The nuclei developing concept involving 11 scattered sites, six in
ECS and five in SES, is designed to stimulate rice growing over a wide area
in both states. The demonstration and training effects have obvious long-
range advantages, but result in cost imbalances for first phase projects.
It is not possible to quantify the magnitude of this cost imbalance over the
cost of a compact traditional type development. However, comparison of ECS
project (six sites averaging 1,030 ha each) with the more fragmented SES
project (five sites averaging 540 ha each) does provide some insight and
basis for judgments. Total first phase project costs, exclusive of contin-
gencies, amount to about N 1,500/ha for the 6,200 ha ECS project and N 2,200/ha
for the 2,710 ha SES project. Using the basic cost data derived for first
phase projects and extrapolating to a larger project, 10,000 ha in each state,
the unit cost of paddy production would be reduced about 20% for ECS project
and 50% for SES project. All but a small part of the reduction was in the
cost of headquarters and extension services, the remainder being in roads and
expatriate specialists services. It should be noted, however, that by using
first phase costs in the extrapolation, the nuclei bias remains but in larger
nuclei. As a matter of judgement, one-third of headquarters and extension
services costs were excluded from project costs in economic analyses. Applying
the same extrapolation principles the economic rate of return for Phase I and
Phase II combined is estimated to be about 22% for ECSP, 15% for SESP and
20% for the two state projects together.
6.        In recognition of the long-range training aspects and benefit to
future development, 50% of the cost of expatriate specialists services was
excluded from project costs in economic analyses. An alternative would be
to shadow price these costs at the prevailing Nigerian salaries for these
specialists. This would result in excluding about 75% of the cost of
expatriate services.
7.        To better reflect the relative position of the local currency a
shadow foreign exchange (SER) rate has been estimated. Using consumption as
unit of welfare (or numeraire), estimates have been made of how much Nigerian
consumers were willing to pay for the additional consumption made possible
by a $ of foreign exchange earnings. Thus, SER has been computed as an
average of domestic/world price ratios, weighted by the percentage of change
in trade that occurs in each commodity. This computation has been based on
estimates of: (1) imports out of incremental income; (2) consumption of



ANNEX 16
Page 4
exportables out of incremental income; (3) imports due to relative price
changes; and (4) reduced production of exports due to relative price changes.
Nigeria's balance of payments has been assumed to be in long-run equilibrium
(i.e., the Government has been assumed to build up foreign exchange reserves,
mainly from oil exploitation, and to invest them now, as a protection against
the depletion of oil reserves). Also, oil production has been assumed to be
inelastic with respect to possible foreign exchange revaluation. Under these
assumptions, foreign exchange shadow price was estimated 20% above the
official exchange rate and SER of N 1 = $1.27 was therefore used in the
economic analysis of the projects.
8.        The following procedure has been used to estimate the shadow wage
rate (SWR) of hired labor. On the rice farms two annual average wage rates
have been computed. Since full employment is maintained during the estimated
5-month peak season, both computations consider that SWR is equal to the
current wage rate of N 0.60 per manday during this period. During the
remaining 7-month slack season, however, since current wages drop but not
enough to maintain full employment, it is impossible to equate current and
shadow wage rate. One computation does not place a value on leisure and
SWR is therefore nil whereas the other estimates this value, and therefore
SWR, at N 0.30, the estimated minimum level to induce work. Annual SWR for
hired farm labor has been estimated as the mid-point of the two annual
averages arrived at, i.e., about N 0.35, or about 60% of the peak season
current daily wage rate. The same percentage has been applied to the current
N 1.0 daily wage rate of hired labor required for land and road development.
SWR for that type of labor has therefore been estimated at N 0.60. Family
labor on the farms was costed at N 0.30, slightly less than hired labor on
those farms, to account for the fact that farmers would work on their own
plots.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Allocation of proceeds from Rice Imports
FOB Bangkok price (5% broken)                  $ 182
Shipping costs                                30
Insurance (2.45% of FOB)                       4.46
CIF Port Harcourt                              $ 216.46
at 1 N = $ 1.27                            N 170.2
Unloading. Port Charges                    N   8
Importers margin (8%)                         14
CIF price warehouse Port Harcourt                192.2
Storage and Insurance Costs                    3
195.2
A.  SES
Cost of transport from Port Harcourt to
Calabar (115 km per 7 k/km + N 2
for Cross River ferry)                          10
Less Costs of transport from project
mills to Calabar                                  3
Ex-mill price                              N 202.2  say N202
B. ECS
Cost of transport from Port Harcourt to
Enugu (172 km per 7k/km)                        12
Less Cost of transport from Project
mills to Enugu                                   3
Ex-mill Price                              N 204.2  say N204






NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Economic Costs and Benefits - Both States
N'OOOs
1974        1975         1976         1977        1978         1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984-2003
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
East Central State (ECS)          32        1231         1098          776         849         1291
South Eastern State (SES)         32         946          435          988         407          371
Total                      64         2177        1533         1764         1256         1662
OPERATING COSTS
ECS                               17         156          445          601          788         955         1017         1021         1017        1001           934
SES                               16         142          278          461         530          553          532          532          550          517          474
Total                      33          298          723        1062         1318         1508         1549        1553         1567         1518          1408
FAMILY LABOR
ECS                               -           -           102         198          306          414          435          435          453         453           453
SES                               -            -           45         102           144         159          180          186          186          186           186
Total                      -            -           147        300           450          573          615          621          639         639           639
TOTAL COSTS
ECS                              49         1387         1646        1575         1943         2660         1452         1456         1470         1454          1387
SES                               48        1088          758        1551         1081         1083          712          719                       703           660
Total                      97         2475        2404        3126          3024         3743         2164         2175         2207        2157          2047
BENEFITS
ECS                               -           -           228         685        1,219        1,992        2,501        2,818       2,985        3,002         3,002
SES                               -           -           112         307          574          866        1,043        1,158       1,202        1,206         1,206
Total                      -           -           340         992         1,793        2,858       3,544        3,976        4,187        4,208         4,208         N 
Economic Rate of Return:  ECS---------- 17.6
SES ---------  8.9
Both States - 14.4



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Economic Costs and Benefits - East Central State
N'000s
COSTS
1974       1975          1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983          1984-2003
INVESTMENT COSTS
Headquarters & Extension Services              13.1        199.1          99.5         58.5         35.8        101.9
Land Development                                -          559.0         442.1        442.1        442.6        228.0
Road Improvement                                -          250.7          37.7         37.7         40.3         26.8
Milling, Marketing & Transport                  -           -            298.5         40.9        119.0        755.3
Specialist Services                            18.8         48.0          48.0         48.0         48.0         10.5
Contingencies I/                                -          174.2         172.4        149.4        163.2        168.6
Sub-total                                31.9     1,231.0       1,098.2        776.4         848.9     1,291.1
OPERATING COSTS
Headquarters & Extension Service- 0,& M         6.8         34.4          57.7         76.1         89.8        122.9         70.7         70.7         70.7         70.7          49.7
- Salaries 10.4          61.1         100.2        126.2        147.1        148.2        140.0        131.4        123.3        123.3          71.5
Land Development                                -           27.2          54.3         54.3         54.3         10.1         -            -            -            -               -
Road Improvement                                -           26.1          52.3         52.3         52.3          7.9         -            -            -            -               -
Milling, Marketing & Transport                  -             -           94.9        120.3        177.9        300.9        318.1        318.1        318.1        318.1          318.1
Land Rents                                      -            7.1          14.8         22.9         31.0         31.0         31.0         31.0         31.0         31.0           31.0
Farm Inputs                                     -            -            44.5         82.7        124.7        165.0        165.0        165.0        165.0        165.0          165.0
Hired Labor                                     -            -            14.3         28.0         42.2         55.8         55.8         55.8         55.8         55.8           55.8
Bags                                            -            -            12.3         38.2         68.5        112.9        142.9        161.5        171.3        172.2          172.2
Replacements                                          3-                   -            _                                     9.5          87.8         81.9         64.6           70.8
Sub-total                                17.2        155.9         445.3        601.0        787.8        954.7      1017.0        1021.3       1017.1       1000.7         934.1
FAMILY LABOR (30 k/day)                            -           _           102.0        198,0        306.0        414,0        435.0        435.0        453.0        453.0          453.0
TOTAL COSTS                                         49.1     1, _8-.9      1,6115.5     1,574.4      1,942.7      2,659.8       1452.0        1456.3       1470.1       1453.7        1387.1
BENEFITS                                             -          -             228         685        1,219        1,992        2,501        2,818        2,985        3,O02         3,002
Al Includes contingencies on operating costs
- E
W H



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Economic Costs and Benefits - South Eastern State
N'000s
1974        1975         1976         1977        1978        1979          1980        1981         1982          1983         1984-2003
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
Headquarters & Extension Services                 13.1        253.9         65.3        23.2         36.4        41.8
Land Development                                   -          351.6       202.5        207.7       203.0        107.6
Road Improvement                                   -          179.0        28.8         31.4         31.1        16.6
Milling, Marketing & Transport                     -           -            18.7       540.3         15.8       131.3
Specialist Servi,es                               18.9         48.0        48.0         48.0        36.0         10.5
Contingencies                                     -          113.3         72.0        137.6         84.5        62.7
Sub-total                                   32.0       945.8        435.3        988.2       406.8        370.5
OPERATING COSTS
Headquarter & Extension Services- O & M            6.1         37.2         56.3        71.1        83.3        106.0          54.9        54.9        54.9          54.9          33.4
- Salaries       10.2        59.9         83.3        90.5         97.7         95.3         79.0        77.1         70.5          70.5         50.9
Land Development                                   -           22.5        45.0         45.0        45.0          8.7           -           -            -            -             -
Road Improvement                                   -           18.8        37.7         37.7        37.7          6.0           -           -           -             -             -
Milling, Marketing & Transport                     -            -           15.5       134.5        140.4       182.2         182.2       182.2        182.2        182.2         182.2
Land Rents                                         -            3.9          7.8        11.7         13.6        13.6          13.6        13.6         13.6         13.6          13.6
Farm Inputs                                        -            -          20.0         39.9        59.4         68.9          68.9        68.9        68.9          68.9          68.9
Hired Labor                                        -            -            6.8        13.5         20.3        23.4          23.4        23.4         23.4         23.4          23.4
Bags                                               -            -            6.0        17.0         32.2        49.1          59.2        66.3        69.0          69.2          69.2
Replacement                                        -            -            -           -            -           -            51.0        46.1        67.3          34.5          32.5
Sub-total                                   16.3        142.3       278.4        460.9       529.6        553.2         532.2      532,5        549.8         517.2         474.1
FAMILY LABOR                                         -            -           45.0       102.0        144.0       159.0         180.0        186.0       186.0        186.0         186.0
TOTAL COSTS                                           48.3       ,)-           798-7      1,551.1     1,080.4      1,082.7        712.2       718.5        735.8        703.2         660.1
BENEFITS                                                -           -          112         307          574          866        1,0143      1,158        1,202        1,206         1,206
3     Includes contingencies on operating costs
(PD



NIGERIA
RICE PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return Calculation
Rate (X)
Sensitivity Analysis                            1/
Report      Investment   Operating   Benefits    Benefits      Combined Test-,
Assumptions     Costs        Costs
+10%         +10%       +10%        -10%
Both States            14.4         13.4        13.0         17.2        11.3             8.6
East Central State    17.6          16.5         16,2        20o.8       i4.3            11.3
South Eastern State     8.9          8.2          7.6        11.4         6.2             3.7
1/! Investment Costs: +10%; Operating Costs: +10%;
Family labor : +10%; Benefits: -10%
(DI
\J-lj H



fWARA            ...... .   .*-*.  .* BENUE - PLATEAU             NGR
A  F  R  IC                                                                                  N I G E R I A
;S/N IG E RIA        . 7 . *T.S.K.W.A.   .A
j    ,gbaku mub|       <*.                      t  
NIGERIA  RICE PROJECTS                                                   BR
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
*   PROJECT AREAS               IHIALA   O   Ihube
......... STATE BOUNDARIES  4Z                                       gO
MAIN ROADS            *Ao  mm
SECONDARY ROADS  A.
RAILROAD
INTERNATIONAL  BDRY.   4(1  . . .    O   Umuchi 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ la isNv    k5f                           2 5 
I ~~~  ~ ~ ~ S1~~I t I 5
o F...,,:','f-.'- "' S 0  f    atY t  XS         L kg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS    S   TO _W_ 20
S 2 / v                        BIGHT   OF  BA A
il  2)                                                               L*J C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLI



