CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1103 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Rice Project)
BETWEEN
0
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED APRIL 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1103 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Rice Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED APRIL 25, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1975, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower and partly
by the East-Central State of Nigeria (hereinafter called ECS) and the South-Eastern
State of Nigeria (hereinafter called SES) with the Borrower s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ECS and SES the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter, in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank, ECS and SES;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(i) is amended to read as follows: "Any event specified
in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 shall have occurred.";
(c)   the words ",the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Loan Agreement" wherever they occur in Sections 6.06, 9.01 and 9.03; and


﻿4
(d)   the following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"20. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Loan Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank, ECS
and SES of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the respective agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and ECS and the Borrower and SES pursuant
to Section 3.01(c) and Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements;
(c)   "Project Organization" means the Organization established by ECS or
SES pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement (as the case may require);
(d)   "The States" means ECS and SES;
(e)   "Permanent Secretary" means the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture of SES or the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agricultural Production
and Animal Husbandry of ECS (as the case may require);
(f)   "Project Area" means the Ifite, Uzouwani, Ogboji, Uboma/Ulonna and
Bende Valleys in ECS and the Adim, Ajiabo, Assiga, Nkari, Oniong Ono and Ubium
Valleys in SES:
(g)   "Farm Holding Agreement" means the agreement between the Project
Organizations and smallholders providing for the holding by farmers of land and
for the carrying out of other works; and
(h)   "Agricultural Development Authority" means the body established
under East-Central State Government Edict No. 13 of 1973.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand dollars
($17,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respe ct of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed under the Loan Agreement
provided, however, that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
*       purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured pursuant to the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and.outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿6
Section 2.09. If and when the Bank shall from time to time request, the
Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal armount of
the Loan as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the Borrower and
such other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as
authorized representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.11. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise every right and recourse
available to it to cause the States to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the States to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ten million two hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($10,225,000) out of the
proceeds of the Loan to ECS, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ECS, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.
(d)   The Borrower shall relend an amount in various currencies equivalent
to six million four hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($6,475,000) out of the
proceeds of the Loan to SES, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SES, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.


﻿7
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In the carrying out of Parts Cl and CIll of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, as necessary, consultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank detailed aerial survey
maps of the Project Area not later than June 1, 1975 or such other date as shall
be agreed by the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt; and (ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any
such lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of
the Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of any other
institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower) as security
for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will, within
the limits of its constitutional powers, make the foregoing undertaking effective
with respect to liens on assets of any of the Borrower's political subdivisions or
of any agency of any such political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower
is unable within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such undertaking
effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to
the Bank. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in


﻿8
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets of the
Borrower or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the Borrower
or of any such political subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or any
institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
performance by each of the States of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and, in respect of the Project, the administration,
operations and financial condition of the departments or agencies of th. Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Bank shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the performance by each of the States of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.


﻿9
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery
or registration thereof imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories and the Borrower shall bear the cost of any such taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
*        and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
and moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon and upon any
such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement or in the Bonds
notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿10
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the part
of either of the States under the Project Agreement; and
(b)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of either
of the States under any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and the State concerned.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 11.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreemeit on behalf of
the States have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements on
behalf of the Borrower and the States, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   Each of the States has appointed, on its Project Organization, the
specialists referred to in, and in accordance with the provisions of, Section 2.06
of Lhe Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower has furnished to the Bank photomosaics of the Project
Area.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 11.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ECS and SES, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of each of the States in accordance with its terms.


﻿11
(b)   That each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, each of the parties thereto,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of each of the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date August 26, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Add .,Wes
Section 9.01. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 10.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Mosaic House
Tinubu Square
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:
PERMFIN
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿12
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s/ John M. Garba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s/ E.PeterWright
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Rice milling and                                100% of f'reign
parboiling equip-                              expenditures or
ment and related                               if procured lo-
buildings and                                  cally 60% of total
storage facilities                             expenditures
(a)  ECS                       920,000
(b)  SES                       540,000
II.        Equipment (other                               100% of foreign
than Category I)                               expenditures or
and vehicles                                   if procured lo-
caly 80% of to-
tal expenditures
(a)  ECS                      1,230,000
(b)  SES                       930,000
III.       Buildings and                                  40% of total
houses (other                                  expenditures
than Category I)
(a)  ECS                       410,000
(b)  SES                       295,000
IV.        Loans to farmers                               100% of foreign
for farm inputs                                expenditures or
if procured lo-
cally 80% of to-
tal expenditures;
and 50% of ex-
penditures for
ired labor
(a)  ECS                       600,000
(b)  SES                       250,000


﻿14
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
V.         Training (includ-                                100% of total
ing facilities and                               expenditures
staff) and specialists
services
(a)   ECS                       615,000
(b)   SES                       740,000
VI.        Extension services,                              45% of total
salaries of local                                expenditures
staff, cost of
hired labor and
operating costs
of vehicles and
equipment
(a)   ECS                      3,330,000
(b)   SES                      2,020,000
VII.       Project                         800,000          100% of total
Monitoring,                                      expenditures
Studies and
Training fa-
cilities at
Umudike
VIII.      Unallocated
(a)   ECS                      3,120,000
(b)   SES                      1,700,000
TOTAL        17,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign   expenditures"  means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿15
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category (excluding
Categories IV and VII) to be financed with respect to either of the States shall
decrease, the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer
required therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly
the unallocated amount of the Loan in respect of the State concerned;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category (excluding
Categories IV and VII) to be financed with respect to either of the States shall
increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan in
respect of the State concerned, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in respect of any other expenditures;
and
(c)   if the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under


﻿16
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I
through III or VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Loan ,are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
PART A:      East-Central State
1.          Felling, clearing, levelling and development of about 6200 ha of swamp
and the distribution and allocation of developed land to about 4300
farmers.
II.         Field survey and construction of irrigation, diversion and distribution
systems to serve about 1400 ha for the annual cultivation of two rice
crops.
III.        (a)    Purchase, installation, equipping and operation of two new rice
mills and of parboiling, storage and other facilities associated
therewith;
(b)   Rehabilitation, completion, equipping and operation of the 2.5
ton per hour capacity rice mill at Uzouwani and of parboiling,
storage and other facilities associated theii.owith;
(c)   Relocation at Uboma/Ulonna of the existing 0.5 ton per hour
capacity rice mill at Uzouwani and rehabilitation and operation
thereof and provision and operation of parboiling, storage and
other facilities associated therewith.
IV.         Construction of about 77 km of new feeder roads and rehabilitation
of about 87 km of existing feeder roads.
V.          Provision of extension services, establishment of farm service centers,
field trials and demonstrations with new varieties of rice, fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals, water management and inexpensive agricultural
mechanization and provision of seed multiplication.
VI.         The provision of fellowship facilities to agricultural staff for training.
VII.        The provision of credit to smallholders.
PART B:      South-Eastern State
1.          Felling, clearing, levelling and development of about 2700 ha of swamp
and the distribution and allocation of developed land to about 1900
farmers.


﻿18
II.         Field survey and construction of irrigation, diversion and distribution
systems to serve about 500 ha for the annual cultivation of two rice
crops.
III.        Purchase, installation, equipping and operation of four new rice mills
and of parboiling, storage and other facilities associated therewith.
IV.         Construction of about 40 km of new feeder roads and rehabilitation
of about 100 km of existing feeder roads.
V.          Provision of extension services, establishment of farm service centers,
field trials and demonstrations with new varieties of rice, fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals, water management and inexpensive agricultural
mechanization and provision of seed multiplication.
VI.         The provision of fellowship facilities to agricultural staff for training
including expansion and equipping of classroom and dormitory
facilities at the School of Agriculture, Obubra.
VII.        The provision of credit to smallholders.
PART C.:
I.          The establishment and operation of a program to monitor the economic
and social benefits accruing from the Project by analyzing and
evaluating, inter alia, changes in gross and net income of smallholders
participating under the Project and of other villagers, the use of such
income by said smallholders and changes in volume of production and
development of infrastructure such as health, education and public
utilities and in social services.
II.         Expansion and equipping of classroom and dormitory facilities at the
Federal Agricultural Research and Training Station of Umudike,
Umuahia.
III.        The carrying out of studies for further expansion of swamp rice
development.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1980                                      310,0
July 15, 1980                                         325,0
January 15, 1981                                      335,00
July 15, 1981                                         350,000
January 15, 1982                                      365,000
July 15, 1982                                         380,0
January 15, 1983                                      395,000
July 15, 1983                                         410,000
January 15, 1984                                      425,000
July 15, 1984                                         445,0
January 15, 1985                                      460,0
July 15, 1985                                         480,000
January 15, 1986                                      500,000
July 15, 1986 .520,0
January 15, 1987                                      540,000
July 15, 1987                                         560,000
January 15, 1988                                      585,000
July 15, 1988                                         610,000
January 15 1989                                       630,000
July 15, 1§89                                         655,000
January 15 1990                                       685,000
July 15, 1§90                                         710,00
January 15 1991                                       740,000
July 15, 191                                         770,000
January 15 1992                                       800,00
July 15, 1§92                                         830,00
January 15, 1993                                      865,000
July 15, 1993                                         900,0
January 15, 1994                                      935,000
July 15, 1994                                         985,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                            2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               3-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         5-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                            7%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  8%


