CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1103 UNI
Project Agreement
(Rice Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EAST-CENTRAL STATE OF NIGERIA
AND
SOUTH-EASTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
DATED APRIL 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1103 UNI
Project Agreement
(Rice Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EAST-CENTRAL STATE OF NIGERIA
AND
SOUTH-EASTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
DATED APRIL 25, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EAST-CENTRAL STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called ECS) and
SOUTH-EASTERN STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called SES).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand dollars
($17,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that ECS and SES agree to undertake such obligations toward
'he Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to relend to ECS and SES part of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement under subsidiary
loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the said States on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ECS and SES, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ECS shall through its Project Organization carry out Part
A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and SES shall
through its Project Organization carry out Part B of the Project, each with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿4
financial, agricultural and engineering practices and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
hereof, each of the States shall establish or cause to be established, a bank account
(hereinafter called Project Account) to be used exclusively to make payments for
the cost of goods and services required by its Project Organization to carry out
their respective parts of the Project. Each of the States shall, when necessary, make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the relevant bank, to enable its Project
Organization to make withdrawals from time to time from its Project Account
up to amounts the withdrawal of which shall have been guaranteed by it. Such
amounts shall be di. termined by each of the States on the basis of amounts allocated
to its part of the Project in its annual budget prepared after taking into account
its Project Organization's budget, its contribution toward the cost of its part of
the Project and the working capital requirements of its Project Organization. The
Project Account shall show, under a separate head, all revolving funds comprising
amounts disbursed to smallholders and outstanding, amounts of sub-loans repaid
and interest or other charges paid or payable.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the States undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the State concerned to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each of the States shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The States shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans including annual work plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for their respective parts
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
0


﻿5
(b)   Each of the States: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of its part of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in said part of the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, enable
the Bank's representatives to examine its part of the Project, the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
its part of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. The States shall each enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and shall each duly perform
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the States shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The States shall each establish and maintain: (i) a Project
Organization, in a form and with powers, responsibilities, staff, resources, financial
*        structure and policies and organization as shall be satisfactory to the Bank including
those set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to carry out its part of the Project,
and (ii) not later than March 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed
by the Bank, a Project Coordinating Committee as described in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement with powers, terms of reference and membership satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the generality of the provisions
of the preceding paragraph the States shall each ensure that the appointment of
any persons to the following positions on its Project Organization, namely, Project
Manager, Project Accountant, Irrigation Engineer, Civil Engineer, Rice Mill Engineer,
Administrative Officer, Senior Agronomist shall be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and that the persorns to be so appointed shall be suitably
qualified for their respective positions.
Section 2.07. Each of the States shall cause its Project Organization to prepare
the annual budgets, in form satisfactory to the Bank, and monthly cash flow
statements after taking into account estimated costs, revenues and working capital
requiremerts, and shall cause its Project Organization to operate, unless otherwise
instructed in writing by the Permanent Secretary, on the basis of such statements.


﻿6
Section 2.08. (a) Each of the States shall prepare a plan, not later than
December 31, 1978, or such other date as shall be agreed by the Bank, designating
its ministries, departments or agencies to be responsible, upon completion of its
Part of the Project, for the management and operation of works, facilities, credit
and services established thereunder.
(b)   The States shall ensure that the works, facilities and services included
in their respective portions of the Project Area shall, after construction thereof,
be adequately maintained and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities,
services, staff and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.09. Each of the States shall take or cause ' be taken all reasonable
measures to ensure that the execution and operation of its Part of the Project
are carried out with due regard to health, ecological and environmental factors.
Section 2.10. The States shall each maintain at all times purchase price for
paddy and sale price for milled rice in the Project Area at such levels as shall
(i) cover the cost of operation and maintenance of mills included in the Project
Area and (ii) recover reasonable portion of the cost of investments in its part
of the Project. Each of the States covenants that it will not substantially change
the existing level of such prices without prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 2.11. The States shall continue their present subsidies on fertilizers.
Section 2.12. ECS shall take all measures necessary to cause the Agricultural
Development Authority to transfer, at no cost to the Project Organization, the
management and control of the plants included in Parts A(iii)(b) and A(iii)(c) of
the Project to the Project Organization.
Section 2.13. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the operating policies and procedures for the carrying out of the Project shall be
as set forth in Schedule 4 hereto.
Section 2.14. Each of the States shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out its Part of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to its Part of the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Financial Coveinants
Section 3.01. Each of the States shall cause its Project Organization to: (i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and the State concerned; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the
State concerned as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) a certified copy of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish such other information concerning its accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof to the Bank and the State concerned as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Bank and the States shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and the
States shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the
administration, operations and financial condition of their respective Project
Organization, and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the States responsible for the carrying out of their part of the Project or any
portion thereof and other matters relating to the purpose of the Loan.
Section 4.02. The Bank and the States shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the performance by any of them
of its obligations under this Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower and
the States of their respective obligations under Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 4.03. The States shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to examine all plants, sites, works, properties and the equipment records and
documents relevant to the Project.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
the States thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify the States of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For East-Central State:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
East-Central State
P.M.B. 1027
Enugu
Nigeria
Cable address:
SECFIN
Enugu
For South-Eastern State:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
South-Eastern State
Calabar
Nigeria
Cable address:
SECFIN
Calabar,
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the States may be taken or executed in the case of ECS by the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Finance or such other person or persons as the said Permanent
Secretary shall designate in writing and in the case of SES by the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Finance or such other person or persons as the said Permanent
Secretary shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The States shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the States, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the States pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / E. Peter Wright
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
EAST-CENTRAL STATE
By /s/ UkwuI. Ukwu Authorized Representative
SOUTH-EASTERN STATE
By /s/ U. B. Umoh
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
4                 Procurement
Part I:     General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in this Part I, procedures for procurement shall be
consistent with those of international competition described in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines).
2.    International competition will not be required for works included in Parts
A(I), A(II), A(IV), B(I), B(II) and B(IV) of the Project. Works included in the
said Parts of the Project shall be procured by the Project Organization concerned
on force account or through negotiated contracts with small contractors.
3.    The mills, plants and facilities included in Parts A(III) and B(III) will be
procured preferably under turnkey contracts.
4.    Contracts for goods specified in Part 11(1) hereof (excluding rice mills and
plant) estimated to cost less than $25,000 shall not be subject to international
competition and shall be procured through normal trade channels.
Part II:    Bidding Procedures and Approvals by the Bank
1.    With respect to all contracts for rice mills, plant, vehicles, equipment,
fertilizers, insecticides, and other farm inputs and implements estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Project Organization shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Project Organization
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such


﻿12
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the Project Organization and
state the reasons for such determination and advise the Project Organization of
any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I to
the Loan Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Project Organization shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and the Project Organization and state the reasons for such
determination and advise the Project Organization of any cancellation pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
Part III:   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods referred to in paragraph
1 of Part II; Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿13
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Nigeria equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
Part IV:    Bidding Procedure Approval by the Bank and Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category III
of the table set forth in Schedule I to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower may


﻿14
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, as determined
by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Invitations to bid need not be advertised in publications outside
Nigeria. Contractors shall be required to prequalify. The Project Organization shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Applicants applying for preference shall be asked to
provide such information, including details of ownership, as the Project Organization
shall require to determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. A list of prequalified bidders identifying those eligible
for preference, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification or eligibility for preference,
shall be furnished by the Project Organization to the Bank for its comments and
the Project Organization shall make such additions, to or deletions from the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request before the applicants are invited to bid.
The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Project Organization shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Project Organization,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Project Organization
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the


﻿15
intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and the Project Organization and state the reason for such determination and advise
the Project Organization of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
4(c) of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Project Organization
I.    The Project Organization shall have autonomy in its day-to-day operations
to the same extent as the Divisions of the Ministries, and will be headed by the
Project Manager responsible to the Permanent Secretary.
II.   The Project Organization shall comprise four units:
(a)   the Headquarters Unit, one in each of the States, shall consist of the
Project Manager, senior technical and administrative and other staff and shall be
responsible for planning the implementation of the Project and credit operations
included therein, organization and administration of this and other units and
supervision thereof;
(b)   the Mobile Units, one in ECS and two in SES, shall carry out surveys,
design and construction of works included in the Project;
(c)   the Scheme Units, three in ECS and two in SES, shall establish and
operate the extension services and farm service centers and shall provide training
to farmers; and
(d)   the Milling and Marketing Units, one in each of the States, shall install
and operate rice mills, storage and parboiling facilities associated therewith, operate
transport facilities, purchase paddy from farmers and market milled rice.
III.  Staff shall be seconded or posted, promptly, in such numbers as shall be
required from time to time.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Project Coordinating Committee
1.   The Permanent Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Committee. The
membership of the Committee shall include representatives of the Ministries
responsible for the following: Finance, Economic Development, Natural Resources,
Works and Housing, Trade and Cooperatives and Agriculture. In addition the
Committee shall include a representative of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources, the Project Manager and a representative of Nigerian
Agricultural Bank, Limited, and in the case of ECS, a representative of Agricultural
Development Authority.
2.    The Committee shall meet as frequently as the Chairman shall determine
but in no case less than once in four months.
3.    The Committee shall advise on policy and operational procedures for the
Project.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies and Procedures
I.    Parts A and B of the Project shall be divided into three and two schemes
rcspectively. Areas shall be surveyed and those to be developed shall be delineated
followed by the preparation of (i) the design of necessary drainage, irrigation and
water control works and access roads and (ii) the plans for farm service centers,
scheme headquarters, paddy-buyin-g centers, mills and training centers.
II.   Upon acquisition of lands, the construction teams of the Project Organization
shall clear trees and bush and the selection teams constituted by the Project
Organization shall plan the layout of new farms, mark boundaries, select
smallholders and allocate land to such smallholders.
III.  Project Organization shall invite applications for the allocation of irrigated
rice plots of about 1.25 ha or of swamp rice plots of about 1.5 ha. All applications
shall be screened and evaluated by the selection teams.
The selection teams of the Project Organization shall give preference to
applicants in accordance with the provisions set forth below in Paragraph A and
in accordance with criteria specified in Paragraph B below:
(A)   (a) Applicants engaged in cultivation within the relevant swamp prior
to proposed allocation under the Project.
(b)   Applicants engaged in cultivation in the villages or in the uplands
in the vicinity of the proposed sites.
(c)   That the applicant does not own more than 4 ha of land.
(B)   (a)   That the applicant has previous farm experience, is physically
fit and able to work in the field.
(b)   That the applicant has adequate labor resources.
IV.   The allocation of plots of land shall be made under an agreement between
the Project Organization and the smallholder. The Project Organization shall prepare
a form of the Farm Holding Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall inter
alia provide that:
(A)   The smallholder shall be granted lease of the plot of land for two
years to be renewed automatically, except where a smallholder shall


﻿19
have committed substantial breach of the Farm Holding Agreement,
for a further period or periods which together with the period specified
above shall be at least equal to 20 years;
(B)   The smallholder shall pay a development charge at the rate of N10
per ha per annum    for swamp rice plot or N25 per ha per annum
for irrigated rice plot, as the case may be;
(C)   The smallholder shall not rent or lease the land or any part thereof
or part with possession of such land or any part thereof, for cultivation
by others, without the permission of the Project Organization;
(D)   The smallholder shall use the land for cultivation of paddy only and,
except as the Project Organization shall otherwise agree, the
smallholder shall sell the paddy to rice mills under the Project. The
Project Organization shall deduct from the sale proceeds seasonal
sub-loans and development charges;
(E)   The   smallholder shall follow    technical advice of the Project
Organization staff on farming practices; and
(F)   The smallholder shall maintain bunds and drains and subsidiary canals
within the holdings.
V.    Farm service centers shall be established and maintained at each of the Project
sites.
VI.   (A)   Sub-loans to smallholders shall take the form of disbursements in kind
by the Project Organization to smallholders participating in the Project
of fertilizers, insecticides and other agricultural inputs and implements,
such transfers being financed for the respective smallholder under a
sub-loan agreement or agreements, as appropriate, between the Project
Organization and the smallholder. Sub-loans to a smallholder for hired
labor shall be in cash and-shall not exceed N100 in any 12 months,
except as the Project Organization shall otherwise agree.
(B)   All applications for seasonal sub-loans shall be made on the basis of
an approved farm development plan and shall be approved, wherever
appropriate, by credit assistants at the site level.
(C)   All sub-loans shall be amortized within twelve calendar months. Interest
rates on sub-loans shall be between 5 per cent and 9-1/2 per cent
per annum. Prior to the beginning of each planting season, a schedule


﻿20
of proposed lending terms shall be furnished by the Project
Organization to the relevant Project Coordinating Committee, referred
to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, which shall, in consultation with
appropriate Nigerian authorities and the Bank, apply the lending terms
for the said season. The repayable amount of the sub-loan will include
the amount of interest.


