Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rpet No. P-3912-UG
REPORT AND RECO-MENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN ALN AMOUNT OF SDR 10.0 MILLION
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 11, 1984
ThIs doecumnt bus a restricted distributi.. and may be used by recipuents only in the prfmo,mac of
dher i,UmdI duties Us antent may not otherwise be Adisdmd without World Bank authorizatim..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 1984)
Currency unit - Uganda shilling (USh)
USh 1.00 - USS 0.003
UJS$ 1.00  - US 500 /1
USS 1.00  - SDR 1.00-
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP     - Agricultural Reconstruction Program
CBPP    -  Comtagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneunia
EAC     - East African Comunity
EEC     - European Economic Comunities
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -  Gross National Product
ICA     -  International Coffee Agreement
ICB     -  Internattonal Competitive Bidding
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF     -  International Monetary Fund
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
MAF     - Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MAIF    - Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
MPED    - Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
OPEC    - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
T&V     - Training and Visit
UNDP    - United Nations Development Prograume
FISCAL YEAR
Government July 1 - June 30
/1  From October 1975 to May 1981, the Uganda shilling was tied to the
Special Drawing Right (SDR) of the International Monetary Fund (SDR
1.00 - USh 9.66).  However, the Uganda shilling was devalued by 902 in
June 1981 and has subsequently been floating ln relation to a basket of
currencies. From August ;982 to June 1984, the Bank of Ugvarda operated
a dual exchange rate system, including a second wind"vi at which foreign
exchange was traded more freely. The first and seccind window rates
merged in June 1984. An exchange rate of USS$ - USh 350 has been used
in the calculations for the proposed project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Republic of Uganda.
Beneficiaries:         Smallholder farmers and fishermen.
Amount:                SDR 10.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard.
Project Description:  The project would increase food production and family
income in the project area defined as the administra-
tive districts of Apac, Culu, Kitgun, Kumi, Lira,
Soroti, and Tororo in eastern and northern Uganda and
would increase the availability of data to formulate
sector development plans. These objectives would be
achieved through: (i) the provision of agricultural,
livestock, and fisheries inputs, (ii) the
strengthening of extension services to advise on
input use and technology, and (iii) the provision of
support for research and surveys to generate new
information for planning and extension. The project
would include: (i) the procurement of input supplies
and the strengthening of input distribution
management, (ii) the provision of civil works,
vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, training
and operating expenses for research and surveys of
fisheries resources, tsetse fly control, and
agricultural adaptive research, and (iii) the
strengthening of agricultural extersion as well as
monitoring and evaluation services.
Risks:                The main risk is the lack of motivation and
commitment of the underpaid staff of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Forestry and of Animal Industry
and Fisheries. This risk would be addressed by
providing adequate transport and other facilities as
well as by arranging for regular payment of travel
and transport allowances.
This domxent has a resuicted distrbuuon and may be used by recpients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discdosed without World Bank authorization



Estimated Project-
Costs:            Component                      Local   Foreign   Total
-U-- US$ million
Input supply                   2.7       15.0     17.7
Research and technology          .7       1.8      2.5
Institutional development      1.3        2.4      3.7
Base Cost                   4.7       19.2     23.9
Contingencies
Physical                       .3       1.1      1.4               w
Price                         1.6       4.5      6.1
Total Project Cost            6.6 /a   24.8     31.4 /b
Financing Plan:   Source                         Local    Foreign   Total
USS million
IDA Second Technical
Assistance Project credit    -           .3       .3
IDA Agricultural Development
Project loan                 -         10.0     10.0
IFAD Agricultural Development
Project loan                 -         14.5     14.5
Government of Uganda           6.6         -6.
Total                  6.6        24.8     31.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                IDA   FY85   FY86  FY87  FY88   FY89  FY90
US$ millio_
Association  Annual                 /c     1.8   2.2   2.2    2.3   1.5
Cumulative            Ic      1.8   4.0   6.2    8.5  10.0
IFAD         Annual                  -     2.3   3.1   3.2    3.5   2.4
Cumulative             -      2.3   5.4   8.6   12.1  14.5
Total        Annual                 /c     4.1   5.3   5.4    5.8   3.9
Cumulative            /c      4.1   9.4  14.8   20.6  24.5
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 5009-UG, dated December 3, 1984.
Maps:             IBRD 18035 and 18036
/a Includes taxes and duties of US$1.4 million.
/b Includes start-up activities totalling US$410,500, of which US$326,200
to be financed under the Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1434-UG of 1984 for US$15.0 million). This project has, as one of its
objectives, the support of project preparation activities.
/c The amount of US$326,200 will be disbursed from the Second Technical
Assistance Project to cover the foreign exchange costs of start-up
activities for the present project.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TdE EXECUTrVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
*        development credit to The Republic of Uganda for SDR 10.0 million (US$10.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural
development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in Kay-June 1983 and its
report, entitled -Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 4733-UG
dated December 9, 1983), has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
A summary of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages:
(a)  a favorable climate, fertile soils, and rich mineral base for
economic development;
(b)  an established indigenous smallholder sector providing a widening
range of export crops and an ample domestic food supply;
(c)  a small but rapidly growing industrial sector, contributing
exports of copper and textiles;
(d)  a well-developed transport system, including facilities shared
with Kenya and Tanzania under the East African Community (EAC);
Ce)  an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity, with substantial scope
for further development on the Victoria Nile; and
(f)  one of the most advanced education systems in Eastern Africa.
The irnitial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic
potential of the country. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 4.8Z
per annum from 1963 to 1970, implying an increase in per capita terms of at
least 2% per annum.  The country also was able to maintain a reasonable
savings rate (averaging 13%), which permitted implementation of an
ambitious investment program without mindue pressure on domestic prices or
the balance of payments. Although Uganda's export volumes grew slowly,
export earnings were more than adequate to cover import requirements and
the country maintained a current account surplus in most years. The
1



Government's budgetary position also was sound. Revenue increased faster
than recurrent expenditure during the latter half of the 1960s and,
together with non-bank domestic borrowing, helped finance a significant
proportion of development outlays.
4.        However, after the coup in 1971, the situation quickly deterio-
rated. Under the military regime, many skilled personnel left the country,
the parastatal sector became bloated with the addition of many abandoned or
confiscated industries, and professional standards within the administra-
tion eroded. On top of these largely self-imposed problems, the Ugandan
economy was shaken by a series of external shocks: the sharp rise in
petroleum prices after 1973, the breakup of the EAC in 1977, and the damage
and looting which occurred during the 1978-79 war. As a result of these
developmeents, real GDP stagnated through 1977 and then fell over the next
three years. Import levels had to be cut by 50% from 1970 to 1979 due to
lower export volumes, worsening terms of trade (except during the coffee
boom years of 1977-79), and dwindling aid receipts. The Government's
budgetary position also became increasingly untenable as the revenue base
was undermined and expenditure control collapsed. The resultant deficit
was financed increasingly by bank borrowing, leading to monetary expansion
and price inflation (averaging 74Z per annum from 1977 to 1979). Not
surprisingly, critical shortages developed and a large share of economic
activity was diverted to the pervasive parallel market system called
magendo-.
Recent Developments
5.        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ugandan economy was in ruins. Initial efforts to promote recovery were
constralned by an unstable political situation, administrative weaknesses,
and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. As a result, many of the
adverse trends evident during the 1970s continued through 1980. In partic-
ular, real GDP continued to decline while the inflation rate rose above
100% per annum. Then, in mid-1981, the Government made a dramatic break
with the past by announcing a major devaluation of the Uganda shilling and
related price adjustments. Through a series of financial programs, sup-
ported by assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other
donors, further policy reforms have been introduced over the past three
years (see paragraphs 7-9). As a result, economic performance has shown a
marked improvement, despite the negative impact of internal security
problems and adverse world economic conditions. The difficult security
situation is explained by the disintegration of law and order during the
1970s and the need to discipline the security forces after the 1978-79
war. Although most of the country is now at peace, periodic incidents
continue to occur, especially around Kampala, disrupting production and
transport activities and diverting budgetary resources to security-related
activities. As regards the world economy, although Uganda's terms of trade
improved after 1981, the index remains at less than half the peaks achieved
during the coffee boom years of 1978-70 and only 65% of the level in 1970.
Equally important, Uganda's export earnings are constrained by quotas on
coffee sales imposed under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA).
Uganda's coffee production substantially exceeds its quota limit, and
stocks equivalent to 70Z of quota exports have currently accumulated. The



- 3 -
combination of economic recession and tighter fiscal policies in developed
countries also has affected the availability of external assistance. For
Uganda, aid mobilization has been made particularly difficult by the legacy
of international isolation imposed during the 1970s and continuing concern
overseas about the security situation.
6.        Economic recovery is evident in a number of indicators:
(a) Since 1980, GDP has grown on average by 6% per annum.
Recovery was initially concentrated in subsistence
agriculture, but growth has subsequently been particularly
strong in monetary agriculture (12% average annual growth
1982-84). Industry has been slower to recover.
(b) Export volumes have risen by an estimated 41% from 1980 to
1983, and would have recovered even more without the coffee
quota constraint. This export growth, together with better
utilization of aid, has helped to finance a much-needed
expansion of import volumes since 1981.
(c) Significant budgetary improvements, including the
establishment by FY 1982/83 of a healthy recurrent surplus,
a major reduction in the dependence of budgetary financing
on bank borrowing, and no less than a fiftyfold increase in
recurrent revenues since FY 1980/81. These improvements
have been absolutely central to bringing down the rate of
inflation from over 100% in 1981 to about 30% in 1983.
Despite this progress, overall levels of economic activity and trade remain
substantially below peak levels achieved in the early 1970s. As a result,
per capita Gross National Product (GNP) still is only two-thirds of the
1970 level.
The Government's Policies and Programs
7.        The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second to this is the
goal of rehabilitating the productive sectors. The first step toward
rehabilitation was the introduction of the financial program for
FY 1981/82, which has been followed by similar programs for FY 1982/83 and
FY 1983/84. These programs have been supported by three stand-by
arrangements with the IMF (for a total of SDR 320 million), drawings from
the First and Second Reconstruction Credits (providing US$145 million after
June 1981) made available by the Association, and assistance from other
donors. Major actions taken by the Government are summarized below:
(a) The official exchange rate was devalued from under USh 8 to
USh 78 per US dollar in June 1981, and subsequently steadily
depreciated to about USh 500 per US dollar in November
1984. In August 1982, the Government opened a second window



where foreign exchange was more freely traded in an auction
system. After the introduction of this dual exchange rate
system, the two rates steadily depreciated and the
differential between them narrowed. These adjustments led
to a substantial reduction in the premium and importance of
the uaofficial market for foreign exchange. In June 1984,
the two windows were merged and foreign exchange now is made
available through a weekly auction, with the rate determined
by the marginal bid.
(b) The initial devaluation in June 1981 was accompanied by the
removal of most price controls. The major exceptions were
for producer prices of traditional export crops, retail
prices of petroleum products, and utility tariffs. For
these controlled items, significant price increases were
introduced.   Petroleum prices were increased by more than
twentyfold after December 1980 to reflect fully the impact
of window-one exchange rate changes. Producer price
adjustments were more moderate, with increases of about
tenfold for most major export crops. However, these
increases are still substantially higher than general
inflation and net returns from the production of all major
export crops are now positive. Producer prices are adjusted
on a regular basis to ensure that net returns to the farmer
remain positive.
Cc) Various measures have been introduced to improve monetary
and fiscal discipline. To help control the demand for money
and to allocate credit, most interest rates were nearly
doubled over the past two years (although they remain
negative in real terms). As part of its obligations under
the IMF stand-by arrangements, the Government agreed to and
met ceilings on the growth c' net domestic credit and net
credit to the Government. On the fiscal side, a number of
measures were taken in mid-1981 to streamline and improve
the elasticity of the taxation structure. Strict control
also has been maintained over cash releases to ministries,
although this has sometimes been at the cost of underfunding
critical functions and accumulating domestic arrears.
8.        The Government's original Recovery Program, which included
proposals for policy and institutional reform as well as a project-specific              a
investment plan for FY 1982/83 and FY 1983/84, was presented to the meeting
of the Consultative Group in May 1982. All participants at the meeting
commended the Government's commitment, as reflected in the Recovery
Program, to prioritize rehabilitation activities and to restrict overall
resource allocations to realistic levels. Following a progress review, the
Government published a Revised Recovery Program in October 1983. This
updated document takes account of resource constraints and implementation
problems encountered over FY 1983/84 and incorporates FY 1984/85 fully into
the investment plan. However, the broad objectives and strategy remain the
same, focusing on short-term revival of the productive sectors. Priority
in all sectors is given to rehabilitation and improved utilization of



- 5 -
existing capacity. Although provision has now been made for preparatory
work on a number of new projects, most projects do not involve large
expenditures through FY 1984/85 and are essential to maintain momentum in
later years. The Revised Recovery Program also includes a number of
innovations and changes designed to make it more effective for decision
making and to facilitate project implementation. This Program was
discussed at a further meeting of the Consultative Group in January 1984,
at which participants again welcomed the strategy and priorities as well as
the implied level and composition of Uganda's aid requirements for 1984 and
1985 (see paragraph 16).
9.        A decisive start in the process of economic recovery has now been
made. The basic priority for further action is to strengthen the adminis-
trative framework for implementing the Government's programs, for carrying
them forward, and for making them more effective. In some cases,
strengthening means rebuilding what already existed in the early 1970s; in
others, it means developing new instituttons and policies relevant to
today's realities. The administrative weaknesses faced by Uganda (and many
other Sub-Saharan African countries) are inherently difficult to tackle and
progress will he slow. However, the magnitude of the task ahead should not
be allowed to undermine the commitment to much-needed economic reforms.
The Government has already initiated action in this area. The Report of
the Public Service Salaries Review Commission, which covers many issues
relating to the organization and operation of the civil service besides
salaries, was presented in November 1982 and is still under Government
review. The FY 1984/85 budget introduced quantum increase in civil service
salaries, although there are indications that the Government is having to
borrow excessively from the banking system to finance this salary
increase. If inflation is to be kept under control, this development will
have to be monitored carefully. To facilitate recovery in the industrial
sector, the Government passed the Expropriated Properties Act in February
1983 to provide a legal basis for resolving ownership issues, and initiated
a series of financial and accounting studies on major parastatal
organizations. Various measures were introduced over the past two years to
improve foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing procedures.
Finally, the Agricultural Policy Committee has been established to advise
the Government on Prices, marketing, and resource allocations for the
agricultural sector. The Secretariat of the Committee undertakes on a
regular basis an analysis of the production costs of the major export
crops, and makes recommendations to the Government on appropriate
adjustments to producer prices. Not surprisingly, given the severe erosion
of the country's productive base and infrastructure during the 1970s, much
remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be considered complete.
However, the Government's Revised Recovery Program and evolving policies
are headed in the right direction and merit support from the international
community.
Sectoral Priorities
10.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially of exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to production of export crops, to rehabilitation of supporting
transport and communications infrastructure, and to production of basic



- 6 -
consumer goods, building materials, and agricultural inputs by the
industrial sector. Other sectors, especially the social sectors, also
require urgent rehabilitation. But in the near future, rehabilitation of
these sectors must be limited to the extent of their potential- contribution
to recovery. Improvements in medical services, repair of damaged
classrooms, and rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for
example, may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable,
incentive to producers.
11.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing the
livelihood for about 90% of the population and supplying almost all
Uganda's exports in recent years. Ugandan agriculture depends largely on
small- and medium- scale peasant farms. No attempt was ever made to
encourage expatriate settlements. Even today, large-scale estates are only
significant in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural
conditions, Uganda produces an overall food surplus in most years, although
areas like Karamoja in the northeast, which are vulnerable to drought and
depend on traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered periodic
food shortages as a result of low rainfall and insecurity. Rehabilitation
of agriculture is the top priority for Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all continue to grow rapidly over
the next three years (although the previous peak levels are not likely to
be reached until later in the 1980s and coffee exports will probably remain
subject to ICA quota constraints). In addition, scope exists for expanding
non-traditional exports (e.g., hides and skins, foodstuffs, and
fertilizers) to neighboring countries. Revival of cotton and other
agricultural production would also supply some domestic industrial needs.
During the rehabilitation phase, the Government has decided to give top
priority to improving incentives, including changes in producer prices and
in marketing. Closely related is the supply of inputs, implements, spares
for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the
production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, also will need more attention.
12.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g., textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, the sector largely
collapsed during the 1970s. Although industrial production began a modest
recovery during 1982 and 1983, indications are that this recovery may have
halted in 1984, with many enterprises still closed and average capacity
utilization of only about 30%. Recovery in the industrial sector has been
hampered by a number of constraints.  The bulk of the sector has not yet
made the investments necessary to put their equipment in Miorking order, due
primarily to the shortage of working capital to purchase spare parts and
equipment, foreign exchange for imported inputs, and locally-available
materials. Other constraints, such as unresolved ownership questions,
creditworthiness problems of firms, unreliable infrastructure, and poor
management also deter recovery in the sertor. The Government has declared
its intention to follow a mixed economy" strategy, with only essential
public services reserved exclusively for the public sector. In other
areas, domestic and foreign private enterprise is encouraged, either wholly
owned or in joint ventures with the Government. The Government expects to



close or sell a number of existing industrial enterprises, while the
financial viability of the remaining parastatals is to be restored through
increased tariffs, asset revaluation, and injections of new capital.
Actions initiated by the Government in this area, including the
Expropriated Properties Act and a program of financial and accounting
studies, were noted in paragraph 9.  However, the modalities for
restructuring the parastatal sector are still to be worked out fully.
13.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined ear-
lier: departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and in-
adequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the EAC in 1977 had a serious effect,
especially on Uganda's access to international trade routes. As a result,
Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and aircraft and her
part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya and Tanzania. This
necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda and seriously disrupted
international traffic movements while increasing their cost. Transport
was, moreover, the sector possibly most seriously affected by the war and
the widespread subsequent looting. The vehicle fleet, in particular, was
decimated. Rehabilitation of the transport system and sector institutions
thus becomes a key requirement for economic recovery.
14.       The Bank Group recently updated its earlier assessment of
Uganda's energy sector. Energy use is primarily based on electricity,
petroleum, and woodfuels. At present, Uganda's electric generating
capacity is underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed
as the economy recovers, as substitution is made for more expensive fuels
(such as petroleum products), and as long-term export agreements are
concluded with neighboring countries. The Government has initiated two
studies on the power subsector, one on rehabilitation of the Owen Falls
Station and the other on a least-cost power development program. As
regards petroleum, the Government has succeeded in reducing the cost of
imports in recent years through the impact of higher retail prices on
domestic consumption and smuggling as well as the improvements in supply
arrangements. Preliminary work to ascertain the extent and economic
viability of petroleum resources in the Lake Albert area has also been
started, although local oil production remains very much a longer-term and
uncertain prospect. Woodfuels are estimated to account for 95% of total
energy and 71% of commercial energy consumption in Uganda. Concern is,
therefore, mounting that uncontrolled cutting will eventually deplete the
most accessible forest resources and lead to further soil erosion.
Preparation to undertake a forest inventory is underway, as a precursor to
rehabilitating the depleted forests.
15.       The Government endorses the goals of the International Drinking,
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade and is giving high priority to the water
and sewerage sector. The main objective for this sector is to restore
basic services through rehabilitation of existing water supply and sewerage
facilities. In addition, with the assistance of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Bank Group, an updated water sector
study/action plan is underway using various studies previously prepared by
the World Health Organization, Swedish International Development



- 8 -
Association, and United Nations. This study will help to improve the
Government's planning capacity in the water sector.
Aid and Debt
16.       Under the base-case scenario presented in the last Country
Economic Memorandum, Uganda's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is projected to
grow by 4.72 per annum through 1985 and 3.6% per annum over the subsequent
five years. These projections assume a steady improvement in the internal
security situation and continued progress on economic reforms. The
viability of this scenario is also critically dependent on the availability
of foreign exchange to finance recurrent imports and priority
rehabilitation projects. The recent recovery in export performance is
expected to continue. However, an important factor in this assumption is
that Uganda's coffee quota will be increased from 2.3 million bags in 1983
to 2.5 million bags in 1985. Although Uganda's case for a higher quota is
strong, such an increase is not assured. The current account deficit, in
real terms, Is projected to rise in 1984 and then steadily decline 6ver the
remainder of the decade. This has major implications for external
financing requirements:
(a) Commitment levels are required to increase by an average of
5% during 1984 and 1985 to US$444 million in 1985 and then
to continue rising by about 4% per annum (below the
projected rate of international inflation).
(b)  The composition of commitments is as important as the levels
themselves.  Under Ugandan conditions, balance of payments
support will continue to be essential for at least the next
two to three years. However, project aid will become
increasingly important during the second half of the decade
and even has a role to play in the short term, provided it
is consistent with the rehabilitation priorities in the
Revised Recovery Program. Technical assistance, while not
as large in dollar terms, is important to improve public
administration and to make other aid effective.
(c) The net benefit to Uganda of higher commitments could soon
be eroded if they are not provided on concessional terms.
This does not preclude the possibility of utilizing some
commercial bank loans or suppliers' credits in association
with concessional assistance, but only for selected projects
that generate additional net foreign exchange earnings to
cover fully the related debt obligations. However,
arrangements which involve prior claims on foreign exchange,
such as coffee barter deals, should be avoided.
On the Ugandan side, every effort must be made to strengthen aid
coordination and administration. To this end, the Government has now
reaffirmed that formal responsibility for aid managemenr, including signing
agreements and approving disbursements, lies with the Ministry of Finance.



- 9 -
To facilitate this function, an aid coordinator has been appointed at the
Permanent Secretary level and he is to be assisted by a staff of twelve.
In addition, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (NPED) has a
vital role to play in assuring that aid mobilized is in line with the
priorities of the Revised Recovery Program and in monitoring aid
utilization and project implementation. Therefore, appropriate staff,
facilities, and technical assistance should also be allocated to the MPEM
so that these functions can be performed effectively and working level
contacts between MPED and the Ministry of Finance can be strengthened.
17.       Uganda's external debt outstanding and disbursed had reached an
estimated USS661 million by the end of 1983. Of this aount. 3.5Z was due
to the Bank/Association (for Uganda's notional sbare of EAC loans) and
13.5% to the Association alone. Fortunately for Uganda, the terms of new
aid comnitments since 1979 have been highly concessional, with about half
being grants and the balance being loans with a grant element of 60Z.
However, other debt obligations, such as war-related assistance and IMF
purchases, have helped to raise the overall debt service ratio to around
50t during 1981-83. Under the base-case scenario in the Country Economic
Memorandum, the debt service ratio is projected to fall back to 462 in 1984
and 31% by 1990. This, however, is still cause for concern. The down-side
risks are very real. Uganda's export structure still depends heavily on
coffee earnings, which could be constrained by further quota restrictions
and unfavorable price movements. Also, the Government may find reduction
in import requirements for security-related activities difficult. Finally,
adequate amounts of assistance on concessional terms may not be forthcoming
to support recovery. This outlook reinforces the importance of external
debt management. Progress has been made over the past year in improving
debt recording and an External Debt Hanagement Office has been
established. The real priority now is to develop an appropriate borrowing
program for Uganda and ensure adherence by centralizing the authority to
contract debts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       Uganda joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in 1963. Between 1967 and 1971, the Association
provided seven credits to the country totalling US$48.0 million for
projects in education, roads, and agriculture (tea, tobacco, and beef
ranching). In addition, Uganda benefitted from 10 loans amounting to
US$244.8 million for the development of common services of the East African
Community and for the East African Development Bank. IFC's first
investment in Uganda, in a textile company. was sold to the Government in
1970. The second, to help finance two lodges in the national parks, was
cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC approved new investments
in the Sugar Corporation of Uganda and in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company
in FY84 and in the Development Finance Company of Uganda in FY85. Annex II
gives further details about IFC investments in the country.



- 10 -
19.       Operations of the Association in Uganda were interrupted because
of the military regime from June 1971 until February 1980 (paragraphs 4 and
5). Since February 1980, the Association has provided 13 credits to Uganda
totalling to USS473.5 million. The credits were based on a lending
strategy consistent with priorities identified in the Government's Recovery
Program and were designed to help restore the economy to a fully
functioning level through: rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and
productive capacity; strengthening of administrative, institutional, and
technical capacity; and implementation of appropriate sector policies.
20.       To meet urgent rehabilitation needs, the Association has been
providing fast disbursing funds under three reconstruction credits. The
first Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 983-TUG of 1980 for USS72.5
million) included a participation of USS17.5 million by the Government of
the Netherlands (Credit No. 983-1-UG). It also was complemented by
European Economic Community Special Action Credit (54-UG for USS20.0
million). In addition, the Government of Canada provided a grant of
CanS3.0 million and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) Fund made available a program loan of USS5.0 million. Although the
Reconstruction Program originally experienced implementation delays and
slow disbursements, it now is fully disbursed. The Second Reconstruction
Program (Credit No. 1252-UG of 1982 for USS70.0 million) is under
implementation; awards have been made to suppliers for the full amount of
the credit.  The Governments of Canada-and the Netherlands made grants in
the amounts of CanS5.0 million and DFL 15.0 million, respectively, in
supplementary financing for the Second Prozram. The Third Reconstruction
Program (Credit No. 1474-UG of 1984 for USS50.0 million) became effective
In November 1984. The amount of DFL 20.0 million is being provided as
supplementary financing by the Government of the Netherlands.
21.       The Association also has been supporting technical assistance to
key institutions through the First Technical Assistance Project (Crediz
No. 1077-UG of 1981 for USS8.0 million) and the Second Technical
Assistance Project (Credit No. 1434-UG of 1984 for USS15.0 million).
Disbursements are nearly completed for the First Project. Commitments are
being made more quickly for the Second Project. Although small in
financial terms, technical assistance represents an essential component of
the Association's lending strategy, both to strengthen the Government's
administrative/institutional capacity as well as to facilitate project
preparation and implementation. It also serves the vital objective of
assisting training, both directly and through upgrading of facilities.
22.       In addition, the Association has been providing rehabilitation
credits, which total USS258.0 million, for engineering related to water
supply and phosphate exploitation operations and for agricultural,
industry, telecommunications, and water supply and sanitation projects; a
third education project; and a third highway project. These projects also
include technical assistance components. Annex II gives further details
about the projects. Implementation has been somewhat slower than expected,
largely due to the shortage of Government counterpart funds (paragraph 24).



- 11 -
23.       In the immediate future, operations of the Association will
remain focussed on rehabilitation projects, such as the proposed project
and a power rehabilitation project currently under preparation. The
emphasis will shift gradually into traditional Projects in the
agricultural, energy, industry, and transport sectors. This shift will be
to help relieve bottlenecks that are hampering recovery. The Association
intends to continue to provide technical assistance in these sectoral
projects.
24.       Disbursements from the Association to Uganda grew from US$1.2
million in FY80 to US$41.2 million in FY84. A comparison with other
portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates that the disbursement
rat" for Uganda was higher than the average for the Region, ranging as a
proportion of outstanding commitments from 44.4% in FY80 to 30.3% in FY83
(compared with 20.4% and 27.2% in the same years for the Region as a
whole). In FY84, the disbursement rate for Uganda declined to 17.7%,
mostly because of lack of local funds to be provided by the Government,
while that of the Region declined to 23.1%.
25.       In addition to its own lending portfolio, the Bank Group is
administering an Agriculture Reconstruction Program financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (Loan No. 80-UG for US$17.6
million and Grant No. 85-UG for USSO.94 million of 1982); an Assistance in
Economic Planning Project (No. UGA 79/011 of 1981 for USS3.3 million) and a
Line of Credit to Assist the Uganda Development Bank (No. UGA 80/017 of
1983 for USS2.0 million) financed by the UNDP; and an Industrial Loan to
the Uganda Development Bank (Loan No. 301-PG of 1983 for USS15.0 million)
financed by the OPEC Fund.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.       Cultivable land in Uganda amounts to 165,000 kmZ out of the total
land area of 241,000 km2. About 25% of the cultivable land is cropped each
year. Sandy clay loams and clay loams are the predominant soil types in
the country. The mild climate and generally adequate rainfall provide good
growing conditions for many crops.
27.       The average farm size varies from about 1.5 ha in the more
fertile and montane areas to 8.0 or 9.0 ha in northern Uganda.  Most
farmers have permanent possession of the land they cultivate, although
ownership rights usually rest with the tribe. Grazing land and water
sources are communally owned. Farms produce livestock and cash crops
(coffee, cotton, sugar, tea, and tobacco), but food crops (finger millet,
sorghum, maize, bananas/plantains, cassava, sweet potatoes, phaseolus
beans, and groundnuts) dominate the farming pattern. Yields are low
because of traditional low-risk, low-input technology. The livestock
popdlation is now estimated at 5.0 million cattle, 3.7 million sheep and
goats, and 0.3 million pigs. About 50% of Uganda's animal protein is
obtainec from fish, the bulk of which are caught in Lake Kyoga by fishermen
who operate on a small scale using simple wooden boats.



- 12 -
The Role of Agriculture in the EconomY
28.       Agriculture contributes about 52Z of GDP and supports 93Z of the
population of about 13.5 million. Most industry is based on agriculture.
Agriculture provides 95Z of Uganda's exports, which nom consist almost
entirely of coffee. Previously, cotton, sugar, tea, and tobacco also were
exported. Because of a lack of tools and inputs, decline of processing
facilities, and inefficient marketing, coffee exports fell from 201,000
tons in 1970 to 95,000 tons in 1981. Within the limits set by the coffee
quota, coffee exports are expected to increase in the future and to remain
the backbone of Uganda's exports. However, the Government is now taking
steps to diversify exports as much as possible.
Agricultural Supporting Services
29.       Organizational Responsibilities. Although other ministries are
involved in agricultural development and administration, the most important
ministries are the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (HAP) and the
Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIF), both of which are
adequately staffed with qualified officers. MUP is responsible for the
development and implementation of crop production policies anad programs.
It consists of the Departments of Agriculture and of Forestry, each headed
by a Commissioner. MAIF has overall responsibility for development of the
livestodk and fisheries subsectors. It encompasses the Departments of
Veterinary Services, Isetse Control, and Fisheries.
30.       Extension and Research. The Production Section of the Department
of Agriculture is responsible for the national agricultural extension
service. Under the field ndministration of the Department, Uganda is
divided into ten agricultural regions, each under a Regional Agricultural
Officer assisted by specialist staff. Each district in each region has a
District Agricultural Officer, who is assisted by district headquarters
staff and junior officers at county and parish levels. The national
extension staff total about 2,300 agents, 700 of whom are university
graduates (see paragraph 33). Three main research stations (Serere,
Kawanda, and Numulonge) serve Uganda. They are under the Research Section
of the Department of Agriculture (see paragraph 34).
Agricultural Pricing
31.       A free market exists for food crops and prices are market
determined.  Prices for producers are administered for the major export
crops of coffee, tea, cotton, cocoa, and tobacco. Since 1980, these
producer prices have been increased sharply. This increase has been a main
factor underlying the improvement in agricultural production. While
agricultural pricing policy has, in general, been an effective stimulus for
production, three areas of concern exist. First, the price setting
procedures could be improved, in terms of methodology, data base, and the
timeliness and appropriateness of the pricing proposals. An Agricultural
Secretariat has been set up to coordinate and strengthen the price
determination process and detailed pricing proposals have been formulated.
The success with which the Government has been able to judge the
appropriate level of producer prices is remarkable considering the absence



- 13 -
of meaningful statistics. The Government has taken steps to improve the
data base, including a study on the costs of production, processing, and
marketing of major crops. An agricultural census is planned for 1985.
Second, while producer prices have been sharply increased, the farmer's
share of the export proceeds has fallen since 1980 for the four major
export crops.  Processing and marketing costs for these exports, on the
other hand, have grown as a share of export proceeds. This has happened
despite an increase in the volume of produce handled by the processors and
marketing boards. Over the medium-term, measures are vitally needed to
reduce the margins of the processing and marketing intermediaries. Third,
Government receipts from the export tax on coffee have continued to
increase, from USh 4 billion in 1980-81 to USh 31 billion in 1982-83 and an
estimated USh 60 billion in 1983-84. These receipts are a major source of
Government revenue. Producer prices will continue to be an important
policy tool for the Government. The right balance must be sought between
maintaining Government revenues and encouraging production, and efforts
must be made to ensure that changes in the exchange rate are fully
reflected in the producer prices through periodic price adjustments.-
Constraints and Policy Issues
32.       Constraints.  The main constraints to increased agricultural
production are shortages of agricultural tools and other inputs,
weaknesses in supporting services (especially agricultural extension and
research), and inefficiency of marketing through parastatals.  Cattle
production has been limited by serious and mainly uncontrolled outbreaks of
contagious disease, especially contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia (CBPP)
and rinderpest, and by the recent re-invasion of the tsetse fly into
previously cleared land. The dramatic drop in fish production since 1975
is believed to be related to a shortage of boats, fishing nets, and
transportation facilities. However, over-fishing may have occurred and
ecological changes in Lake Kyoga may have reduced fish stocks.
33.       Because of low pay, lack of transport, and inadequate extension
messages, agricultural and livestock extension services are inefficient and
inactive. Even when fully operational, the extension services had limited
success in increasing production because: (a) extension was directed toward
larger, progressive farmers and cash crops, and the technology promoted was
not always applicable to the majority of farmers who practice subsistance
agriculture; (b) training for extension staff and farmers was ineffective;
(c) systematic feed-back was not arranged between farmers and extension
staff; (d) cooperation between livestock and agricultural extension
services was minimal; and (e) production programs for particular crops were
uncoordinated and operated independent of extension services.
34.       Agricultural research in Uganda has concentrated on high input
cash crop farming because of its early economic importance. Research has
largely been limited to research stations, and the results obtained have
not always been appropriate for the state of smallholder agriculture in
Uganda. Over recent years, research has degenerated as a result of apathy
and lack of funds and materials. Much rehabilitation is required before
research can play a significant role in agricultural development.



- 14 -
35.       Policies and Strategies for Agricultural Development.  The
Government's development strategy is outlined in the Revised Recovery
Program (1982-84). The pivotal role of agriculture in the economy has been
recognized. In addition, development objectives within the sector have
been identified. These objectives are to encourage smaliholder
agricultural production, to develop the cooperative movement, and to
encourage marketing and export through parastatal organizations. The
attainment of these objectives will depend on continuing progress in the
improvement and maintenance of law and order as well as on further
rehabilitatioa of the civil service and the physical and social
infrastructure within the country. Major constraints to be overcome in
order to achieve these objectives are the lack of imported inputs and spare
parts for processing machinery and the inefficiences and weaknesses of
agricultural support institutions.
36.       The Government has introduced incentives to encourage increases
in cash crop production, which include devaluating the Ugandan currency,
setting realistic producer prices (e.g., prices for cotton have been
doubled), dismantling price controls on food crops, ensuring prompt cash
payment for cash crops offered for sale, decontrolling consumer goods, and
encouraging foreign investment. As a result of these incentives, the
Government reports that official purchases of export crops have increased.
Official Government statistics also indicate improvements in food
production and in control of animal disease.
World Bank Operations in the Sector
37.       Prior to 1971 when the military Government came into power, the
Bank Group provided support for three agriculture projects. A Smaliholder
Tea Project (Credit No. 109-UG of 1968 for US$3.4 million) was successful,
but a Smallholder Tobacco Project (Credit No. 212-UG of 1971 for US$4.0
million) failed to achieve its objectives because of insufficient
management, general economic decline, and political instability. A Beef
Ranching Development Project (Credit No. 130-UG of 1968 for US$3.4 million)
initially was successful, but the ranches established were adversely
affected by the 1979 war. The First and Second Reconstruction Programs
(Credit Nos. 983-UG of 1980 for US$72.5 million and 1252-UG of 1982 for
US$70.0 million) financed some imported inputs and spare parts for
agriculture but funds from other aid sources were directed to specific
activities with the result that the need for financing general inputs was
not satisfied. To address this need, the Bank Group acted as Executing
Agency for the Agricultural Reconstruction Program (ARP).  This program                R
received a loan of US$21.5 million in 1982 from the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD). It provided assistance to the
agricultural sector for the procurement of inputs required by smailholders
in the administrative districts of Apac, Gulu, Kitgum, Kumi, Lira, Soroti,
and Tororo, which were economically disadvantaged but not directly assisted
by other projects. Also, the Association financed the Technical Assistance
Project (Credit No. 1077-UG of 1980 for US$8.0 million), which supported
overseas training fellowships in planning and economics and establishment
of an agricultural secretariat to assist with policy setting. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1328-UC of 1983 for US$70.0
million) is providing for: additional imports; rehabilitation of tea,



- 15 -
cotton, tobacco, and coffee processing; and introduction of reforms to
improve the efficiency of export iarketing, development planning, and
policy setting. Finally, the Third Reconstruction Program (Credit No.
1474-UG of 1984 for US$50.0 millior.), which became effective in November
1984, will support local production of agricultural inputs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       Background.  The ARP financed the preparation of a follow-up
project to further expand agricultural production and to improve supporting
services. A preparation document was Produced in September 1983 entitled
"Integrated Food 7roduction and Rural Development Project in Eastern and
Northern Uganda". This document formed the basis of a Government request
to the Association and IFAD to finance the present project. The project
was appraised in November/December 1983. A staff appraisal report entitled
-Uganda - Agricultural Development Project-, Report No. 5009-UG dated
December 3, 1984 has been distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Negotiations for the project among the Government, the
Association, and the IFAD were held in Rome November 5-9, 1984. The
Government of Uganda was represented by a delegation led by The Honorable
Sam Odaka, Minister of Planning and Economic Development. A Credit and
Project Summary is at the beginning of this Report, and a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Rationale for Support from the Association and IFAD
39.       The further cooperation of the Association and IFAD to support
agricultural development in Uganda can be justified on several grounds.
Both institutions have considerable experience with tne country as a result
of their involvement with the Government in drawing up the agricultural
rehabilitation program. In addition, they can provide the guidance
necessary for the development of complex technological and institutional
reforms. Finally, because the project includes pilot models for
development which can be replicated in additional projects throughout the
country, the cooperation of the two institutions could result in long term
benefits to Uganda well beyond the project itself.
Relationship of the Project to Government Agricultural Sector Strategy
40.       The project is a logical follow-up to the ARP (paragraph 37) and
an integral part of the Government's agricultural development strategy for
economically depressed areas, as enunciated in the Revised Recovery Program
(1982-84) (paragraph 35). Continuation of the supply of inputs initiated
under the ARP would ensure further increases in crop, livestock, and
fisheries production. It also would help to alleviate poverty and food
shortages and to establish food security. Attention to raising the levels
of efficiency and production of weakened agricultural institutions would
enable the institutions to resume significant roles in agricultural
development. Initiation of pioneering methods to increase the
effectiveness of extension and research services, and confirmation of the
methods on a pilot basis, could lead to a nationwide program to improve
institutions and services.



- 16 -
Proiect Obiectives
41.       The objectives of the project would be to increase food
production and family income of smallholder farmers and fishermn in the
project area defined as the administrative districts of Apac, Gulu, Kitgua,
Kumi, Lira, Soroti, and Tororo in eastern and northern Uganda. The project
also would increase the availability of data to formulate sector
development plans. The objectives would be achieved by:
(a) providing basic agricultural, livestock, and fisheries
inputs;
(b) providing support for adaptive research, introducing the
trapping method for tsetse fly control, and surveying and
monitoring fisheries resources; and
(c) strengthening selected agricultural institutions and
services involved in agricultural extension as well as
project monitoring and evaluation and introducing the
training and visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension.
Description of Components
A. Input Supplies
42.       Agricultural Inputs.  Hand tools, ox-carts, ox-plows, suall flour
mills, seeds, bicycles, wheelbarrows, workshop equipment, spare parts,
agricultural chemicals, and forestry nursery supplies would be financed.
Equipment would be provided for workshops at Arapai and Ngetta and for an
existing mobile workshop to repair ox-plows.
43.       Livestock Inputs.  Veterinary drugs and equipment, vaccines,
acaricides, vehicles, and spare parts would be made available. A mobile
laboratory (to oversee CBPP outbreaks) and materials for rehabilitation of
quarantine holding grounds would be provided.
44.       Fisheries Supplies.  Outboard motors, spare parts, fish nets,
boat building materials, and vehicles would be supplied.
45.       Accurate calculations of input requirements are not possible and
many estimates are tentative, having been based on the judgement of senior
staff working on the ongoing ARP and on demand projections from sales at
warehouses and cooperative stores.  More precise estimates of requirements
can only be made after the project has started, necessitating a flexible
approach to arrange for supply of most items. Estimates of input
requirements should, therefore, be regarded as indicative. Additional
funds have been provided for the procurement of certain items (rice
hullers, groundnut shellers, and millet threshers), for which needs have
been identified but quantities not specified.



- 17 -
B. Research and Surveys
46.       Adaptive Research.  An adaptive research section would be
established at Serere Research Station to identify research programs
responsive to farmers' needs, test research recomendations on farmers'
fields, and create linkages between research and extension. Vehicles,
civil works, office and laboratory equipment, allowances, and incremental
operating costs would be financed.
47.       Tsetse Fly Control.  The control of tsetse flies in northern and
eastern Uganda has been difficult. Cleared corridors have falled to give
long term control and a combination of clear felling and ground spraying is
now being used in the Lira/Apac area. The spraying involves widespread use
of large quantities of hazardous chemicals. Costs per unit of area
protected are exceedingly high. A new approach to control based on the use
of fly traps is being studied in other countries. Under the project,
assistance would be provided to the Department of Tsetse Control in the
MAIF to establish a pilot tsetse control program using traps. Funds would
be provided for training and technical assistance and for necessary
materials, equipment, and vehicle operating costs to support establishment,
maintenance, and supervision of the pilot program and the activities of the
consultants.
48.       Fisheries Research and Surveys.  The studies and surveys would
help provide necessary data on the liunological equilibrium, which is
necessary for future planning of fisheries exploitation in Lake Kyoga. A
fish stock assessment for Lake Kyoga complex would be conducted by a unit
to be based at the Uganda Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization in
Jinja. A fisheries statistics and evaluation study would assess the
current status of fisheries in Lake Kyoga and monitor changes in fish
production, including catch composition, fishing patterns and techniques,
and marketing and distribution practices. Full-time services of fisheries
statistics staff and fisheries field staff would be provided for the
studies. Provision of launches, dinghies, vehicles. prefabricated huts,
camping gear, and protective clothing and repair of landing and shore
facilities for the launches would be financed.
C. Institution Building
49.       Agricultural Extension. Activities in the project area would be
improved by the provision of in-service training for agricultural extension
staff. In addition, T&V would be introduced into Soroti District on a
pilot basis to determine suitability for making significant improvements in
production on subsistence farms. The necessary additional agricultural
extension staff would be posted to Soroti District.
50.       A high measure of personal contact between all levels of
extension staff and farmers would be established. To facilitate field
visits, a four wheel drive vehicle would be provided for each Agricultural
Officer. The Government would continue to provide extension staff with
bicycles or motorcycles under a hire-purchase scheme satisfactory to the
Association and IFAD. The Government also would pay travel and transport
allowances from a Trarsport Account to be established for the project



- 18 -
(paragraph 72). Funds for travel and transport would be included in the
project. To facilitate visits to farmer groups, extension workers would be
required to live in areas where they operate. Galvanized iron roofing
sheets, tasteners, and other building materials would be provided under the
project for extension workers' houses.
51.       Necessary incremental office equipment would be financed.  Field
staff would be supplied with extension aids. Equipment and materials would
be provided for modernizing the Information and Visual Aids Center at MAF
headquarters. Training for extension staff (para. uh 53) would be
provided at Serere District Farm Institute, Arapai Community Development
Training Center, Arapai Agricultural College and Ngetta District Farm
Institute. These institutions would be upgraded under the project by the
provision of civil works, building renovation, equipment, technical
assistance and trained staff. Qualified training personnel would be
provided by Serere Research Station to conduct courses at Serere District
Farm Institute and a farm manager and graduate teaching staff would be
appointed to Arapai Community Development Training Center and Ngetta
District Farm Institute.
52.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The existing MAF Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit would be strengthened by the provision of vehicles,
equipment, technical assistance, training, and operating costs. A routine
monitoring system would be established for the project, which would be
submitted to the Association and IFAD for review by June 30, 1985 and which
would, taking account of comments received, be made operational (Section
5.02 (ii) - (iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A base-line
survey needs to be done before the start-up of the agricultural extension
component to determine, inter alia, agricultural production levels and the
current status of extension operations (paragraphs 30 and 33). A system
for mDnitoring distribution and sale of goods provided through project
warehouses also needs to be designed and implemented. Quarterly reports,
annual reports, special reports on selected topics, and a project
completion report would be produced. The Government would submit to the
Association and IFAD, not later than September 30, 1987, a detailed,
mid-term assessment of overall project performance for review, comment,
and, if necessary, recommendation of any changes in project design (Section
4.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
D. Training
53.       Extension Training.  Important training for operational extension
staff under the project would include bi-annual (pre-season) training,
monthly workshops for senior staff and research personnel, fortnightly
training sessions for field staff, and special short courses. Orientation
seminars would be held for senior district level representatives of the
ministries and for district level specialist staff.
54.       In-Service and Overseas Training.  In-service training would be
provided by consultants for Ugandan staff counterparts to enable them to
take over project responsibilities when consultancies end. Overseas
training would be financed in:



- 19 -
(a) extension methodology;
(b) agronomy, plant protection, horticulture, mechanization, and
rice production;
(c) monitoring and evaluation techniques;
(d) adaptive research;
(e) fish stock assessment and fisheries statistics; and
(f) tsetse fly control.
E. Technical Assistance
55.       To manage the supply of inputs, execute the research program,
introduce new methods of extension, and strengthen monitoring and
evaluation, about 24 man-years of technical assistance from consultants
would be required to execute the project (paragraph 75), including:
Ca)  input management-a procurement manager (24 man-months), a
project accountant (24 man-months), and two warehouse
managers (.4 man-months each);
(b)  extension-a T&V specialist (36 man-months) and a training
specialist (30 man-months);
(c)  research and surveys-an adaptive agricultural research
specialist (24 man-months), a tsetse fly control specialist
(8 man-months), a fisheries stock assessment specialist (24
man-months), a fisheries statistician (24 man-months), and
t..,ee fish biologists (4 man-months each); and
(d) a monitoring and evaluation specialist (30 man-months).
The conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
include the employment of the procurement manager and the project
accountant (Section 7.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Organization and Implementation
56.       Timing and Responsibilities.. The project would be implemented
over a four year period by the MAF and the MAIF. Within the MAF, the
Commissioner for Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
agriculture and agricultural research and would be charged with
establishing and maintaining liaison between project and parallel donor
financed activities in the same field. The Forestry Commissioner would be
responsible for utilization of inputs provided for forestry nurseries. The
Deputy Commissioner for Production would oversee the input supply program
as well as agricultural extension and training. The Deputy Commissioner in
charge of the Planning and Statistics Section would be responsible for



- 20 -
ensuring that sufficient MAF and MAIF field and headquarters staff are
allocated to the monitoring and evaluation program. The Chief Research
Officer would assume responsibility for on-farm adaptive research.
57.       Within the MAIF, the Commi8sioner for Tsetse Control would be
responsible for the tsetse fly trapping study and would allocate necessary
staff resources. All other livestock related aspects of the project wvuld
be under the control of the Commissioner for Veterinary Services and AnImal
Industry, who would arrange the use of veterinary supplies under the
project in the department's ongoing vaccination and disease control
programs. The Commissioner for Fisheries would be responsible for project
fishery inputs and for fishery surveys and studies. He also would arrange
for the use of the Uganda Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization
facilities by staff working on the fish stock assessment survey (paragraph
48).
58.       Coordination.  Overall coordination of the project would be
through the Interministerial Committee, which was established under the
ARP. This Committee is chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Agriculture
and includes representatives fzom the MAY, the MAIF and the Ministries of
Finance, Cooperatives and Marketing, Local Governments, Culture and
Community Development, and Planning and Economic Development. The
Committee would receive and consider all project reports and accounts,
supervise expenditures, approve overseas training, and approve procurement
of major project items and would meet monthly. An executive secretary for
the Committee would be app6inted, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association, who would head a small Project Management
Unit to be established under the project and be responsible for the day to
day management of the project and coordination among components. Actual
procurement would be through the Procurement Unit serving the MAF and
HAIF. The Government would provide necessary support staff for the Project
Management Unit. In both the MAF and MAIF, a Project Implementation Unit
would be established to coordinate each ministry's activities under the
project. The conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement include the appointment of an executive secretary for the Project
Managementt Unit and the establishment of the Project Management and
Implementation Units (Section 7.01 (f) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).  Planning targets, including an assessment of goods to be
imported, would be set out in detailed annual work programs for the project
prepared by each Ministry.  The programs would be submitted to the
Association and IFAD for their review and comments not later than April 1
of each year and would be carried out taking such comments into account
(Section 4.09 (a) - (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement is the
submission to the Association and IFAD of the work program for fiscal year
1985/86 (Section 7.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       Procurement Management and Distribution.  The executive secretary
of the Project Management Unit would receive requests and estimates for
procurement under the project from the MAF and MAIF Project Implementation
Units. Procurement specifications would be approved by the procurement
manager, who would be the head of the Procurement Unit, before preparation
of tender documents and lists submitted to the Association and IFAD for



- 21 -
approval and prior to inviting tenders. Following tender evaluation,
procurement would be approved by the Interministerial Committee and by the
Central Tender Board in accordance with Government regulations.
60.       Goods procured under the project for distribution would be
delivered to the project warehouses at Lira, Soroti, and Tororo. Assistant
managers and support staff provided to operate Lira, Soroti, and Tororo
warehouses under the ARP would continue in employment under the project.
Goods would be made available to primary cooperatives and private traders
registered in the distribution area at the warehouses or at delivery points
in the area (cooperative stores or retail outlets as requested by
traders). To avoid distribution bottlenecks, the 16 lorries acquired for
the ARP would be used to distribute goods from project warehouses. Reports
on the distribution system (paragraph 81) would be submitted to the
Association and IFAD for review every six months beginning December 31,
1985 (Section 4.08 (i) - (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Some drugs (CBPP, rinderpest, foot and mouth, and rabies)-would
be provided free through vaccination campaigns administered by veterinary
staff. Other 'ethical" drugs that are not provided free by the Government
would be administered by each District Veterinary Officer. All 'nonr
ethical" drugs would be sold to the cooperative stores and/or registered
traders for resale to livestock owners in the same manner as other farm
inputs.
62.       Input Marketing.  Inputs would be sold from the Central
warehouses at Lira, Soroti, and Tororo at wholesale prices based on CIF
prices delivered to the warehouses, plus a 5% margin to cover storage and
handling. They would be sold for cash to traders registered in the area of
input distribution and to area cooperative societies, which would be
responsible for retail distribution and sale. Retail prices would be set
freely by traders and cooperatives.
63.       Acaricides are now subject to a Government subsidy of 50%.  The
Government, however, plans to phase out this subsidy by December 31, 1986
(Section 5.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). If the subsidy
remains, no acaricides would be distributed under the project until the
Government has paid into the Project Account the amount in local currency
equivalent to the subsidy (paragraph 71).
Costs and Financing
64.       Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$31.4
million. This consists of US$24.9, or 79%, in foreign costs and US$6.6, or
212, in local costs, including taxes and duties of US$1.4 million. Cost
estimates are based on findings during appraisal (November/December 1983),
updated to October 1984 base line costs. Physical contingencies total
US$1.4 million, or about 10% of the base cost of civil works, equipment,
training, and operating and maintenance costs. Price contingencies amount
to US$6.1 million, or about 25% of the total base cost, and were calculated
assuming international price escalations of 8Z in 1985 and 9% in 1986-89
and domestic price escalations of 15% in 1985, 10% in 1986, 8% in 1987-88,
and 7.5% in 1989.



- 22 -
65.       The amount of US$410,500 has been included in the project cost to
cover start-up activities during the six months prior to project
effectiveness (paragraph 66). These activities include execution of a
base-line survey in the project area, technical assistance to establish
work programs for agricultural extension staff, and preliminary training in
Kenya for agricultural extension staff from Soroti District. To ensure
efficient transfer of warehouse stocks and avoid a hiatus in warehouse
management between the end of the ARP and the effectiveness of the present
project, the services of procurement consultants also would be financed.
66.       Financing.  Project costs would be covered as follows:
Source                    Local    Foreign      Total   Percent
----USS million--
IDA Second Technical Assistance
Project credit                                    .3         .3         1
IDA Agricultural Development
Project credit                         -        10.0       10.0       32
IFAD Agricultural Development
Project loan                           -        14.5       14.5       46
Government                             6.6 /1       -         6.6       21
Total                                6.6        24.8       31.4      100
/1 Including taxes and duties of US$1.4 million.
The Association would provide US$326,200 toward the cost of start-up
activities out of the Second Technical Assistance Project, which has as one
of its objectives the support of project preparation activities. This
support, together with the IDA credit of US$10.0 million and the IFAD loan
of US$14.5 million under the present project, would be equivalent to about
79% of project costs overall, or 83% of project costs net of taxes and
duties. These three sources of external financing would cover the full
foreign exchange costs of the project. The effectiveness of the IFAD Loan
Agreement and the appointment by IFAD of the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the IFAD loan on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association are conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement (Section 7.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
67.       Local costs, including incremental operating costs, would be
covered by the Government. Adequate funds to cover local incremental
operating costs and local investment costs under the project would come
from counterpart funds generated by the sale of inputs under the ARP, which
have been and would be deposited in the ARP Program Account in the Bank of
Uganda.



- 23 -
Disbursements
6S_       Funds for start-up activities under the proposed project would be
disbursed in the first project year from the credit under the Second
Technical Assistance Project, while those for the portion of the balance of
the activities which the Association is to support would be disbursed from
the proposed credit in FY86-90. Except for civil works carried out by
force account (landing stage repairs), for which disbursements would be
against certificates of expenditure, disbursements would be against full
documentation. Disbursements also would be against 100Z of foreign
expenditures for civil works, vehicles and equipment, materials and drugs,
training and technical assistance, and recurrent costs. They would be made
on a joint financing basis with IFAD. The Association would cover 402 and
IFAD 602 of the foreign expenditures.
69.       The average disbursement period for agricultural projects in
Uganda is eight years. Disbursements are assumed to be more rapid under
the proposed project for the following reasons:
Ci)   76Z of the value of disbursements is for vehicles,
equipment, materials, and drugs, which would be procured
through the well established Procurement Unit.
(ii)   15Z of the value of disbursements is for technical
assistance, which is to be provided through ten long-term
technical assistance positions.  Six positions would be
financed under project start-up activities, of which four
(for the Procurement Unit) are already in place.
Ciii)  7Z of the value of disbursements is for start-up
activities (mostly technical assistance), recurrent costs
(mostly materials and equipment), and unallocated items
and 2% is for civil works, of which half is for
prefabricated housing to be procured on a turnkey basis
for the technical assistance consultancies.
70.       To expedite the flow of funds for disbursement of minor amounts,
a Special Account would be established in the Bank of Uganda. The total
value of the Account would be USS200,000 equivalent. Expenditures under
all categories would be eligible for disbursement from the Special
Account.   However, the ceiling on contract value to be financed under the
Special Account would be US$100,000.
Financial Control, including Accounts and Audit
71.       Project Account. Revenue from inputs sold under the project
through the warehouses of the MAF and HAIF to private beneficiaries would
be deposited into a Project Account in the Bank of Uganda. These funds
would be earmarked for rural development purposes after consultation among
the Government, the Association, and IFAD (Section 4.02 (b) (i) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). A condition to the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement is the opening of the Project Account
(Section 7.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 24 -
72.       Transport Account. Staff travel, vehicle, and overnight
allowances must be paid promptly if project activities are to be carried
out efficiently. To ensure that staff engaged in project supported
activities are paid t%psf- transport and travel allowances on tine, an
account would be established- in a bank acceptable to the Association and
IFAD.  At the beginning of each quarter, the Government would deposit into
the account the amount estimated to be required to cover project
expenditures for staff transport and travel allowances during such
quarter. A condition to the effectiveness of the Develapment Credit
Agreement is the opening of the Tr insport Account with an initial deposit
of USh 65 million (the equivalent of four months recurrent expenditures for
staff travel and transport allowancen) (Section 7.01 (e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
73.       Accounts and Audit.  lTe Procurement and Implementation Units of
the MAF and MAIF would open and administer separate project accounts for
project-related activities. The project accountant would be responsible
for maintaining accounts related to the procurement and disposal of goods
and for accounts of project related expenditures in MAF and MAIF. Project
accounts would be audited by indepen2ent auditors acceptable to the
Association and IFAD. Certified copies of relevant financial statements
would be made available to the Association and IFAD no more than six months
after the end of each financial year.
Procurement
74.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
International      Local
Competitive    Competitive
Project Element       Pidding (ICB)   Bidding (LCB)   Other  N.A.    Total
US$ million
Civil Works                 0.6             0.7           -      -      1.3
(0.4)           (0.1)         -       -     (0.5)
Vehicles                    4.4              -            _             4.4
(1.4)             -           _             (1.4)
Equipment                  13.6             0.2          0.1     -     13.9
(5.1)           (0.1)         -       -     (5.2)
Drugs and Materials         2.6                          1.2     -      3.8
(1.0)                        (0.4)    -     (1.4)
Training                                                  -     0.7     0.7
-    (0.3)   (0.3)
Technical Assistance        -                            4.3     -      4.3
(1.4)    -     (1.4)
Recurrent Costs              -                            -     3.0     3.0
-    (0.1)   (0.1)
Total                   21.2              0.9          5.6    3.7    31.4
=                  _           =       _      _
Of which Association
financed /1            (7.9)           (0.2)        (1.8)  (0.4)  (10.3)
/1  Through the present project and the Second Technical Assistance Project
combined.



- 25 -
75.       Civil works are small-scale and scattered through the project
area. They would be unlikely to appeal to international contractors.
Civil works contracts would, therefore, be grouped to the extent possible
and others awarded according to LCB procedures acceptable to the
Association and IFAD or carried out by force account. To minimize delays,
an exception would be made for prefabricated housing to be procured for
long-term technical assistance staff and prefabricated huts, which would be
grouped as a package (US$0.6 million) and procured on a turnkey basis
through ICB. Equipment vehicles, drugs, and materials would be bulked to
the extent practicable into packages of US$100,000 or more and procured
through ICB. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference
of 15% of the bid price CIF or the actual customs and duties and import
taxes, whichever is less. Contracts for goods valued at less than
US$100,000 would be awarded either according to ICB procedures for goods
not available locally or on the basis of the Central Tender Board's normal
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association and IFAD.
Certain specialized items, including seeds, veterinary drugs, equipment
with only one or two known suppliers, and some spare parts, would be
purchased according to negotiated contract. Consultants for technical
assistance (paragraph 55) would be selected in accordance with the
guidelines of the Association. All bidding packages for works and goods
estimated to cost over US$0.25 million would be subject to prior review of
procurement documentation by the Association. This would result in a
coverage of about 83Z of the total estimated value of contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
Environmental Impact
76.      The project is expected to have no adverse effects on
environmental conditions. Insecticides and aphicides to be provided would
be used under controlled conditions, mainly in restricted areas (forestry
nurseries, grain storage, and vegetable gardens). Improvement in the
environment should result from better erosion ce-trol resulting from the
strengthened extension services and from substitution of fly traps for the
present chemical spray (dieldrin) used for tsetse fly control.
Benefits and Risks
77.       The main beneficiaries would be smallholder farmers and
fishermen. Given the homogeneity of the seven districts under the project
with regard to farm size and economic status of the inhabitants, most of
the 430,000 families in the project area are likely to benefit from the
supply of inputs because the majority are smallholders and own some
livestock. The improved services would also be aimed at the smallholder.
The 47,000 families in Soroti District would be expected to benefit
substantially from the improved extension methodology to be introduced
there.
78.       Project benefits are difficult to quantify.  Research and surveys
account for 10% of the project costs, the outcome of which is uncertain.
Institution building activities of a pilot nature, which account for 15Z of
the project cost, may have only an indirect impact on production. Inputs
to be sold to farmers at free market prices are responsible for the



- 26 -
remaining 75% of costs. These inputs should have a direct short-term
impact on production by improving yields (through the provision of hoes,
pesticides, and improved seed), increasing area planted (hoes and plows),
reducing storage losses (storage chemicals), and improving crop processing
(flour mills) and farm transport facilities (ox-carts and bicycles). The
impact, however, is difficult to measure, particularly since the typical
farmer would select the most needed inputs rather than purchase the entire
package available. The proposed composition of inputs is indicative.
However, based on demand for inputs through the ABP, expressed demand is a
reasonable indication of felt benefits. The bulk of the increase in
benefits would be improved nutritional levels for the rural population,
although there would be some export ea-'ings from cotton.
79.       Given these difficulties, no attempt has been made to calculate
the return on investment. Instead, an estimate has been made of the
production increases that would be necessary to assure a return on
investment of 152 (the likely opportunity cost of capital in Uganda).
Investment costs, including those of the research and survey components,
have been included in the calculation, which shows total production would
have to increase by 5% above the pre-project level by the fourth year of
the project and be maintained at that level to achieve an estimated rate of
return equivalent to 15%.
80.       Indications are clear that these increases could be achieved.
For example, the repair of 20,000 plows and the provision of 10,000 new
plows would permit farmers to increase the area under cultivation. With
increased extension services, a conservative estimate of this increase
would be 30%. Assuming an average cultivated area of 4.9 ha for each
farmer in the project area, 44,000 additional hectares would be cultivated
each year. The value of production per hectare is USh 26,000 and the
increased area would be equivalent to USh 1,144 millions, or 2.4Z of the
present value of production. The total cost of the new plows, spares, and
workshop repair equipment is estimated at USh 213 million.
81.       Risks.  Depending on the general availability of agricultural and
veterinary goods and supplies in other regions of Uganda, there is a risk
that project inputs would be directed from the project area and sold either
in other regions or outside the country. With the acceptance of registered
traders with a strong profit motive as part of the distribution system, the
risk is greater under the proposed project than it was under the ARP. To
minimize this risk, the distribution and sale of goods would be constantly
monitored and semi-annual reports on the distribution system would be
submitted to the Association and IFAD (paragraph 60). If necessary,
controls would be introduced to ensure that the sale of goods is restricted
to the project area.
82.       Low salaries and Government failure to pay expenses and
allowances have caused a general lack of commitment and low morale in staff
of all ministries. The Government recently increased salaries and
allowances in order to redress these problems. The project strategy
proposed to further ameliorate conditions is to provide adequate transport
and other facilities as well as to arrange for payment of travel and
transport allowances through the project accountant (paragraph 71).



- 27 -
83.       The lack of appropriate extension messages has been cited as a
reason for the failure of the extension services to instigate increases in
agricultural production. There is, therefore, a risk that lack of
extension messages may render the project's extension initiatives
ineffective. However, technology is available which can be adapted to the
needs of the subsistence farmer and, under the project, a consultant would
be engaged to review these results and produce the first series of
extension messages. In the longer term, the extension/research linkages
are means of directing research into topics directly related to the
problems of small farmers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between The Republic of
Uganda and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
85.       Additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement are:
(a)  the employment of the procurement manager and the project
accountant (paragraph 55 and Section 7.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit agreement);
(b)  the appointment of an executive secretary for the
Interministerial Committee who also would head the Pcoject
Management Unit and the establishment of the Project
Management and Implementation Units (paragraph 58 and
Section 7.01 (f) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
Cc)  the submission to the Association and IFAD of the work
program for fiscal year 1985/86 (paragraph 58 and Section
7.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(d) the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Ar,reement and the
appointment by IFAD of the Association as the Cooperating
*                      Institution to administer the IFAD 7oan (paragraph 66 and
Section 7.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreeimient);
(e)  the opening of the Project Account (paragraph 71 and Section
7.01 (d) of the draft Developmer: Credit Agreement; and
(f)  the opening of the Transport Account with an ini-ial deposit
of USh 65 million (paragraph 72 and Section 7.01 (e) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
86.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.



- 28 -
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 11, 1984



- 29 -                                         ANNEX I
TAB L   la Cr  I: of 5
WAlS                  - mEc> tl.NTCATOR DATA
UGANa                              fhlOCE C GROUS (WCIGIhED AVERAGS  la
PlOST              ClowT 3581  ESTINAIS) lb
RECENr       LOWl hEIZ AFItCA       NAOIZ INCU
19601b    1970/b   1ETDIATE/h       SOUSI oF SMBA       AFRICA s. o0 SIM
am  (TsO       SQ. mu)
TOTAL                              236.0      Z36.0       236.0
AGRICULTMRAL                       89.3        n.o        107.6
GNP MR CAn    CUSS)                  100.0       160.0       230.0            249.1                  111Z.9
wm    c0_oTmP  CAPZ
-                       (KILOGRAMS Of OIL EqUIVALENT)       27.0       58.0         23.0             62.8                  529.0
PIuIUl -m ITAL SlT:S
POPULATIoI.mtDO-rAR (THOUSANS)    7286.0     9758.0     13451.0
URN  popULATION CE OF TOTAL)        5.2         8.0         8.7             19.2                   29.7
POPULATION PSECTIOKS
POUJL&TION I1 YEAR 2000 (tWILL)      ,.          ,,        24.7
STATIOARt POPUATION (NELL)         ..          ..        8.5
POPULATO  MOE                      ..          ..         2.0
POPIIL&TION DENSIT
PERt Sq. It.                     30.9        41.3        55.2             32.5                   55.8
PEt SQ.  I A121. LAS             81.6        97.8       121.1            119.2                   111.5
ronianow ae muaUit (I)
0-14 tS                         &433        44.4        45.0             45.6                    45.4
15-64 IRS                        53.6        52.6        51.6             51.5                   51.7
65 AND AOE                        3.1         3.1         3.3              2.9                    2.9
POPMAtart   GWOTI RATE (:)
TOTAL                              2.8        2.9         2.7              2.6 8.8
URBAN                             7.1         7.1         3.4              6.2                    5.2
CRUDE SEIT RATE (PER TiDUS)        49.4        49.9        50.1             48.6                   *7.0
CRUDE DEATH PATE (PER THOUS)       21.2        18.4        16.7             17.7                   15.2
GROSS REPROWCT10# RATE              3.4         3.4         3.0              3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLFNIE
ACCElPTRS. AINtIAL (THOUS)                    3.8        16.1 Ic
USERS (C OF HARRIED IEN)                                                                           .
FOOD AII uSuWII
INnER OF rOn PROF. PER CAPITA
(t969-71-100)                     107.0        9.0         86.n             85.8                   91.6
PER CAPI  SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (Z O REIQIRDIES)         96.0        96.0        80.0             86.4                   98.2
PROtENS (GRS PEI DAY)           51.0        55.0        50.0             49.9                   56.7
OF WHICH ANIAL AND PULSE         21.0        24.0        27.0 Id          18.3                   17.0
CIILD (AGES 1-4) DEATS RA12        28.0        17.0        22.0             23.8                   18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT 811TR1 (YEARS)     43.0       4.8          46.6             48.4                   51.7
INFANT C TFF. RATE (PR C 01W3S)   136.9       113.2       120.0            117.5                  102.7
ACCESS TO SAfE WATER (C0PO)
TOTAL                                        22.0        35.0 /c          21.8                   35.6
URAN                                        88.0        100.0 Ic          61.5                   54.1
RURAL                                        17.0        29_0 Ic          14.2 Ic                27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPLATION)
Ta                                  .        76.0        94.0 IC          32.0
URAN                                        34.0         82.0 Ie          69.2
RURAL                                        76.0        95.0 Ic          24.8
_IJPULATIOb PER PIIYSICKUN      15050.0     9160.0 1/  Z6810.0 Id        27477.8                11948.3
PCP. PER NURSI PERSO            100300       5120.0      4180.0 rd        3396.2                  22M9
POP. PER R8SPITAL BED
TOTAL                           750.0       640.0       610.0 lc        1089.0                   986.9
URBAN                            c0.0       80.0        100.0, ;         395.2                  368.7
RRWAL                           1710.0     1820.0      1600.0 Ic        3094.0                  4012I
Ab SSIOM PER HOSPITAL ED                      154.1    _
AVERlAE SIZE OF HOUSEOLD
TorAL                               .         4.8
URBAN
RUAla                                          ..
AVERAGE go. OF PERSOXSIROGI
TOrAL                                          ..
BN                                 ..          ..
RUEAL                               ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: of WELLIS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
UR                                                                 ..
RURAL                              ..          .



-30 -                                          ANNEX I
TA3LE  3A                                        PA7  2  of  5
WAA                   - SOCIAL INDYCATOM DATA S
umma                       auinnavmggrqw   UPS CWamIm  AVENAGES Ia
HOST               (MlOST  lREi(M  CSmui) /b
SW           LOW INCO  Ann          saDDLE TcaD u
1960/b    1970Th    CSTDIArEb       SOuTH OF SHARA      AFRICA S. Ofr SAHR
ADJUSTED EROUJIENT RATIOS
P11MUT:  TOYAL                    49.0       39.0         54.0             69.2                   91.0
MALE                    65.0       *8.0        62.0             78.8                    90.5
FEUKAE                 3Z.0        31.0        46.0             57.6                    73.6
SECONDARY: TOT0.                   3.0        4.0         5.0              13.1                   17.4
MALE                    4.0         6.0         7.0             17.6                    23.7
FEMALE                  1.0         2.0         3.0              4.3                    14.8
VOCATIOXAL (S OF SECONDARY)         11.6        7.4         3.7              7.2                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHE RATIO
PR11AKRY                          31.0       34.0        34.0              46.1                   38.6
SECONDARY                         18.0       20.0        21.0 I&           25.9                   24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (E)             25.1 If      *-         52.3             44.3                   35.6
Cam
PASSENE CARSTHOUSAND POP             3.5        3.0             *      -     3.8                    20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TIOUSAND POP        12.4       23.6        21.8             41.9                   100.8
TV RECEtVERS/THOUSAND POP            0.1        1.4         5.8 /Er          2_0                    18.5
NESPAPEIR ("DAMY GENERAL
XNTERES-") CIRCULATION
PER ThDUSAND POPULATION            7.3        es5          1.6 i           5.4                    17.2
CLIIA ANNL AYTENDANCE/CAPITA       0.3         *-         0.1 /d            1.4                    0.3
us .wm
TOTAL LBOR FORCE (THOIS)          3255.0     4187.0      5427.0
FLNALE (PERCENT)                  35.1       34.6        33.6              36.5                   33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             89.0       86.0        83.0              77.4                   57.1
INDUSTRY (PEE}NT)                  4.0        5.0         6.0              9.8                    174
PARTCIPATION RATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                             44*7       42.9        40.3              41.0                   36.3
NAIE                              58.8       56.8        5.1               52.1                   47.6
MALE                              31.0       29.3        26.9              30.2                   25.1
ECONDEIC DEPESDENCr RATIO            1.0        1.1         1.2              1.2                     1.4
Dmccc ouimnw
PERCEST OF PRVATE NCOSE
RECEIV  ST
HIGHEST 5: OF HOUSEHOLDS            .        20.0          ..
HCIGHEST 20S OF HOUSEROLDS                   4 46.6 l.
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            __        6.2 I''
LOWEST 40: OF HOUSEHOLDS            .        16.6 /        .
POQm TAN  ano
ESTITED ABSOLUTE POVERrY InUR
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBSAN                                                      .             168.3                  525.3
RURAL                                                                      90.8                  249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY 2C.Wct
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                                                      107.7                  477.4
RURAL                               _                    87.0 /d          65.0                   186.0                           'a
ESTLHATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUtE
POTERTY LICG(E LEVEL (:)
URBAN                                                                      34.7
RURAL                                                                     65 4
NOT AVAILEABL
NOT APPLICABLE
N D T E S
/s  The grouP averages for each indicator are populatinorwelbhted artthmtic means. Coverage of countries aong the
indceators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. sData for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dnto for 1974   betwee  1969 an4
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimte" betwSn 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; /d 1977; Ie  Registered. not all practicing in the country; If Ages 16 and over: 1z 1979; lb African
populatton only.
JUNE, 1984



P    3   -)a410-  .s      A 33-n1.   .ah.1~1 Sq a1.31-.np.
I0~~4 PlO  11141  l. a-a -4a11-Ala.o)3         1    1f403130
0- *a3  -0*-I~*~~Al  *  34 -            -n 093       34      n
14      - 'S.04   3                             333    333          *  -pl-I-    -                     s
1-   ea~~~~a -3  1-                -1 :-Ud                 ~           30  --iela-i-Pd  U1.           _40    1   - 33   -3_lP OOjl
'eli         Se*       - e          ~      A          ,I     .                              .6&-3a4 U-;1a A !d-P      4   a  a-V, -   n
33303611        .usA M.o L1i-1 "I",Ula -                                                                       m.a   ne            bh_3 n3               _A PI3.%-5   ea
p-                                                 _At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1aAP                  .b. 1l131       a1ad   lf 3.   1o33
aS.  33A3Al0033    3   - 4e                                 _.3 _14 1431-3   i-
- L310413   13  -   031-. - -i --t 34                                                                      I.U-U_-.:I-3ja.A                             ail
e..;dSl    In -    -.Ml  314-30 -                UI 0  ja.S031-   ..                           i.~pSni1*                      o   l0111)3    3At    10 
-  30-  11 3143 - (03*34-  333  1).1  t  3)11  ~33l3 3lg013  l p-a.) a~1.43.1  3012- l.13    -J .-i 33114 ;t3 333) poA
-iaa 1110 a .- W3ei5  a3          ... 301  iS-   OAla .l'i-33  3113                -.1   o.3 -1l -l    i   nql
-    -  _.' -1  :-I  V.~13033                                        l~   s:i   .    143-104  -.0a  aII'-3l'
p-pg-  .6 .1 -  1-     _11-             _S-9   111-33433   i313WI'   tlt3. 31s   3I    uaa
U-  -3. -Iq -                                                                    1.~oaefl                 al   .3)  63    33l    1I93313%0
*31J.     A.  " -ISO,-    A  -   --31  13.a.1 - -IUlp-.n    1    3.13a   3.  i  .1lIi
-    isdiiadia31            111               0333331%l  093b                                          30ema..ll    .u..-.Il .-.
1i;*nd3.  1111p    saia l           ~i- 30  33oo4 331111131M.    .3                      1-   .3oI-I   31311ls  3aa   1113131Cn
-  1 aIl 311i Pa3.in  1.11a-  P Z, !l nA-aS          301                         10ol I-3l3315ili3oa Z1:5  1as    il 
a   ml-)il p-   A-13i  Illn131   011.10i =11  .3311iZ0a.
*iU_     olA   3te     t 13410 A-U.l .ln   P                                              -I.-4 3 iasi.11   393   .3)11)..o.._34a.   aloa                 ~-P
le-33   s13          35)  33- ~           -3330    41  31131)a      i03310.t  0.-i 11I IS.1                                                       79 -      S lIa.pl1
Ps-     S  ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ 33.1113*0      0.aa1a  a                         3.-$3 
3lUml) p           -1   n.3113 A.     )3..         34 3   p331W-M     - aa-03                                                                              IlaEP-laa.
p1-    3.   3 1 -i3   l.03   Aloial-  *1 334-44P.130  1V4)33                                                            -
11i3LA  %I in   3333a)  I01111   10 3I   .pn1001) 31  34II                                                      4.0AS.p  I- -s03 V -11
1131     1~ 9331)31  31-,13  S...Ao p.1 -              )3L   L.a =01                                                                   1   40.al   1313
3311)p34- 1_3al4  -1l    olt  1.113411)31)4,                                                  ) 4           11t  41343*d1130V-11.lOta433  4.  allo194
AlS-Ue                    ..d031131014313   113)                                                            3-$;.  0-L10*0Il313111a
i- i   -qSS 1101-f An  Ia. -SS        .   491353-              3           ~          .IL   11134            b,  3310.09-p311   sil1   OL  P-
113A0131n431 -A  a    an3   a3l00l3   )031   314                                                                      .3001~I    3141)41311
v- AA_     P   -8.  __l-           -n            113412-a                -Il  P3.0313l*0-  S       o..l11110Atinaio3-1)03  11     31-.
13331  ui31e         303                    5 33a1.v-    1*33 Aba003 L ~-   3w03   l ..ii.1_       W.-"p -A - -
3t3   A.A.3  3 - 1 A   pnaesp33130  41113)1 3130 a                                                                                          1)3.4313413
IIP313                                                                      -.3A31lOl)-     l-03  4- 335  -33*a  _4t3._*3  lIS     pal
AS      .La-i3o 33  A".133  53 m-11-341  -1  aI. i0.*. -d.013  j-                     41-0  -1) Pal In.11-V1  03._P ) 11310                   1 131a3 l
la-)-  3411-330 443  1  i3s3l-~3*)lol.-3  11343                       313  -;al? -  I  10 AS)55 l1  4 IagLa.1i1al.alal
Jo3i   3l30h      13143  l33a030*13433na13                                                      4    -3a.1   -3l.  043   o*  e3--  j11
I    XaKuv                                                    -~~~~101  3))13o0 33~3 )  0333  3353400a    .  111-    1



-32 -                                              AVR   I
4   5
C  E                   DM - U;
IP PER CAPUU  N 1983 a - IS$220
am5  NAICL  1w r iN 1983 bI d/ dAl  tAE (F GM  (Z. Camta Prim)
llSS M   ,lln  %              1970-75   1975-81    1982 d/    1983 d/
QP at Market Piceis            8,058     100.0               -          -3.2      8.2         5.8
Gross Dboestic ravet1u.nt       689        8.6             -11.9        4.7      27.1          -
Gross Patigml Sdro              433        5.4             -16.9       -10.4     44.7          -
Current Accouirt UBml~         -151       -1.9
Faport of Goods, NFS            379        4.7             -11.3        -7.3     36.0         3.9
liiart o Goods, NES             S09        6.3              -9.2        -5.9      3.1         5.0
WAUE AMED IN 1983 (At 1983 Prices) bI c/ di               ODVEIENT FUN=
1S$ Million     Z                                             (USh 'bi i)       (Z of (MP)
-198283 d/   1983 dl  g971/72
Agricuture                    5,853       76.0            O.rrt. Receipts                     52,822       4.2       13.5
Iristry                         307        4.0            Carrent EenffndtrAe                43,871        3.4       1.5
Serview                       1,539       20.0            Current Surpho                       8,954       Q.7       -
Toral                       7,699      100.0            Cwiital ri2pexitAre                  8,817       0.7        &6
-C. t., C      AND RUM                    1979      198)       1981      1982 d/    1983 dl
(USMillion Q        *d E})
linE supply                             13,166      17,435    3D,849    38,512      54,642
Bak Credit to GQWermet                   9,485      14,868    29,332    3',111      40,868
BeD  Creditto Otbr Sectors               3,371      5,951     11,459    21,371      35,186
1979       198D       1981    1982 d/    1983 dl
MoneyasXofOM                              11.9        8.0        6.9       4.1        4.3
Geral Price lniex (1966 - 100) e/        1,702      3,527      6,800    13,104    16,616
Amal perceritrae chaws in
Geeral Price Imlx                      85.6       107.2      92.8      92.5       26.8
Baic Credit to Ijblic Sector              30.1       56.5       97.5      16.3       19.8
Bak Credit to Private Sector               4.7       76.5       92.6      86.5       64.6
a/ Calculated by rhe same covsion tedmique as the World Bak Atlas (adlust  for the oaerwi emdwg  rate bit not for
a-y w    Teording of  .wmcb- traisactions).
b/ QP, In'vest2Iit and SdWs   calaiated at tre offical wlndo-re excaw rate. The estijue  of IP at market prices are
therefore hwr then the per capita GNP estimate (wdch is adusted for the oervalued ex      e rate) tines popilatIo.
c/ tU-      edate fig3les on eplaymnt and procbicrvity are unawalable.
Ed/ ates.
CDPdeflator.
Not applicable-
!rnde 11, 1984



-33 -                                              Is=  I
pos 5 of 5
EaOTIC D1EvsLBfl  DArA - UG
DALANCE OF PAM1*NFS                                                               1EISE  EWR15 (AwraIM   198D03)
US$ MSLIim   Z d/
198D     1981      15a/   1983.1
-                                                        "J:;S iilon)                  Gitie                           315      96.4
Otton                            5        1.5
Ex E ts of oods WS                        332       Z50       354        379      Tea                               1       0.3
L[porLs of Goods. WS                     -572      -508     -512        -59       Otler Eqxorts                     6       1.8
Reource Gap (deficit --)                 -240      -258     -158        -13P       Sub-TCCtA7                     3        100.0
Facor Services ard Trarfers (net, bJ      -9         3      -20         -21      AdMJusnts el                    -14       4.3
Balaum on Current Acmt                   -248      -256     -160        -151        Total                         313       95.7
Official Grants                            93       106        91         79
Public 146X LIanT (net)                    83         8       64          27      EICDEE      EERI       31, 1983
lfisburasems                           (135)      10O     (121)        (94)                                        13$ Miflias
ADrtization                             (-52)    (-92)    (-57)        (-67)
Use o Fund Credit                          27       125        92        101      PubUc Debt, incl. Gasraea             661 al f/
Other ltems n.e.i. (net)                 -107        85       -6         -22      NonCrQanteed Private Debt
Overall Balance of Payents               -154        61        12         20      Tnrz! 'rstmnit and Disdxraed          661
Resers (end year)                           4        25                   88      t&NET MUr 9IE 3RaO FcR 1983 g/
PWaynt Arrears (end year)                 257       217                    _                                                2
PetroleLB 40orts                          124       116      ini         105      Pubic Debt, incl. Gmrteod                 38.7
Petroleua Exports                           -         -        -r                          n        Priae dt
Total  urstandlig and DsburSI            38.7
RAIE (F EIMWI  c/                                                                 I/I)DkA 1EDC (Dec. 1. 1983) (US$ MtlLIi)
UVi f/  MI
1980     1981      1982      1983        outstading ad Diabuzed            37.5    123
US$1.00 - U.Sh.                          7.4      50.0      94.0    156.9         Undisbars                          -      212
USh 1.00 - US csets                     13.5       2.0       1.1      0.6         Outstauir. incl. U       1disbase  37.5    335
atS EbtimC,
b/ Exd  officEal gaIts.
i At ,wdMw acm. The sidndr-mo vexarhe zate ws USh 270 - USSI at the em! of Apri1 1983.
dI Z of uawijusted erdid    exports.
e Incldes error ard adssionr, and aijusovants for valuation, covera ard tIixg for 19OD-8.
f/ncxles Ulnda's nodtinal shae (26%) of EAC lons, but exclres lDr.
I Debt service payments (inJ,isg D1 obligation) as a percpnt.Ve of exports of pods axd servicer.
Not avaiable.
December 11, 1984
r



- 34-                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND TDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 19
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower      Purpose                          Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                     8.40   120.531/
1077-UG   1981     Uganda      Technical Assistance                      8.00      2.44
1110-UG   1981     Uganda      Water Supply Engineering                 9.00       2.99
1228-UG   1982     Uganda      Phosphate Engineering                    4.00        .53
1248-UG   1982     Uganda      Industrial Rehabilitation                35.00     31.40
1252-UG   1982     Uganda      Second Reconstruction                    70.00     21.57
Program
1328-UG   1983     Uganda      Agricultural Rehabilitation              70.00     60.59
1329-UG   1983     Uganda      Third Education                          32.00     27.66
1367-UG   1983     Uganda      Posts and Telecommunications             22.00     10.47
Rehabilitation
1434-UG   1984     Uganda      Second Technical Assistance              15.00     14.06
1445-UG   1984     Uganda      Third Highway                            38.00     58.00
1474-UG   1984     Uganda      Third Reconstruction Program             50.00     50.00
Total                                                8.40   493.53    279.71
of which has been repaid                           8.40     2.77
Total now outstanding                                0.00   490.76                    *
Amount sold:                       17.50
of which has been repaid         17.50
Total now  held by Bank and IDA                      0.00   490.76 1/
Total undisbursed                                                      279.71
1/ Includes exchange adjustment.
Note: The first operation for Uganda in FY85, the Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (Credit No. 1510-UG for USS28.0 million) was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 19, 1984 and was signed on November 28, 1984.



-35-                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Be STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1984
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ million
*  Year         Obligor               TYpe of Business         Loan    Equity    Total
i965    Mulco Textiles, Ltd.      Textiles and              2.80    0.71       3.51
Fibers
1972    Tourism Promotion         Tourism                   1.11       -       1.11
Services (Uganda) Ltd.
1984    Sugar Corp. of Uganda    Food and                   8.00      -        8.00
Food Processing
1984    Toro and Mityana Tea      Food and                  1.53       -       1.53
Co., Ltd. (TAMTECO)       Food Processing
1985    Development Finance       Development Finance        -      0.37       0.37
Company of Uganda
Total gross commitments                            13.44     1.08      14.52
Less cancellation, termination,
repayments and sales                              4.41     0.71      5.12
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                            9.03     0.37      9.40
_-                 -
Total undisbursed (including participants           9.53     0.37       9.90
portion)
Source: IFC Disbursements Section.



- 36 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary ProJect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                 8 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:    Dale International Limited
(UK)
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Association; and                 May 1982
Date of first mission to consider
the project:                         June 1983
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                             November/December 1983
Ce)  Date of completion of negotiations:   November 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         June 1985
Section II: Special Association Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(a)  the submission of a routine monitoring system to the Association
and IFAD for review by June 30, 1985 (paragraph 52 and Secrton
5.02 (ii) - (iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(b)  the submission to the Association and IFAD, by September 30,
1987, of a detailed mid-term assessment of overall project
performance for review, comment, and, if necessary,
recommendation of any changes in project design (paragraph 52 and
Section 4.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(c)  the preparation of annual work programs for the project and the
furnishing of the programs to the Association and IPAD not later
than April 1 of each year (paragraph 58 and Section 4.09 (a) -
(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);



- 3                  ~~~~~ANNEt III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  the use of lorries acquired under the ARP to distribute goods
under the project and the submission of reports on the
distribution system to the Association and IFAD for reviev every
six months, beginning December 31, 1985 (paragraph 60 and Section
4.08 (i) - (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(e)  the phasing out of the subsidy on acaricides by December 31, 1986
(paragraph 63 and Section 5.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and
(f)  the deposit into the Project Account of revenues from inputs sold
to private beneficiaries and the use of the amounts deposited for
rural development purposes (paragraph 71 and draft Section 4.02
(b) Ci) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
j.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPME
PROJECT AREA
M  7//,8  Proiect Area
Mawor Roads
Railroads
.3-          Rivers
0    District Capitals
District Boundaries
-  -   Internationol Boundaries
L
0    25   S0   75  tOO KILOMETEtS
o     20    ;o    0o 40 60 MILES
-2*
;4'                    *B<p~Y
/      /- flUSE no
^BU   BUSJ HENYI 
KABALE
[1.    ''c~   ~RW NDA



IBRD 18035 R
tu  32'             33@                  ^             SETEMBER 19M
_INi PROJ ECT   t            s    u    D    A       N                                |
AR/IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -o              r I           II
\ ~~~~.                                                                     ( ,  ,,y)   
.4-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
wnjojo~ ~ ~~~~~~L~Jrj.                                          <NORUBND  WA._7 g- 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4                                     7    A _ I   \   - - a ,
oo         ,  WAN A g< '---C; -----g Aa,ETIOPlb \-
a^R:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                              DateI The !  !n or  -  S>g
A'atong   RA    /f  A   *A   MPG M-IC       N                               a,     - or   a   ,c r    t O |s E Y
AofA   'AIDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
,MASINDI ~      -------                            UA 
w-~ ~~ ___                R75    -  .                                   5  ETHIOPIA1// /eie
T    A    NJ Z    A    N   ~I A!CARN;   reJ
HOIMA~~~
~~~AR  K..I    WR 
RAKAI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A                                         r
Mboro   RAKAI  Lake    j Vic~~~~~~~~~~~~1oriaIs'
Fe  K~~~~geNYAnCA
-           Z~~~~IAIREL-o,,amdw--
-\a ebwxnsso
SUDANJ
MA"                                              ETHIOP~~~~~muwoj>- IA da
NI    3     AA                                I ATNZNAA                                  ca



IBRD 18036
UGANDAN3I MARCH 195
U GANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOROTI DISTRICT
*  DISTRICT AGRICULTURE OFFICE
*  EXTENSION UNIT AGRICULTURE OFFICES
A  NATIONAL RESEARCH STATION                      -'
A  VARIETY TRAIL CENTER                  )\ ' '         2I    , -
*  DISTRICT FARM INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE                          w                    T 
LAX'E/ Si                          ERERavr                               Tr
.~~~ ~~                                                                      N. \-TO(-~o,
f'. PorrN     X                    -     -    -    -    -        N        *' 1  __w_~Ngor
30.      -       3
SANA   ROAAYS
*    AIRPORT
SWAMPS                                                              .0
RIVERS
-. - - COUNTY BOUNDARIES         t                ,               .        
---     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                               KAMPALA
O      10     20     3       4*0    50 CILOMETERS                t
do ID20               30 MILES                      ff*if  C                        -    I A
: _.  - nt10"   _          SKENYA
).     .   TANZANIA



