Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C?. /S32-L6
Report No. 5009-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 11, 1984
Northern Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCE
US$1.00   =   Uganda Shillings  (USh) 350.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AA   -    Agricultural Assistant
AAO  -    Assistant Agricultural Officer
AU   -    Agricultural officer
AKP  -    Agricultural Reconstruction Program
AS   -    Agricultural Superviser
CBPP -    Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia
CDTC -    Community Development Training Center
IJAO  -    Divisional Agricultural ufficer
DC   -    District Commissioner
DFI  -    District Farm Institute
DOA  -    Department of Agriculture
OVS  -    Department of Veterinary Services
EEC  -    European Economic Community
ER1   -    Estimated Rate of Return
ESP  -    Extension Saturation Project
FA   -    Field Assistant
FEW  -    Field Extension Worker
FU   -    Functional Unit
GUU  -    Government of Uganda
ICB  -    International Competitive Bidding
IFAD -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IME  -    International Monetary Fund
LCB  -    Local Competitive Bidding
LSU  -    Livestock Unit
MAF  -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MAIF -    Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
MEU  -    Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
RAO  -    Regional Agricultural Officer
SMS  -    Subject Natter Specialist
T&V  -    Training and Visit
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
AGR1CULTUMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
borrower:              Republic of Uganda.
beneficiaries:         Smallholder farmers and fishermen.
Amount:               SJ.i 10.U million (US41U.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard.
Project Description:  The project would increase food production and family
income in the project area defined as the administra-
tive districts of Apac, Kumi, Lira, Soroti, Gulu,
Kitgum, and Tororo in eastern and northern Uganda and
would increase the availability of data to formulate
sector development plans. These objectives would be
achieved through: (i) the provision of agricultural,
livestock, and fisheries inputs, (ii) the
strengthening of extension services to advise on
input use and technology, and (iii) the provision of
support for research and surveys to generate new
information for planning and extension. The project
would include: (i) the procurement of input supplies
and the strengthening of input distribution
management, (ii) the provision of civil works,
vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, training
and operating expenses for research and surveys of
fisheries resources, tsetse fly control, and
agricultural adaptive research, and (iii) the
strengthening of agricultural extension as well as
monitoring and evaluation services.
Risks:                The main risk is the lack of motivation and
commitment of the underpaid staff of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Forestry and of Animal Industry
and Fisheries. This risk would be addressed by
developing a work ethic, providing adequate transport
and other ifacilities, and arranging for regular
payment of cravel and transport allowances.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationL



- ii -
Estimated Project
Costs:             Component                      Local    Foreign   Total
-  --  US$ million
Input supply                    2.7       15.0      17.7
Research and technology           .7       1.8      2.5
Institutional development       1.3        2.4      3.7
Base Cost                    4.7       19.2     23.9
Contingencies
Physical                       .3        1.1      1.4
Price                        _1.6        4.5      6.1
Total Project Cost            6.6  /a  24.8      31.4  /b
-,             _ 
Fi-ancing Plan:   Source                          Local    Foreign   Total
US$ million
IDA Second Technical
Assistance Project credit    -            .3        .3
IDA Agricultural Development
Project loan                  -         10.0     10.0
IFAD Agricultural Development
Project loan                  -         14.5     14.5
Government of Uganda           6.6          -       6.6
Total                   6.6        24.8     31.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                 IDA   FY85   FY86  FY87  FY88   FY89  FY90
Association  Annual                  /c     1.8   2.2   2.2    2.3   1.5
Cumulative            7__     1.8   4.0   6.2    8.5  10.0
IFAD         Annual                  -      2.3   3.1   3.2    3.5   2.4
Cumulative              -     2.3   5.4   8.6   12.1  14.5
Total        Annual                  /c     4.1   5.3   5.4    5.8   3.9
Cumulative             /c     4.1   9.4  14.8   2U.6  24.5
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Maps:              IBRD 18d35 and 18036.
/a Includes taxes and duties of IJS$1.41 million.
lb Includes start-up activities -:otalling to US$441,00U of which US$326,000
to be financed under the Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1434-UG of 1984 for Us.15 milLion). This project has, as one of its
objectives, the support of project preparation activities.
ic The amount of  JS$32b,lU0  will be disbursed from the Second Technical
Assistance Project to cover the foreign exchange costs of start-up
activities for the present project.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION
A. The Country        ..............................................    1
B. The National Economy     .....................................   2
C. The Role of Agriculture in the Economy ..       .................   2
D. markets and Prices ....... ....... ...-..... ........             5
E. Agricultural Supporting Services .........................   6
F. Policies and Strategies for Agricultural Development .....   6
G. IFAD and World Bank O)erations in the Sector .         ............   8
H. Project Justification ...         ............................   8
IL. TiE PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. The Project Area ...... ....................................   9
B. Agricultural Production .      ..........................  11
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description .  ............................  15
Input Supplies .........                  .......... .  15
:search and Surveys...............                             16
Institution Buildingr .......         .................  16
B. Detailed Description ..........................  16
Input Supplies .......       ...........              .        16
Research and Surveys . ........................        .19
Institution Building .....oo .........                         21
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ........ ........................  25
D. Technical Assistance ...o.................................  27
E. Training .............................................   27
F. Environmental Impact .....  ............................  28
IV. CUST ESTIMATES A1ND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates ..........................................  28
B. Financing . ......... 30
C. Procurement ..............................................  32
U. Disbursements ............................................  33
t. Accounts and Audits ............ o.........................  35
V. ORGANIZATIOni AND MArJAGEMENT
A. Coordination and Implementation .......................      ..  36
B. Procurement ManagemenE and Distribution ................. .       37
C. T&V Extension .........................................  38
U. Linkages between Research and Extension ..............     o ...  38



VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Inputs Marketing ............. .        ............ a a*.......  39
B. Agricultural, Livestock and Fisheries Production
and Marketing ............................   39
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT KISKS .........................  40
VIII. itECOMMENDATIONS .............................. o ...   44
ANNEXES
I.  AGRICUL1UKAL SECTOR SACKGKuUND
Table 1 - Agricultural Production Statistics for Uganda ..... 47
II. FILNANCIAL TABLES
Table 1 - Farmgate Local Market and Urban Market Prices (1982) 48
Table 2 - Project Costs and Benefits ............. ...........  49
III.  FORESTRY NURSERY DEVELOPMENT COSTS (per nursery) ............ 50
IV.  STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Table 1 - Staff Required for Fisheries Surveys .............. 51
Table 2 - Staff Required for Pilot T&V Extension Program .... 52
V. PROJECT COSTS
Table  1 - Summary Account by Year ..........................  53
Table  2 - Agricultural Inputs ............... ............... 54
Table  3 - Veterinary Inputs ...       .............................  55
Table  4 - Fishing Inputs ......  .....    ................ ........  56
Table  5 - Input Supply Management .........................  57
Table  6 - On-Farm Adaptive Research ........................  58
Table  7 - Tsetse Control . . .................................. 59
Table  8 - Fisheries; Population Dynamics        ...................  60
Table  9 - Benovation of Training College and
Extension Training ......... .....................  61
Table 1U - Pilot T&V Extension System .....     .................. 62
'fable 11 - Monitoring and Evaluation Unit        ...................  63
Table 12 - Project Component by Year .....     ...................  b4
Table 13 - Summary Account by Project Component  . ..        . 65
Table 14 - Summary Accounit by Year ................. .........  66
Table 15 - Project Component by Year ........................  67



ANNEXES
VI.  IfPLEMENTATION SCUEDUJLE . .........   ............. .........   .   68
VII. DETAILED DISBURSEMENT SCHEUULE .............................  69
VIII.LIST OF ?IATEKIALS AVAILABLE IN THE IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME ...  70
IX.  CHART 26055 - Proposed Project Organization ................  71
CHALT 26056 - Linkages between Extension and Research ......  72
CHART 26057 - Proposed Extension Service Organization ......  73
MAP
IBkW 18035K - Project Area
IB&D 1803b - Soroti District



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
A. The Country
1.01      Uganda is landlocked between Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Zaire and
Sudan. It consists of a central plateau with low hills and rolling plains
and three distinct mountainous areas; Mount Elgon in the east, the
Ruwenzori Mountains in the west, and the highlands of Kigezi in the
south-west. Lake Victoria and the Nile river comprise the principal
drainage system, but there are also numerous small lakes and swamps. Lake
Kyoga is a shallow lake in the center of the country, through which the
Nile tlows.
1.02      Because of altitude (501 of Uganda is between 1,000 and 1,500 m
above sea level), the climate is mild with temperatures varying between a
mean minimum of 17oC and a mean maximum of 3zoC over most ot the country.
Mean monthly variations in temperature are only about 3ou. Average annual
rainfall varies from 2,160 to 510 mm, depending on location, and, except
for northern Karamoja and parts of Ankole, is generally adequate for many
crops. In the south, rainfall is bimodal with peaks in April/fay and
September/November. Progressing northwards the peaks become less distinct
and merge to give a monomodal distribution in the Northern Region.
1.03      In 1v82 Uganda had a population of about 13.5 million, increasing
at an estimated annual rate of 2.8Z. Ethnically the population is
classified as: Bantu 6b6; Nilotic 15%, Nilo-Hamitic 13%; and Sudanic 5%.
the GNP per capita is about US$280.
1.04      The total area of the country is 241,00U  km2 of which lakes and
rivers cover 44,000 km2 and 32,000 km2 are national parks, forest reserves
etc. The cultivable land amounts to 165,000 km2; of which 25% is cropped
each year.
1.05      For purposes of administration, Uganda is divided into ten
regions and 33 districts. The district is the key administrative unit for
development and is administered by a District Commissioner (DC), assisted
by various committees through which the activities of line ministries
working in the district are coordinated. The districts are sub-divided
into counties, sub-counties, parishes and sub-parishes, each under a chief
appointed by the Ministry of Local Government. The chiefs are responsible
to the DC through the District Administrative Secretary and duties include
tax collection, law courts, tood distribution, food storage, distribution
ot agricultural inputs and coordination of development projects.



- 2 -
B. The National Economy
1.0b      At independence in 19b2, Uganda's economy was strong.  Export
crops were developing rapidly, a small indubsrial sector provided export
and consumer goods, transport and communications were good, there was
promising potential for developing hydro-electric power and the education
system was well established. A steady annual growth of GOP of 2.0% was
achieved until 1970, and a current account surplus was maintained in most
years. The Government of Uganda (GOU) revenue contributed a significant
proportion of development outlays.
1.07      Uganda came under military rule in 1971.  Under military
administration GDP stagnated and per capita income fell. Many foreign
businesses were either nationalized or expropriated and under inept
management rapidly declined. The value added in the industrial and
monetary agricultural sectors fell sharply, GOU budgetary and balance of
payments deficits increased and to secure their food supplies, farmers
reverted to subsistence agriculture. The final phase in the decline of the
economy resulted from the Liberation War of 1979 (and the associated
looting, damage and breakdown of society), 'Long years of neglect due to the
inability to maintain and manage plant, and the emigration of skilled
manpower and expertise.
:.0b      Reforms were proposed in 1979 but no substantive action was taken
until 1981, when severe inflation, budge:ary deficits and balance of
payment difficulties highlighted the need for foreign exchange management.
With the help of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), GOU began a program
aimed at restoring economic growth, reducing inflation, stabilizing the
economy, revising investment and reviving production capacity with emphasis
on agriculture, industry and mining. The strategy employed was to float
the Uganda shilling (USh), introduce realistic producer prices, dismantle
price controls, encourage private investment and return nationalized
industry to private ownership.
1.09      A Recovery Program, and later a Revised Recovery Program, were
produced with the objective of using external finance to increase exports
by encouraging agricultural production. This was to be achieved by
providing inputs, rehabilitating industrial plant and increasing producer
prices (paras 1.29 and 1.30). The recovery program was successful in
attracting foreign finance, especially for input procurement.
C. The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.10      Agriculture contributes about 52% of GDP and supports 93% of the
population. Most industry is based on agriculture (cotton-ginning,
textiles, sugar refining, cigarette manufacture etc.). Agriculture
provides 95% of Uganda's exports. Exports now consist almost entirely of
coffee, although previously cotton, sugar, tea and tobacco were also
exiorted. Due to lack of tools and inputs, decline of processing
facilities and inefficient marketing, coffee exports declined from 201,000
tons in 1970 to 95,000 in 191. Within the limits set by the coffee quota,
coffee exports are expected to increase in the future and to remain the
backbone of Uganda's exports, but GOU is taking steps to diversify its



-3-
exports as much as possible, and is pressing for expansion of some
non-traditional exports and rehabilitation of tea, tobacco and sugar
industries.
1.11      Soils. Sandy clay loauTs and clay loams are the predominant soil
types. Those around Lake Victoria are deep and fertile and the area is
often referred to as "the fertile crescent". Heavy black clays are found
in Karamoja; volcanic soils on Mount Elgon and in southwestern Uganda; and
alluvials in central and northern Uganda, to the west of Lake Victoria and
in the swampy tracts around Lake Kyoga.
1.12      Land Holdings.  The average farm size varies considerably over
the country, ranging from about 1.5 ha in the more fertile and montane
areas to 8.0 or 9.0 ha in northern Uganda. Most farmers have permanent
possession of the land they cultivate, although ownership rights usually
rest with the tribal clan. Grazing land and water sources are communally
owned. Freehold title to land exists in some areas and this land may be
leased or sold. The only large estates remaining after nationalization are
those producing sugar, tea and rice.
1.13      Crops.  Farms produce mainly subsistence food crops together with
some cash crops and livestock. Cash crops (coffee, cotton, sugar, tea and
tobacco) were important in the 1960's but declined in area during the
1970's. Production continues at a low level despite recent attempts by GOU
to revive them because of their export potential. Food crops (finger
millet, sorghum, maize, bananas/plantains, cassava, sweet potatoes,
Phaseolus beans and groundnuts) dominate the farming pattern at present.
Yields are low, due to a traditional low-risk, low-input technology and
because farmers are not aware of viable alternatives, since extension
services are lacking or ineffective, inputs, if used, are limited mainly to
crop protection chemicals.
1.14      There are four basic farming systems:
(i) Pastoral nomadism in Karamoja and the drier parts of Ankole.
(ii) The banana-coffee system in southern Uganda and the montane
areas, based on perennial plantation crops and a wide range of
minor crops grown in an ill-defiried rotation.
(iii) The Teso system in which ox-ploughs are used for cultivation.
The sequence of crops is characteristically cotton, finger
millet, cowpeas. The cropping sequence that follows depends on
the residual fertility, but ultimately the land reverts to bush
fallow.
(iv) The northern system, tae diagnostic feature of which is use of
communal labor for cultivation. The rotation is cotton, finger
millet/pigeon peas, sesame or groundnuts, followed by either
cowpeas or groundnuts 3fter which the sequence varies but often
ends with cassava before fallow.
The Teso and northern system are described in more detail in the
Implementation Volume, Item 1.



- 4 -
1.15      Crops are commonly grown in mixed cultivation of several crops,
though pure stands are also used. Land preparation and weeding are usually
done with hand-hoes, ox-cultivation being limited to certain districts in
the cotton-millet cropping zone of the north and then rarely for any
cultivation other than initlal land preparation by plowing.
1.16      Livestock Holdings.  The livestock population has declined since
1978 and is now estimated at 5.0 million cattle, 3.7 million sheep and
goats and 0.3 million pigs. Permanent grasslands (especially in Ankole and
Karamoja), seasonal swamps, fallow areas and agricultural crop stubbles
form the primary grazing land. Intensive schemes for the production of
cattle 1/, pigs and poultry are noy either defunct or operating on a
reduced scale, and livestock production has become mainly a small-holder
enterprise. Cattle production has been limited by outbreaks of contagious
diseases and the recent re-invasion of tsetse fly into previously cleared
areas.
1.17      Fisheries.  About 50% of Uganda's animal protein is obtained from
fish. The peak production of 200,000 tons was reached in the mid 1970's,
with up to 167,000 tons coming from Lake Kyoga which was stocked with Nile
Perch and exotic species of Tilapia in the late 1950's. The fishermen
operate on a small scale using simple wooden boats. The fish destined for
urban centers is either sold fresh or chilled, but lack of ice and an
ineffective transport system has limited the fish sold on this market.
Smoking is the most popular form of preservation and smoked fish are an
important source of protein in rural areas. The fish catch has been
adversely affected by the lack of boats, fishing-nets and transportation
facilities and has declined throughout the country, but especially on Lake
Kyoga which in 1982 was estimated to have produced only 20,000 tons.2/
1.18      Forestry.  The area under forests is 7.5 million ha of which 1.5
million ha are in forest reserves. GOU has not allocated a high priority
to forestry plantations, so that only 29,000 ha have been reforested; the
remaining area is natural forest..
1.19      The rural population depends on natural forests and woodlands for
fuel and building poles. With the increase in population, fuelwood
supplies in the vicinity of homesteads in the more densely populated areas
are becoming depleted and women and children, on whom the main burden
falls, are having to collect fuel supplies from more distant sources. The
forests also supply raw material for the Wood Industries Corporation and
for private sawmills.
1/   In the 1970's there were about 400 ranches each with a carrying
capacity of 6UO-1,OW0 head.
2/   Fish production statistics are confused and open to dispute (Annex I,
table 1).



-5-
D. Markets and Prices
1.2U      Prior to 1981, the structure of crop and livestock prices altered
drastically in response to demands for food crops, low prices tor cash
crops, outbreaks of animal disease (especially contagious bovine
pleuro-pneumonia [CBPPI), and the move towards subsistence farming based on
minimum input usage.
1.21      Direct subsidies are paid on cotton pesticides and acaricides,
but these are being reduced and phased out, so that in future prices will
be set in response to demand on che open market. Experience witn the
Agricultural Reconstruction Program (ARP), which was financed by the
Lnternational Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), indicates that most
farmers are able to pay cash for the purchase of inputs a.d there is no
need for a farmer credit scheme under the present circumstances.
1.22      A free market exists for food crops and prices are market
determined. Processing and marketing of cash crops and the provision of
tarmers' credit is mainly the responsibility of the cooperative movement.
Prices for producers are administered for the major export crops of coffee,
tea, cotton, cocoa and tobacco. Since 1980, thpse producer prices have
been increased sharply, and this has been a main factor behind the
improvement in agricultural production. While in general, agricultural
pricing policy has been an effective stimulus for production, there are
three areas of concern. First, the price setting procedures could be
improved, in terms of methodology, data base, and the timeliness and
appropriateness of the pricing proposals. An agricultural Secretariat has
been set up, to coordinate and strengthen the price determination process
and detailed pricing proposals formulated. The success with which the
Government has been able to judge the appropriate level of producer prices
is remarkable considering the absence of meaningful statistics. The
Government has taken steps to improve the data base, including conducting a
study on costs of production, processing and marketing of major crops. An
agricultural Census is planned for 1985. Second, while producer prices
have been sharply increased, the farmer's share of the export proceeds has
fallen since 1980 for all the four major export crops. Processing and
marketing costs for these exports, on the other hand, have grown as a share
of export proceeds. This has happened despite an increase In the volume of
produce handled by the processors and marketing boards. Over the
medium-term, it is vital that measures be undertaken to reduce the margins
of the processing and marKeting intermediaries. Third, Government receipts
from the export tax on coffee have continued to increase, from USh4 billion
in 1980-81 to USh3l billion in 1982-83 and an estimated USh60 billion in
1983-84. These receipts are a major source of Government revenue.
Producer prices will continue to be an important policy tool for the
Government. The right balance must be sought between maintaining
Government revenues and encouraging production, and efforts must be made to
ensure that changes in the exchange rate are fully reflected in the
producer prices through periodic price adjustments.



E. Agricultural Supporting Services
1.23      Although other ministries are involved in agricultural
development and administration, the two rnost important ministries are the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MA5) and the Ministry of Aaimal
Industry and Fisheries (MAIF), both of which are adequately staffed with
well qualified officers.
1.24      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is responsible for the
development and implementation of crop production policies and programs.
It consists of Departments of Agriculture and Forestry, each headed by a
Commissioner. The Department of Agriculture (DOA) consists of five
sections; Research; kianning and Statistics; Development; Production; and
Administration. MAF also supervises the Uganda Tea Authority, Uganda Tea
Growers' Cooperative, National Sugar Works, Wood Industries Corporation and
Uganda Agricultural Enterprises.
1.25      The Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries has overall
responsibility for the development of the livestock and fisheries
subsectors, including the activities of the Uganda Livestock Industries,
Uganda Meat Canning Factory and Uganda Dairy Corporation. There are three
departments; the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), the Department of
Tsetse Control; and the Fisheries Department. DVS maintains offices in all
districts for livestock disease control programs and for controlling
livestock movement and quarantine arrangements. The Department of Tsetse
Control is responsible for eradicating tsetse and for maintaining barrier
zones aimed at preventing the reinfestation of cleared areas. The
Fisheries Department is responsible for maintaining adequate fish stocks in
Uganda's lakes and rivers. Activities have been drastically curtailed by
lack of funds for operating expenses and transportation.
1.2b      other Ministries and Agencies.  The Ministry of Regional
Cooperation is responsible for the Fisheries Research Institute at Jinja,
and for research on sorghum and millet at Serere Research Station. The
Ministry of Industry has overall responsibility for all aspects of tobacco
and sugar cane production including extension. The Ministry of
Cooperatives and Marketing has its own extension service for cooperatives
and agricultural marketing and also supervises the Coffee Marketing Board,
the Lint Marketing Board and the Produce Marketing Board. Agricultural and
veterinary training at degree level and some research facilities are
provided at Makerere University under the Ministry of Education.
Agricultural credit is provided to farmers mainly through -he Uganda
Commercial Bank. The Ministry of Culture and Community Deve.opment
operates the Rural Training Centers and is responsible for social welfare
including child care and nutrition.
F. Policies and Strategies for Agricultural Development
1.27     GLU's national policies were originally set out in an economic
and social policy statement issued in 1980, and have been largely
reiterated in the Recovery Program (1982-84) and the Revised Recovery
Program (19b2-64) (para 1.09). The pivotal role played by agriculture in
the economy has been recognized and development objectives within the
sector have been identified. These are to encourage small-holder



-7-
agricultural production, to develop the cooperative movement and to
encourage marketing and export through GOU parastatal organizations. The
attainment of GOU objectives will depend on the continuing progress in the
improvement and maintenance of law and order and on further rehabilitation
of the civil service and the physical and social infrastructure within the
country.
1.28      The restoration of small-holder agricultural production to the
peak levels of the 197U's is viewed as a major means of ensuring food
security in all regions, generating rural employment, restoring per capita
incomes and promoting agro-based industry by providing raw materials. In
the short term concentration is on food production and export crops,
increased production of which requires both incentives and the removal of
constraints which are contributing to the decline of production. These
constraints have been identified as:
(i)   lack of imported inputs and spare parts for processing machinery;
and
(ii)   inefficiency and weaknesses of the agricultural support
institutions (including parastatals).
1.29      Incentives for cash crop production increases have been provided
by devaluating the Ugandan currency, raising producer prices (eg. prices
for cotton have been doubled), dismantling price controls on food crops,
ensuring prompt cash payment for cash-crops offered for sale, decontrolling
consumer goods and encouraging foreign investment.
1.30      The recovery programs (para 1.27) are in agreement with overall
policy guidelines in that they include projects aimed at assisting export
directed agriculture, and therefore increased export earnings. Within the
programs, the projects selected are those which will enhance economic
recovery with the least possible demands on the GOL recurrent budget. At
appraisal, external support had been obtained for 73Z of the original
recovery program costs. Immediate steps have been taken to revitalize
existing capacity for production by making available agricultural,
veterinary and fisheries inputs and spare parts needed for the repair and
maintenance of existing machinery. In the longer term, GOU seeks to
continue to support agricultural production and will pursue pricing
policies that will provide incentives and protection for both producer and
consumer. The food supply position will be consolidated and food security
ensured. GOU also plans to encourage private enterprise, diversify
agriculture and agricultural exports and continue to promote small-holder
development.. The operation of the parastatals will also be reviewed and
action taken to improve the efficiency of operation and management of cash
crop marketing. Long term development will also require improvement of
agricultural services (e.g. research and extension).
1.31      As a result of its policies, GUU reports that official purchases
of exporc crops have increased. There are also indications from official
GOU statistics of improvements in food production and in control of animal
diseases.



-8-
G. IFAD and World Bank Operations in the Sector
1.32      Prior to 1971 when the military Government came into power, the
World Bank Group provided finance for projects in power development,
education, roads and agriculture. A Small-holder Tea Project (109-UG 1968
[US$3.4 millionl) was successful, but a Smallholder Tobacco Project
(M12-UG, 1971 [US$4.0 millionD) failed to achieve its objectives because of
defective management, the general decline of the economy and political
instability. A Beef Ranching Development Project (130-UG [US$3.4 million])
was initially successful but the ranches established were adversely
affected by the repercussion of the 1979 war. During the eight years of
military rule financial assitance to GOU was curtailed. With the return of
civilian rule in 1979 external assistance once again became available for
emergency relief and basic needs. IMF provided two standby programs and
the World Bank Group provided two reconstruction credits (983-UG, US$72
million and 1252-UG, US$70 million) and a technical assistance credit
(1077-UG, US$8million).
1.33      The reconstruction credits financed some imported inputs and
spare parts for agriculture but funds from other aid sources were directed
to specific activities with the result that the need for financing general
inputs was not satisfied. ARP, a 1982 IFAD project (US$21.5 million)
executed by the World Bank, addressed this need by providing assistance to
the agricultural sector for the procurement of inputs required by
small-holders in seven districts, which were recognized as being
disadvantaged and not directly assisted under other projects. The
Technical Assistance Credit supported overseas training fellowships in
planning and economics and the establishment of an agricultural secretariat
to assist with policy setting. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (IDA Credit 1328-UG, 1983) (US$70 million) additional imports will
be provided; tea, cotton, tobacco and coffee processing rehabilitated; and
reforms introduced to improve the efficiency of export marketing,
development planning and policy setting.
1.34      It is as yet too early to assess the effects of these
interventions on the sector, but GOU ascribes what success has been
achieved (para 1.31) to both increased availability of agricultural tools
and inputs and to non-project improvements in producer incentives (e.g.
producer price increases).
1.35      ARP included financial support for the preparation of a follow-up
project to further support agricultural production and to improve
supporting services. In collaboration with 'Dale International Limited', a
U.K. based consulting firm, a preparation document was produced in
September 1983 entitled 'Integrated Food Production and Rural Development
Project in Eastern and Northern Uganda'. This formed the basis of a GOU
request to IFAD and IDA to finance an agricultural development project.
H. Project Justification
1.36      The further involvement of IFAD and the World Bank in
agricultural development in the project area can be justified on several
grounds. Firstly, both institutions have cooperated with GOU in drawing up
the overall reconstruction program, secondly both can provide the guidance



- 9 -
necessary in the development of complex technology and institutional
reforms, and thirdly the proposed project offers models for development
which through additional projects could be replicated over the country, and
in the long term, lead to benefits well beyond the project area.
1.37      The project as appraised is a logical sequel to ARP which has
achieved its main objective of supplying a wide range of inputs for crop,
livestock and fish production. Most of these inputs have now been received
and distributed. Demand has remained high and there is evidence that most
inputs have been effectively used. This is especially the case for hoes,
grain storage chemicals, seeds, fish nets, rinderpest and CBPP vaccine and
acaricides. Difficulties have been experienced in collecting payment from
MAI. for goods provided but this has not seriously undermined the
effectiveness of the program.
1.38      The proposed project would be an integral part of GUU's
agricultural sector strategy in an area economically depressed because of
relatively low agricultural production, lack of employment opportunities,
recurring droughts, civil disturbances and cattle raids from Karamoja.
Continuing the supply of inputs which was initiated under ARP would ensure
further increases in crop, livestock and fisheries production, and help to
alleviate poverty and food shortages, and to establish food security.
1.39      The project would also address the need to raise the levels of
efficiency and production of institutions which have been moribund and
unable to play a significant role in agricultural development. The project
would initiate some pioneering methods to increase the effectiveness of
extension and research services, which once proved on a pilot scale could
be introduced nationally to improve institutions and services. The project
therefore provides a balance of zomponents some of which are expected to
have an immediate impact (agricultural inputs, vaccines, fishing nets
etc.), and others which are more long term in nature (institutional
reforms).
1.4u      This report is based oa the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of A. Pritchard, M. Bromhead, E. Sicely (IDA) and J. Frankel,
N. Panigrahi and H. Winsor (Consultants) that visited Uganda during
November/December 19b3. Mr. S. Olowude (LFAD) also participated in the
appraisal mission.
II. THIE PKOJECT BACKGROUND
A. The Project Area
Z.U1      The project area would consist of the administrative districts of
Soroti, Kumi, Lira, Apac, Gulu, Kitgum and Tororo. The project area lies
to the north and east of Lake Kyoga and covers 59,000 km2 including 3,600
km2 of water and swamp. The terrain is flat with occasional rocky
outcrops. Swamps occur along the river courses and in the low lying areas
around the Lake. The soils are predominantly ferralitic, with relatively
low rertility and potential for production. There are small patches of
alluvial soils.  Average annual raintall is normally about 1,OU0  to 1,500
mm, but varies considerably according to site and year.



- 10 -
2.02      Lake Kyoga, the Nile and the Achwa river are permanent water
sources. Urban areas obtain water from boreholes, but most of the
population and their livestock depend on open surface water supplies.
2.03      The area is well provided with road and transport facilities,
although these are in need of repair. There is an abundant electricity
supply to the major urban centers and main roads.
2.04      Land ownership is vested in the tribal clan, the basic unit of
sociai structure, which allocates usufruct to the individual. There is no
security of tenure, but dispossession is rare. Grazing land and water
sources are communally owned.
2.05      The population of the project area is estimated at 2.6 million
increasing at about 2.4% annually. The overall population density is 47
per square kilometer, and is highest in Tororo (171 per square kilometer).
There are approximately 430,000 households in the project area, settled
mostly on scactered homesteads.
B. Agricultural Production
2.Ob      About 33X of the cultivable land (1.3 million) of the projet area
is cropped annually with a cropping intensity of about 150%. Farmers live
on their land and practice a mixed agricultural system in which the cattle
and arable crop enterprises are kept completely separate. Cattle are
usually grazed on common land, with the herds of a number of individual
families being grazed under the control of one herdsman. Rotation cropping
is practiced throughout the area and there is little shifting cultivaion.
In Soroti ane Kumi, ox-ploughs are usually employed for initial cultivation
but this practice is less common in the eastern and northern districts.
2.07      Uver much of the area two ra5ny seasons (April-July and September
-November) usually permit double cropping but there are large annual
variations in the reliability and amount of the rains and in the length of
a relatively dry period for harvesting the crop planted in the first
rains. Crops normally grown in the first rains include the major staple
food (finger millet), sesame, maize, cotton, pigeon peas and groundnuts.
Cowpeas, sorghum and beans are normally grown in the second rains but may
also be grown in the first. Cassava and vegetables are planted in both
seasons. Bananas/plantains are grown wherever soil and moisture conditions
permit and citrus, mangoes, cashew nuts and sugar cane may also be grown in
small quantities. The average area cultivated by each farmer varies from
about 9 ha in Kitgum to about 4 ha in Lira and Apac.
2.08      Most crops are grown with minimal inputs, although there is a
growing interest in the use of agricultural chemicals for pest control,
notably for the control of aphis on groundnuts. Other plant protection
chemicals in demand are for the control of insects attacking vegetable
crops and stored grain, and the control of termites. Soil fertility is
maintained by crop rotation which frequently involves a bush fallow.
Fertilizers are hardly used and with present technology, would be difficult
to justify since the incremental yields obtained are too small to provide
farmers with returns adequate for the risks involved, even at export parity
prices. Improved seeds are in strong demand, however, particularly for
maize, sorghum and vegetables.



- 11 -
2.09      Traditionally, women are responsible for the collection of water
and fuelwood and for the cultivation of food crops, and men are responsible
for cash crops. This division cf labor has become less distinct since
women have embarked upon cash generating enterprises and a lucrative market
for food crops has emerged.
2.10      The main constraints to increased agricultural production are
shortages of agricultural tools and other inputs, the weaknesses of the
supporting services, (especially agricultural extension and research [para
1.281) and the inefficiency of GOU marketing through parastatals.
2.11      Livestock.  The cattle population of the project area is
estimated at 1.3 million head. Data on livestock numbers, and particularly
individual ownership, are generally unreliable. The following breakdown is
based on the most recent (1981) livestock census and a survey at two sites
in the center of the Project Area. An estimated 70% of farm holdings in
the project area have cattle (about 5.1 head per holding). For sheep and
goats, 81% of farm families are owners of an average of 2.5 animals per
family. Poultry are kept by 90X of farm families with an estimated 15
birds per family. Data on pig ownership are particularly poor, howe'ver,
the national census revealed a ten-fold increase in total pig population
over the preceeding five years; considerably in excess of the human
population growth. Within the project area it is estimated that 28% of
farmers own an average of three pigs each. Cattle are grazed on communal
land, fallows and crop stubbles. Cattle play an important role in social
customs as well as providing milk and draught power.
2.12      The predominant breed is the native East African Zebu with some
Ankole and, where there is an interest in milk production, a limited number
of crossbred Freisians. The area has experienced sharp changes in total
cattle numbers over the past 20 years. Cattle and small animals have
decreased over 20% during this period while the human population has
increased about 47%. Cattle reduction has been caused by serious and
mainly uncontrolled outbreaks of CBPP and rinderpest, with additional
losses due to cattle raiders out of neighbouring Karamoja. Goat and sheep
population reduction has been attributed to increased human consumption as
population growth accelerated and small animals became the major source of
meat.
2.13      Because of its relatively dependable rainfall patterns and its
abundance of under utilized grassland the area has a long tradition of
cattle ownership, and keeping cattle has blended efficiently with
smallholder agricultural production. Livestock are marketed through well
established facilities and a modern abattoir was built in Soroti, but over
the past ten years a steady breacdown and distortion of organized meat
marketing has occurred. This resulted from increased illegal cross border
movement due to political and related disruptions; and recent progressively
serious outbreaks of rinderpest and CBPP which required continuous
quarantines and closure of sales markets to prevent movements of animals
from one district to another. MTe Veterinary Department calculates that
average off-take is 10% under normal conditions. Milk production,
particularly in areas surrounding district centers and larger towns and
villages, has been an important source of supplemental income for many
cattleowners. Milk collection centers with refrigerated cooling tanks are



- 12 -
operating in all districts, although, because of the shortages of foreign
exchange needed to maintain mechanical equipment, equipment has
deteriorated badly. Sheep and goat slaughter provides the most common
source of local meat supply. Pig and poultry populations have grown
rapidly and both are becoming increasingly popular as an important source
of cash income from sale in the towns where prices are attractive. The
livestock industry is therefore capable of contributing significantly to
farm incomes and food supply in the project area provided that the disease
problems can be overcome and the area cleared of tsetse fly.
2.14      Except for the use of cattle for draught power, arable and
livestock farming are separate enterprises. Manure, even when available is
seldom used for crop cultivation. The standard of livestock husbandry has
decreased since the departure of the migrant herders, and herding is now
often a part time occupation with inefficient grazing and watering.
2.15      Fisheries.  The Lake Kyoga complex covers 2,700 km2 of which
2,400 km2 is open water with a depth averaging 6 meters 3/ The dramatic
drop in production since 1975 is generally believed to be due to a shortage
of boats and fishing nets 'para 1.17). Other constraints to fisheries
development in the project area are; lack of accurate data on fish
production, fish marketing and stock composition and distribution; lack of
transport and boat landing facilities; lack of handling and marketing
facilities for fresh fish; and inadequate knowledge of techniques of
aquaculture.
2.16      Sociology.  The clan is the basic unit of social organization but
in the face of the critical economic situation, the traditional authority
of the clan elders is breaking down as individuals seek to avoid clan
restrictions, responsibilities and regulations.
2.17      Farms are operated by Eamily labor.  In the past there were
exchanges of labor in the different traditional communal methods for
working and opening land, but these systems are disappearing with the
breakdown of the traditional society. Due mainly to a lack of cash to pay
wages only a limited amount of labor is hired for farm work. Large amounts
of female labor could be made available by providing stategically located
water sources so as to alleviate the present time consuming process of
collection over long distances.
2.16      Food crops are grown primarily for subsistence.  However, they
are also the only source of cash for most farmers, and are sold to meet
essential cash requirements (taxes, school fees), often at the expense of
meeting the nutritive requirements of the family. Few animals are consumed
on the farm and both milk and eggs are sold. Hunger has always been common
before the millet harvest, but now that food is being marketed, severe
malnutrition problems are becoming evident in the project area, especially
among children.
3/   Lake levels fluctuate consiierably; for instance the level rose by
3.0 m from 1945 to 1965, buz has been falling recently.



- 13 -
2.19      Rural Institutions.  Administrative services in the project area
are identical to those for the country as a whole (para 1.05).
2.20      The DAO Production Section (para 1.24) is responsible for the
national agricultural extension service and therefore, extension in the
project area. Under the field administration of DOA, Uganda is divided
into ten agricultural regions each under a Regional Agricultural Officer
(RAO) assisted by some specialist staff. Below the RAO, each district is
headed by a District Agricultural officer (DAO) who is assisted by district
headquarters staff and is also responsible for junior officers working at
county and parish levels QAssistant Agricultural Officers IAAOI,
Agricultural Assistants [AA] and Field Assistants [FA]). The national
extension staff total about 2,300 agents, 700 of whom are university
graduates.
2.21      Because of low pay, lack of transport and inadequate extension
messages agricultural and livestock extension services are inefficient and
inactive. In the past, many extension techniques including demonstrations,
field days, farmer training seminars, and youth clubs have been used but
even when fully operational, the extension services had limited success in
increasing production because:
'i)   the policy of encouraging 'progressive' farmers has directed
extension support to the larger landholders, and attempts to
introduce high input technology have not always been relevant to
farmers practicing subsistence agriculture;
(ii)   the stress on cash crops has been inappropriate since these have
never formed the major part of the small farm enterprise;
(iii)   there has been no attempt to obtain systematic feed back from
farmers on the relevance of extension messages to their problems;
(iv)   the staff of the extension service have not received training to
upgrade their professional competence, and lack
corfidence to interact with farmers when their knowledge is
restricted to the theoretical approach taught during formal
pre-service education;
(v) training for farmers at District Farm Institutes (DFI) and the
outreach programs have not been effective;
(vi)   there is little cooperation between the agricultural and
livestock extension services in promoting agricultural
production;



- 14 -
(vii)   agricultural extension activities are complicated by the
independent or overlapping demands of a number of uncoordinated
production programs for particular crops which are separately
staffed and directed, and sometimes financed by different
external agencies. (For instance, the production aspects ot
coffee are handled under a Wuropean Economic Community (EEC)
financed rehabilitation program; the Ministry of Industry is
responsible for tobacco and sugar extension; seed production is
under an EEC seed project and other agencies are preparing
projects for tea and cotton). Under these conditions, direction
and organization are difficult and extension activities are
disjointed.
2.z2      In spite of the fact that the division of labor between men and
women is becoming less distinct (para 2.09), technical advice is directed
almost exclusively toward men and cash crops (especially cotton). Women's
needs are neglected. There is a need for extension focussed on providing
both technical and management advice for women, and at the same time, women
should be encouraged to become members of cooperatives and to participate
in the reconstruction programs.
2.23      The tiree main research stations, one of which is located at
Serere (see map 18030), come under the DOA Research Section. Because of
their early economic importance, agricultural research in Uganda
concentrated on cash crops, but since major research emphasis was usually
on high input cash crop farming and research was largely limited to
research stations, the results obtained are not always appropriate for the
present state of small holder agriculture in Uganda. over recent years the
research service has degenerated as a result of apathy and lack of funds
and materials and much rehabilitation is required before it will be able to
play a significant role in agricultural develwpment. Assistance is being
provided by USAiD under a bilateral project for, inter alia rehabilitation
of facilities at Serere Research Station.
2.24      Cooperative Unions and primary societies operate in the project
area, but like so many rural institutions the system is now run-down and
its staff demoralized.  The agricultural credit that was once available to
small farmers through the cooperatives is now being revised. Attempts are
now being made to rehabilitate the cooperatives and their stores and to
enable them to serve as retail outlets.
2.25      About 20-z5 percent of taxpayers are cooperative members, but
women are involved only to a minor extent in most cooperatives. The
Cooperative Unions function as cash crop marketing organizations and many
farmers are dissatisfied with the services they receive. The cooperative
movement is now in urgent need of revitalization in order to enable better
services to be provided and confidence in the movement restored.
Z.Zb      Produce is marketed either through the cooperatives, which in the
future are expected to provide a second outlet for food grains as well as
cash crops, or locally through markets located in towns and villages.
Private trading has begun to function on a very small scale



- 15 -
III. TME PRUJECT
A. General Description
3.U1      The objectives of the proposed project are to increase food
production and family income and increase the availability of data to
formulate sector development plans, by:
(i)   providing basic agricultural, livestock and fisheries inputs in
the project area;
(ii)   providing support for adaptive research, introducing the trapping
method tor tsetse control, and surveying and monitoring fisheries
resources; and by
(iii)   strengthening selected agricultural inst'tutions and services
involved in agricultural extension and project monitoring and
evaluation; and by introducing the training and visit (r&V)
system of agricultural extension.
3.02      because of the weakenei nature of agricultural extension and
research services (para. 2.31 to 2.23) and the uncertainties associated
with the introduction of new ini:iatives (para. 7.09 to 7.10), GOU has
decided to approach the problem of revitalizing these services in a phased
manner. Consequently, extension and research activities during the project
period would be concentrated in :he four central districts (Lira, Kumi,
Apac and Soroti). Successful systems developed under the project would be
gradually replicated in Tororo, Gulu and Kitgum and other comparable areas
of Uganda.
3.U3      The main beneficiaries %ould be smallholder farmers and
fishermen. Given the homogeneity of the project area, with regard to farm
size and the economic status of t:he inhabitants most of the population
falls within IFAD's target group. It is probable that few of the 430,000
families in tte project area would not benefit from the supply of inputs,
since the majority are smallholders and own some livestock. The improved
services would also be aimed at t:he smallholder and the 47,000 families in
Soroti District would be expected to benefit substantially rrom the
improved extension methodology to be introduced there.
Input Supplies
3.04      The following inputs would be provided under the proposed four
year project:
(i)   Agricultural implements and inputs (US$12.8 million); hand tools,
ox carts, ox plows, smtll flour mills, seeds, bicycles,
wheelbarrows, workshop equipment for repair of agricultural
equipment, spare parts, agricultural chemicals and forestry
nursery supplies;
(ii)   Livestock inputs (USU2-1 million); veterinary drugs, veterinary
equipment, vaccines, acaricides, spare parts, vehicles, and a
mobile laboratory; and



- 16 -
(iii)   Fisheries supplies (US$0.5 million); outboard motors, spares,
fish nets, boat building material, and vehicles.
Research and Surveys
3.05      The project would support research and surveys aimed at providing
new technology; it would test under Uganda conditions, techniques developed
elsewhere and accumulate information for future development planning.
Specifically the project would sapport the following by financing vehicles,
civil works, housing, boats, huts, camping equipment, office and laboratory
equipment, training, technical assistance and incremental operating costs.
(i)   An adaptive agricultural research program to be conducted on
farmers' fields (US$0.5 million);
(ii)   Introduction and testing of a trapping technique for tsetse fly
control (US$0.3 million); and
(iii)   Surveys of fish catches on Lake Kyoga and studies of fish
population dynamics (US$1.6 million).
Institution Building
3.06      Under the project the following institutions would be
strengthened by providing funds for civil works, building renovation,
vehicles, office equipment, fiel.l equipment, audio visual aids, survey
equipment, technical assistance, training and incremental operating costs.
i)   Agricultural extension, by rehabilitating training centers in
Lira and Soroti districts and by introducing T&V in Soroti
district (US$3.0 million); and
(ii)   Monitoring and evaluatLon by supporting the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit in MAF headquarters (US$0.7 million).
B. Detailed Description
Input Supplies
3.07      Since there is little :Lndication as yet of a return to input
importation through normal comme::cial trading operations or local
manufacture, inputs would be provided and distributed under the proposed
project. Where possible the requjirements for tools, equipment, recurrent
supplies etc. have been based on information and data on farm inventories,
consumer demand and likely useful life of the items concerned.  However, in
many cases the data base at appraisal was found to be unreliable or
non-existent. Since accurate ca:lculations of input requirements were
therefore not possible, many of the estimates in Annex V Tables 2-4 are
tentative and have been based on the judgement of senior staff working on
the on-going ARP (para 1.33) and on demand projectious from sales at
warehouses and cooperative stores. More accurate estimates of requirements
will only become apparent after t:he project has started, necessitating a
flexible approach in arranging for the supply of most items. The
estimates of input requirements should therefore be regarded as indicative



- 17 -
only and additional funds have been provided for the procurement of items
such as rice hullers, groundnut shellers, millet threshers, for which needs
have been identified but quantities not specified.
3.08      Agricultural (Crop) Inputs.  In Uganda, the basic tillage tool is
the hoe, of which two types are ..n general use; the broad-blade digging hoe
(round-eye hoe) and the heart shaped Lango hoe. Under the project a total
of 1.9 million would be provided (Annex V, Table 2), together with axes,
pangas and sickles needed for land clearing and crop harvesting.
3.09      In areas where the terrain is suitable and tsetse are absent,
ox-plows are used for primary cu:Ltivation. Since 1960, the number of
ox-plows has decreased, mainly because of lack of spares and replacement
plows. Under the project, both plows and spares would be provided.
3.10      To enable ox-plows to be repaired, workshop equipment would be
provided for the workshops at Ngetta and Arapai and also for the mobile
workshop operated in the project area by FAO for repairs to agricultural
machinery. The mobile workshop iiould operate on a scheduled circuit,
stopping at centers to which farmers would bring plows for repair. Spares
obtained under the project would be carried and repairs would be on a cash
basis.
3.11      Both on-and off-farm transportation is a problem in the project
area. Bic;cles are one of the main forms of transportation and would be
provided under the project. Ox-carts are being manufactured at the Low
Cost Farm Equipment Project 4/ workshop in Soroti but the annual output is
grossly inadequate for the demanis of the area. Under the project both
ox-carts and wheelbarrows would be provided.
3.12      There is a big demand --or storage chemicals, aphicides,
fungicides, insecticides and chemicals for termite control. Maize and
vegetable seed is also required and would be imported under the project
from suppliers who under ARP were able to provide seed of acceptable
varieties. In response to the demand identified under ARP, 150 flour mills
would be provided over the project period.
3.13      Since there is limited demand for knapsack sprayers and stocks in
the ARP warehouses are high, no provision is made for supply under this
project. Similarly, there is lit:tle demand for imported fertilizers (para
2.08).
3.14      In order to promote the distribution of seedlings in its national
tree planting campaign, the Forestry Department is establishing forest
nurseries on a sub-county basis. The aim is to provide on-farm supplies of
fuel and building poles. Under the project, essential tools, bicycles and
supplies (such as polythene tubing and chemicals for termite control) would
be provided for 94 forestry nurseries. Details are given in Annex III.
4/   Originally supported by UNIDO



- 18 -
3.15      Livestock Inputs.  About 7.U million doses of a combined vaccine
5/ will be provided under the project for the control of rinderpest and
CbJ?P. Vaccines for rabies, foot and mouth, and anthrax and blackquarter in
cattle and newcastle disease in poultry would also be provided together
with trypanocides, anthelmintics, and antibiotics. Where possible,
containers would be used which are appropriate in size to the needs of the
stock owners. Details of inputs are provided in Annex V, table 3 and in
the Implementation Volume, item J.
3.lb      The 27,200 liters of acaricide to be provided is based on an
estimate of the number of dips and the number of sprayers likely to be in
operation.
3.17      In order to continue surveillance of CBPP outbreaks by promptly
analyzing blood samples collected at quarantine holding grounds (or at
cattle sales where these are permitted) funds would be provided for the
procurement and operation of a mobile testing laboratory, and for the
rehabilitation of quarantine holding grounds.
3.18      Fisheries Supplies.  The nets provided under ARP have a useful
life of about two years. Under the project, 81,00U nets would be provided
to supplement those available from other sources, such as the net factory
in Kampala and other aid agencies (EEC). In accordance with local fishing
regulations, mesh size would range from four to ten inches. The number of
canoes on Lake Kyoga is estimated at 3,200, each capable of using up to 20
nets. The nets supplied under the project would be sufficient to provide
each canoe with between seven and ten nets annually. No provision would be
made for supplies of mending twine, nylon cord, foot ropes, floart and
weights since at appraisal stocks were found to be high, and demand low.
Fishing inputs to be provided are listed in Annex VI, table 4 and discussed
in the Implementation Volume, Item b.
3.19      Under the project, 130 outboard motors and necessary spare parts
would be provided for fishermen with canoes suitably constructed for
outboard motors. Instruction on service and maintenance of outboard motors
would be provided by the extension service (para 3.52).
3.2U      The planked canoes in use on Lake Kyoga are constructed by local
builders using simple hand tools. Under the project tools and materials
(fastenings, fittings, caulKing and paint) would be provided to enable the
quality of construction to be improved.
J 21      Procurement Management and Distribution.  A consultant
Procurement Manager would be recruited who would be responsible for the
management of the Procurement Unit and for all procurement under the
project, including that for the _.nfrastructure and research components
(paras 3.ZZ to 3.53). He would be stationed at Tororo and would manage the
*Lororo Warehouse. Additional managers would be appointed for the project
warehouse in Soroti and Lira and a consultant accountant would be appointed
to maintain all project accounts. Assurances were obtained at
5/   The vaccine "BISSEC" can be stored for several months in an ordinary
refrigerator.



- 19 -
negotiations that the Procuremeni: Unit would be maintained and that the
Ugandan assistant warehouse managers and support staff presently employed
under AKP at Tororo, Soroti and Lira would continue to be employed under
the proposed project. Costs of procurement management are given in Annex
V, table 5.
Research and Surveys
3.22      Adaptive Kesearch.  Uncder the project, an adaptive research
section would be established at Serere Research Station with responsibility
for identifying research programs which are responsive to farmers' needs,
testing research recommendations on farmers' fields and creating linkages
between research and excension. The quality of service given to the farmer
by research extension agencies wciuld be improved by preparing
recommendations on crop production practices based on experimental results
proven in farm practice. A sub-regional team, administered from Serere,
would be established at Lira (Ngetta) to conduct on-farm research
activities in Lira and Apac districts.
i.23      A consultant agronomist would be recruited who would assist in
establishing the section and plarning the research program. Appropriate
overseas training at the iISc level would be provided for two senior Ugandan
staft who would ultimately assume responsibility for the operation of the
adaptive research program. The project would also finance housing, storage
facilities, vehicles, equipment, allowances and operating costs (Annex V,
table 7).
3.24      Tsetse Fly Control.  The control of tsetse flies in north and
east Uganda has been particularly difficult, in the former area because of
low levels of human population acjacent to major areas of infestation and
in the latter by the discrete diEtribution of tsetse fly pockets. In
consequence, cleared corridors or barriers have been maintained on a long
term basis with the use of paid labor or with heavy machinery, both of
which are expensive. These barriers have failed to give long term control
over the fly, so that areas previously cleared have become reinfested. A
combination of ground spraying and clear felling is being used in the
Lira/Apac program with support from AKk. The costs per unit of area
protected are exceedingly high in relation to the number of families and
animals aftected and at the same time, the method involves widespread use
of large quantities of the hazardous chemical dieldrin with consequent risk
to the users and the environment. Under these circumstances, there is an
urgent need to investigate more cost effective and less dangerous methods
of tsetse fly control. A new approach which at present offers an
alternative to traditional control measures, has been under study in Kenya
and in Zimbabwe in conjunction with Bristol University for an extended
period of time, based upon tne use of tly traps. The method was used
originally only for sampling tsetse populations but with the recent
development of eftective attractants of scent and color, trapping is now
being tested as a practical control and possible elimination of fly over
large areas. Investigations have reached the stage where the results of
field trials can be utilized in pilot operations on a scale large enough to
indicate the potential ot the method for national control programs.



- 20 -
3.25      Under the proposed project assistance would be provided to the
Department of Tsetse Control, to establish a pilot tsetse control program
based on the trapping technique. Funds would be provided for:
(a)   a three month visit by three Ugandan tsetse control officers to
Zimbabwe and Kenya to obtain first hand knowledge and field
experience in trapping t chniques;
(b)   an eight month consultancy staffed by Zimbabwean and Bristol
University personnel in Uganda to locate and establish a pilot
project for testing trapping techniques under various conditions
and to evaluate its effectiveness; and
(c)   the necessary materials, equipment and vehicle operating costs
needed to support establishment, maintenance and supervision of
the pilot program and the activities of the consultants.
3.26      Fisheries Research and Surveys.  The low production levels from
Lake Kyoga in recent years have been ascribed to shortages of fishing gear
(para 1.17) but it is also possible that over-fishing has occurred and that
ecological changes in the lake have reduced fish stocks. The studies and
surveys outlined in paras 3.28 - 3.30 and in the Implementation Volume,
Item 6, would help provide the data on the limnological equilibrium, which
is necessary for future planning of fisheries exploitation in the project
area.
3.27      Landing Facilities.  Launches and dinghies to be provided for
stock assessment (para 3.28) and for the collection of fisheries statistics
(para 3.29) on Lake Kyoga, would be based at Namasagali and Lale
respectively. The landing and shore facilities at these sites require
repair and funds would be provided under the project for the purchase of
construction materials and the employment of labor. The rehabilitation
would be carried out by the Public Works Department by force account.
3.28      Fish Stock Assessment.  A stock assessment unit for the Lake
Kyoga complex would be established to conduct essential biological and
related studies. The unit would be based at the Uganda Freshwater
Fisheries Research Organization at Jinja. This is presently part of the
Ministry of Regional Cooperation, but nevertheless, the unit would be under
MIAF direction. A consultant Stock Assessment officer would be recruited
for a two year period and twelve man-months of consulting services in fish
biology provided. Both in-service and overseas training for Ugandan staff
would be financed under the project (Annex V, table 4).
3.29      Fisheries Statistics and Evaluation.  The study is required in
order to assess the current status of fishery in Lake Kyoga and to monitor
changes in fish production, including catch composition, fishing patterns
and techniques, and marketing and distribution practices. Operations would
be integrated with the stock assessment study (para 3.28). The study would
be based at Soroti. Under the project, a consultant Fisheries Statistician
would be provided for a period of two years, to be responsible for
providing in-service training and for establishing a Fisheries Statistics
Unit in MAIF.



- 21 -
3.3U      Close contact would be maintained with fish landings and
markets. To enable statf to travel around the lake, a thirty-foot launch,
a dinghy and two four-wheel drive vehicles would be provided.
Accommodation would be provided at landing sites in the form of
prefabricated huts, together with the necessary camping gear and protective
clothing (Annex V, table 4).
3.31      Fisheries staff requirements.  The professional and support staff
required for fish assessment and fisheries statistics collection are
indicated in Annex IV, table 1. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that fisheries department staff would be redeployed to fill any vacancies.
Staff would be available from either those currently responsible for the
collection and analysis of fisheries statistics at headquarters in Entebbe,
or from fisheries staff working in the project area.
Institution building
3.32      Agricultural Extension.  Under the project, the general
agricultural extension services in the districts of Kumi, Apac and Lira
would be improved by the provision of in-service training for agricultural
extension staff. In addition, T&V would be introduced into Soroti
District, on a pilot basis, with the objective of determining its
suitability as a means of bringing about significant improvements in
production on subsistence farms in Uganda.
i.33      Agricultural Extension in Soroti District.  The project would
provide, on a systematic basis, the advice needed to increase food
production and farm income by strengthening and intensifying the
agricultural extension service. To ensure that cultivators (farmers and
their wives) would be visited regularly, extension staff would be organized
according to the T&V system, which provides for a direct line of command
from DAO to field staff and for linkages between extension and research
staff through worKshops and training sessions. Technical competence of
extension staff would be continuously improved by systematic training and
the availability of technical advice from senior district level and
research staff.
3.34      In order to gain first hand information on the operation of T&V
and to facilitate its early adoption in Soroti District, ten MAIF and MAIF
staff members would be sent to Kenya in the pre-project period for about
four weeks to visit areas in which tne system is operating successfully
(para 4.03). The team would consist of three senior officers from MAF and
MAIF headquarters, the Director of Research from Serere Research Station,
DAO Soroti, AU Soroti (Training), two Agricultural Supervisors (para 3.35)
and two Field Extension Workers (para 3.33).
3.35      Extension Methodology.  Soroti district consists of eight
counties, 35 sub-counties and 1b2 parishes (see map 18036). These would be
organized into five functional units (FU) [see chart 26057J. Each of the
units would be headed by an Agricultural Utficer (AU). DAV Soroti would
continue to be responsible for supervising the activities of all FU and
would be assisted by a deputy DAC (Administration), a training and farm
trials officer, an input coordination officer, a special projects officer
and a statistical officer. The Agricultural Assistants (AA) and Field



- 22 -
Assistants (FA) would be redesignated as Field Extension Workers (FEW) and
existing AAU and Senior Agricultural Assistants would form a pool of
Agricultural Supervisors (AS) who would help, guide and supervise FEW.
Since under the present-day economic situation in Uganda, the full-time
commitment of field staff is uncertain (para 7.09), the number of farm
families, with which each FEW is assigned to work, would be limited to
about 240. This is low in comparison to T&V systems operating in other
countries, but duritLig the pilot/demonstration phase in Uganda is
necessary. once T&V and the associated institutional arrangements have
been satisfactorily established, and are operating effectively it should be
possible to increase the ratio of farmers to FEW.
3.3o      To provide regular training, technical guidance and field
support, Subject tmatter Specialists (SMS) would be required. SMS for
small holder rice production, agronomy and plant protection would be
stationed at FU; and one each for horticulture and farm mechanization would
be stationed at district headquarters. Details of total staff requirements
and number of staff available are given in Annex IV, table 2. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that necessary additional agricultural
extension staff would be posted to the Soroti District from other
districts. Ideally, the SMS should hold a post-graduate degree in the
appropriate discipline, but since staff with these qualifications are
unlikely to be immediately available, the positions would be filled
temporarily witn senior graduate staff with field experience in the
required discipline. In the meantime, selected graduates (five in
agronomy, tive in plant protection, one in horticulture and one in farm
mechanization) would be sent abroad for post-graduate training. These
would assume SMS duties on their return to Uganda. Short-term training
would also be provided for the five, small holder rice production S1IS.
3.37      Technical Assistance.  The services of a T&V consultant expert
would be financed under the project, to be based at Soroti with
responsibility for the organization and implementation of the progam and
for training local staff.
3.38      The aim would be to begin T&V operations as soon as possible
after the project became effective. This would require about three man
months of consultancy services in the pre-project period, in order to
organize and delineate areas of cperation for FEW and AS; and to formulate
the extension messages for the initial six months of the project period.
Although some of the possible content of extension messages had been
proposed (Implementation Volume, Item 4), no formal messagee were available
at the time of appraisal. In order to prepare messages the consultant
would be required to evaluate results from research and field trials
(adapting recommendations to the small-holder situation where necessary)
and to discuss field problems and constraints to production with farmers,
extension workers and research staff. The extension messages are critical
for the successful operation of T&V and therefore assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the initial extension messages would be prepared and
submitted to IDA/IFAD for review before June 30, 1985.



- 23 -
3.39      Training.  Training for operational extension staff to be
supported under the project would include:
(i)   bi-annual (pre-season) training for two days for FEW, AS, SMS and
other senior extension officers;
(ii)   monthly workshops for these staff and research personnel;
(iii)   fortnightly training sessions for FEW; and
(iv)   special short courses, as required for AS and SMS.
Training details are provided in Implementation Volume, Item 4.
3.40      An orientation seminar would be held for about one week at Soroti
for the DC Soroti and senior district level representatives of the line
ministries. District level specialist staff would attend a separate
one-week orientation seminar, so as to be made aware or project components
and objectives. This would be held at Arapai Community Development
Training Center (CDTC).  These officers would then provide the orientation
training for lower level staff in the field.
3.41      Serere District Farm Institute (DFI), Arapai CDTC, Serere
Research Station and Variety Trial Centers would be used for training. The
Arapai Agricultural College would be used for field demonstrations. These
institutions would be upgraded by rehabilitating electricity and water
supplies; providing dormitory, dining and kitchen furniture and equipment;
building repairs; constructing staff houses; and providing teaching aids
and equipment (Annex V, table 9).
3.42      Originally, DOI and COTC were developed and staffed to provide
training for farmers. Under the project, the type of training and the
educational level of trainees would require more highly qualified staff at
these institutions to ensure that course contents are appropriate. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a farm manager and the
following tull time graduate staff would be appointed and posted to Arapai
CDTC by December 31, 1985.
(i)   principal;
(ii)   agronomist/farm management specialist;
(iii) veterinary/animal husbandry specialist;
(iv)   community development specialist;
(v)   cooperatives/marketing specialist;
(vi)   home economics/village technology specialist;
At negotiations, assurances were also obtained that Serere Research Station
would provide qualified training personnel as and wihen needed for
conducting training courses at Serere DFI.



- 24 -
3.43      Vehicles and Equipment.  The proposed extension system requires a
high level of personal contact between all levels of extension staff and
farmers. Under the project a four wheel drive vehicle would be provided
for each of FU. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a hire
purchase system satisfactory to IDA/IFAD would be set up to enable FEW and
AS to purchase bicycles and motor-bicycles. Vehicles would be imported as
part of the agricultural input supply component. Funds for transport and
travel allowances would be included under the project and assurances would
be obtained at negotiations that these would be paid promptly through the
project rransport Account (para. 4.0o).
3.44      Necessary incremental office equipment would be financed under
the project for FU and the DAU's office in Soroti. Field staff would be
provided with extension aids (seeds, mini kits, teaching materials,
implements etc.) and measuring and weighing equipment for field trials.
3.45      Printing, photography and copying facilities for publishing
farming literature would be provided for modernizing the Information and
Visual Aids Center at diA headquarters (Annex V, table 10).  Tape recording
equipment would be provided for the production of farm radio programs.
3.46      Staff housing. In order to facilitate visits to farmer groups,
extension workers (FEW and As) would be required to live in the areas in
which they operate.  GUU is unable and unwilling to provide for a large
scale house construction program and intends to organize construction of
the necessary houses as a community self-help project. However, since
building materials are in short supply, a supply of galvanized iron roofing
sheets, fasteners, cement, paint etc., would be provided under the project
for extension workers' houses.
3.47      Agricultural Extension in Kumi, Apac and Lira Districts.  The
extension services in Kumi, Apac and Lira Districts would continue to
operate according to the existing systems, by which operational guidelines
are set by the DAO but most of the extension initiatives are the
responsibility of lower level field staff, who normally meet with farmers,
distribute iAF inputs, arrange agricultural demonstrations and conduct
extension campaigns directed at specific topics (for instance cotton
production, crop protection). These existing services have been
strengthened by the provision of allowances, vehicles, seed etc. under
ARP.
3.46      Under the proposed project staff would be encouraged to
concentrate on the needs of the smallholder, and move away from the
strategy based on identification of progressive farmers and the use of
expensive inputs. They would be required to provide advice on the use of
imported inputs as and when these are made available for sale at retail
outlets. Extension staff knowledge and expertise would be improved through
the supply of information and pamphlets from the strengthened Information
and Visual Aids Center, and by in-service training courses to be conducted
in the renovated facilities in Soroti District and at Ngetta DFI, where
water and electricity supplies would be improved, vehicles and teaching
aids supplied and buildings repaired.



- 25 -
3.49      The services of a consultant training expert would be financed
under the project, for the design and management of the required training
courses which would concentrate on modern extension techniques and methods
for providing advice to farmers on present day problems.
3.50      In addition, orientation seminars, similar to those provided for
Soroti district would be held at Soroti and Lira, for senior district level
representatives of line ministries, and at Ngetta Farm Institute and the
Arapai Community Development Training Centers for district level specialist
staff. At these seminars the concepts of the T&V extension system being
introduced in Soroti district would be explained and staff prepared for the
possible introduction of the system into the other six districts.
3.51      A farm manager and new graduate staff would be required at Ngetta
DFI identical to those to be posted at Arapai CDTC (para 3.42), and
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.52      Fisheries txtension.  Service and maintenance facilities would be
needed for outboard motors provided under the project. Regional service
centers are proposed for this purpose under an EEC supported project, but
until these are available, advice on service and maintenance would be
provided in the project area by Fisheries Officers, all of whom have
received basic training in marine engineering.
3.53      Advice and guidance would also be required on the use of the boat
building materials to be imported under the project (para 3.20) and the
changes in design necessary to en;;ure canoes are strong enough for outboard
motors. The Department of Fisheries Boat Building Division would be
responsibile for providing information on boat designs and construction.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.54      Monitoring and evaluation is an important project management
tool. Ideally, the project should be monitored by an agency other than the
two ministries involved in implementation. The logical choice would be the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, but at present, this
MYinistry is in the process of being restructured and strengthened in order
to enhance its economy wide planning, monitoring and evaluation
capabilities. This will not be completed in time to enable the Ministry to
assume the monitoring and evaluation function for this project. Therefore,
the function would be assumed by 1'AF, since of the two Miniptries involved,
only MAF has an effective sector monitoring and evaluation system which
under ARP has monitored both MAF and I4AIF input supply programs.
3.55      Assurances were obtainedi at negotiations that the MAF Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (MEU) would be maintained. It would be strengthened
under the project. At appraisal, agreement was reached with MIAF that MEU
would continue to be responsible :-or monitoring and evaluating progress of
project components to be implemented by MIAF, as well as those by MAF. A
monitoring and evaluation consultant would be recruited to be stationed at
Entebbe and be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation program for
the first two project years, afte- which the Head of MEU would become
responsible. Both MAF and MIAF would delegate an officer to work directly



- 2b -
with the consultant. These officers and existing officers of MIU would
receive both overseas and inservice training and at the end of the second
project year the MAIF officer would assist in the establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation unit in MAIF.
3.56      At the district level, the District Monitoring Ufficers presently
assigned to monitor ARP would continue to operate and would report directly
to MEU. Data collection would be through existing DUA field staff,
especially the district statisticians, economists and enumerators employed
by the DOA Planning and Statistics Section. Information on fish catches
would become available from the sarvey of Lake Kyoga fisheries (para 3.30).
3.57      Monitoring would be continuous and periodic evaluation would be
made of all project components. The consultant would establish a routine
system for monitoring and would determine the variables to be monitored.
This would include measurements of input delivery and of outputs needed for
analysis. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that, before June 30,
1985, LOU would submit the monitoring and evaluation system for the project
to IDA/IFAI for review and comment, and upon receipt of comments make the
system operational. The following reports would be produced:
(i)   quarterly reports recording progress with reference to planned
targets, price data etc.;
(ii)   six-monthly reports on the input distribution system (para.
6U02);
(iii)   annual reports compiled from quarterly reports and including
analysis of problems and constraints and recommendations for
adjusting and reorientating project activities;
(iv)   special reports on selected topics, such as surveys to determine
the extent of adoptationi of extension packages;
(v)   a project completion report, summarizing project performance and
evaluating its impact, which would be submitted to IDA/IFAD not
later than six months after the project closing date.
3.5b      A mid-term review of project progress would be made in the
beginning of the third project year.  This would be arranged by HEU and
assurances were obtained at negotLations that not later than September 3U,
1987, GOU would furnish to IDA/IFAO a detailed review of the overall
project performance with recommendations for any changes in project design.
3.59      The consultant would be responsible for designing and
implementing a base-line survey needed before the start-up of the
agricultural extension component, and for the system to be used for
monitoring the distribution and sale of goods provided through the project
warehouses at Tororo, Lira and Soroti (para 7.08). At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that planning targets would be set in annual work
programs which would be prepared by each Ministry involved and submitted to
IDA/IEAD for review and comment before April 1 each year. The work plans
of the implementing ministries for the first twelve months, which would
include an initial assessment of goods to be imported, would be submitted
to IDA/IFAU as a condition of effectiveness.



- 27 -
I. Technical Assistance
3.6U      In order to manage the supply of inputs, execute the research
program, introduce new methods of extension and strengthen monitoring and
evaluation, a substantial amount of technical assistance would be
required. The following technical assistance needs have been identified
and would be included in the project. Draft terms of reference for
long-term consultants are provided in the Implementation Volume item 7.
(a)   Input Management
(i) procurement manager (24 man-months);
(ii) project accountant (24 man-months);
(iii) warehouse managers (two 24 man-month consultancies).
(b)   Research and Surveys
(i) adaptive agricultural research specialist (24 man-months);
(ii) tsetse fly control specialist (8 man-months);
(iii) fisheries stock assessment specialist (24 man-months);
(iv) fisheries statistician (24 man-months);
5v) fish biologists (three 4 month consultancies);
'c)   Extension
(i) training specialist (30 man-months);
(ii) training and visit extension specialist (36 man-months);
(d)   Monitoring and Evaluation
(i) monitoring and evaliation specialist (30 man-months);
3.61      It would be a condition of project effectiveness that the
Procurement Manager and Project Accountant had been employed
(para.3.bOaJ).
E. Training
3.62      In addition to extension training (paras 3.39 and 3.40)
in-service training would be provided by the consultants for Ugandan staff
counterparts to enable them to tace over project responsibilities when
consultancies have ended. Overseas training would be provided in the
following fields:
(a)   iesearch and Surveys
(i) adaptive research (14 man-months);



- 28 -
(ii) fish stock assessmentt (18 man-months);
(iii) fishery statistics 112 man-months);
(iv) tsetse control (9 mn-months).
(b)   Extension
(i) subject matter spec:;alists (298 man-months);
(ii) extension methodology (10 man-months);
(c)   Monitoring and Evaluation
(i) monitoring and evaluation techniques (21 man-months)
F. Environmental Impact
3.b3      The project is expected to have no adverse effects on
environmental conditions. The insecticides and aphicides to be provided
would be used under controlled conditions, mainly in restricted areas
(forestry nurseries, grain storage and vegetable gardens). An improvement
in the environment should result from improved erosion control resulting
from the strengthened extension services, and from starting to substitute
fly traps for the present chemical. sprays (dieldrin) used for tsetse fly
control.
IV. COST ES'IMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total estimated four year project cost is USh 10,978 million
(US*31.4 million), including price and physical contingencies. Cost
estimates are summarized in table I and details given in Annex V tables
1-15. Foreign exchange amounts to USh 8,690 (US$24.8 million) or about
79% of total project costs. Duties and taxes included in total costs are
estimated at USh 495 million (US$:.4 million). Cost estimates are based on
findings during appraisal updated to October 1984 base line costs. The
project would require about 24 man-years of consultancy services.
4.02      Physical contingencies of 10% (US$1.4 million) have been applied
to costs of civil works, equipment, training and operation and maintenance
costs. Price contingencies are estimated at about 25% of project base
costs and are based on expected international price escalations of 8%, 9%,
9% and 9Z, and domestic price escalations of 15%, 10X, 8% and 7.5Z per
annum for 1985 through 1989.
Project Start-Up Activities
4.U3      Certain activities, including execution of a base-line survey in
the project area, technical assistance in extension to establish work
programs, and preliminary training in extension in Kenya for Soroti
District agricultural staff, would permit a rapid start to the project (see
Table 2). In order to ensure an efficient transfer of warehouse stocks and



- 29 -
UGAD
ABRICULTWMAL DEVELoPHENT PROJECT
Tab le  I -  PROJECT COST SWUIARY
(U.Sh. million)               (US0  '000)                     Z Total
- ------                        -- --------- - -- ----- ZForeign  bRse
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
A. Input Sun>lP
Agricultural Inputs                                           469.5 49023.1  49492.6  19341.5 11.494.6 12.836.1           70        54
Yeterinarv Inputs                                              74.3   654.0    7229.3   212.2  1,968.5  2,080.7           90         Q
Fishing Inputs                                                 21.7   150.7    172.3      61.9    430.5    492.4          B7         2
Innt SuPlPi Manasement                                        361.1   443.4    80495  1,031.7  1.266.8  2,298.6           55        10
Sub-Total Input SUnlPI                                           926.6 5271.2  69197.7  2s647.3 15,060.4 17.707.7           85        74
B. Research and Technolosn Developtent
Research and On-farm Trials                                    77.8   143.9    221.7    222.3    411.2    633.5           65         3
Tsetse Control                                                 14.1    92.6    105.7      40.4    261.7    302.1          87         I
Fisheries: Population Dinamics                                167.8   375.4    543.3    479.6  1,072.6  1.552.2           69         6
Sub-Total Research and Technolosg  Develop  ent                  259.9   610.9    870.7   742.2  1,745.5  2,487.7            70        10
C. Institutional Development
Renovation of Training Collese and Extension Training         153.0   262.8    415.8    437.1    751.0  1:188.0           63         5
Pilot TOW  Extension Ssstem                                   211.3   424.6    635.9    603.7  1,213.1  1,816.9           67         9
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit                                 83.1   168.1    251.2    237.4    480.3    717.7           67         3
Sub-Total Institutional Development                              447.4   855.6  1,302.9  1,278.2  2,444.4  3,7M2.6           66        16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             1,633.7 6,737.6  8,371.3  49667.7 19,250.4 23.918.1           80       100
Physical Contingencies                                          104.3   387.3    491.6    298.0  19106.7  1.404.6           79         6
Price Contin*encies                                             550.1 19565.0  2:115.1  1:571.6  4,471.5  6,043.1           74        25
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              2:288.0 8:690.0 109978.0  6:537.3 24:828.6 31,365.9           79       131
November 13. 1984 11:04



- 30 -
avoid a hiatus in warehouse management and procurement between the end of
ARP and the effectiveness of the proposed project, it would be necessary to
finance the services of procurement management consultants to operate the
warehouses (para 3.60).  During the preproject period, these consultants
will also assist in drawing up the first list of items to be procured under
the project. These activities would be required in the six months prior to
project effectiveness and would be financed through the Second Technical
Assistance Credit (TA II - Credit 1434-UG).
Table 2 - Project Start-Up Activities (US$000)
1.   Extension Start-Up
T.A. Extensionist 3 Man-Months                     37.9
4 WD Vehicle                                       20.6
lntroductory training for T&V Staff                 7.7
6b.2
2.   Base-Line Survey in the Project Area
T.A. Monitoring and Evaluation                     75.7
4 WD Vehicle                                       20.6
Survey Equipment                                    8.0
Operating Costs                                    10.3
114.6
3.   Procurement Management                               -
T.A. Procurement Manager -  4 months               50.5
T.A. Accountant           -  4 months              50.5
T.A. Warehouse Manager   -  2 x 4 months each  101.0
202.0
4.   Contingencies                                      27.7
Total Costs of Project Start-Up Activities        410.5 (80% Foreign
-     --   exchange)
B. Financing
4.04      Project costs would be financed as follows:
Foreign           Local           Taxes &       Total   Percent
Exchange         Currency         Duties
(US$ million)   (US$ million)   (US$ million)
GOU                             5.13              1.41       6.54        21
IDA          10.00               -                 -        10.00        32
IDA (T.A.II)  0.33                                 -         0.33         1
IFAD          14.50                                -        14.50        46
Total        24.83              5.13              1.41      31.37       100



I                - 31 -
Tne combined value of the IYAD loan of US14.5 million, the IDA T.A. II
credit of US$U.3 million and the IDA credit of US$10.U million to GOU on
standard terms would be equivalent to about 79Z of total project costs, or
83X of project costs net of taxes and duties. They would finance the full
toreign exchange costs.  The authorization or ratification of the IFAD Loan
Agreement by GOU, the fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness and
the appointment of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD
loan would be conditions of effecAiveness.
4.05      Local costs including local incremental operating costs would be
financed by GUU. Adequate funds zo cover the local incremental operating
costs and local investment costs under the project will be available from
counterpart funds generated by the sale of inputs under ARP. These funds
are deposited in a special ARP Program Account in the Bank of Uganda, and
are earmarked through the project agreement to be used for rural
development purposes. Agreement was reached with GUU at negotiations that:
(a)   adequate funding would be provided to cover local costs; and
(b)   tne funds for local incremental operating costs and local
investment costs would ve provided trom the A"k Program Account.
4.U6      It is essential that staiff travel, vehicle and overnight
allowances are paid promptly if project activities are to be carried out
efficiently. In order to ensure chat staff engaged in project supported
activities are paid these allowances. GOU would establish a Transport
Account in a bank satisfactory to IDA/IFAi with an initial deposit of USh65
million (the equivalent of tour months recurrent expenditures) as a
condition of project effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that at the beginning of each quarter, GUU would deposit the
amount estimated to be required to cover project expenditures for staff
travel and transport allowances during such quarter. At the end of the
project period there would be no means of guaranteeing payment of
allowances; total incremental operating costs would amount to 9X of the GIJU
recurrent allocation to agriculture and animal industry for 19b3 (U.Shl84
million in 19o4 prices, compared with the 1983 recurrent allocation of
USh2,UUU million).  It should be within the capacity of GOI to pay these
costs.



- 32 -
C. Procurement
4.07      Procurement arrangements are summarized in table 3;
Table 3 - Proposed Procurement Method
(US$ Millions)
Project Element         ICB    LCB    Other    N.A.    Total    Foreign(%)
Civil Works             0.6    0.7       -       -        1.3         60
(0.4)  (0.1)                     (0.5)
Vehicles                4.4     -        -       -        4.4          78
(1.4)    -       -        -      (1.4)
Equipment              13.6    0.2     0.1       -       13.9         92
(5.1)  (0.1)     -        -      (5.2)          _
Drugs & Materials       2.6     -       1.2      -        3.8         93
(1.0)    -     (0.4)      _      (1.4)          _
Training                 -      -               o 0.7    0.7          97
_       _ -   (0.3)    (0.3)
Technical Assistance    -       -       4.3      -        4.3          79
-  -  (1.4)     -       (1.4)
Recurrent Costs          -      -        -      3.0       3.0         10
=      _       -      (0.(1)    (0.1)
Total                  21.2    0.9      5.6     3.7      31.4         79
.IUA Total)            (7.9)  (0.2)   (1.d)   (0.4)   (10.3)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective arounts financed by IDA.
4.08      Civil works are small-scale and scattered through the project
area. They would be unlikely to appeal to international contractors.
Civil Works contracts would therefore be grouped to the extent possible and
either awarded according to local competitive bidding procedures which have
been reviewed and found satisfactory to IDA/IFAD or, in the case of repairs
to landing stages (US$2D,000) carried out by force account. There is
adequate local contracting capability in the country. In order to minimize
delays, an exception would be made for prefabricated housing to be procured
for the long-term technical assistance and prefabricated huts, which would
be grouped as one package and p:-ocured on a turn-key basis through ICB.
4.09      Equipment, vehicles, drugs and materials would be bulked to the
extent practicable into packages of US$100,000 or more and procured under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15% of the bid c.i.f. price or the actual customs and duties
and import taxes whichever is less. Contracts for goods valued at less
than $100,000 would be awarded either according to ICM procedures for goods
not available locally, or on the basis of the Central Tender Board's normal
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA and IFAD. Certain



- 33 -
specialized items, including seed (avpilable in Kenya), veterinary drugs
and equipment with only one or two khown suppliers and some spare parts
would be purchased according to negotiated contract. Procurement is
inapplicable for training and recurrent costs. Procurement would be
staggered through the project period and demand for previously purchased
goods would be assessed by MEU before further orders are placed.
4.10      Inevitably, given the wide variety of items to be procured over a
four year period, the total number of packages is considerable (table 4).
Approximately 50 contracts are expected under ICB accounting for over 90%
by value of purchases of goods. With a threshold of US$0.25 million,
procurement documents for about 23 packages would be reviewed by IDA,
covering 83% of contract value. The balance of contracts would be subject
to selective post-award review.
Table 4 - Procurement Prof-le of Value and Number of Contracts
U;SS nillions
Estimated
Contract              Estimated No.                           % total Value
Size US$ 1/           of Contracts           Value            Above Threshold
Above 500,000               7                 13.0                  59Z
250,000 to 500,000         16                  5.4                  24Z
100,000 to 250,000         21                  2.9
0 to 100,000               17                  0.9                     -
61                 22.2                  83%
1/ Includes civil works contracts; excludes technical assistance.
4.11      Consultants (para 3.bO) would be selected in accordar e with Bank
guidelines (issued - August 1981) on the use of consultants. Terms of
reference, qualifications, terms and conditions of employment vwuld be
satisfactory to IFAu)/IDA. Assuratices were obtained from Government at
negotiations that procurement would follow the procedures outlined above in
paras 4.07 to 4.11.
D. Disbursements
4.12      Funds for start-up activities under the proposed project (US$0.3
million) would be disbursed in the first project year. The IFAD loan of
US$14.50 million and the IDA credit of US$10.0 million would be disbursed
over five years.  Disbursement would be as indicated in Table 5, and a
detailed disbursement schedule is given in Annex VII. The foreign exchange
costs of project start-up activities would be entireiy financed by IDA
under Technical Assistance Project II (1434-UG). Other disbursements



- 34 -
would be on a joint financing basis, with 4U% of foreign exchange costs
financed by IDA and bOX by IFAD.  Except for civil works carried out by
force account (landing stage repairs) for which disbursements would be
against statements of expenditure, disbursements would be against full
documentation. Average disbursement periods for projects in Uganda are
eight years. disbursements are assumed to be more rapid under the proposed
project for the following reasons:
(i)   76% of the value of disburseme. cs is for vehicles, equipment,
materials and drugs. These would be procured through the
Procurement Unit; a similar unit already exists under the first
IFAb project (total appraisal value of disbursements US$20
million), which consists of inputs and technical assistance,
similar to this project, and is expected to be fully disbursed in
March 1985, only 3 years after signing. This first project,
which was expected to be completed in 2 years, experienced some
initial delays as G(U acquired familiarity with procurement
procedures and the procurement unit was set up. The unit is now
well established. It would be maintained under the secord
project and for this reason, delays are not expected with the
proposed project. Furthermore, technical assistance to assure
continuity for the Procurement Unit is financed under the project
start-up activities, and bid documents for the first year of the
project would be prepared during that period.
(ii)   The other major cost item is technical assistance, comprising 15%
of the value of disbursements. Of the 10 long-term technical
assistance positions, b would be financed under the project
start-up activities and so should be in position well before
project effectiveness. Furthermore, 4 of these are for the
Procurement Unit and are already in place. The expected date for
project effectiveness is June 1985, and there should be ample
time between Board Presentation and that date to identify
suitable candidates for the other posts.
(iii)   Start-up activities (mostly technical assistance), recurrent
costs (mostly materials and equipment) and unallocated account
for 7% of the value of disbursements. Civil works account for
2%. However, half of this would be for prefabricated housing for
technical assistance, which would be procured on a turnkey
basis. There may be a risk of delay on the remaining civil
works, to be constructed under LCB, but since this comprises only
1X of the total value of diLbursements, it should not affect the
disbursement schedule significantly.



- 35 -
Table 5 - Disbursements
USf Millions
IDA    IFAD    TOTAL
Project-start-up activities                                  100% of foreign
(under T.A.II)                        0.3      -      0.3 expenditures
Civil works                             0.2     0.2      0.4
Vehicle equipment                       6.4      9.1    15.5
Materials & Drugs                       1.4      2.0     3.4
Training & Technical Assistance         1.5      2.3     3.8
Recurrent costs                         0.1     0.2      0.3
Initial deposit in special account      0.1     0.1      0.2
Unallocated                             0.3     0.6      0.9
10.3    14.5    24.8
Special Account
4.13      In order to expedite the flow of funds for disbursement of minor
amounts, a Special Account would be established in the Bank of Uganda. The
total value of the Account would be US$200,000 equivalent. Expenditures
under all categories would be eligible for reimbursement. However, the
ceiling on contract value to be financed under the Special Account would be
US*100,000. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a Special
Account would be opened by GOU in the Bank of Uganda.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.14      The Procurement Unit, and Implementation Units of HAF and MAIF
would open and administer separate project accounts for project-related
activities. The Project Accountant would be responsible for maintaining
accounts related to the procurement and disposal of goods; and for accounts
of project related expenditures in MAE and MAIF. Records would be kept
permitting identification of all receipts and payments under the proJect,
and monitoring of program implementation. These records would be made
available to IDA/IFAD on request. Project accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA/IFAD, and certified copies of the
relevant financial statements would be made available to IDA/IFAD no more
than six months after the end of the Financial Year.
Project Account
4.15      Revenue from items sold through the warehouses, HAIF and MAF to
private beneficiaries would be deposited in a special account at the
nearest branch of the Uganda Commercial Bank for onward transmission to a
special IDA/IFAO account in the Bank of Uganda. These funds would be



- 36 -
earmarked for future rural development purposes, as agreed betwee IDA/IFAD
and GOU. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Project Account
had been opened.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Coordination and Implementation
5.01      Coordination.  Overall coordination of the project would be
through the lnterministerial (Coordinating) Committee, which was
established under ARP. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this
committee would be maintained. The committee is under the Chairmanship of
the Permanent Secretary for Agriculture and includes representatives from
MAF, MAIF and the ministries of Finance, Cooperatives and Marketing, Local
Governments, Planning and Economic Development and Community Development.
The Head of MAF MEU would be a member of the committee and be directly
responsible to it. The Committee would receive and consider all project
reports and accounts, supervise expenditure, approve overseas training, and
approve procurement of major project items. The committee would meet
monthly, and an executive secretary would be appointed who would head a
small Project Management Unit, consisting of an administrative assistant,
an accountant, typist and clerks and who would be responsible for the
day-to-day management of the project and coordination between the various
project components, including procurement requests and financial
management. In both MAF and MAIF a Project Implementation Unit would be
established under an officer delegated to coordinate the Ministry's
activities under the project and to liaise with the executive secretary.
It would be a condition of effectiveness, that the Project Management Unit
and the Implementation Units had been established and an executive
secretary had been appointed, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA/IFAD. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
these units would be maintained.
5.02      At the district level, coordination of project activities would
be through the existing District Coordinating Committee under the
chairmanship of the D.C.
5.03      Implementation.  The project would be implemented by MAE and
MAIF, strengthened where necessary, but as far as possible, using the
existing infrastructure, staff and institutional management arrangements
(chart 26055).
5.04      The Commissioner for Agriculture would have overall
responsibility for project activities concerned with agriculture and
agricultural research and would be responsible for establishing and
maintaining liaision between project and parallel donor financed activities
in the same field. In the case cf on-farm adaptive research which would be
based at Serere Research Station, coordination would be required with the
USAID research project. The ox-plow repair program would be coordinated
with a bilateral project financed by Italy and executed by FAO which is
providing maintenance facilities for agricultural tractors in the project
area. The Forestry Commissioner would be responsible for the utilization
of inputs provided for forestry nurseries.



- 37 -
5.05      The Deputy Commissioner for Production, who reports directly to
the Commissioner for Agriculture would be responsible for the input supply
program, and agricultural extension and training (chart 26057). At
district level, the extension services would continue to be administered by
DAO, assisted by consultant experts. DAO would also be responsible for the
organization and management of the extension training courses. Travel and
vehicle operating expenses would be made available through the Transport
Account (para 4.06). The Deputy Commissioner in charge of the Planning and
Statistics Section would be responsible for ensuring that sufficient MAE
and MAIF field and headquarters staff were allocated to the monitoring and
evaluation program. The consultant monitoring and evaluation expert would
be initially responsible for the direction of the program, but would
ultimately hand over to the head of MEU. The consultant (and the unit
head) would report directly to the Coordinating Committee. The Chief
Research Officer who also reports to the Commissioner for agriculture would
be responsible for the on-farm adaptive research.
5.06      Within L4AIF, the Commissioner for Tsetse Control would be
responsible for the tsetse fly trapping study and would allocate necessary
staff resources. All other livesock related aspects of the project would
be under the control of the Commissioner for Veterinary Services and Animal
Industry who would arrange the use of veterinary supplies provided under
the project in the department's ongoing vaccination and disease control
programs. The Commissioner for Fisheries would be responsible for project
fisheries inputs and for fisheries surveys and studies. Since the two
surveys are to operate out of separate shore bases and under the direction
of different consultants they would be implemented by separate groups
rather than both being conducted by a single joint team. The surveys would
be organized to operate through the regular fisheries field and research
institutions. The Commissioner would be responsible for arranging for the
use oa the Uganda Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization facilities by
the scaff working on the fish stock assessment survey.
B. Procurement Management and Distribution
5.07      The executive secretary would receive requests and estimates for
procurement under the project from MAE and MAIF Implementation Units.
Under ARP a number of items in warehouses have been difficult to sell
because of incorrect specifications. Specifications for all items to be
procured under the project would be approved by the Procurement Manager
before preparation of tender documents and lists submitted to IDA/IFAD for
approval before inviting bids. Following bid evaluation, procurement would
be approved by the Interministerial (Coordinating) Committee and by the
Central Tender Board in accordance with GOU regulations.
5.U8      Counterpart staff recruited under ARP would continue to receive
in-service training from the consultants. Management of warehouses and
accounts would be gradually transferred to Ugandan staff so that they would
be completely responsible for these activities at the end of the second
project year. Up to the present, only inexperienced junior staff can be
attracted to warehouse management.  These are unlikely to be able to resist
pressures from influential and powerful members of the community for
preferential access to warehouse goods. It is therefore unlikely that
transfer of responsibility could occur earlier in the project period.



- 38 -
5.0Y      Goods procured under the project for distribution in the project
area would be delivered to the project warehouses at Tororo, Lira and
Soroti. Goods would be made available to both primary cooperatives and to
private traders registered in the project area either at the warehouses or
delivered to set places in the project area (cooperative stores or retail
outlets as requested by traders).
5.1U      Some drugs (CBPP/rinderpest, foot and mouth and rabies) would be
provided free through vaccination campaigns administered by veterinary
staff. other 'ethical' drugs that are not provided free by Government
would be administered by DVO in each district. All 'non-ethical' drugs
would be sold to the cooperative stores and/or registered traders for
resale to livestock owners in the same manner as other farm inputs.
Acaricides are presently subject to a 50. GOU subsidy, but GOU plans to
phase out this subsidy. Agreement was reached at negotiations to phase the
subsidy out by the end of 1986. In the event that the subsidy remains, no
acaricides would be distributed under the project until the subsidy for the
amount to be delivered bad been paid into the Project Account (para 4.13).
C. T&V Extension
5.11      The T&V extension methodology requires both field and supervisory
staff to follow a fixed schedule of visits to specific groups of farmers.
The farmers would be made aware of the schedule and would therefore know
where and when to contact extension workers. Each AS would supervise six
FEW (para 3.35), and spend about four days in the field each week. The AO
in charge of FU would be responsible for ensuring that AS under his command
work effectively, and would attend the tortnightly training sessions. SMS
would provide the essential input at these sessions. DAO would be
responsible for the day to day operation and management of the district
extension service, and for providing additional technical support from
district headquarters technical staff.
5.12      Senior staff of the DUA extension services, Agricultural
Colleges, DTI, CTUC, Research Stations and the Agricultural and Forestry
Faculty of Makerere Universities would assist in providing training courses
for SkIS and AS, who would then be responsible for training FEW in the
field.
D. Linkages Between Research and Extension
).13      Linkages between research and extension would be
institutionalized under the project (chart 26056). The research service
(especially Serere Research Station) would be responsible for developing
new technology and the extension service would assume responsibility for
its transfer to the farmers.  Mhe Adaptive Research Section (para 3.22)
would identify improved varieties of crops and promising new practices and
would undertake to test research recommendations on farmers' fields and the
Head of the Section would be primarily responsible for liaison between the
research station and the extension services. These field trials would be
conducted in conjunction with SMS and AS, on simple unreplicated plots and
results would be used to refine and adjust the adaptive research results to
different socio-economic and ecological conditions.



- 39 -
j.14      The two-day bi-annual workshops (para 3.29) would be the venue
for reviewing and evaluating research and farm trials and formulating the
trials program for the next season. The trial results would be used in the
production of new extension messages.
5.15      The key linkage between research and extension would be provided
by the monthly workshops (para 3.39), to be held at either Serere Research
Station or one of the FU. The workshop program would consist of field
visits and seminars at which farmers problems would be discussed, the
successes of the extension messages evaluated, farm trials reviewed and Sfs
provided with the information and visual aids needed for the fortnightly
training sessions.
VI. MAKKETS AND PRICES
A. Inputs Marketing
6.01      Inputs would be sold from the Central warehouses at Tororo, Lira
and Soroti at wholesale prices based on CIF prices delivered to the
warehouses, plus a 5% margin to cover storage and handling. Inputs would
be sold for cash to traders registered in the project area and to area
cooperative societies, who would be responsible for retail distribution and
sale (para 5.U9). Retail prices would be freely set by the traders and
cooperatives, based on purchase price, distribution costs and their
estimates of market demand. Although there may be some initial consumer
resistance (para 7.07), demand for the inputs is expected to remain strong,
given the very substantial benefits associated with their use (para 7.05).
b.02      In order to avoid distribution bottlenecks, the 16 lorries
provided under AKP would be retained for an initial oeriod of two years
under the proposed project, and rented at commercial rates to private
traders for the transport of project inputs. If demand for their services
is not sufficient to ensure self-financing operation, they would be handed
over to GOU in accordance with the original AKP project agreement.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from GOU during negotiations.
Sales would be monitored continuously during project implementation, by
MEU, operating through the DuA field staff and using methodology designed
by the monitoring and evaluation consultant (para 3.58). An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that a report on the distribution system,
including recommendations for any actions needed for improvement, would be
submitted by MEU to IDA/IFAD for review and approval every six months. The
f'irst to be provided before December 31, 1985.
B. Agricultural, Livestock and Fisheries Production and Marketing
b.U3      Historic data for production trends in the project area are not
available. National production trends are given in Annex 1, table 1.
Estimates of agricultural production in the project area for 1984 are given
in table 6. Except for cotton, which is sold through the marketing
cooperatives, marketing of agricultural production is in private hands and
there are no GOU restrictions on trade. Most agricultural production is



- 4U -
consumed at farm level, but some produce is traded within, and a small
amount outside, the project area. Produce is traded to meet cash needs
(for taxes and schooling) rather than to dispose of large surpluses or
generate substantial cash incomes. Although in the past groundnuts,
sesame, maize and livestock products were exported from Uganda, it is not
expected that the increased production generated by the project will be
sufficient to re-establish export markets. The bulk of increased
production would be consumed on the farm, and would contribute to improved
nutritional levels (para 2.18).
6.04      Data on market prices for agricultural produce are poor.
Although data collection services exist, staff have lacked the facilities
to pertorm their tasks regularly. Annex II, table I indicates average
farmgate, local market and urban market prices for 198Z, and table 6
indicates estimated average farmgate prices for 1983. Margins are
considerable, mainly because of unreliable and costly transport.
6.05      Cattle marketing is at present officially banned because of
recent rinderpest and CBPP outbreaks. The selling price indicated in table
b (USh3O,U00 per head) is for unofficially marketed cattle. Milk would
continue to be sold partly through private traders, and partly through the
public milk collection centers which operate in Soroti and Lira. The milk
price (USh2O per litre) indicated in table 6 is for milk sold to public
processing centers and is below that for privately sold milk. Demand for
both milk and meat is strong and marketing problems are not anticipated.
Fish trading is undertaken by fishermen grouped into cooperatives and by
individual fishermen. There are also two fish companies. Most fish sold
is processed through the hot-smoking method, which generally produces a
poor quality product. No changes in marketing methods are proposed under
the prcject, and difficulties in marketing increased production are not
foreseen.
VII. B-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT RISKS
7.01      Project benefits are difficult to quantify.  Research and
surveys account for lUX of the project costs, the outcome of which is
uncertain, and 15Z are for institution building activities of a pilot
nature, which may have only an indirect impact on production. The
remaining 75X of costs are for the provision of inputs which would be sold
to farmers at free market prices. These inputs should have a direct
short-term impact on production by improving yields (hoes, pesticides,
improved seed), increasing area planted (hoes, plows), reducing storage
losses (storage chemicals) and improving crop processing (flour mills) and
farm transport tacilities (ox-carts, bicycles). The impact, however, would
be difficult to measure, particularly since the typical farmer would select
most needed inputs rather than purchase the entire package available. As
indicated in paras 3.07 to 3.1d, the proposed composition of inputs is
indicative, but based on demand for inputs as expressed through ARP;
expressed demand is a reasonable indication of felt benefits. Prices for
inputs will be higher under the proposed project, but relative prices
should not change substantially.



- 41 -
7.OZ      Given these difticulties no attempt has been made to calculate
the return on investment. Instead, an estimate has been made of the
production increases that would be necessary in order to assure a return on
investment in the project area of 15% (the likely opportunity cost of
capital in Uganda). Investment costs including those of the research and
survev components, have been included in the calculation. All recurrent
costs have been 4ncluded and assumptions made that the replacement of all
agricultural and fishing inputs -ould be at rates which would maintain
supplies at levels prevailing in project-year 4. Similarly assumptions
have been made that veterinary inputs would be replaced at rates which
would maintain diseases at acceptably low levels. An additional 15% has
been added to the cost of inputs to allow for retail distribution costs.
Project life has been estimated at 20 years.
7.03      The bulk of the increase in production would be consumed on the
farm (para 6.03). The main project benefit would be to improve nutritional
levels for the rural population, rather than import savings or export
earnings. The prices used for tae economic analysis therefore are
financial farm gate prices. Since these are substantially below the
equivalent import parity price a2d somewhat below equivalent export parity
prices to Kenya, these prices do not over-estimate the economic benefits of
the project.
7.04      Using the assumptions described above, and the present production
and price levels indicated in Table 6 total production would have to
increase by a total of 5% above the pre-project level by the fourth year of
the project, and be mainitained at that level, in order to achieve an
estimated rate of return (Ekg) equivalent to 15% (table 7). Cost and
benefit streams are indicated in Annex II, table 2.



- 42 -
Table 6
Estimated 1/ Area, Volume and Value of Production in Project Area in 1984
Area     Volume 2/ Unit Value 3/        Value  3/
'OOUw   a  (OUU tons7(Ubh  UUU/tow)    (MiTio  USh)
Livestock
Cattle (offtake head)       -        130            30             3,900
Milk (tons)                 -        144            20             2,880
Fish (tons)                 -         20            75             1,500
Crops
Maize (grain)              121       102            25             2,550
Sorghum (grain)           221         85            18             1,530
Finger Millet (grain)    290         188            21             3,948
Beans                     136         71            35             2,485
Cowpeas                    76         16            37               592
Pigeoupeas                 60         13            20               2b1
Cassava (fresh)           190      1,427             5             7,135
Sweet Potatoes             9U        676            10             6,760
Sesame                     87         22            48             1,056
Groundnuts                 90         45           100             4,500
Cotton                    290         63            60             3,780
Bananas (Plantains)      n.a.        155            15             2,325
Vegetables               n.a.         20            70             1,400
46,601
l/ Appraisal and preparation estimates.
-' Cotton as seed cotton, cereals and legumes as any grain, cassava and
sweet potatoes as fresh tubes.
31 Value expressed in 1983 financial farmgate prices.
Table 7
Production Increase Necessary for ERR of 15X
PYI     PY2      PY3     PY4      PY5     PY2J
Standard                     U%       1%      2%       2%      5%  -   5%
Benefits Delayed 1 Year      0%      0o       2%       4Z       6%  -   6%
Costs Up 20Z                 0%       1%      2%       3%      6%  -   6Z
7.05      There are clear indications that these increases would be
achieved. For example the repair of 20,W00 plows and the provision of
10,000 ncw plows would, permit farmers in the project area, to increase the
area unde- cultivation. With increased extension services a conservative
estimate of this increase would be 30U, and assuming an average cultivated
area for each farmer in the project area of 4.9 ha, 44,000 additional
hectares would be cultivated each year.  The value of production per
hectare is USh26,0U0 and the increased area would be equivalent to UShl,144



- 43 -
million or 2.4Z of the present value of production. The total cost of the
new plows, spares and workshop repair equipment is estimated at USh213
million.
7.06      It is estimated that by year 8 of the project, as a result of
reductions in morbidity and mortality, herd numbers should increase by
approximately 2% over the current cattle herd of 1.3 million and offtake to
at least 10.5% over the current IUZ. These increases represent an increase
in production in milk and meat of b.7X p.a. equivalent to USh457 million,
compared with an annual cost of UShl70 million. Sufficient fishing nets
are provided to permit an increase in production of 60,000 tons annually,
worth USh4,500 million, while annual costs for fishing inputs would be
USh44 million.
7.07      Risks.  Agricultural inputs imported under the proposed project
would be sold at prices reflecting the free market exchange rate. Prices
would therefore be substantially higher than under ARP when a subsidized
rate was used, but would be in line with the actual costs of the inputs.
The need for inputs will continue, but some sales resistance should be
expected until consumers who have become accustomed to subsidized prices
have adjusted to the higher rates; there is a risk that this resistance
will hamper project implementation by causing stock build up of unsold
items in project warehouses. The level of risk is acceptable and
unavoidable in the process of transferring responsibility for trade to the
normal commercial channels. In practice, the risk may not be high, since
because of the scarcity value of inputs, it is likely that many farmers
were in fact paying considerably above the 'official' price for goods
imported under ARP and under the project, the Management Unit and the
Implementation Units would assess demand for goods and regulate supplies to
prevent unsold items accumulating in warehouses.
7.Ud      Depending on the general availability of agricultural and
veterinary goods and supplies in other regions of Uganda, there is a risk
that project imports would be directed from the project area and sold
either in other regions or outside the country. With the acceptance of the
registered traders with a strong profit motive as part of the distribution
system (para 5.09), the risk is greater under the proposed project that it
was under AKP. This risk has been considerably lowered by the recent
elimination of a subsidized exchange rate for some imported agricultural
goods so that the margin between "official" and "unofficial" prices has
been substantially reduced. In order to minimize any remaining risk
element, it is proposed that the distribution and sale of goods in the
project area, would be constantly monitored (para. b.02) and if necessary,
controls introduced to ensure that sale of goods is ret,tricted to the
project area. Under the AKP system, losses have been kept at an acceptable
level, following the introduction of controls on certain items, notably
acaricides.
7.09      Low salaries and GUU's failure to pay expenses and allowances
have caused a general lack of conmitment and low morale in staff of all
ministries. GOU has recently increased salaries and allowances and the
project strategy proposed to further reduce this problem is by providing
adequate transport and other facilities and to arrange for payment of
travel and transport allowances through the Project Accountant



- 44 -
(para. 4.06). Better working conditions, regular payment of allowances and
clear definition of work programs are expected to provide sufficient
incentives for improved staff productivity and to raise staff morale, but
since this cannot be guaranteed, the risk of poor staff commitment and
performance remains an issue.
7.10      The lack of appropriate extension messages has been cited as a
reason for the failure of the extension service to instigate increases in
agricultural production. There is therefore a risk that lack of extension
messages may reader the project's extension initiatives ineffective.
However, this risk is small because even though past r-search efforts were
directed towards progressive farmers using expensive iiiputs, technology is
available which can be adapted to the needs of the subsistence farmer and,
under the project, a consultant would be engaged to review these results
and produce the first series of extension messages (para 3.38). The T&V
system requires a dialogue between farmers and extension officers and
initially the type of advice is that associated with the maintenance of
adequate and healthy plant populations and many extension messages can be
rapidly developed by direct field observations and discussions with
farmers. In the longer term, the extension/research linkages are seen as a
means of directing research into topics directly related to the problems of
small farmers, and the adaptive research programs would assist in testing
research results on farmers fields and refining subsequent extension
messages.
VIII. SLECUMMENDATIUNS
8.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   the assiscant managers and support staff employed under AKP at
Tororo, Lira and Soroti would continue in employment under the
project (para 3.21);
(b)   the Procurement Unit, Project Management Unit, Implementation
Units, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and tne Interministerial
Committee would be maintained (paras. 3.21, 3.55 and 5.01);
(c)   the full-time services of fishery statistics staff and fisheries
field staff would be provided for fisheries statistics and
evaluation studies (para 3.31);
(d)   necessary additional agricultural extension and support staff
would be posted to the Soroti District (para 3.36);
(e)   the initial extension messages would be prepared and submitted to
IDA/IFAD for review before June 30, 1985 (para.3.38);
(f)   qualified training personnel would be provided by Serere Research
Station as and when needed, for conducting training courses at
Serere DFI (para.3.42);



- 45 -
(g)   a farm manager and graduate teaching statf would be appointed and
posted to Arapai CDTC and Negetta VFi by December 31, 19b5 (paras
4.42 and 3.51);
(h)   GuU would set up a system for the purchase of bicycles and
motorcycles satisfactory to IVA/IFAL and pay transport and travel
allowances promptly through the Transport Account (para.3.43);
(i)   the monitoring and evaluation system for the project would be
submitted to IDA/IFAL) for review and comment before June 30, 1985
and upon receipt of comaments the system made operational (para.
3.57);
(j)   not later than September 30, 1987, GOU would furnish to IDA/IFAD,
a detailed review of the overall project performance with
recommendations for any changes in project design (para.3.58);
(K)   detailed work programs would be produced and i..bmitted to
IDA/IFAD for review and comment before April 1 each year (para
3.9r);
(1)   adequate funds would be provided to cover part of the local costs
of the project from the AKP account (para.4.05);
(m)   at the beginning of each quarter, GOU would deposit in the
Transport Account, an amount estimated to be that required to
cover expenditure for staff travel and allowances during such
quarter (para.4.0b);
(n)   procurement would be according to agreed outlines (para 4.11);
.o)   a Special Account would be opened in the Bank of Uganda
(para.4.13);
(p)   the acaricide subsidy would be phased out by the end of 1986, and
in the interim, acaricides would not be distributed until the
subsidy for the amount to be delivered had been paid into the
project account (para. 5.10);
(q)   the lorries purchased under ARP would be made available for the
distribution of goods under the project (para. 6.02);
(r)   a report on the distribution system would be submitted to
IDA/ITAIJ for review every six months, the first to be provided
before December 31, 1985 (para. 6.02);
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)   work programs for the first twelve months of project
implementation had been submitted to IDA/IFAD (para. 3.59);
(b)   the consultant procurement manager and project accountant had
been employed (para. 3.61);



- 46 -
(c)   the IFAD Loan Agreement had been fully authorized or ratified by
SuU, all conditions of effectiveness had been fulfilled and IFAD
had appointed IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the
LFAD loan (para. 4.U4);
(d)   GUU had opened the Transport Account in a bank satisfactory to
IVA/iFAO an had deposited therein an initial amount of USh65
million (para. 4.0b);
(e)   the Project Account had been opened with the Bank of Uganda
(para. 4.15);
(f)   the Project Management Unit and eroject Ir.plementation Units had
been established and an executive secretdry with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA/IFAD appointed (para.5.01);
8.U3      With these conditions and assurances the project would be
suitable for an IFAD loan of US$14.5 million and an IDA credit of US$1U.0
million to GOU on standard terms.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
UGANDA
AGKICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Productlon Statistics for Uganda
('000 metric tons)
Peak (Year)      1980      1981     1982      1983
Export Agriculture
(Offlcial Purchases)
Coffee (exports)              251 (1969)      135.5    97.5    166.6       172.0
Robusta                    233              130.4    93.0    152.3       157.4
Arabica                      18               5.1     4.5      14.3       14.6
Cotton Lint                    86 (1970)        4.0     3.8       5.1       10.2
Tea (made)                     23 (1972)        1.5      1.7      2.5        2.5
Tobacco                         5 (1972)        0.4     0.1       0.6        2.3
Sugar (raw)                   152 (1968)        2.4     3.8       2.5      n.a.
Foodcrops
(Estimated Production)
Plantain                   9,107 (1975)   5,699   5,900    6,600    6,875
Cassava                    2,993 (1977)   2,072   3,000    3,300    3,800
Maize                         674 (1976)      286     342       393       450
Sorghum                       467 (1975)      299     320       400       470
Fitager Millet              1,136 (1966)      458     480       528       600
Sweet Potatoes             2,002 (1976)   1,200   1,300    1,600    1,700
Livestock
(Estimated Population
in Millions)
Cattle                        5.5 (1978)        5.2     5.1       5.0       5.0
Goats                         2.4 (1977)        2.0     Z.2       2.3       2.4
Sheep                         1.1 (1977)        1.0      1.2      1.2       1.3
Pigs                                            0.3     0.3       0.3       0.3
Fish Catch 1/
(TTy Laceiglon)
Lake Victoria                17.0 (1981)       10.0    1,.0      16.7      n.a.
Lake Kyoga                  1b7.0 (1977)      131.0   130.0    126.8       n.s.
Other Lakes                  42.1 (1978)       24.9    20.8      26.5      n.a.
1/ Fish catch are GOU official figures. Data obtained at appraisal
indicated a catch of about 20,000 tons for the years 1980-1982 in Lake
Kyoga.
Source: MAF and HAIF statistics.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMGATE, LOCAL MARKET AND URBAN MARKET PRICES (1982)
District                  'Kumi                       Soroti                        Lira                        Apac
On     Local                On     Local             j  On      Local               On      Local
Product                   Farm    Market    Town    Farm    Market    Town    Farm    Market    Town    Farm    Market    Town
aize (grain)              25        35       40       25        35        40       25       30        35       20        25       30
inger Millet              25        35       40       25        35        40      15        20        25       15       20        25
Sorghum                    20        30       40       20        30        40       15       20        25       15        20       25
RIce (milled)              70       lbU       160       70      150      .160      140       145      160      140       150       170
Beans (mixed)              35        40        50      35        40        50       25        30       35       20        25        35
Beans tone colour)         40        50        60      40        50        60       30        40       50       25        30       40
Soyabeans                  NA        NA       NA       50        30        90       35        50       60       30        35       50    $
Field Peas                 NA        NA        80      so        70        80       NA        NA        s0      NA        NA       NA
Cow Peas                   50        70        80      50        70        80       25        35       40       25        35       40
Pigeon Peas                40        70        80      40        70        80       20        35       40       20        35        40
Groundnuts (shelled)    100         170       180     100       170       180       60       130      150       50       120       140
Sesame                     NA        NA       100      60        70       100       35        40       50       30        35       45
Cassava (dry)              10        15        15      10        15        20       10        15       20       10        15       15
Sweet Potatoes             10        15        20      10        15        20       10        15       20       10        15       20
Source: Department of Agriculture
Notess   NA * Not Available
H



ANIaILfIA   KMWLW'IE     PROACT
PROCT COSTS AND WNEITS
'000 U.Uh
199         M96         1M8         199        1989        l91(        1991       199         199         19         199         1996        I997       199         1999       2000        2001
IWJESWIIT COSTS    2443284,79  1400329.69 1571840.40 155192527                                                   -           -          - ---------
RECLOOET COSTS         80429.34   110164.9   112421.12  112423,1   112421.12  112421.12  112423.12  112421,12  112421.1   112423.12  112423,12  112423,12  112428,12  112429.12  112429,12  112421.12  112421.12
REPLgCEJOT COSTS              -                                       910849.50  966386.93  942185,00  899930.46  925737.32  851254.17 1557912,37  934621.93 1100092.9  1304303.62  93638053  374969.52  95876665
TOTAL COSTS          2723714.1   1710494.60 1664268,52 1664353,40 1023277.62 1078815.08 1054613,12 1012358,56 103I62594  96368229 1670340.49 1047250,05 1213321.i02 1416731.95 104088006   967397,65 1071214.77
KWITS
TOTAL KIEFITS                     466010.00  932020M0   932020400230002330050,00 2330050. 00 2330050,00 23           30050,00sO  233005,00 2330050      M,00 2330050.0 2330050,0   233800 002330050.00    23300000300000
NET CCST-KNEFIT   -27237141  -1244464,60 -752248,52 -73233,4  130677236 1251234,9  1275436.36 1317691.i42 1291634.06 136437,1  659709.51 I2M799,95 11170A.96  913316.05 1231241.35 1342652.35 125863523
AIICILTTMA  M. I WIEN    MJECT                                                                                                   '
MRUCT COSTS AND ENEFITS
'000 U.Sh
2002       2003        2004
IIPJESTENT COSTS             -           -          -
REOENT COTS          112423,12  112428,12  112428,12
REFACVEJI COSTS   862773.3   914268648  651254.17
TOTAL. COSTS         975201.44 1026696.0   96362.9
TOTAL DWEJTS       2330050.02330M050.023300.000
NET COST-WiMT   1334846,5  130335320 136W37l7
"P9.uber 17, 198 11113



- 50 -
ANNEX III
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry Nursery Development Costs (per nursery)
Total Cost
Item                                  Quantity         (USh '000)
1,000 gallon tank - emergency
water storage                              1                  60
50 gallon drums                             2                  12
Hoes                                       10                   6
Machetes                                    5                   3
Garden trowels                              4                   6
Watering cans (plastic)                     5                   8
Axes                                        2                   3
Picks                                        1                  4
Pails (2 gallon)                            5                   4
Rakes                                       2                   4
Polythene tubing (gauge
150, width 3- or 4")                     500 kg              150
Wheelbarrows                                2                  20
Wire nails (assorted
sizes)                                    25                  15
Claw hammer                                 1                   1
Insecticide (dieldriu)                    100 1                60
Garden forks                                2                   4
Bicycle + 15% for spares, etc.              1                  21
TOTAL                                                         381



_ 51 -
ANNEX IV
Table 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJET
Staff Required for Fisheries Surveys
Fisheries         Stock
Statistics      Assessment
Senior Fisheries Officer                        1               1
Senior Fisheries Research Officer               -               I
Fisheries Research Officer                      3               2
Field Assistants                                5               4
Technical Assistants                             -              4
Launch Crew Members                             3               3
Secretary/typist                                1               1



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Required for Pilot T & V Extension Program
No.         District Staff
Required         Available
District Agricultural Officer                1                  1
Deputy District Agricultural Officer         1                  l
Agricultural Officers                      11                   5
Agricultural Supervisors
(AAO and SAA)                             34                  55
Field Extension Workers
(AA and FA)                              196                 197
Subject Matter Specialists                 17
Secretary/typists                           5
Administrative Clerks                       5
Drivers                                     5
TOTAL                                     241                 209



- 53 -
UGANDA
AURIaLTLtAL KDELOPNENT PROJECT                   ANNEX V
Summary Accounts by Year                    Table I
(IU.Sh. 000)
Base Costs                        Foreign Exchanse
85/86      8bf87      87/9       88/89      Total      Z    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil lorks                              :83,034.4    3,559.1         -           -   186592.5  47.4   08,430.5
Vehicles                                 Mo32.722.6   33,046.1   61 S34.2  505947.9  1t2333250.  78.?  970,345.0
Eouipment                                '279363.9  857,534.1  996,029.7  741,903.4 39522.931.1 92.6 3,263,657.8
materials                                112,119.8  112,385.7  112,119.3  104,788.9   441-414.3 84.7  3739l14.2
Drugs                                    134,999.2  149,457.0  1589,598.3  170,002.4   6139046.8 93.7  575,375.5
Trainins                                  60,141.8   46,546.9   50,74.1   329506.5   189,569.3  96.9  183,652.6
Technical Assistance                     4i89,127.9  497,963.9  165,7'.98   149634.0 1.167.455.6 80.9  44,663.1
Project Start-up Activities
A Prefab. Housing                       i.13Y020.0         -          -          -   3134020.0 80.5  252.06.2
Total INUESTENT COSTS                     29852.529.6 1,700,491.8 ,S594,376.0 15698733.1  796679180.5 86.8 6.652M095.0
Physical Contingencies                   1489356.0   90,763.9  104,640.4   77-441.0   4219201.3  89.9  378979.7
Price Contingencies                     f.3661.7  362,598.6  505,359.1  6789500.9  198309120.3  84.2 1.541,214.6
Total INCLUDING COTINGEINCIES             3,:84,547.3 2W1533854.4 2,154.375.5 2,3259724.9 9M918.502.1  86.4 89572,099.2
Taxes                                    139Y228.0   10,092.9   24.834.7  115860.8   290,016.5  0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchanse                      2't63v260.7 1.907,206.0 1.0.981.1 2-048,641.4  8t572.089.2  0.0        0.0
II. RECURT COSTS
A. Operations and Maintenance
Vehicle OUI                           659240.3   83,480.8   81,190.0   81,190.0   3112101.1  0.0         0.0
Emuipeent OI1                         17,252.1   17,252.1   17-252.1   179252.1    69,009.4 33.3   22,988.0
Building DIN                           7,759.6   15,751.1   150751.1   15,751.1    55.012.0  38.5   21.152.6
Administrative ODI                    109975.5   19,975.5   19,975.5   19,775.5    79.902.0  0.0         0.0
Sub-Total Operations and Maintenance    1109226.5  136.459.5  134,168.7  134,168.7   515,023.5  8.6   44,140.6
8. Salaries and Allowances
Salaries                               3-014.7    3.087.2    3.007.2    3.087.2    12.276.3  0.0         0.0
Allowances                            20,667.4   22.759.8   239731.6   239731.6    904890.3  0.6       574.7
Sub-Total Salaries and Allowmces         23,682.1   25,847.0   26,810.7   26,9818.7   1039166.5  0.6      574.7
C. Materials                             19.092.6   20,984.0   23M444.2   23,444.2    95,965.1  47.5   40,827.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      152,001.2  183,290.5  184,431.7  184,431.7   704.155.1  12.1   85,542.9
Physical Continencies                     15.200.1   18.329.1   18,443.2   18,443.2    70.415.5  12.1    8,554.3
Price Contingencies                       30,620.4   61 .753.7   84.760.1  107,840.8   214,975.0  8.4   23.819.7
Total INHL8DING CONTINGENCIES              1977821.7  263,373.3  287,634.9  310,715.6  1,059,545.5  11.1  1179916.9
___---- --==  ===---   =    =-- ----- --  -===_==   ==C__.=
Taxes                                     36h945.3   52647.9   55,665.5   609118.7   205,377.5  0.0          0.0
Foreign Eychange                          219826.4   299258.9   32,097.0   34,734.6   117.916.9  0.0         0.0
Total dASELINE COSTS                      3,004,530.8 1.983,782.4 1.729,907.7 1,754,214.8 8-3719335.6  BO.5 6.7379637.9
Physical Continsrcies                     163.55b.1  109,O93.0  123,083.6   959884.2   491,616.8  79.8  387334.0
Price Contingencies                       314,282.2  424,352.3  590,119.2  786.341.6 2,115,095.2  74.0 1,56,034.'
Total PROJECT COSTS                       3.482,369.1 29417.227.6 2,44',010.4 2.636,440.5 10-978.047.6 79.2 89690.006.1
Taxes                                     176-173.4   629740.8  820500.2  1275979.5   495,394.0  0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                        2.t65S087.2 199369464.9 1.995,078.1 2,083,376.0 89690.006.1  0.0      0.0
November 13., 194 10:58



9PIMTURAL DECELOP1ENT PROJECT
I1WlI RIPPLIES                                                    ANNE4X V
aGRItiLTIRSN  INMtTh                                                     Table 2
Detaslfd 1r.  mip.
flu*ntit,                                                   Pase EIt
Utat     5/86   41377 P7.89   39B9         Total    Untit Colt     35 S.                t' ?      NE 'P     Total
?fltEEt **t"sSt*2.  ........ .... a..       awE-staS ...sa.t  ESS *NSSES- .ESflf.tL .t Ulrt.l  dtt  tfl t        . .....-.
1. NI'EST'IENT COSTS
A. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
RWIRNIS-EYE NReG                            reach    200.000  500.000 5so 0000 50so 000 1.7000.00       0.95    189-020.4 474.901.0  34.e4 l/t  4'lJ.01.0 :-o;4.1"3.3
LANG  HOES                                    ech      40-000  40.000  40,000  40.000   160.000          1.?    47.59.9  .'.ss.;    47.ESe.  4v. 9.c  1'l.4p.S
ANGS                                         each      60.000  60.450  60.000  60.000   240.000         0.76    45.590.  45.580.9   45.5B0.9   45.59.!  Ia2 .323.6
ROAD-EYE AlES                                each      10.004  10.000  10-000  10-000    49.o)0         0.6       '.596.9  '.596.8    7.596.9     F.S.B   10.387.?
SICLCES                                      each      14.000   16.000  16,000   14.000    60.000       0.76    10-635.! 1::54.0   1.-15.9  l-0.?.5   45.530.'
1000 GALLON TAIW                             each         109       -        -       -        100     113.95     11-395.2                                   11-3195. 
5SC GALLON  "                                each        200        -        -       -        2"9      22.9      455-3.          -          -4-5F 1
09311K TRIIELS                               eah         400        -       -        -        40,o      3.04      1.215.5        -          -          -    1,215.5
IWTERING CANS                                each        500        -        -       -        100       3.04      1-519.4        -          -                I.51l.4
PIGS                                          ati        100        -        -       -        100         .        759.7         -          -          -        50'
PAILS ': ALI                                 each         500       -        -       -        seo       1.52        75I.7        -          -          -        7
PAkES                                        each        :00        -       -        -        200        3.3       759.7         -          *           -        9.?
POLYTHENE TUlING 'GAUCE !55i                  km       47.000       -        -       -    47000         0.o5    26.778.9         -          -          -   26. .
IIRE NAILS                                   each      2-350        -        -       -                                                                       2-35  1.14  2677.Q  -  -  -    2.67.'
CLAM  NEkS                                   reach        100       -                -        100        1.9       180.0         -          -          -       199.
GAFEN FOPR.s5                                each          '        -       -        -        I00        3.9       759.7         -          -          -       759.
JMEELAS                                      etch      -220         -   2.00         -      4.200      20.9     45.9.7           -   41-782.5          -   97.743.
;MHEELRON PTS. AND SPARES                     s          n.5        -      0.5       -          I  41.792.4     20.891.:         -   3.l.2             -   41-792.;
00-031 NAIERIALS                           Per cart        -      5se      549       -      1-09      3'.09           - Il9"2.)   18.92.0             -   ?7.994.1
PLO;VOS                                      each       5.000       -   5.000        -    10000       16.13    O0-V6'.6         -   90,65-.t          -  161-'l5.?
PLOWN SPARES                                 SUB         0.5        -      0.5       -          I  '--2t3.09     1&.1l1.5        -   10-1il.5          -   32-263.u
-19RASE GENIIALS                             ten          16       1        16      16        64   I.139.52     18,'Z2.4  15- 32,4   Ie-:3'.4    194312.t   7.*'29.4
APIICIDES                                   lit'e       3-000    3-090   '.OtO   3,000    l:.00t        6.46    19.371.0  19.371.9   1-171.    19.3'1.   -,.4B7.5
FL311DEI S 'YEE'                              is        39000   1-0Wn   3-000   3,000    12.:09          3.8    11.395.2 11.395.?   11,395.?   11,5.7  4f.5110.?
INSECTICTIES 1VEGI                            ks       2-500    2        -0 2.500   2-500    100l-O      1.0     4-74S.5  1.-49.0    *.740.0    4.49.0   19S992.0
INECTICIEES (TERMITE CNTROL)                 ton          74       '6      74       76       300      132.'4     V.937.9  11.1038    9-B37.9   1'o103.e   39'?,B3.3
MAINE SEED                                   ton          00       90      go       60       300      370.84    30,3B7.3  30-397.'   30,337.3   22490.1  113-952.2
5O991M SEED                                  ton         100      100      100     100       400         110    11.500.0  11.50.0   11.500.0   11.59.4   4e.000.0
'JEUETAtE SEED                                ks         300      300      300     300      1-200      19.99     5697.6  S.o97.6    5-697.6    S.M          M2.,".I
SEEP DMSO14G                                             0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3          1   3498.41        949.6    #40.6       949.6      049.6    3-t-.4
Sub-total AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                                '5S.7.'.9 '19-3'1.3  9U68.2  691-.26.: 2-.17,30.5
P. OTHER EXPEKDITIRLS
PlCICLCS                                     sum       9000         -       -   8-900      16.000      61.53   492-273.?         -          -  492,273.'  094.547.3
WNPECIFIED NANDTOOLS, COWSTPITIOW RT.
AD 01 EOUIPIIENT                           .ui         0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3          1 294,8O.59    71,.?20.1  '1,^23.1   '1.2 0.1   71 9220.1  B94-880.6
FU UIILS                                     each         50       SC*     50        -        150   1.11".52    56.9?5.1  56.976.1   9. .9'6.1         -  170.129..4
LUm IFID NM  VER.ATEP
POST HNJEST EOUIPIEPT                     sum          0.3     0.3      k.l     0.3          1  113..2-3    2P.4891.1  28-411. 1    9.498.1             112'95?.?
ODPLUII REPAIR
RSHDF  ECUIP (NGETTtARAPAlI               sum            I       -        -       -          1     17.-;t    17.250.0         -          -           -   17.250.0
DIPLOUGI REPAIR
VMODHP ADWPTATI4 INGETTAIAPRAPAI.         soA            I       -                           1   2-375.67      2.375.'        -                           .--
St-ToUtl ONEF EXPENDITIJRES                                                                                      668.583.6 15A.t4.3  156,694.3  591,031.9 1.5,3.934.1
Total INUTPIENT COSTS                                                                                             1.Y'-311.6 P6.0553. 1035.152.5123244.9 4-491.964.6
}1. REDOENT COSTS
OXPLOUGH REPAIR
IMONW MATERIALS                              e          0.        .3      0.3     0.3          1     759.68       199.0   1F.'        IgC.        I9.9       750.7
Total RECRRENIT COSTS                                                                                                    199.9    190.        189.9      189.9        7
cr.rnr==a=: ..umfln: ,?tttttzflz =SaEEuSN tarnarn,rr
Total                                                                                                               1.297-501.5 976,245.5 1-035.442.5 1.293.434.e 4-492.-674.3
November 13, 1904 101:5



- 55 -
U6U
ARICULTURAL DEKELOPIIENT PROJECT                     ANNEX V
INPUT SUPPLY                           Table 3
ULTERINARY IN"UTS
Detailed Cost Table
(U.Sh. '000)
uantti tBse Costs
Unit   B5/6       B6/87     B7/B3     99/99     Total    Unit Cost   85/86    9687    B7/8    88/89   Total
==~~~~~~~--s -=::                                                :===       ==      c_e_=:=_==-:= __=-== : :-== us== :==lu= =
I. INVESTNIET COSTS
A. VETERINAY WlAS
BISSEC                    dose   1,750.000 17504000 1,750,000  1.750,000 7.000,000       0.02  37,714.7 379714.7 37,714.7 379714.7 150,59.8
FhD                       dose      39.500    39,500    39s50o   3P9500   158,000        0.22   8.512.7  9.512.7  89512.7  8,512.7 34,051.0
BLTHNRAX                  dose      1109000   1109000   110.000   110,000   440,000      0.03   3,556.0  3,556.0  3,556.0  3,556.0 14.223.9
RABIES                    dose       49400     4,400     4.400      49400    17,600      0.47   2,070.4  2,070.4  2,070.4  29070.4  B8281.4
URUCELLA 1SIP)            dose       1,750     19750      19750     1,750     7.000      0.28     496.6    496.6    496.6    496.6  1P6M.3
DRUCELLA (45/20)          dose       1,750     1,750     1,750      1,750     7900       0.09     163.4    163.4    163.4    163.4    653.7
NEWCASTLE                 dose     220,O00   2209000   220,000   220,000   B80,000       0.01   3,002.8  39002.8  3,002.9  3,002.8 12.011.2
ACIICIES                  litre      4,400     69300     7 500      9,000    27,200      7.61  33,481.3 479939.1 57,070.4 68,484.5 206,975.3
TRYPANOCIS                dose      140.0OO   1409000   140,000   140,00   560,000       0.15  20,745.6 20,745.6 20,745.6 20,745.6 82,992.4
nuTuEcICS                  sUN         0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3         1 66,141.89  16,535.5 16,535.5 16,535.5  16,535.5 66P141.9
ANTIDIOTIC (SULOMIIES)   sum           0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3         1  16,72.5   4.175.6  44175.6  49175.6  49175.6 16,702.5
POULTRY DUGS               sum         0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3         1  5,606.92   1,401.7  1,401.7  19401.7  1,401.7  5,606.9
Sub-Total VTERINARY DRUGS                                                                        131,856.3 1469314.1 155,445.4 166,P59.5 6009475.2
3. OTHER EXPBITRES
REFR!GEATOR (ELECT/KEROS)  each         12         -                            12    143.68   1,724.1         -                 -  1.724.1
VET. CETRE REHIUILITATIN   sin         0.5       0.5         -         -         1  79116.17   3,559.1  34559.1         -        -  7.116.2
UAMCIHATION EOUIPIENT      sum         0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3         1 12.571.56   3,142.9  39142.9  3.142.9  3.142.9 12.571.6
MDTORIZED SPRAYER         each          23        21        23        21        U8      53.B9   1t239.2  1.131.4  1,239.2  1,131.4  4.741.3
BUOCET WWB SPRAYERS       each         175       175       175       175        700     28.72   5,025.5  5.025.5  5,025.5  5,025.5 209101.9
4WB VEICLES               each           -         -         4         -         4  6.937.13          -        - 27,348.5        - 274348.5
MOTORCYCLE SPARES          sub                                    -              -             119965.0        -        -        - l14965.0
BICYCLE SPARES             sn            -         -         -         -         -              2,393.0        -        -        -  29393.0
COPP CONTROL TESTING LAS   sn            I         -         -         -         1  20,024.7  20,024.7         -        -        - 20.024.7
CUP? CONTROL OUARATINE
REHABILITATION          s0            -         -         -         -          -            15,217.9        -        -        - 15P217.9
Sub-Total OTHER XPEITIDURES                                                                       64t290.3  12.957.9 36.756.1  9,299.8 123,204.1
Total INVESTIEJIT COSTS                                                                             196,146.6 159,172.0 192,201.5 176,159.3 723,679.4
II. RfCT01 COSTS
A. CUPP CAIGN INPUTS
MOILE LAB OPERATING
COSTS                  km        12.000    12.000    12000    12P000    48,000        0.1   1,145.4  lP145.4  1,145.4  1,145.4  4.581.6
Sb-Total CPP CAIAIGN INPUTS                                                                       1,145.4  19145.4  19145.4  1,145.4  4.581.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                1,145.4  1,145.4  1,145.4  1,145.4  49591.6
Total                                                                                                197,M.0 160,317.4 193p346.9 177,304.7 7289261.0
Nover 13. 1984  o0:51



- 56 -
UGiANDA
AGRICULTIRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                             ANNEX V
INPUT SUPPLIES                                 Table 4
FISHING INPUTS
Detailed Cost Table
(U.Sh. '1000)
Ouantitv                                       Base Costs
Unit 85/96 86/97 87/BB  889/9 Total   Unit Cost  85/96  96/97   87/98   8B/99   Total
1 IMIESTMENT COSTS
OUTWAR DMTORS (AHP)             each      -    60      -      -     60    150.04        - 9.002.2        -       -  9.002.2
(ICUPI           each      -    50      -     -      50    171.91        - 8,945.3        -       -  8945.3
(iSlE)           each      -    20      -     -      20    276.52        - 5,530.5        -       -  5,530.5
WTBMA  WMOTOR SPARES I TOOLS     sum      -      1     -      -      1  3.799.41        - 3,798.4        -       -  3,798.4
FISH NETS (4 1/2' MESH)          each     - 4,000 8,000 49000  16,000        0.91       - 3,643.4 7,2B6.9 3,43.4  14,573.7
S'   MESH)            each     - 4,000 89000 4,000 16O000         0.97       - 3,476.3 6.952,6 3,476.3  13M905.2
6'   MESH)            each     - 4,000 5,000 5.000  14,000        1.16       - 4629.5 5S796.9 5,796.9 16,203.2
7'   MESH)             each     - 4,000 5,000 5W0O 149000          1.64       - 69568.2 89210.3 8,210.3 22,988.7
9'   MMESH)           each     - 3,000 4.00  49000 11,000         2.29       - 6,869.0 9.158,7 9,15.B7 25,186.5
( 10'  MESH)           each     - 3,000 39000 4.000  10.000        2.07       - 6,199.0 69199.0 B9265.3 209663.3
MATERIALS FOR IMPROVED
CANOES                        sun      I      -     -      -      1  29279.04 29279.0        -        -       -  2,79.0
4 MD VEHICLE                    each      -     -      2      2      4  6,837.13        -       - 13,674.3 139674.3 279348.5
EGUIPIEN  AND SUPPLIES /a       sun       I     -      -      -      1   1,899.2  1,999.2       -        -       -  1,9899.2
Total INUESITENT COSTS                                                               4,178.2 58,661.9 579268.6 52,215.2 172,323.9
Total                                                                                 4,178.2 58,61.9 57w268.6 52,215.2 1729323.9
/a Includes scales, Protective clothing, uboats, needles. knives' and tool kits.
November 139 1994 10:52



-57 -
mGRIaTtuRL IEEOPET PROJECT                                             ANNEX V
IIIPUT SU^IES                                             Tab le 5
INPUT SImY MANAGEMENT
Detailed Cost Table
cu.s. 'ooo0
Quantity                                              Dan Costs
Unit    85/86   86/97   87/89    W8/9    Total   Unit Cost   85/96    86#R7   897/8   8989:   Total
I. IIIESTIENT COSTS
A. PtOJECT START-UP ACTIVITIES
TA PROGRAM MANAGER          son/month        4        -       _        _        4  4,418.01   17Y672.0        -        -       - 174672.0
TA ACCOUNTANT               man/mth          4        -       -        -        4  4,418.01   17Y672.0        -        -       - 174672.0
TA WAREOS MANAGER           man/month        8        -                         8  4P418.01  35,344.1                  -       - 35,344.1
PREFAB HOUSING: PSA /a        each           4        -       -        -        4 199881.03   79.524,1        -   -            - 724.1
Sub-Total PROJECT START-UP ACTIVITIES                                                           1509212,2        -                - 150.21*2,
9. PROJECT INVESTMENT COSTS
TA PROGRAM MANAGER          man/month       12        8       -        -       20  4*419.01  53,016.1  359344.1        -       - 98,360.1
TA ACCOUINTANT              man/month       12        9       -           -    20  4*418.01   531016.1  35.344.1       -       - 889360.1
TA WAREHOUSE MANAGER        gm/nth          24       16       -        -       40  41413.01  106lO32.2 70,688.1        -       - 176,720.3
4   VE HIICLE                 each           -        -       3        -        3  6,937.13         -         - 20.511.4       - 204511.4
2 ND VEHICLE                  each           -        3       -        -        3  4,937.93          -  14,913.9       -       - 14.913.8
AUDIT                       *an/mnth         I        I        1       1        4     1,390    1,390.0  1,390.0  1.380.0  1,380.0  5,520.O
Sub-Total PROJECT INUESTMENT COSTS                                                              2139444.3 157P570.0 21,91.4 1W3BO.0 394,295.7
Total INVESTIMNT COSTS                                                                            363,656.5 157,570.0 218991.4  1.390.0 544,497.9
II. RECURRENT COm
ADMINISTRATION                  t.a.           I        I       I        1       4   6,451.5   6.451.5  6.451.5  6,451.5 6.451.5 25,806.0
ADINISTRATION WAGES              Sum           1        1       I        1        4  1,707.75   1,707.9   1707.8 1707.8 19707.8  6,9831.0
HOUSING: RENT                   p.a.                    2       2        2        9     1,012   29024.0  2,024.0  29024.0 24024.0  8..6.0
HOWINS: REPAIRS I MINT          r.a.           4        4       4        4       16  I414.49   5.659.0  5,658.0 5.638.0 5v638.0 22.631.8
VEHICLE 0 3 N                    km      144,000  144,000 120,00  120I000 52,00O          0.1  139744.8  139744.8 It,454.0 119454.0 509397.6
IVERNWHT ALLOMANCE              night         15       IS      IS       15       60       2.3      34.5      34.5    34.5    34.5    138.0
STORES: REPAIRS I MAINT         ,.a.           I        I       I        1        4     1.150    I150.0   I150.   1.130.0  1.13.0   4,600.0
STORES: RENT                    p.a.           I        I       I        1        4    I,SOO   11500.0  11.500.0 IJ500.0 1100.0 46,000.0
DRIVERS                       man/month       96       96      96       96     394       3.45      331.2    331.2   331.2   331.2  1*324.8
STORElEN                      man/month      115      115     115      115      460      3.45      396.8    396.8   396.8   396.8  1.597.0
VATCOEN                       man/month      403      403     403      403   1.612       2.88   1158.6   15198.6  1.15.6 1,158.6  4,634.5
PERIWENT LABORERS             man/month      289      288     289      298   1,152       2.88      8.0    829.0  898.0   828.0  3.312.0
LORRIES 0 1 N                    km      115000 115,w000 115000  115.000 460,0O0         0.18  21160.0  21*160.0 21P160.0 214160.0 94.640.0
Total RECtIRREIT COSTS                                                                              66h145.1  66,115.1 63.854.3 63,954.3 259,9998.7
= =snESUSS  G=-=  -r=s~~~:   -
Total                                                                                               429,901.6 2239715.1 95S745.7 65.234.3 904,496.6
/a PSA = Project start-up activities
November 13' 19e4 10:52



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                                  ANNEX V
ON-FARM ADAPTIYE RESEARCH                                           Table 6
Detailed Cost Table
(U.Sh. '000)
Quantity                                                   Base Costs
Unit      85/86   86/87    87/88    88/89    Total    Unit Cost   85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
4 Wt YEHICLES                  each            3        2         -        -         S   6,837.13  20,511.4 13,674.3           -        -  344185.7
MOTORCYCLES                    each            -        2         -        -         2     455.61          -    911.6         -         -     91.6
STORE (75 &2)                   suN            I        -         -         -        I   29619.42   2t619.4          -         -        -   2t619.4
PREFAB HOUSE:  PSA              sun            I        -         -        -         1  19881.03  19,881,0          -        -         -  19s881.0
TA AGRONOMIST               man/sonth         3        12         9        -        24   40418.01  13t254.0 53,016.1 39762.1            - 106,032.2
OFFICE AND LAB EQUIP            su&i           I        -         -        -         1   19131,44   19131.4          -        -         -   1,131.4
FIELD EQUIPMENT                 sun            I        -         -        -         1     800,99      801.0         -        -         -     801.0           co
OVERSEAS TRAINING             each             -       12        12        -        24     395.11          -  4,741.3  4.741,3          -   9482.6
PLANE TICKETS                 each             -        I         I        -         2     718,38          -    718.4    718.4          -   1,436.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                 58,198,3 73,061.6 45,221.7          - 176,481.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
4 WD VEHICLES                 km        72,000  120,000  120.000  120,000  432i000           0.1   6,872.4 11,454.0 11t454,0 119454.0  41,234.4
MOTORCYCLES                   km              -   48,000   48,000   48,000  144i000         0.01          -    552.0    552.0    552.0   1,656.0
OVERNIGHT ALLOWANCES         night         100       100       100      100       400        2.3      230.0    230.0    230.0    230.0       920.0
HOUSING MAINTENANCE          vear            -         I         I        1         3     475.33          -    475.3    475.3    475.3   1,426.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                   7.102.4 12,711.3 120711.3 120711.3  45,236,4
Total                                                                                                   65,300.7 85,772.9 57,933.0 12711.3 221,718.0
November 13, 1984 10153



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                          ANNEX V
TSETSE CONTROL                                        Table  7
Detailed Cost Table
(U.Sh. '0001
Ouantits                                          Base Costs
Unit     85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Unit Cost   85/86    86/87    87/88   88/89  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
TRAINING IN ZIM8bAE        MAN/MONTH       9     -      -     -      9     359.19   39232.7         -         -     -   39232.7
CONSULTANCY                 MAN/HONTH       3      3     2        -   B   5,301,61  15X904&8 150904.8 10I603.2       -  42M412.9
EQUIPMENT                      sun        0.5   0.3   0.2      -      1  60,074,11  30,037.1 184O22.2 12,014.8       -  60,074,1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                  49,174.6 33p927.1 22?618.0      - 1059719.7
2=2-=:::==     =--:==  ===   c:=s======
Total                                                                                    49,174.6 33Y927.1 22,618.0      - 105,719.7
===No= *=e: ==13= 14  1:=::==
November 13P 1984 10:53



- 60 -
Ua
44410tLTtFt 4V fT  tMT
0  No TEEIn    KKELOOT                                                 ANNEX V
nuovcswwu airs. mamies
Detailed Cit Tble                                                   Tabl 
%%S. *000
(haM alte                                             law Costs
_.. _.................... ... _..............       ........ ............ ........ ............ .......
Unit     35/36   3I   37JSII  EM     Total   Unit Cost   1L16             Wir    VAR       539'   Total
..... ......  ....  ....... .. .            ...  -......  ...... ........  e........ .... ....
1. IWVESTINIT CUTS
......... ........_  
A. rISwti2s s5C0  AssE5s9Etl
LAUtD  (30 FTI                           each           I       -       -       -           39.16509   39165.1                                  1 * PIU.
D0vNar 114 FT)                             h            I       -       -       -        I  325.36        .225.4         -       *        -  3I.54
s216uf 16F Ta ract                                      I       -                        I  3.61.13    3.636.1           -       -        -  3.UI
4 MD 21IC0E                              eact           I       -       -                1  6.337.13    6.3              -       -        -  6.37.1
FuSEt  sm I                                             I                       .        1  2A  s.1 o.0I9.2              -        - 20 0.:-
CWINhf EMPIIT                             so            I               -       -        1    379.34       379.6                                379.1
LlASUTORT OUIP IT                         gm            I       -       -       -        I  3.7.41   1.791.4             -        -1.4
IFICE[10 E2IMMT                           VA            I       -               _        I    .75.S        759.7         -                 -     59.7
012I24  KS1WATIUS                        cA            I       -               _        1  2-934.11    2-934.1          -                -    .934.1
OwEnw  TRIwIN:                         WIU'*1h          6       6       6               10    315.11    .370.6  2.370.6  2.37..          -  7.12l.t
WVErASE TlUIlI;
4ptF4R                                                       2       2                6    7U.3P    1.436.1  1.436.0  1-4361.          -  4-3 J.3
LOC   TR1IN*l                          e /th           20      10       -       -       20      4q.3       433.0    433.9                 .    964,9
TA STOW 551E510                        aaeoth        12                                24  4.41.01   53.016.1 53.016.1               -     16.0327.2
CEtNIStUCS1                              iNfnth         4       4       4       -       12  53301.61  212106.4  21.206.4 21406.4           - 65.69,3
Sib-tal F1{TlES STOCl SSESSIT                                                                            141-31P7.  78-512.1 25.0113.        - 244.914.5
P. rls1IEs. STATISTICS. we EVAttlATIO
LAMM  (25 1i                            ea-h           I                                1 34.135.67      .                                  - .5.?
il  114 FTI                              earhI I                -                            2479.04    2-279.0          -                -  2-79.0
4 up tlDtE                                eah           2               -       -        26.17.13   13,674.3             -        -       -  113.4.3
-_i1 EOUWINT                               A           I          -                     3    1499.2   1-219.2                   -        -   1.2
ca;Il EcmmPN                              so            I       -       -       -        2  t 4T.6         49.6                 -         -    99T.6
*FicE KoWiPrtET                            I                    -       -          -     3    1-570.1   1.570.1          -                   - 1-570.1
:9M5                                     eah           22       -       *       -       12      441.3   5.301.6                                -301.
92(10 NW51: FSA,                         earh           I                                   1 _  t I -t2.012.0    2-1ttl.0                . 19.51.0
TA F1StlES STATISTICI                 a_/nth           12      1        -       -       :4  4.413.01     53W016.3 53.02.2        -        - 106.032.2
OhSEM   TUIA1INIl                       aw inth         6       3       3       -       12    395.11    2.370.6  2.305.1  1.15.1              4-741.3
EaSM  TIAIRS6
LIS!r                                 r/tar          2       1       1       -        4    712.30    10-46.3    730.4    ?3.4          -  :-P33.5
LOCAL T11*235                          QeWe   thio't   190      0      20       -       30      t4.3      483.0    4330    4U3.0          -   1-449.0
Sib-Total Fltl3ES- STATISTICS. SD EIUtILTION                                                              237-047.0  55.42.0  7-.3.'          - 1'4-.3.4
C. TIMMH   LUING FACILITIES
1Itt   L1*325 FACILITIES                   oI -                         -       -        2  656.75    6563                                     .956P
Sib-Total IftiWf  1IIDI.1  FACILITIES                                                                       6"156.1         -                -  16'
Toal IASItE1 T USTS 2w5s391.5 133.925.? 27-40D.5                                                                                               - 446.70?.-
.a..        ..   .  .......  ...a..      . 
II. 1(1UP&(31 COSTS
a. r1s114Es STOCK S55156
LAtH   1 Dl2r FU8L                      lair-       .000 '  .000   7.0   7.-000   2-.00         0.23    1-610.0  1.610.0  1.610.0  tIOSl.t  6.44C.0
tHm I plow
IKIIRS t AINT                        I...                           2       2        4  *-2.6    6.-52.6  6.2.6  6.5C2.6 *A532.6 :6. 30.4
4 i0 1EHIE                                a        4.-0   24.W0  2440!    .04400   'n            0.1   2-:0.3   2.20. 03 :-20 0.t  2.206.1   9-1.3.2
t1614 ALLGUICE                          eahia        250    250    250    -50    1.000           2.3 J       .;    55.0    575.0   375.0  :-.00.0
C*Sft LAW                               mont          t  t6 t0   t            d tO    243        2.3      133.0    13.0    133.0   133.:    ,52.0
Sb-TOtal F1911S SIOUt ASffSSMENT                                                                          :1-126.4  21-196.4 11.1%.4 11-196.4' 445.t
P.. Frgo:Es: SIATISTICS Ate EwtUATIOa.
LAW"  I 0I2*   FUEL                     listre     6-530   e-500   -.00   6-500   :1.000        0.23    2-.45.0  1-.45.0  2-495.C  1.495.9  s.-9.0
LISICI A DISK?
P(1t115 I a 7AI                      wa             I       1       2                4  5.f7. 29    5.''.3  5.797.3  5.797.3  3-797.3  3-.1391
4 0 uE41CtE                              to       *3.0C   41.00   4S.O0O  44-060  1':.000        0.l   4-511.e  4*.1.6  4-531.  4.-531.6  10-326.4
NIGHT ALLONCIa                          nnuht        2-t    250      -50    250    1-W0          2.3      575.0    575.0   575.0   575.0  :.300.0
CtAkt tLoSw                             omb            0      e       60      60      24:        2.3      138.0    113.9   136.    13.0    152.0
2 1615 MINlTEC.E                       ..a.           -       2       1       1        3    475.3        411*3 51            5.3    4  3   I-A4?.0
Sb-Toul r115*01s: STATISTICS A  EwLtOTIO*                                                                 12.236.9  134462.2 13.062.2 23.0622 5,1.73.:
Toul RECRIPT COSTS                                                                                            23.W33.) 24         -D253 A.6  25. 21.256.M6   6.5.1
'ial                                                                                                         303974.3 12.174.? 5169.1 24.2536 543.2&6.
_w   13. 2904 16.54



(an~~
MLIT ILKS ~ II Q.to                                                  "Am         116.111                            ".
.0.1 aegfmte'                                       e          te       a   hS        41. 7se                         WS U   I .I
wpmglla  'sUggI  d                             I                             I   1.lW.4    3135                               3.56
jr's  m,u.a, ,,,. .  -   g                                 *4P~~~~~~~~~~~~~.m   ......  .  ......      ... a.I.
2. 'sUnS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                 16i 
*.l ES  IP~          3' 1                                                       36)1Mg   Ii..                                gu.w.
4351P9" 53loo         ."              -         P                                p.173    n1.m.,
74UP     iS S U  g                  -                                           g3i.Ig,  33      3.9     -pg0
No 'ta  mU*,                                                                                  li.it
a.sWs.  td
*iiraPin.i       -          p                             p  1.31.1~~~~~~~~~~~WI H -m 3.1.                -91
bel..   gasps..                                                                      .1,        .33-                             .i.
to  'a'.       m.                                                                                gg.iig  N.gg.t11.gn.
* geiPa.' C ages ~   ~          ~           ~         ~          410       10.
em  arupE
to i-Pp aft",            as
gp5m.4~~~Pm. rap.  gin ..  -  g                         g  ip.NS~~~~~~~.e  .g.g    -    ----..            ....
pIe.U  ISOM    *-                                                                   1313         st.g.g.
els-11ie'                                                                                       Wed.-gl.l   535 ..   i.
~~~ge a                .                              '  :.gg:.te   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Ie ... .  ..... g....
.d.,4  Mee3p3).                                                                             4.                                 .
'.5.   CnieS                                                                                     .31. 
slues.'OAM
o-.       aI"~.                                  3              -                  1N.110J    5.5                                n
'gem am       -         g               -              '  3.PflA5    1~~~~~~~~~a.W ..f.
P  lq3let                                                                                  gral..
D. ifsm e.
e.f m3 tSN   as.al                                                        ps  -SbA   IN=   N  .Ph.D*3 tn-4In
Pailog 5'sfl."ge.'                                                                                 rI liV.1        1 S..         3111*111
.zir. 5 3t?35g'      P                             3  :.r.p    IC..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ........... ...
aMaM   gene.                                      p                              aIM.  MS'-PP.  I.LP.34
'm' s                                                 Ng...'  p                  g *Aml   .a.uu. .LIN1 I46                       Tla.,
.W   tpw.                                         I            M      M2.                                 O      IDA. .453       bt.32
115Pm IUNS.'                       I                              I  1~~~~~~'"  .165  ILh56   410.         .V,       W
Pa 'sIp. sfll'                                                                    SOPS ~3-7 1611    NS    INO CC3M.NA A   -M.SOD
am~a  S    P5155I341
--    - -- - - -- - - --g- -- - - ---i-  --l-  --S-  - - -   - - -- - -- - --e- - -- - a- - -
Mat    CPFW                                       3      p       t       N             Pt .13.   1.*Pl.Ie33134mls



- 62 -
SICOLTIDEL IEIWIW  POlLE
INSTITUlTILEU. KEELWIET
PILOT T I V EXTNSION SSs5(                                            ANlNEX V
Detailed Cost Table                                                Table  10
(U.Sh. *0003
Iluwtits                                                ua  Costs
Unit     85/6    36/37   87/,   80mi9    Total    Umit Cost   E5496    86187    37/U    80n/9   Total
-met- --ears 1---s nmamifti            -ENSE   Ua5fa   -ar a--nts . r a---- ts aeree  355*aSsss
1. INOESTIENT COSTS
A. AUICtTUUM. ExTE1SION
TEOICaL ASSISTalT: PSA                 manm/nth         3        -        -       -         3  4,418.01  139254.0          -        -        - 13,254.n
IEICM.O1    ASSISTANT                 man/omth          12      12       9                  33  4,418.01  53*016.1  53,011.1  39762.1        - 145,794.2
REFAD FESING: PSI                        each            I       -                           I 191I9,88.03  19,82.0        -        -        -  19POB1.0
4a  VEIICLE: PS                         each           I           -                        1  6,937.13   6,t37.1         -        -        -  6,837.1
4 48 UEHiE                                each          S        -        -       -          5  6,837.13   34.185.7        -        -        - 34.195.7
HOCCLES                                  each            I       -        -       -         32    455.81  14,585.9         -        -        -  14,585.9
CCISJTTI8N rATERIALS                     SUP           8.3     0.3      0.3     0.3         1 44,092.81  11*023.2 11.023.2 13423.2 11*023.2  44,0R.8
EjTERIE PRINTING I
TaIPIS EOUIPIENT                       sub            I       -        -       -          I 11-395.22  1193M5.2         -         -       -  11*395.2
OfFICE E8UIIPET                          soo             I       -        -       -          1  5.206.42  5206.4          -        -        -  5,206.4
FIELD sESURnr  EWuIPIG                   sub             I       -        -       -          I  1603.98   1.602.0          -        -        -  1.602.0
TEAMING EUIPIIET                         sub            I        -        -       -          I  4,004.94   4,004.9         -        -        -  4,004.9
WER!EaS TRAINING                      san/math          72      72       72      72        280    395.11   29,447.7 2B.447.7 2B447.7 29J447.7 1133790.6
PLIIE TICKETS                            r/tnrp          &       -        6       -         12    718.38   4.310.3         -  4,310.3        -  B,620.5
SW3T WESEAS TRAINING: PSI             aml/nth           10       -        -       -         10    179.59   175.9           -        -        -  1.795.9
TRAVEL: PSA                             rttri          it        -       -        -         10      89.8     898.0         -        -        -    fA.0
01R(SE6 TRAINlN6: RICE AERGT           ma/mth           10       -        -       -         10    359.19   3s591.9         -        .        -  3,591.9
PLANE TICKETS                            t/trti          5       -        -       -          5    718.38   3.591.?         -        -        -  3,591.9
RIIEIFTATION TRAINING: ALL DISTRICTS
SENIRt OFFICERS I TRINERS           K  PEiSON        44       -        -       -         44      13.B      607.2        -         -       -    607.2
O8IENTATION TRAINING: ALL DISTRICTS
SEKCIALIST OFFICERS I TRAIlERS      PER PERDEO      116       -        -       -        116      13.8   1-600.8         -         -       -  1I60 s.
SIEIITATIeI CeuRSE: ALL DISTRICTS
EXPESES                                sto           25       -        -       -         25     51.75    1-293.8        -         -       -  1,293.8
Sub-Total AWICtLTIRNL EITEBSIN                                                                               22119.9  92-486.Y  83-543.2 39,470.9 436-6.9.8
Total IzESTIET COSTS                                                                                           221.128.9 92-486.' 83,543.2 39.470.? 436629.8
II. REOJENT COSTS
STATIOERY. ETC.                            war             1       I       I        1         4   2*415.54   2,425.5  2*415.5  2.415.5 2*415.5  9,662.1
VHIECLE DIN                                 tm        60.00W  120000  12.0.000  128,000   420,090      0.3   5-727.0  1lv454.0  11,454.0 11*454.0  40,0J.0
rOTORCTCLE Ol                               km       192m00o  3P4,000  34.9000 384,000 1-344-000      0.0   2:-298.0  4,416.0  4,416.0 4,416.0  15,456.0
BICYCLE DLLOME                            month       2.400   2.400   2.400   24O           ,600      8.29     695.7    695.7    695.7   695.7  2*782.7
DAY ALLoIeAE                               Ca         40,80   40-800   40.00  40,800   163W200e       0.17   7,038.0  7*038.0  7,038.0 74038.0 28*152.0
NIGIT ALLOMEE
A*tl1  E(TE1S6ON STIFF                 night         456      VA6      456     456      1824        2.3   1,049.8  1.04.6  1,048.8  I048.8  4A195.2
NIIHT ALLOWMCE
RESEAtC STAFF                          aisht           96 %     6       96      9         394       2.3      220.8    220.8    220.8   220.8   183.2
It-AM      TIRAINIGi:  ISHOP
(Sags)                                 night         200      280      200     20         80       O.U       172.5    172.5    17.s 5    72.5    690.0
SI-SKM  TRAINING
(SItSI                                 ngsht          102     102      102     192        400      0.81      e8.0      00.0     e8.0    80.0    352.9
3I-SOUL TRAINING
(AS)                                   flight        240      240     240      240       960       0.69     165.6    165.6    165.6   165.6    662.4
Il-SPi TRAINING
(FEls)                                 night         432      432     432      432      1,728      0.69     298.1    298.1    298.1   299.1  1-192.3
FUTNIBITLY TRAINING
(FAsI                                   ds          5,900   5900   5e900   s-00         30         0.17   1,017.8  1,O07.8  19017.8 3,017.B  4,872.0
SPECIAL sit COURSE
(SH/AS*A8)                              dw           216      216      216     216        864      0.86      186.3    186.3    386.3   106.3    745.2
RJEST SPEAKERS:
auLOINES                               night           32      32       32      32        329       2.3       73.6     73.6      73.6    73.6    294.4
GEST SEAERS:
T5ME                                   nigifht         16      16       16      16        64       64.4   1,030.4  1030.4  1,030.4  1,030.4  4,123.6
STAFF TRAVEL TO
TRAINING CURSES                         s               1       I        I       1          4     2W00   2-300.0  2*300.0  2,300.0 2*300.0  9,200.0
0e  tK TRAINING
(ts.S-aO01 ESERCHERS)                  night          336     336      336     336      1.344      0.86      2.89.8    289.8    289.8   289.8  1,159.2
TRAINING MIERIMS                           sNr            I        I        I       1         4  149377.16  14377.2  149377.2  14.377.2 14377.2 S7.509.6
111 KITS                                  kit            -   80 0   16,OW   16O0O       40*0W       0.29         -  2.3*0.0  4i60O.0 4*600.0 11430.0
PAM3 Om5                                   'It            -  10.I00 2O.000  20.0eo    50.00           0.02         -    160.2    320.4   320.4    801.0
STAT EIITIE12ENTE                          wrar            1       1        1       1         4    966.21       966.2    966.2    966.2   966.2  3*B64.9
HMOS NAINTIEAINCE                          year           1        1        1       1         4    475.33       475.3    475.3    475.3   475.3  1,901.3
Total ,EC' 7T COSTS                                                                                             40,794.5 511E89.7 53*649.9 2.649.9 199.2B4.1
mnen s,_mess  axsa  .nst
Total                                                                                                           261,923.4 143,676.6 137.193.1 93"120.8 635,913.9
tbWber 13* 2924 10156



- 63 -
UG
mzRICULTUmAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIENT
HONITORING MID EVALUATION UNIT                                        ANNEX V
Detailed Cost Table                                             Table  11
(U.Sh. P0001
Ouantity                                             BBse CDStS
Unit     85B/6   96/87  87/8B  88789  Total   Unit Cost   85/86   86/07   57/8   8889?  Total
-= r--==  -5           ---- == -=  = -==--  fin:::::      _  rs   =-=  ====  =_== -        --==
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
TA UNIT HEAD: PSA              man/month        6       -      -       -        6  4,418.01  26,509.0         -       -        - 26,509.0
TA UNIT HEAD                   man/onth        12      12      -       -       24  4,418.01  53,016.1 539016.1        -        - 106,032.2
OUERSEAS TRAINING              man/month        6       6      6       3       21    395.11    2,370.6  29370.6  29370.6  191B5.3  0.297.2
AIRFARE                          r/trip         2       2      2       1        7    718.38    1,436.8 I436.8  lr436.8   718.4  5,028.6
PREFAD HOUSING: PSA              each           I       -      -       -        1 19,981.03  197881.0         -       -        -  19,882.0
4WD VEHIUE: PSA                  each           1       -      -       -        1  79208.B9   792O8.9         -       -        -  7.208.9
4 VD VEHICE                      each           2       -      -       -        2  7.208.89  14,417.8         -        -       - 14-417.8
TYPEVRITER                       each           4       -      -       -        4    312.39    1,249.5        -       -        -  19249.5
PHOTOCPIER                       each           1       -      -       -        1    780.96      781.0        -       -        -    751.0
CYCLOSTYLE                       each           1       -      -       -        1    416.51      416.5        -       -        -    416.5
OFFICE CHAIRS                    each          15       -      -       -       15       4.03      60.4        -       -        -      60.4
DESKS                             ech          15       -      -       -       15       19.9     298.4        -       -        -    298.4
FILING CABINETS                  each          12       -      -       -       12    148.14    1.777.7        -       -        -  1777.7
CALILTORS                        each          10       -      -       -       10      59.26     592.6        -       -        -    592.6
CRP DEOS                          each         35       -      -       -       35      40.05    1,401.7       -        -       -  1,401.7
WEIGHING SCALES: PSA             each          31       -      -       -       31      16.02     496.6        -       -        -    496.6
SURVET EDUIPENt SETS: PSA        each          35       -      -       -       35       80.1   2,803.5        -       -        -  2.803.5
Total IimiESTIIT COSTS                                                                          134,717.0 56,823.5  3,807.4  19903.7 197.251.6
II. RECRRENT COSTS
A. PROJECT START-UP ACTIVITIES
VEHICLE 0611                  ks       24,000       -      -       -  24,000         0.1   2,290.8        -        -       -  29290.B
MORCYCLE ON                   t.       12,000       -      -       -  12,000        0.01     138.0        -       -        -    139.0
O-FICE SUPPLIES               sum         0.3       -      -       -      0.3   1,767.2      441.B        -       -        -    441.8
TRVEL ALLOWANCES
EIIIIERATION I AAs         nilht       210       -       -      -      210        2.3     453.0        -        -       -    483.0
PROFESSIONALS              night        60       -       -      -       60        2.3     138.0        -        -       -    138.0
BICYCLE ALLOWANCES
ENUIERATION M1D1 As        month       105       -       -      -      1OS       0.2?      30.2        -        -       -      30.2
PARISH WORKERS             month       274       -       -      _      274       0.2       79.8        -        -       -      79.8
Sub-Total PROECT START-UP ACTIVITIES                                                          3,600.6        -       -        -  3,600.6
8. PROJECT OPERATING COSTS
UEHICLE Os"                   km       ?29000 72r004  72,000  72,000 288,000         0.1   6rB72.4  6,872.4 6.B72.4 6.872.4 27948?.6
IIOTORCYCLE OIl               km      4A8000 48.000 48,000  48.000 192hO00          0.01     552.0   552.0   552.0  5m.0  2,209.0
OFFICE SUPLIES                sum           1       1      1       1        4    1.767.2   1-767.2  1.767.2  l.767.2 19767.2  7,068.8
TRAVEL ALLOWANCES
ENUIERATION I Ak nMsht                 840    540    840    840   3,360           2.3    19?32.0 1932.0  1.732.0  1,932.0  7.728.0
PROFESSIONALS              nisht       240    240    240    240        960        2.3     552.0   552.0   552.0   552.0  2.20B.0
BICYCLE ALLOWICES
ENWERATION AND As          month       420    420    420    420   1.690          0.29      120.8   120.8   120.8   120.8    483.0
PARISH WORKERS             month     19096   1.096  1,096  1.096   4.3B4         0.29     315.1   315.1   315.1   315.1  1P260.4
HOUSING MINTENWiCE            war           1       I      1       1        4    475.33      475.3   475.3   475.3   475.3  19901.3
Sub-Total PROJECT OPERATING COSTS                                                            12596.B 12.586.! 122586.8 12586.8 509347.1
Total REaURRENT COSTS                                                                            16P1B7.3 12.586.B 12586.8 12,586.8 539947.7
=       - -- == e---e--- -   ~ =
Total                                                                                            1509904.4 69.410.2 16,394.2 14,490.5 251,199.3
November 13, 1984 10:57



-  64  -                                  ANNEX V
Table 12
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components bs Year
(U.Sh. million)
t;se Costs                   Total
85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89    U.Sh.   (USS '000)
A. Input SuPPlY
Agricultural Inputs                                        1,297.5   876.2 1,035.4 1J283.4   4P492.6   12v836.1
Ueterinars Inputs                                            197.3   160.3   193.3   177.3     728.3    29080.7
Fishing Inruts                                                 4.2    58.7    57.3    52.2      172.3      492.4
Input SUPlP  hanagement                                     429.8   223.7    85.7    65.2     804.5    2i298.6
Sub-Total Input SuPPl                                         1?928.8 1,318.9 1,371.8 1,578.2   6,197.7   17,707.7
B. Research and Technologv Developaent
Research aed On-farm Trials                                   65.3    85.8   57.9    12.7    221,7         633.5
Tsetse Control                                                49.2    33.9   22.6        -     105.7       302,1
Fisheries: Population Dinasics                               309.2   158.2   51.7   24.3       543.3   1552.2
Sub-Total Research and TechnologY Development                   423.7  277.9   132.2   37.0       870.7    29487.7
C. Institutional Development
Renovation of Training College and Ectension Training        239.3    73.9    71.2   31.4      415.8    1,188.0
Pilot TOW  Extension S-ssteB                                 261.9   143.7   137.2   93.1      635.9    1,816.9
H.onitoring and Evaluation Unit                              150.9    69.4    16.4    14.5     251.2      717.7
Sub-Total Institutional Develowment                             652.1   207.0   224.8   139.1   1s302.9    30722.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            37004,5 1,883,8 1,72B.8 1,754.2   89371.3   23,918.1
Ph!sical Contingencies                                         163.6   109.1   123.1    95.9     491.6    1,404.6
Price Contingencies                                            314.3   424.4  590.1   786.3  2,115*1    6,043.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             3,482.4 2Y417.2 2,442.0 24636.4  10,978.0  31,365&?
Taxes                                                          176.2    62.7   80.5  176.0    495.4   1415.4
Foreign Exchange                                             2,685.1 1.936.5 1,985.1 2083.4   8,690.0   24Y828&6
November 13' 1984  11:02



- 65 -
ANNEX V
IsisA                                                                   Tablca 13
Suman Scent by Project Conorant
(0.50. '0001
lastlwtiutl l hvswaanl.
huarct NW Tedmchnloi heluumant Reovatim of
Input Swpis                  ------------                      TrainEed            flonitarif                 Pissical
Rnaeser  and          Fimluriest  Calise and Pilot 101   and                  Cutuvucles
Asricultursl Vstaina'v  Fshine  imau Supply    on-foam    Tutses  Posultim,   Eutansin  Exttsmia Evaluation-------
lint,     Inunt,   louts   Ilmadesmt        Trials     Control  Itunasle    Trainlna    ISlAM      unit       Total      I   Amount
I. laVITIEJ  COSTS
Civil Hutis                               2P375.7  22.334 1                    -       2,619.4         -  15,192.5     144,070.9       -    -          106,592.5 210.0 10,659.3
Vehicles                                 904547.3  41,706.5 27,348.5    35.325.2      35,097.3         -  20,511.4      25.525.3 409.771.6  14.4217.9  1.233.250.9  0.0    0.0
Eauiant.                               3,063.527.4  46,592-0 144,975.4         -       3,932.4  60,074.1  93,997.2      38,563.5 66.301.4   6,577.3  3522,031.1  10.0 352,233.1
llaterials                               443,414.3        -        --- -                  -            -               -                               442,414.3  0.0      0.0
Drus                                            - 613,046 9                                                  -  -      -                               613,046.0  0.0      0.0
Trainims                                        -         -        -           -      10,919.3   39232.?  21,451.9       7.54.? 133,096.6  13,325.9    299.569.3 10.0 19,956. 9
Teclmucal Assists.                              -         -        -   33.P960.5     106.032.2  42,412.9 275.40.6      132.540.2 145,794.2   106.032.2  1.347.455.6  0.0   0.0
PreAjst Start-i, Activities
16 Prefab. huaKna                               -         -        -   150.212.2      19.UI.0          -  19401.0       19.t.0  426661.  60,490.6    313i020.0  10.0 31.302.0
Total INUESTOIEI COSTS                   4.491,344.6 723,79,4 172,323.9   544,497.9    I?6.481.6  103.719.7 446,707.7     368.423.B 436,629.9 200.2.1  7.667.199.5  5.1 421.201.3
Phasical Continaesias                    306,590.3   6,092.6 14,497.5    154021.2      3,535.2   6,330.7  15,051.3      21.015.0 24,206.4   3.040.2    421,201.3  0.0      0.0
Price C,tsnL oczas                     3.226.91.0 105,304,9 54,961.3    65,307.4      34.175.0  20403.0  67,766i.6      68.654.5  3,03.637  122,045.0  1.030129.3  5.3  94,145.5
Total jNCUamis CUTIIUOCIE                 6,025,430.0 935,956.9 2,43,632.9   624,026.5  214,191.9  13,4.   29.525.5       450.114.2 544.4B4.9  211,737.3  9.913,502.1  5.2 515.346.0
Tam                                     206,240.3   8.060.6 17,247.2     9,33.9        6,267.9        -19,625.6          5.673.2  10.05.2   5,92.5     290016.5  2.5  4,494.0
Forums Ewtiue.                         5.379,0421.4 020,723.1 209,964.9   493,273.0  171.670.0 113477.9  417,230.9     305.426.1 477.431.0  104,763.1  9.572.019.2  5.4 462.4B9.6
lI. aEau M5TS
A. Osaratao and Maintenance
Muscle onK                                  -   4.581.6        - 135,037.6         42,3890.4       -  27,459.6      25,859.3 5550.0  '29,697.6    311,101.1  10.0 31.110.1
Eoua.,tt UMn                                -         -         --                       -         -  61,939.5             -        -   7,040.0     69,009.4 10.0  4,99.9
huildana Os"                                     -         -         27,231.9       1.426.0        -   1,426.0      21.125.6   WOW1.    3,991.3    55,012.0 20.9  5.501.2
Administratvw 03IM                               -         -         79.M*.0-                      - -         -        -           -               79,902.0 30.0  7.990.2
SubTotal Operations aW lsNoantenac                  4,581.6       -   242171.4       44.316.4         -  90,055.1      36,904.9 57,446.3  38.667.7    515,023.5 20.0 S1CU2.3
0. Salaries and Allssu,css
Salaries                                     -        -         -    10.803.3            -         -   1,204.0         314.0        -               12I276.3 10.9  1,227.6
AIIsuAncs                                                       -     6.919.0        920.0         -   4,600.0       V.220.9 3.301. 1   11,679.4    90.59.3 10.0  9.069.0
Sub-Total Salaries wa Allcv.,cs                -         -        -     17.027.3        920.0         - 5,704.0         0.534.? 39,501.2  134,67.4    103.166.S  10.0 29,316.7
C. Naterials                               759.7         -        --                        -         -         -       1.80B.0  *.336.6         -     05.965.1 10.0  0.596,5
Total 11E1391  COST                            759.7   4.591,4        - 259,99B.7        4.5.236.4       -96,55.1          47.319.4 199.3Z4.1  50.347.1    704,255.1 10.0 70,415.5
PI.asaal Contifncists                        76.0     459.2        -    25,999.9       4,523.6         - 9,655.9         4.739.8  19920.4   5.034.7     70.415,5  0.0      0.0
Price Continauscass                         210.9   1*9921.3            105.0311.3    19.606.2            37,390.9      21 .104.0 79,035.5  19,034.9   1204,975.0  9.1 25,906.0
Total INO.IIei CWrINUIEKIIES                 1.046.5   6,932.3        -   391,909.9      69,446.2        - 143,613.9       73.232.0 290,2 40.0  75,216.9  1.059.545.5  9.1 96.322,.3
Vases                             -  ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~3,119.5  - 53.441.8  26.496.4      -45,953.7         11.259,7 39,710.7  20,307.7   2.05.377.5  9.i  10,670,7
Fome,lo (axtain                             904.0         -        -     9,564.9       1.036.9         -  24,654.0      15.361.1 51,115.1   9,200.3    117.916.?1  9.1 10.719.7
Total 316a.NE 0515                       4.4912.424.3 723.261.u 172,323.9   904,496.6   221.718.0 105.719.7 5.43.246.0    415,012.2 6.75.913.' 251.199.3  0.371.335.6  5.9 091.616.8
Plwscal C,tanaacze,                       306*666.3   7.350.0  14.07.5    4102.1        0058.?   6.330.7  24,77.2    '25.774.7 44,234.9  13,074.9    491,.616.9  0.0        0.0
Price Contirgesncies                    1,227.293.9  1107,277.4I 54,061.3   171.120B.7  13,961.2  20,4493.815,iSl16.4    99.759.3 162.6141.2  421,60.9  2.215,095.2  5.7 120.05.4
Total PR0.1( COSTS                        6,026,404.5  922,009.2 241,602.0  1.016.636.4    :93.638.0  132,544.1 673,139.4  531.346.2 042,73.9 306,954.1 10.973.047,6  5.6 611.669.2
Taxes                                    2209.240.3  11.290.2 17,247.2    66.475.?     12.76-4.2        -  65,579.2      16,92.9 50.6,03.?  2.6.370.?    495,394.0  4.7 23.165.5
tarmign Emcbas                          5,379,046.5  020,7213.: 209,964.9   502.010.7  172,74.' 113,477.0 441,092.9'    32979-3534.596.2  193,963.9  9.690.006.1  5.4 473,2093
Ilmemsber 23. 1904 l1U02



- 66 -
urns                                                ANNEX V
AGRICIL.TURK DEVELWIIENT PROIECT                                 Table 14
Sumar Accaunts bv Year
Tnteis Includins Contingencies                 Totals Including Contingencies
(U.Sh. '000                                     (USS '000)
8Er86     96/97      97/88      88t/9      Total       85:86  96/87  ri88  88189  Total
-===c== ==- =s :===S... -===---  2====2fo  =-_== =-lS  ==S=  ==r-  ===
1. INUESTIMENT COSTS
Civil Works                             230,843.5    5,041.8         -          -   235,985.4   659.6   14.4       -       -   674.0
Vehicles                                95,350.0   39.535.0   80219.3  7134697.4 1528,901.7  1.986.7  113.0  229.2 29039.1 49368.0
EouimenIt1,124,303.9 1.1209716.1 19428w403.6 1.151,290.1  4,832,703.7  39212.3 3,224.9 4,081.2 3,289.4 13,807.7
Materials                               124,313.9  135.904.9  147.672,6  149,413.8   557,305.3   355.2  38B.3  421.9  426.9 1,S92.3
Druss                                   148,366.0  179,923.9  206.930.5  240,086.9   774,307.2   423.9  511.2  591.7  686.0 29212.3
Training                                 72,9831.0   61,025.6   71,893.5   50,1S4.0   255,904.1   208.1  174.4  205.4  143.3   731.2
Technical Assistance                    'i44,217.0  604,707.1  219,256.0   2192.7 1.3B99272.8 19554.9 1,727.7  626.4   60.3 3,969.4
Project Start-us ktivities
a. Prefab. Housins                      344322.0          -          -          -   344,322.0   983.8       -      -       -   983.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   3,,4,547.3 2,153,9854.4 2.1549375.5 2,325,724.9 9,918.502.1  99384.4 69153.9 6,155.4 6P644.9 289338.6
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operations and Maintenance
Vehicle OH                          350780.8  121.450.9  1280132.7  138B383.4   4730747.8   245.1  347.0  366.1  395.4 1?353.6
Eouient DSi                          22,039.0   249255.1   26,350.8   2B9476.7   1019121.7    63.0   69.3   75.3   81.4   298.9
Buildins OII                          9,951.1   21.999.2   23,996.6   25.827.9    81.664.0    29.4   62.8   68.3   73.8   233.3
Administrative OI                    26i,264.7   29,061.1   31,525.0   34.047.0   120,897.8    75.0   83.0   90.1   97.3   345.4
Sub-Total Operations and faintenance   144,035.6  196.756.3  209,905.2  226,735.0   7779432.1   411.5  562.2  599.7  647.8 29221.2
D. Salaries and Allowans
Salaries                              39963.9    4.491.3    4.972.1   S5261.9    19,589.3    11.3   12.9   13.9   15.0    53.1
Allowances                           .7,158.3   33.090.7   379430.9   40,425.9   13B.105.6    77.6   94.5  106.9  115.5   394.6
Sub-Total Salaries and Allowances       '1,122.1   37.582.0   42,303.0   45r687.7   156.694.8    88.9  107.4  170.9  130.5   447.7
C. materials                            Z2s664.0   27i034.9   35.426.0  3M.2M2.?   125.418.6    64.8   83.0  101.2  O1.4   358.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      197.821.7  263.373.3  287,634.9  310,715.6 1,059.545.5   565.2  752.5  821.8  987.8 3.027.3
- =rc=--a=                                              _=c-== ==c-z- =c-=== =-=--_
Total PROJECT COSTS                       3.482,369.1 2,417,227.6 2.442,010.4 296369440.5 109978.047.6 9,949.6 6,906.4 6,977.2 7.532.7 31,365.9
November 13' 1984 il:00



- 67 -
ANNEX V
Table 15
IGSNDA
AGRICtLTURAL DUELREJNT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies          Totls Including Contingencies
(U.Sh. Hillion)                            (USS '000)
85/86  86/87  07/88  88/89  Total    85/06  86/8?   87788   88/B?   Total
A. Input SUpply
Agricultural Inruts                                     1,504.9 1.141.1 1471.6 1908.8 69026.5  4r299.6 3,260.4 49204.7 5,453.9 17,218.5
Veterinary Inruts                                         223.9  193.8  253.5  251.7   922.9   639.7  553.8  724.2  719.1  29636.8
Fishing Inputs                                              5.1   77.2   80.3   79.1   241.7    14.4  220.6  229.5  226.0   690.5
Inrut Supply Manasement                                   4B9.6  287.2  129.2  110.7  1,016.6  1,398.7  820.5  369.2  316.3 2,904.7
Stib-Total Input Supply                                   2,223.4 1969.3 1,934.7 2,350.3  8,207.7 6,352.5 4,B55.2 S,527.7 6,715.2 23,450.6
3. Research and Technoloy Developmnt
Resarch and ti-tarn Trials                                 74.2  107.4   80.4   21.6   283.6   212.1  306.9  229.6   61.9   910.4
Tsetse Control                                             58.1   43.2   31.3        -    132.5   165.9  123.3   89.5        -   37B.7
Fisheries: Population Dynaics                             360.0  19B.0   74.5   40.6   673.1  1,028.6  565.6  212.9  116.0  1,923.3
Sub-Total Research and Technology Development               492.3  340.5  186.2   62.2  1,089.3  1,406.6  995.B  532.1  177.8  3,112.3
C. Institutional Development
Renovation of Training College and Extension Tr3inins     291.5   92.9   97.9   49.0   531.3   832.7  265.5  279.9  140.1  1,519.1
Pilot TOY Extension SYstem                                304.9  189.0  198.1  150.7   842.7   871.0  540.1  566.1  430.7  2,407.8
Nonitoring and Evaluation Unit                            170.4   97.4   25.0   24.1   307.0   406.8  249.7   71.5   68.9   977.0
Sub-Total Institutional Devlopent                            766.7  369.4  321.1  223.9  1,681.0 2,1S0.6 1,055.3  917.4  639.7  4,803.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         3,492.4 2,417.2 2,442.0 2*636.4 109978.0 9,949.6 69906.4 6,977.2 7,532.7 31,365.9
November 139 1994 11:02



- 68 -
UGANDA                                                                       ANNEX VI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ImplementatIon Chart
_VC      "ll                 PY2                 PY3                PW
1   2   3        4     1    2   J   4    1 ' 2    3   4   1   2    3   4    1   2   3   4
INPMT SlPPL 
AQoituftlVewldnayry&FshglnglsI Roll                                       El   E               S  EE             E _  EEE
CBPP Moble Lob& C*mi                                  1 sI l  t     * _    _   _   _    _      _        _     _    _     _    _    _
TA ILOwkig                                        $slw a    a
Technca Astaonce                               L   _   _ -        m   _ 
Pacummont& DWnbution                   _           _                                  m _ _ _ _ _ _                        m _
RESEACH & TECHNOLOGY OfWLOMwPENT
ON-ARM ADAPlE IESEARCH
TA I4uwng                                             Ea
Sto ConSluction                                                       a al 0 n  I              
TachnhciAmance                                                l     ~       :         r      
Owxoso T                                                            rm                        =_  
TsE1SE CONTR0L
CanTtoncIw    OjO
FISERIES POPUATION DYNAN%
TA HausV                                              .maI|.I
touncft & Eqnw  De*voy                                  lessI 
Tochnca Assston  Stock Assmsent                                -    m   -   -   -   -    -   _
Tectmwca Ausisznce StaiOh?9s                               ESIIII         inElh          m
TrwwV Stock Asurnuent                                     I                                      J . 
Teohng Sttisti cs8 Evuoton                                           i |               _         _                m
l~~~~~~~~~ m   m In m ; -- m -T     
INSTIIUTIIIALDPEVEOPMENT                                 I      I I I r                        
lENCATION OF TIRAING CCXLEGES J             ii i
EXTENSON TRANING                                                                        3         l
co!w"o wxf nd                                       I I|||t I I" I m a 2 n 9     n a      a
bgchcor A rance Housing                                     s        -      1 a r  i          m   m   m                          -
T & V 7lcnrrg                                                          - m m                                          
Omw Txmring                                                r
PLOT T & V ExTSEI.J|ON                                    1          i
TA Houig                                                                  -   t                    Im     l              I 
Tecricot Ass,stonce                          I..                                       _.
Cong taiMO1w ol                                       II                                         Ing tlis.   3       *i
Oue.es Trang I & V                                       S                          m       I..l                                -
TroR scsAg                                               I   * 3gmA                                                Ti   T 
I   !  t  |  t: 4 i 11 [ Z 1   l ! SI                                                     i 
Onentatiot Trona'g
TA l     uSng                                                   I. |Ii
l'nien.og.wgjm                                                             ,m       m 
Tectvt.col Assistorce            1El                   l                                 m                                Bank-2W 0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _      I    I                                                               Ilji i



kNu Vil
AMIRCIIL'URAI, DEU       PRWU
DuAnEl DIS iSURS04r SaOX.U
(USS Million)
Total                       IDA                         1FAD               Omulative Project          X Disbsed
IDA Fiscal Year      Calender Year      t.arterly  0mulative       Qaarterly   O.ulative        Qarterly   hulative                _                ProJects In 1Landa
a) Urkier ILA TAII
(Cr.1434 UG)
1985            March                 0.2        0.2             0.2         0.2              -           -                   -
June                  0.1       0.1             0.1         0.1               -           -                   _
Totatl                -         0V3             -           0.3               -           -                   -
b) Unier Proposed
Agr.Dev.Proj.
1986            Septemibr             0.3        0.3             0.1         0.!              f).2         0.2
Dcenmer               1.2        1.5            0.5         0.6               0.7         0.9                -
March                 1.3        2.8            0.6         1.2               0.7         1.6                 -                       -
Jure                  1.3        4.1             0.6         1.8              0.7         2.3                17                        1
1987            Septerber             1.4        5.5             0.6         2.4               0.8         3.1                -                        -
ltcemer               1.4       6.9             0.6         3.0               0.8         3.9
Mardc                 1.3        8.2            0.6         3.6               0.7         4.6                 -                       -
June                  1.2       9.4             0.4         4.0               0.8         5.4                33                      32
1986            Septe3lrer            1.3       10.7             0.5         4.5              0.8          6.2                -
Ieceffber             1.4      12.1             0.5         5.0               0.9         7.1
March                 1.3       13.4            0.6         5.6               0.7         7.8                 -                       -
Jun                   1.4       14.8            0.6         6.2               0.8         8.6                60                      47
1989            September             1.4       16.2             0.5         6.7               0.9         9.5                -
Deceaner              1.5      17.7             0.6         7.3               0.9        10.4                -
March                 1.4       19.1             0.6        7.9               0.8        11.2                 -
Jtme                  1.5       20.6            0.6         8.5               0.9        12.1                84                      70
1990            Septewber             1.3       21.9             01.5        9.0              0.8         12.9                -                        -
bcesreer              1.3      23.2             0.5         9.5               ).8        13.7                -                        -2
March                 1.3       24.5            0.5        10.0               0.8        14.5               10                       80X
Total                 -         24.5            -          10.0               -          14.5
Expected date of signirg: April 1985
Expected date of effectives s: June 1985
Expected mWletion date: June 1989
Expected closirg d2te: March 1990



70
ANNEX VIII
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
List of Materials Available in the Lmplementation Volume
Item 1          Agriculture
Item 2          Adaptive Rese-arch Program
Item 3          Ox-drawn Equipment
Item 4          Agricultural Elxtension
Item 5          Livestock Development
Item 6          Fisheries
Item 7          Terms of Reference for
Internationally Recruited Consultants



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Project Orgonizatlon
Secumtoy
| Foresytefr l                                                                      _ 9v  es
Chief Forestryr1ct                    lonih orsngic
Officers          Efiers&  orkshtonsOfi
conynissEx.rstn                                                           isaom-.
SeNeue Reseach                           Mugh                          T    Control                             Fise urto  SlOck
fa cwu  Offr e a            _ YAk0"nic
La:li. APO =ko                                       Pogrom W IokKmw                                       WI
Iord BIn*-26065



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Linkages Between Extension and research
|AQrIAture                      EI| nskshp                    1*
%.    -
I      /S~-   /#                        / s 
|   DlstHcl h    (/                          -   %oiE r1Seeeec 
Fuctinal Urit                     Exton      ____      _            toF
Extensin Staff     /      -_W*k 
/'
s4psc|s                     1AFled TrlWs                         ReSearCh
& Field                        Pogrom                          Pogrom
Extlenson
Workoen
Wofld Bank-2W605
X
o X
m.4



- 73 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
r-------- I.
I                         i
r                                          lgi ff  C             _



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
f--'.
.7/1W   Prowect Areo                /     -
Moaor Roods
Railroads        r               ARUA
330          Rivers                         ARUA
O    District Capitals
-  -   District Boundaries                \ 
Inturnotional Boundories       '1 _       (
0    2S  50  75  100 KILOMETERS       N 
0     20    40    60 AILES
(   ~~A
/H0/MA
HO
t              ,,- 
4                    UNi            fioia
\  /   KABAROL       )   ~~~~MUSEI
/ .7
A-          KABAROLE
A SEEE
//   tARAJPOJf     (~~~Af 
, I ~MAO
4 B) MRA RA
~~>     BUSHENYI       ...
5US HEN VI    *MBARARA  (%    -RAKI
RU NGIRt 
{RUKUNGIRI i  f                     tRAKA .
KARAtE ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    A  K
\   KABALE            *              T    A
RWANDA              3 !



IBRO 18035
32                    332                                   SEPTEMBER It"
AENT PROJECT                      s  u  D  A   N                    /
4 AAUA    ap                         U     D     A
MOM                    KITGUMMORTO\;                                         m
u                                          oRXt g *rl rGum             / 
<    2   9    2     \        \              \      ~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~~KOTIDO    A  
*1~~~ /            ,\        \    zuw>            Nmoo, }        5      >      >Bt 
G iIV~~~
'5 t/ ( < ) tWWEROT > MRO1
_~~  ~      ~~~~       ~~~~       '\ MPilso   .                         S
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MASINDI                                                             ft
tt  MUSE t NO                 =                                           HOPA<
MOiMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
M B Ao     MBA Co - en        7
vMB^R^RA~~~~~~~~~~~                        XAtRK^IfUl l            rQA       S
t  ,PA A-A / ~~~~~~ 1 ~l    AM                                  E 
ERO.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
MBP R         T     MAKNZASAI A\ A2AI
K. 31-           3r                    33\                       ~t            w
R I                                                                               t- N.AW 1  ZAIRE  KENP.
m                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUDANIA
T    A  N    Z  A    N    I   A                      TANZANIA~~~~Z  I   E   lc
3t              ~~~~~~32               33*                         %



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
MAd  Project Area
Major Roads
,,  .  Railroads                        j           At Ririj )
.30             Rivers                                        C ARUA    Camp-
0     District Capitals
D.strict Boundaries              r   -.t.
- nternational Boundaries
NEBB      aud 
0    25   50    75   100 KILOtETERS
0      20      *0      60 MILES
MAA
1/          ~~~HOIMA
t   /   ,oco    .          <~~~~Bu m
HOA
1*~ ~                           4a pH.                   AC
8~UND1LY
I    Ao Ck 1--  - - -f          MUBEN
,k                 R
~~   ; J\A S  E   cic.st             t~~~~~~AlA 5
J~~~~~~~~~~NV
f /  jft    I' /BASA
6ci..czo'j    X  4   )   M8ARARA
t '-                   HENYI                 
>   BUISH4 NT
* u        BLISHENYI        MBARAPA-   4.R--        - AKAI
RUKUNGRI I
03                       L~~~~ RAKAI
*   ABALE     %f
KARAt.!                               T      A
(;-" RWANDA  Nj              37-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-Azo=-,       



IBRD 18035
SEPTEMBER 1984
32-                         33?
I%JT PROJECT  -                                  u   D   A   N
E~~~~~~~~~~~ U                                 DGA    N nt r _t,on
~~ .r'~MOYO\ 47s$%xKx 
KaabongJ
// /7"  ~;  '<~''tS-         KOT/DO
/  ARUA                                                                           *                      E TP KITG.J 
ARUA    Cam           /".'z-'%K,RUA                                              KOTIDO,                             3 .
I                           .X.
!  3/-  -   3 2-                       33                           CAM                 :            JMOROT
4MA SINNi 
HOIMA~~~~~~~~~~  u                                                            ACHRA
.7'-                                                                             j2J-   *waders ends ezct,eveI~Nernagali,   JLoSh
0Namu ngm   WA NGA~~~~~~Tf a  m wnwwmdb
Thd e wowaWunonfffes sadu
MUBENDE                                                           lnw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nhar n.e of The Slyy o Sh
_ _                                           (p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m Sch O 'maulde   Fse
'oe~ ~ ~ ~~~~OMk                    35.dnwm
]                      SUDAN 4I  N           Wd'beb(Vws v
-Q        N-I CI                                                                                               -aan-F--M oo am. an *
T  A      N       Z      A~"N   En     I                              tuN a.A ____
ale   - -   -   3?           3ir                           4AMB&7\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/jIOLT



IBRD 18036
UGANDA  34                           MARCH 1984
U GANDA34
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOROTI DISTRICT
*  DISTRICT AGRICULTURE OFFICE
*  EXTENSION  UNIT AGRICULTURE OFFICES
A  NATIONAL RESEARCH STATION                :-       -
A  VARIETY  TRAIL CENTER                                  KapgIebyo
*  DISTRICT FARM INSTITUTE                   I  jhA
o  AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE                   V    b               /
)t                             ?                              - 1-X \- \ TO MORO ro
-2    fjcigworo /(-
i~~~~~~~~~ 1  brrod        \ i \rp    f         1       ).      T.rb 
x    -- r- d,---2                            -    x                  s u DA N   o /  oKENYAA io
o  Moo~~~i.ah        m -      *;r-t                                     kw  ,  - 
MAIN ROADS    -                   -                                            .> \           is _SO
SECONDARY ROADS,-2.                                                                                                 :
RAILWAYS-.                                                                                                         /
*.   AtRPORT,.                                                                                , ,   
~---   RIVERS                          -r                                                         
-COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                                                              9    
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                      AMPALsTar
0  i1      20      30     *0      50 KILOMETERS                -o c                     -                         *o
0        ;~~0        20           3b0 MILES                       !   S  - TIO't CAPITAL    -:i
5 __,OrE  rr-,                      KENYA
_______________________urn _St-.   /  .    TA N ZA N I A 






