Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13812
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IFAD LOAN 159-UG AND IDA CREDIT 1539-UG)
DECEMIBER 16, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
fIEA 2LQ-flI-    & IDA-Crediti~LU 1              G1(
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
US$1.00 (at Appraisal)     =    USh3'5i 00
US$1.00 (July 1993)        -    US1i,200.(
SDRI.00 (at Appraisal)          US$ 1.00c
SDRI.0O (July 1993)        =     TSS1.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Nletric Ssstem
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP                Agricultural Development Project
AEP                Agricultural Extension Project
ARP                Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
ARTP               Agricultural Research and Training Project
DFI                District Farm Institute
EEC                European Economic Community
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDA                International Development Assoclation
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAAIF              MinistrY of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MAF               NMinistry of Agriculture and Forestry
MAIF               Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisherices
MN&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
NURP               Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project
PCUJ               Project Coordination Unit
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PMU                Project NManagemernt Unit
T&V                Training and Visit
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Uganda    =    July I June 30
IDA                       =    July I - June 30
IFAD                      =    January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                   December 16, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Uganda
Agricultural Development Project
(IFAD Loan 159-UG and IDA Credit 1539-UG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Uganda -Agricultural Development Project
(IFAD Loan 159-UG and IDA Credit 1539-UG). Parts I and III were prepared by the Africa
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was designed to increase the production of food-crops, livestock and fish in seven
economically disadvantaged districts in Eastern and Northern Uganda. The project also supported
considerable institutional strengthening of agricultural support services and a project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit.
The Loan and Credit became effective in May 1986 after a one year delay due to civil unrest
in the project area, which continued throughout much of the project life. This risk was not
adequately assessed at appraisal. This coupled with delays in procurement and the continuous
inadequacy of counterpart funds, resulted in three Closing Date extensions totalling three and a half
years. The project was restructured in 1991, adding three components. One was directed towards
women's economic activities-which had been reviewed, but not supported, at appraisal. The
component was successful.
The project is rated as satisfactory by both the Borrower and the Bank although no ERR was
calculated at completion. Substantial institutional development took place. The Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit within the project was strengthened considerably and now serves as a core unit of
the proposed M&E unit of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries. Training was
also successful with much of the staff remaining in government service.
The Borrower's report (Part II) is highly commendable for its thoroughness and quality. In
general, the Borrower was satisfied with the level of assistance provided by the Bank. However, while
admitting their own weakness with regards to local tendering procedures, the Borrower cited
difficulties with IDA procurement procedures (notwithstanding five supervision missions including a
procurement specialist), the lack of authority devolved to the Bank's Resident Mission which required
costly reporting to Washington, and lack of continuity of Bank task managers. The Borrower is
rightly proud of the institutional development components. In addition, the Borrower discusses the
high level of participation involved, including the close interaction of staff with beneficiaries to assess
their changing needs and circumstances so as to adjust project activities accordingly.
This project may be audited.
Robert Picciotto
by Hans Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IFAD LOAN 159-UG  & IDA CREDIT 1539-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Currency Equivalents/Abbreviations
PREFACE ...................... i
EVALUATION SUMMIARY .................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE LENDERS' PERSPECTIVE ... ...  1
1. Project Identity ......................................... 1
2. Background and Sector Context ..............................  1
Background .        ...............................                      1
Sector Development Context ..............................  2
3. Project Objectives and Description .............................  2
Objectives ................................  2
Description ...........              .....................  2
4. Project Design and Organization ..............................  3
Design  ................................  3
Organization and Management .............................  4
5. Project Implementation ................................ 5
General ........             ........... .           ...........  5
Input Supplies . ............................... 5
Research and Surveys ...............................    6
Livestock and Veterinary Services . ..........................  7
Institutional Building ................................ 7
Other Components ................................ 8
6. Project Results and Impact ...............................   9
Agricultural Development ...............................  10
Livestock Development ....................   10
Fisheries Development ....................   10
Capacity Building ....................                                  11
Formulation of Sector Plans .....................                       11
Economic Rate of Return .................... 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authorization.



7. Sustainability                               .11
8. IDA/WFAD Performance  ................................... 12
9. Borrower Performance ............ 12
10. Project Relationships          ........... 12
11. Studies and Consultancies.. .                         ........  13
Studies.. .                                       ........ 13
Consultancies ............                                              13
12. Project Documentation and Data ..                ......... .              13
13. Lessons Learnt ............                                                14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .. 15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .50
TABLES
1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
2. Project Timetable
3. Cumulative Credit Disburs'ments
4. Key Implementation Indicators
5. Project Costs and Financing
6. Project Results
7. Status of Major CovenenDs
8. Use of Bank Resources
ANNEXES
1. Quantity of Inputs Procured 1986-93
2. Output of Food Crops In ADP Area
rIRD Maps:  18036, 18035R1



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IFAD Loan 1 59-UG & IDA Credit 1 539-UG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Development
Project in Uganda, for which IFAD Loan 159-UG, in the amount of SDR 14.6 million, and
IDA Credit 1539-UG, in the amount of SDR 10.0 million, were approved by the respective
Boards on 10 November, 1984 and 8 January, 1985. The Loan and Credit closed on
30 September, 1993, three and a half years behind schedule. The total undisbursed balance
of over SDR 2.6 million (of which, IDA's share was SDR 858,534), was cancelled in
February 1994.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (CP) for the Agricultural Operation Division (Eastern Africa) of the
World Bank. This report is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and
Credit Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between IFAD, IDA and the
Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and information gathered by the CP mission which
visited Uganda in July 1993. The Borrower has provided its own evaluation of project
performance, which is included as Part II of the PCR.
i






- PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IFAD Loan 1 59-UG & IDA Credit 1 539-UG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The primary objectives of the project were: i) to increase the production of food-
crops, livestock and fish and to contribute towards higher rural incomes; and ii) to increase
the availability of data for the formulation of agricultural sector development plans. The
restoration of small-holder agricultural production to the peak levels of the 1970s was viewed
as a major means of ensuring food security, generating rural employment and boosting per
capita income. The main constraints were lack of inputs and spare parts, as well as
inefficiencies or weaknesses in the institutions supporting agriculture. The project strategy
was therefore to achieve the above objectives through the provision of inputs, improvement
of adaptive research, statistical surveys, and, institutional support. Seven economically
disadvantaged districts in Eastern and Northern Uganda were targeted.
Implementation Experience
The Loan and Credit became effective in May 1986 after a delay of one year
because of insecurity in the project area. This localised insecurity was to continue throughout
much of the project life. It was not until 1991, five years into project implementation, that
it was able to operate in all the areas intended at appraisal. Time lost due to these
interruptions was never regained. This, coupled with the delays in procurement and the
continuous inadequacy of counterpart funds, resulted in the closing date of the project being
extended thrice involving a total of three and a half years. The project closed at the end of
September 1993. Total project cost was some SDR 23.5 million, or about 25 percent below
the appraisal estimate of SDR 31.1 million.
The procurement of inputs was considerably delayed due to: project staff having
inadequate knowledge of ICB procedures; lengthy and bureaucratic delays in approving the
items to be procured, as well as belated approval and award of tenders and delays in opening
letters of credit. In the early period of implementation there was sporadic looting of project
stores in the insecure areas. Further losses were incurred as a result of cash losses, bad debts
due to non-payment by the input buyers, and writing off of stock which had become obsolete
or had expired. The project also incurred losses at the hands of foreign suppliers who, on
some occasions, delivered goods differing from those specified both in quality, quantity and
physical specifications. This was possible to a certain extent allegedly because an
iii



international firm retained by GOU to carry out pre and post-inspection of imported goods
did not render satisfactory service.
The adaptive research activities were transferred to Tororo as it offered better
security than Serere. Very little was done in the tsetse control till 1993. The fisheries stock
survey of Lake Kyoga was completed in 1988 while the catch assessment survey was
completed in 1991. Both started late because of insecurity and delays in procuring the
required equipment.
The livestock activities of the project were severely affected by the heavy loss
of cattle through rustling which saw their population decline from 1.3 million heads in 1985
to about 0.3 million heads in 1990. The focus in the latter part of the project was therefore
shifted to the improvement of small ruminants and poultry which are still relatively many in
number, are kept by a majority of farmers, and take a shorter time to regenerate.
Institutional capacity building was supported through extensive staff training
overseas and in neighbouring countries, in disciplines such as, extension and research. The
training was in form of short term courses and study tours or long-term courses leading to
higher degrees. In all, 87 staff received training either overseas or in neighbouring countries.
The project also assisted by providing transport, accommodation and equipment. At Tororo
District Farm Institute (DFI), a media resource centre was established and produced a
substantial amount of audio-visual materials which were useful in propagating extension
messages. Many of these have been translated into vernacular languages to facilitate
communication.
The project was restructured in 1991 during which several components were
added including women's activities, pilot credit scheme, ox-plough revival and cassava
mosaic control. The women's component has been successfully implemented and has attracted
considerable interest among the local community. The pilot credit is only in its second year
of operation, but it too has attracted keen interest and more ADP districts are requesting to
be included in the programme. The temptation of expanding too quickly should however be
avoided given the limited project capacity to appraise and supervise the credits. Ox-plough
revival activities were constrained by lack of adequate numbers of oxen and implements. A
vigorous campaign was carried out against cassava mosaic virus and the project spearheaded
the multiplication and distribution of tolerant and resistant varieties to farmers.
Project Results and Impact
Overall project performance may be deemed satisfactory, particularly when
viewed in the context of the major structural, institutional and financial constraints
undermining the economy, in addition to the overwhelming security problems. The aim of
the project was to improve agricultural, livestock and fisheries development and to increase
rural incomes; while it is difficult to determine precisely how far these goals have been
achieved and to what extent the improvements are due to the project per se, as opposed to
other factors, e.g., improved security situation and weather conditions, it is reasonable to
assume that the project contributed positively to agricultural growth. The production of food
and cash crops in the area has increased during the project period. The inputs supplied, the
improved seed varieties made available, and the extension messages propagated by the project
iv



contributed towards this improvement. The livestock population, particularly of the small
ruminants is reportedly increasing, partly as a result of project interventions in animal health
and breeding, but cattle populations are unlikely to recover quickly without a massive
restocking operation. The fisheries and catch assessment surveys of Lake Kyoga have re-
focused the autherities' attention to overfishing in the lake. Steps are being taken to correct
the situation. In the course of project operations, water hyacinth was discovered on the lake
and steps are now being taken to control it biologically. At grassroot level, about 400
women's groups which have been formed with project support are helping in sensitizing
women about social and economic issues. It is too early to assess the impact of the pilot
credit scheme because it has been in operation for a very short time. However, if it is
managed well and loan delinquency is kept to a minimum, it could form a basis for a rural
credit programme on a larger scale. In terms of capacity building, the institutions associated
with the project have benefited considerably from the extensive training programme,
transport facilities, accommodation and equipment provided by the project. The project also
contributed towards its other stated objective of increasing the availability of data for the
formulation of sector development plans. The M&E Unit collected data on agricultural
prices, costs and extension activities in the project area. It also prepared an excellent study
of how to integrate ADP's activities into MAAIF. The Unit has now become a core unit for
the proposed MAAIF ministry-wide M&E Unit.
Sustainability
The main risk to the sustainability of activities supported by ADP is the
inadequate availability of government budget to fund the full cost of most of the non-input
supply operations of the project. This however may not be an immediate problem because
a number of IDA and [FAD supported projects will continue or have started in some of the
ADP districts and will continue with some of the activities initiated by ADP. The projects
however have a finite life; on their completion the funding burden will revert to GOU, unless
timely measures are introduced to initiate cost recovery mechanisms, linked to the rate of
recovery and growth in agricultural production.
Fundings and Lessons Learnt
The main findings and lessons learnt from implementing this project are
operational. The adverse impact on project operations arising from inadequacy or untimely
availability of counterpart funding can be considerable and such risk should be carefully
assessed at appraisal. Secondly, public sector distribution of inputs should be discouraged as
the function is invariably better performed by private distributors and traders. Thirdly, key
project documents like the SAR should contain specific key implementation indicators and
targets towards which the project focuses. Without these, there is no benchmark against
which to objectively measure project progress, success or failure. And finally, procurement
contracts should contain adequate force majeure clauses to protect the parties to the contract
and allow a quick and smooth winding down of operations in the event of prolonged periods
of insecurity.
v






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IFAD LOAN 1 59-UG & IDA CREDIT 1 539-UG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE LENDERS' PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Agricultural Development Project
Credit No.              IFAD Loan 159-UG & IDA Credit 1539-UG
RVP Unit                Eastern Africa DeDartment
Country                 Uganda
Sector            .     Agriculture
Sub-sectors             Food Crops, Livestock and Fisheries
2. Background and Sector Context
Background
2.1        The Agricultural Development Project (ADP) was a sequel to the IFAD-funded and
World Bank executed Agricultural Reconstruction Programme (ARP) which was implemented
between 1982 and 1984. ARP included financial support for the preparation of a follow-up
project to further agricultural production and to improve supporting services. With the assistance
of consultants, Govemment of Uganda (GOU) produced a preparation document which formed
the basis for a request to IFAD and IDA to support an agricultural development project. ADP
was appraised in October 1983. It was approved by WFAD and IDA Boards in November 1984
and January 1985, respectively, and became operationally effective in May 1986 after delays
largely attributable to civil strife.



2.2        The project was scheduled to be implemented over a 4 year period through
31 March, 1990. However, due to delays in starting up operations in most project areas, the
project was extended thrice involving a total period of 3 1/2 years. It finally closed on 30
September, 1993.
Sector Development Context
2.3        GOU's national policies at the time of project formulation were set out in the
Recovery Program 1982-84. The central theme of the program was to encourage agricultural
production as a means of increasing exports and improving rural incomes. The restoration of
small-holder agricultural production to the peak levels of 1970s was viewed as a major means
of ensuring food security, generating rural employment and boosting per capita income. The
main constraints were lack of inputs and spare parts and inefficiencies or weaknesses in the
institutions supporting agriculture.
2.4        The ARP provided a range of inputs for crop and livestock production in 7 districts.
The operation was viewed as having been implemented without major problems. GOU was
therefore keen to spread the benefits of an ARP-type operation to other parts of the country,
which were economically depressed because of relatively low agricultural production, lack of
employment opportunities, recurring droughts and other factors. Initially, ADP was to include
only 4 eastern and northern districts of Apac, Kumi, Lira and Soroti. However, before appraisal,
at the request of GOU, the number was increased to 7 by adding the districts of Gulu, Kitgum
and Tororo.
3. Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
3.1        The objectives of the project were (i) to increase agricultural production and the
incomes of small-holder farmers in the project area; and, (ii) to improve the availability of data
needed for the formulation of sector development plans.
Description
3:2        As appraised, the project comprised of the following three components:
(a)    Input Supplies: the provision of agricultural implements and inputs
including flour mills, wheelbarrows, workshop equipment, spare parts,
agricultural chemicals and forestry nursery supplies; provision of livestock
inputs including veterinary drugs and equipment, vaccines, acaricides,
spare parts and a mobile laboratory; and, the provision of fisheries
2



supplies including outboard motors, spare parts, fishnets and boat building
materials.
(b)    Research and Surveys: establishment and equipping of an adaptive
research section at Serere Research Station; launching of a pilot tsetse fly
control program; and carrying out a fish stock assessment of Lake Kyoga
and a fisheries statistics and evaluation study to assess the current status
of fishery also in Lake Kyoga.
(c)    Institution Building: strengthening of general agricultural extension
services in the project area, training extension staff and rehabilitating
several farm training institutes; introducing a pilot training and visitation
(T&V) extension system in Soroti; provision of equipment, vehicles and
housing for extension workers; and strengthening the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit in the then Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF).
3.3        Appraisal project Costs were estimated at some SDR 31.1 million, and remained
unchanged after project restructuring. IFAD and IDA were to contribute SDR 14.6 million and
SDR 10 million, respectively, while GOU was to contribute about SDR 6.5 million. An
additional SDR 0.3 million was financed under the Bank's Second Technical Assistance Project
(refer para. 4.2). Total project cost (at completion) of some SDR 23.5 million was nearly 25
percent below the appraisal es1timate.
3.4         The project was restructured in March 1991 following a request by GOU to extend
it for a further 2 years. The restructured project kept the original components, as well as adding
several new ones, viz., credit, women's activities, ox-cultivation, and cassava mosaic virus
control. Total project costs were not altered.
4. Project Design and Organization
Design
4.1        As a follow-up operation to ARP, the design of ADP was quite simnilar to ARP both
in concept and target group. The project was oriented towards input supply (almost 75 % of total
project costs) and was to be of a fast disbursing nature. The project provided a balance of
components, some with immediate effect and others with more long-term effect. It initiated
action to increase the effectiveness of extension and research services by methods which, once
proved on a pilot scale, would be replicated in other parts of the country to improve institutions
and services. However, the project organisation as designed was cumbersome as discussed in
para 4.3 below.
4.2        Project risks were recognised and safeguards provided in project design. For
example, in order to avoid delays in the conmmencement of start-up activities before the project
effectiveness, US$ 0.3 million was provided upfront (financed under the second Technical
3



Assistance Project (Cr. 1434-UG)). In order to ensure that staff engaged in project supported
activities were paid their allowances on a timely basis, a bank account was established wherein
at the beginning of each quarter GOU would deposit the amount estimated to be required to
cover expenditure for staff travel and transport allowances. The design however failed to
adequately take into account the likely risk of shortfalls in counterpart funding which plagued
the project till 1992 when GOU authorised the project to use funds generated from input sales.
And as the country was in an unstable state during the latter stages of project processing, the
project should have taken into account the risks arising from civil instabilities spreading into the
project areas; this turmoil did undermine the project's performance.
Organization and Management
4.3        At appraisal it was envisaged that overall project coordination would be through an
Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee which had been set up under ARP. The day-to-day
management of the project would be carried out by a small Project Management Unit (PMU)
headed by an Executive Secretary in MAF. Two Project Implementation Units (PIUs) were set
up, one in MAF and the other in the then Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIF)
to implement project activities in the two respective ministries and liaise with the PMU. This
arrangement was cumbersome and did not work satisfactorily largely because the designated
officers were busy with their normal routine jobs. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was
therefore set up in the place of the PMU and the PIUs were disbanded. The PCU was headed
by a Project Coordinator (PC) assisted by 2 deputies, one for crops and the other for livestock.
A separate Monitoring and Evaluation unit was created under ADP. The PCU generally
functioned well. The supervision mission which visited the project in February/March 1991
agreed with GOU that in order to improve performance, it was necessary that the PCU be
moved from Entebbe to Tororo and two Deputy Coordinators (DC) - one for the north based
in Lira and one for the east based in Tororo - be appointed. The PCU's transfer to Tororo was
however not undertaken, because it was found to be unnecessary given the requirements for the
PC and the head of the M&E unit to frequently travel to the north. The parent ministry also felt
that the PC should stay in Entebbe in order to attend to cordination matten in Kampala and
Entebbe. It was also felt that the two DCs were providing the required improved field level
supervision. This arrangement worked satisfactorily and was later enhanced by a ministerial re-
organization which put all project activities under one ministry following the partial merger of
MAF and MAIF to form the current Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF).
4.4        Project organization and management was later complicated by the addition of
several more components after the project was restructured. The PCU, however, generally coped
well in the circumstances.
4



S. Project Implementation
General
5.1        The project was implemented under very tryig conditions. It became effeetive on
May 8, 1986 one year later than scheduled due to civil unrest in the project area. All project
districts except Tororo, were, at one time or another, distwrbed by sporadic waves of insecurity
and civil strife. This included damage or looting of property including project stores and
equipment and cattle rustling. Therefore some project components could not be implemented in
the designated areas and had to be shifted to safer ones like Tororo. The security situation
improved in Lira and Apac districts from 1988; and in Kumi, Soroti and Kitgum districts from
1990 and in Gulu from 1991.
5.2        Time lost due to the above disturbances was never regained. This, coupled with the
delays in procurement and the continuous inadequacy of counterpart funds, resulted in the
closing date of the project being extended thrice involving a total of three and a half years. The
implementation of individual components is discussed below at some length.
Input SuppUes
5.3        This was by far the largest component, accounting for nearly 75% of the  ised
total project cost. The key implementation indicators relating to procurements are set out in Part
m, Table 4. Procurements were delayed considerably due to: project staff having inadequate
knowledge of ICB procedures; lengthy and bureaucratic procedures for approving the items to
be procured, as well as delays in approving and awarding tenders, and in opening letters of
credit.
5.4        The early implementation of this component was characterized by sporadic looting
of project stores in the insecure areas. This was aggravated by pilferage by some staff. This has
however been largely controlled through various measures including dismissals and police arrests
as well as an improved stock control system. It is estimated that about USS 270,000 worth of
supplies were lost in this manner. Other losses have been incurred as a result of cash losses, bad
debts due to non-payment by the buyers, and writing off of stocks which had become obsolete
or expired. The losses due to bad debts have now been minimized since sales are being made
ex-main store. This system has also considerably helped in reducing the selling and distribution
costs incurred by the project.
5.5        Further losses were incurred allegedly because of the poor service rendered by an
international firm which GOU appointed to carry out pre and post-shipment inspections of goods
being imported into the country. As a result, the project lost financially at the hands of foreign
suppliers. Goods were delivered and certified as being satisfactory by the firm, but on delivery
to ADP stores they were found to differ from agreed tender specifications in terms of quality,
quantity and physical attributes. This was particulary the case with normal hoes, lango hoes,
wheel barrows and knapsack sprayers.
5



5.6         Procurement was carried out in four "Buys". All goods ordered in the first three
"Buys' have been received. The fourth 'Buy' proceeded smoothly, and unlike the earlier
"Buys",  it is based on a needs assessment which should minimize the risk of buying
unnecessary items as happened in the earlier procurements. Tenders for some agricultural
implements whica are now locally available have been cancelled from the fourth "Buy".
5.7        In the early years of the project, inputs were delivered by the project to debtor
stores on credit. The debtor stores would then re-sell the inputs to sales centres and retailers at
a mark-up and then repay the project. This arrangement was not satisfactory because the debtor
stores defaulted on their commitments to pay the project for inputs suppLied. Secondly, the
project sold the inputs at fixed discounted prices which were substantially lower than those of
similar products in the open market. This resulted in the leakage of inputs to non-project areas.
In order to minimize this problem, after the project was restructured in 1991, it was decided to
harmonize the project input prices with market prices by selling them at prices which reflected
the target retail prices. Inputs were no longer to be sold through debtor stores; the project began
to sell them from its own stores and on a cash basis.
Research and Surveys
5.8        Adaptive Research: The research activities (mainly foi cereals and tubers), wer
intended to be carried out at Serere and Ngetta. However, as these areas were unsafe, the
activities were transferred to Tororo District Farm Institute (DFI). In 1989, another adaptive
research station was established in Lira. The strategy adopted was to select new technologies
through on-station and on-farm trials and develop closer links between research and extension
by involving extension staff in trial programs. Shortage of local counterpart funds seriously
affected the implementation of the trials. As a result, a large number of trial plots could not be
harvested and the participation of extension staff was seriously curtailed due to non-payment of
staff allowances.
5.9        Tsetse Fly Control: This component had a delayed start because of the civil strife
in the targeted areas during which departmental equipment and vehicles essential for the
programme were destroyed or looted. Lack of adequate counterpart funding was also a
constraint. Therefore, despite the shift of emphasis in 1990 from experimental studies to actual
controlling of the tsetse fly, the component registered little progress. The consultant appointed
as a tsetse control specialist declined the job. The project was however able to distribute about
500 locally manufactured traps, teach some livestock farmers the application of live bait, train
field staff in bait systems technology, and trap tsetse flies (in areas affected by the prevalence
of sleeping sickness).
5.10       FLsh Stock Assessment and Evaluation Study: Progress on almost all the activities
on this component was delayed due to insecurity and delays in prociring boats, survey
equipment and fish gear. The fishery statistics data collection and analysis were completed in
June 1988 and the catch assessment survey in July 1991. Boat building was not carried out. The
rehabilitation of landing sites at Namasagali and Lalle did not take place due to security reasons
6



and the subsequent re-location of activities. An improved technique of fish preservation through
construction of a smoking house called 'chorkor kiln' was demonstrated. In May 1989 the
fisheries staff discovered the presence of water hyacinth in Lake Kyoga. In 1992, when the
weed had begun to cause concern to MAAIF, ADP funded the study-tour of two senior research
officers to Benin-and Nigeria, to study biological control measures being utilized there. Steps
are now being taken to breed weevils and introduce them into the lake.
Livestock and Veterinary Services
5.11       Veterinary inputs arrived much later than agricultural inputs. Due to lack of
transport and simple equipment like syringes, only a small portion of vaccines were utilized in
the early years. Later, large stocks of the drugs were however destroyed because they expired
before they were utilised. Procurement of large quantities of acaricide without adequate number
of bucket spray pumps resulted in the low utilization of acaricide. However, the situation is
reported to have improved later on and more drugs are being utilised; rinderpest control has
been extended to a number of modern poultry centers in the project area.
5.12       Before the outbreak of the civil strife, the project area was one of the leading
livestock producing regions in the country. But, according to MAAIF, during the disturbances
which ensued, the cattle population fell from about 1.3 million in 1985 to only 0.3 million in
1990. With most of the livestock lost, the strategy of disease control alone, as envisaged at
appraisal, was not considered adequate for the long term development of livestock in the project
area. The emphasis towards the latter part of the project was therefore shifted to the
improvement of small ruminants and poultry which are still relatively many in number, are kept
by a majority of farmers, and take a shorter time to multiply.
Institution Building
5.13       Strengthening of Extension Services: Most of the activities under this component
took place at Tororo DFI which was upgraded. Since the Visual Aid Centre at the MAF
headquarters in Entebbe had been burned down in 1986, a media resource centre was
established at Tororo DFI and produced a substantial amount of audio-visual materials such as
cassettes, radio programs, leaflets, posters, pamphlets, calendars, handouts and flip chart sets.
Many of these have been translated into various vernacular languages. The project also organized
pre-seasonal and quarterly workshops during which extension messages would be disseminated
to- staff and production targets set. Due to insecurity, the planned rehabilitation of Arapai
Agricultural College and Ngetta DFI was not started till 1991-92. Rehabilitation work is still in
progress.
5.14       T & V Extension System: For security reasons this component introduced in
Soroti, had to be abandoned and shifted to Tororo district. Implementation faced other
problems such as inadequate staff, limited staff housing, and scarce funds for staff allowances
and vehicle running. The project provided motorcycles and bicycles for extension staff which
facilitated their mobility. However, the SAR-envisaged extension worker to farmer ratio of 1:240
7



was found to be inappropriate and expensive to the project. Therefore, on the basis of
experience, a modified extension system was developed in 1990 incorporating some elements
of the T & V system while maximizing on the scarce resources available. This was later to
evolve into a unified extension approach whereby an individual field extension worker would be
responsible to advise farmers on crop and animal production, agro-forestry and fishery. Field
extension staff would operate through farmer groups which they would visit on a regular basis.
This system was adopted in Tororo district from 1992 and later in other parts of the country.
5.15       Monitoring and Evaluation: The project established and equipped a M&E Unit
within the PCU. The unit has been responsible for project level data collection, evaluating and
reporting. A management information system has been set up and is working generally well. It
has collected data on costs, prices and extension activities. The Unit also prepared an excellent
study on how to integrate ADP's activities into MAAIF. The unit has gained recognition within
MAAEF and is now serving as a core unit of the proposed M&E unit of MAAIF which will
cover all projects being implemented by MAAIF. The unit is well equipped and staff are
computer literate both in terms of data and word processing, The unit is well-placed to be a good
base for the assembling of sectoral data for planning purposes by the ministry. Their main
problem appears to be the difficulty they face in obtaining data which are reliable.
5.16       Staff Training: Almost all components had a training element in one form of
another. In all, 87 staff members received training either overseas or in countries within the
region. Eleven staff went on long-term trainiig leading to higher degrees or diploma while the
remainder attended short-term courses or went on study tours. Masters degrees were obtained
in areas such as crop protection, agricultural management, extension, and economics. Short-term
courses 'and tours covered diverse areas including project management, information systems,
rural development, agricultural economics, monitoring and evaluation, credit, livestock
husbandry, extension and adaptive research.
5.17   Saary Incentives: In order to boost the morale of project staff whose remuneration as
set out in GOU salary scales was low, the project after long negotiations with GOU, gave staff
incentive salary payments largely based on individual performance and responsibilities.
Other Component
5.18       Ox-plough Revival Program: The loss of cattle due to cattle rustling significantly
reduced the practice of ox-cultivation in the project area. Demand for ox-cultivation facilities
is however still strong among the local population. Recently, a project staff member visited
Zimbabwe to identify ox-cultivation equipment such as planters and weeders, which would be
appropriate to Ugandan conditions. The results from these efforts would complement the
restocking and revival of ox-plough cultivation techniques, which are also being supported under
the on-going [FAD Smallholders Cotton Development Project, and the proposed IDA Cotton
Sub-sector Development Project.
8



5.19       Cassava Mosaic Virus Control Program: This component was included in 1991
following a serious outbreak of cassava mosaic disease in Soroti district which resulted in a
serious famine. The ADP, using funds re-allocated under the project, mounted a vigorous
campaign against the disease including destroying the diseased plants and undertaking the
multiplication and distribution of resistant and tolerant varieties to farmers. The project-provided
varieties accounted for about 2.5% of the total stems planted in the project areas. Currently,
about 410 acres in Soroti district and 56 acres in Kumi district have been planted under clean,
uninfected cassava.
5.20       Pilot Credit Scheme: The credit scheme envisaged to give credit for farming and
other rural activities is in its second year of operation having been added late to the project and
having experienced a delay of almost one year before being launched. The scheme was
conceived as a pilot operation in the districts of Apac, Gulu and Pallisa but there has been
widespread demand for it to be extended to the other districts covered by the project. The
scheme aimed at delivering credit to a total of 3,000 beneficiaries in two years (including about
50% women beneficiaries). It is unlikely that the target of 3,000 beneficiaries would have been
achieved by the time project operations ended. According to the latest progress report on the
component, only 1,760 beneficiaries had received loans by the end of April 1993 totalling about
Ush 180 million. Of these, 1,086 or 62% are women. Project staff are of the opinion that,
women borrowers have proved to be a better risk, repaying their loans more readily than men.
Virtually all the lending has been short term, with only 3 medium term loans for threshes. No
analysis of loan purpose is readily available to indicate which activities have been fianced but
the bulk of the money was reportedly lent for agricultural production. A market rate of interest
(positive in real terms) has been applied to the credit extended under this component. While
precise loan collection data are unavailable, ADP staff have reported satisfactory loan recovenes.
The Cooperative Bank (which is not involved in the initial selection of beneficiaries), has been
responsible for channelling of the credits.
5.21       Womens' Activities: In order to promote the economic advancement of women,
a specific component targeted towards them was added to the project in 1991. The aim was to
encourage women to get together in groups to undertake activities for social and economic gain.
Over 400 groups which have been formed in the project areas are involved in crop production,
seed multiplication, livestock production and marketing. As groups, they have also been able to
access project credit funds as indicated in the preceding paragraph. They have also been found
to be a convenient focal point and forum for propagating extension messages since most rural
farmers are women.
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1        Overall project performance may be deemed satisfactory, particularly when viewed
in the context of the major structural, institutional and financial constraints undermining the
economy, in addition to the overwhelming security problems. The project aimed to support
agricultural, livestock and fisheries development and to increase rural incomes. While it is
difficult to determine precisely how far these goals have been achieved or to what extent the
9



improvements are due to the project as opposed to other important factors like improvements
in security and weather conditions, etc., it is reasonable to assume that ADP contributed
positively to agricultural growth in the project areas. The inputs supplied, the improved seeds
made available and the extension efforts under ADP have all contributed to this improvement.
The livestock population, particularly of small ruminants is increasing, partly as a result of
project interventions in animal health and breeding; while the fisheries and catch assessments
of Lake Kyoga have resulted in steps being undertaken to correct the situation. The M&E Unit
is organizing a socio-economic survey of the project areas, which would shed further light on
some of the achievements under the project. The noticeable results and impact in various areas
are discussed below.
Agricultural Development
6.2        Annex 2 shows the improvements in agricultural production in the project districts
over the last 8 years. In the absence of fertilizers, production increases largely came from the
additional area brought under cultivation, and in some cases, from improved seeds such as finger
millet P 224, upland rice IRAT 112, groundnut RMP 12, soybean Namu 1, maize composite
Longe 1 and bean MCM 5001 which were developed and or distributed by the project. These
varieties have become very popular with the farmers but lack of adequate seed multiplication
system is an obstacle to their rapid adoption. Cassava, which is the most dominant crop in the
project area, benefited from the prompt action taken by the project in controlling mosaic disease
and the supply of disease free planting material. Had it not been for the project intervention,
cassava production in the area would have been seriously affected, thus leading to considerable
food security problems in Soroti and Kumi districts.
Livestock Development
6.3        Project impact was severely curtailed by insecurity and the resultant loss of a large
percentage of the cattle population. After security improved, the project stepped up animal
disease control and treatment activities in the project area and increased farmers' awareness of
improved animal production methods. However, there are no statistics to show to what extent
these interventions have led to increased animal populations or improved live/carcas weight,
etc. The achievements from tsetse control activities were not very significant as component
activities started up rather late.
Fisheries Development
6.4        The overall impact of this component was reduced because the fisherie inputs and
equipment arrived late and other planned activities were abandoned due to insecurity.
Additionally, since most of the activities undertaken were surveys and research, their impact
cannot be visible in the short run. However, there was a demonstrated benefit from fisheries
inputs supplies. When inputs were received and distributed in 1990 and 1991, the fish catch
10



dramatically increased to 95 tons in both years, as compared to 64 tons in 1989. The catch
decreased to 63 tons in 1992 after project financed inputs were no longer available.
Capacity Building
6.5        Sinct institution building is a long term process, it is not possible at this time to
determine the impact of the capacity building activities (such as training), undertaken by the
project. Project financed vehicles, office equipment and some buildings did however provide
immediate relief. Additionally, most staff who obtained the training have reportedly found the
courses useful in improving their job performance. Most of those trained are still in government
service. At the rural level, the women's groups formed with project assistance could support
the rural institutions through which development activities could be implemented. Furthermore,
if the loan appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the credit scheme continue to be enhanced
and loan defaults and delinquency are kept to a minimum, the scheme could form the basis for
a rural credit program on a larger scale.
6.6    The project helped improve the morale and work performance of staff by successfully
negotiating with GOU to give incentive allowances to staff working on project operations. Thes
allowances were performance and seniority based.
Formulation of Sector Plans
6.7        The M&E unit conducted a fisheries survey and collected data on prices, costs and
extension activities. It also prepared an excellent study of how to integrate ADP's activities into
MAAIF. The unit has now become a core unit for the proposed MAAIF ministry-wide unit.
The project also provided useful input for the preparation of subsequent development projects,
like the Agricultural Extention Project (AEP) and Agricultural Research & Training Project
(ARTP).
Economic Rate Of Return
6.8    No economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at appraisal because of difficulties to
accurately quantify and match project benefits. No ERR calculation has therefore been carried
out for this PCR.
7. Sustalnabilty
7.1        GOU is disengaging itself from input supplies operations leaving the role to the
private sector. Input supplies activities started by ADP will therefore continue, but largely under
private traders and distributors. However, the other activities of the project such as extension,
research, surveys, training and monitoring and evaluation will largely depend on the continuing
availability of government financing which, during implementation, has been inadequate most
of the time. It is difficult to envisage the situation improving in the near future given the fiscal
limitations GOU is operating under. These activities are therefore likely to be unsustainable at
11



present levels. In the immediate short run some of the ADP activities will be incorporated in the
on-going IDA and EFAD-funded projects such as the Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project
(NURP), AEP and ARTP. But all these projects have a finite life and the ultimate responsibility
for continuing the programs will eventually revert to GOU, unless timely measures are
introducted to initiate cost recovery mechanisms (with NGOs, farmer groups, etc.), for the
delivery of services. Provision for testing various mechanisms for delivery of services have
been included under the AEP, and the experiences under ADP re-inforce the importance of
implementing these proposals.
8. IDA/IFAD Perfornance
8.1       IDA and IFAD were correct in deciding to support ADP as it targeted an
economically disadvantaged part of the country. (It was therefore important that the two
institutions help towards balanced national development). However, the project's performance
was adversely affected by the poor security situation in the project areas. IDA, somedmes with
IFAD participation, actively supervised the project. As shown in Table 8, ten supervision
missions visited the project to monitor implementation. In most cases, the same mision
members were retained for repeat missions which facilitated continuity in supervision. However
the mix of the missions would have been enhanced if agriculturists and financial analysts had
been included more frequently. Their absence is probably one of the reasons for the apparent
scant attention paid to the agricultural aspects and the delays in seriously addressing the financial
accounting and management problems of the project.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The Borrower complied with all the major covenants under the Loan and Credit
Agreements except those relating to the timely submission of audited project accounts. The
accounts were submitted late most of the time. The Borrower also failed to provide adequate
counterpart funding which was a major factor contributing to the delay of project activities.
Finally, the Borrower does not appear to have adequately managed the technical assistance staff
on the project, as evidenced by the rather excessive extension of consultancy contracts even for
skills which are readily available locally and could be obtained at a fraction of the cost.
9.2        The PCU was composed of relatively young but well educated Ugandans whose
leadership took their work seriously. Besides the early problems related to procurement, and the
persistent constraints associated with the accounting and financial management functions, other
aspects of project management were generally well executed.
10. Project Relationships
10.1      IDA and 'FAD enjoyed good relationships with the Borrower throughout the
implementation of the project. The close cooperation among them enabled changes in the project
programme, to take place smoothly, e.g., when ADP was restructured, or when there was need
12



to re-allocate funds arnong categories, or when it was deemed necessary to extend the lifespan
of the project.
11. Studies and Consultancies
Studies
11.1       As shown in Part m, Table 6B, the project was supposed to carry out two studies,
the Fisheries Survey of Lake Kyoga and a Catch Assessment Survey of the same lake. Both
were completed satisfactorily, and made recommendations to reverse overfishing which was
depleting the fish stocks in the lake. A number of these recommendations, e.g, encouraging
farmers to grow fish in ponds, are being implemented.
Consultancies
11.2       The project funded the services of 10 long term internationally recruited consultants
to help in the implementation of input supply management, research and surveys, extension,
monitoring and evaluation, and credit. The consultant hired as a Tsetse control specialist
declined the job. The plan to hire a consultant as a Fish Biologist was shelved as capable
expertise was available locally. The list of con'sultants and their field of specializations is set out
in Part m, Table 6C. All consultants completed their assignments but after lengthy extensions
to their contracts. Whereas some of these extensions were warranted, others were probably not
justified as the relevant expertise, such as in accountancy, is readily available locally.
Additionally, for the expertise which was not easily available, the consultants should have been
given time limits within which to train local counterparts to take over from them at the end of
their contracts.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The Credit and Loan agreements and subsequent amendments were well-understood
by all parties concerned. The SAR was of a good quality except that it lacked implementation
indicators and targets to gauge implementation progress. This reduced its value as a management
tool. The M&E unit has a lot of data on project costs, prices, input purchases and food crop
output in the project areas. There were however weaknesses in the accounting procedures and
internal controls as evidenced by the unsatisfactory reports from the external auditors. The PCU
has taken steps to improve the situation and the auditors' report for 1992/93 is expected to
reflect those improvements.
13



13. LOWS Learnt
13.1       The major lessons learnt from implementing this project are:
risks of insufficient counterpart funding should be assessed more carefully
at the time of project preparation and at appraisal;
public sector input distribution should be avoided unless the distribution
mechanisms are efficient and the prices are competitive with similar inputs
being. marketed elsewhere by private channels;
as a benchmark for project progress, the key project document, such as
the SAR should contain key indicators and expected targets at various
stages of project implementation; both the project staff and supervision
missions would then use these to measure project progress in crucial areas;
and,
another lesson learned is that procurement contracts should contain
adequate force majeure clauses to protect the parties to the contract and
allow a quick winding down of project operations. If a substantial part of
the project area is undergoing prolonged periods of insecurity which make
project operations impossible, adequately prepared contracts (as suggested
above) would facilitate the closure of project activities in a smooth
manner.
14



PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
BANK'S PERFORMANCE DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.1 Bank Performance
1.1.1    The Agricultural Development Project was jointly funded by
the World Bank and IFAD. IFAD Loan, 159-UG, amounted to
SDR 14.6 million, and IDA Credit 1539-UG, amounted to SDR
10.0 million. IFAD Loan was approved by the Board on 1O'
November, 1984, and the IDA Credit was approved by the
Board on 8th January, 1985. The Loan and Credit became
effective on 8t' May, 1986, after a delay of one year because
of insecurity in the project area.
1.1.2    IDA and IFAD enjoyed good working relationships with the
Government of Uganda, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries, and ADP Project Management
throughout the implementation of this project. This close
cooperation among the Donors and the Government enabled
the Project to be extended three times, involving a total of
three and a half years. The Project was also restructured in
1991 to reflect the needs of the beneflciaries; the changed
circumstances related to agricultural input pricing and
distribution arrangements, and the cassava mosaic disease
emergency programme. The Donors also approved a new
programme by ADP to combat the issue of the water hyacinth
on Lake Kyoga. This flexibility and positive response by the
15



Donors to new problems identified by the Project on the
ground during implementation is highly commendable.
1.1.3    IDA and IFAD sent ten (10) Supervision Missions to monitor
Project implementation. These were rigorous missions which
greatly enhanced the performance of the project. Various
management and generic issues were discussed with Project
managemcnt and other related agencies such as the Ministry
of Finance, Central Tender Board etc. and measures to solve
them adopted. However, ADP was a complex project. There
was the need for IDA and IFAD to field specialised staff for in-
depth analysis of the implementation, especially in the
Fisheries sector, the Veterinary sector, and Procurement.
Some of the problems and issues could not be resolved until
after 4 years of implementation of these activities.
1.1.4    During the life span of ADP, there were a total of six (6) Task
Managers from IDA, two based in Nairobi originally; three in
Washington and finally one based in Kampala. IFAD had a
total of three (3) Task Managers based in IFAD headquarters in
Rome.
The Task Managers assisted Project Staff tremendously, and
their visits to monitor major project activities made the staff
of ADP to work harder. However, in some instances, some
Task Managers expected too much to be achieved by the
Project without realistically gauging the very difflcult
circuimstances under which staff members were working.
1.1.5    For IFAD, it would be useful to strengthen its capability at the
country level. For instance they could have a Desk Offlcer at
the UNDP offlces in Kampala to effectively monitor their
programmes on the ground.
1.1.6    Before the advent of fax machines, communication between
Kamrpal-i/Entebbe and Washington were very slow. The cost
of sending faxes, telexes and letters by Speed Delivery
16



Systems are exorbitant.
1.2      The "No Objection"
IDA procedures require that projects must flrst obtain "No
Objection" from Washington on various Issues related to
Project implementation. The only problem here is that
whenever there are staff changes in Washington, the Project
experiences long delays even on straight forward issues.
The Task Manager in Kampala should be delegated sufficient
powers to handle urgent problems and thereafter explain his
actions to Washington.
1.3      Procurement Procedures
The International Competitive Bidding procedure was the
major method of procurement under ADP. The Project
experienced excessive delays due to the prevailing local
tendering procedures. Some actions have been taken by
Government to improve on these bureaucracies, e.g.
establishment of Ministry Tender Board. IDA should however
standardize procurement documents, particularly bidding
documents to avoid delays, and the requirement to obtain "the
No Objection" for documents which projects have used before.
IDA finally organized a Procurement Seminar for all Projects
in Uganda in October 1993, which resolved many problems
that had bedeviled ADP since 1986.
1.4      Disbursement
The Project experienced no problem with disbursement,
besides some minor incidence when Withdrawal Applications
were returned by IDA to the Project due to insufflcient
documentation.
17



1.5 Special Accounts
Contrary to intentions of IDA, ADP originally found difficulties
in accessing funds in the Special Account which had a deposit
of only US $ 200,000 and was initially with B.O.U. ADP would
not recelve documents directly from the correspondents or
from IDA and therefore did not get timely advice on the on-
going transactions. Bank statements were also in arrears yet
these were required to seek the replenishment of the Special
Account from IDA.
Step by Step Procedure ADP followed to withdraw
funds from the Special Account through
Bank of Uganda
1.  Fill Withdrawal Application Form.
2.  Draft covering letter to the Commissioner/Treasury Officer of
Accounts for the signature of the Permanent Secretary,
MAAIF.
3.  Forward Withdrawal Application Forms together with signed
covering letter to the Commissioner/Treasury Officer of
Accounts.
4.  Collect Withdrawal Forms duly signed by the Treasury for
onward transmission to External Debt Management Office
(E.D.M.O.), Bank of Uganda (B.O.U.).
* 5.  Follow-up of payments with Foreign Exchange Operations,
B.O.U; Forward documents to Exchange Control Department,
B.O.U; following submissions by E.D.M.O for payment to be
effected.
18



EXAMPLE
1.  Submission of WA Forms for endorsement by Permanent
Secretary, MAAIF, 12 January, 1992.
2.  Endorsement of WA Forms by Permanent Secretary, MAAIF,
14 January, 1992.
3.  Submission of Forms to Commissioner/Treasury Officer of
Accounts by ADP, 14 January, 1992.
4.  Submission of approved forms from Treasury to External Debt
Management Officer, Bank of Uganda, 20th January, 1992.
5.  Submission of endorsed approved forms by E.D.M.O. to
Foreign Exchange Operations for verification, 20th January,
1992.
6.  Submission of verified forms to E.D.M.O by Foreign Exchange
Control (B.O.U.) for forwarding to Foreign Exchange
Operations (B.O.U.) - 26th January, 1992.
7.  Submission by E.D.M.O of forms to Foreign Exchange
Operations of payment: 3rd February, 1992.
S.  Payment of funds by Foreign Exchange Operations (B.O.U.) to
a Supplier. 7th February, 1992.
1.5.1    However, following the Country Implementation Reviews,
World Bank recommended that all Projects operate Special
Accounts from Commercial Banks. ADP moved its Special
Account to Grindlays Bank (U) Ltd (now Stanbic Bank) and
operations were smooth and quick thereafter.
1.5.2    The Project took long to grasp the manner In which Special
Account funds could be used to meet IDA share of local
eypendituires, ADP only started to utilize this system after
19



the Project was restructured in 1991.
1.5.3    Budgetary and Finance Aspects
Since the beginning of the Project's implementation, ADP
suffered from a chronic shortage of local counterpart funds.
The funding problem was further aggravated by delays in
releasing funds to ADP.
To help overcome this problem, the World Bank and IFAD
agreed with the Treasury and the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Industry and Fisheries, that ADP can go ahead and use
revenues from the sale of inputs after the quarterly funds
released by the Treasury are exhausted. It was further agreed
that ADP use revenues for funding essential Project activities
not covered under the existing approved budget, based on
clear work plans and budgets.
This agreement between IDA/IFAD and the Government in
October 1991 enabled the Project to be implemented at an
accelerated pace and solved the local counterpart funding
problems.
1.5.4    Project Closure
The Agricultural Development Project flnally closed on 30th
September 1993. According to a Telex Message from the
World Bank, dated 28th September 1993, "RE: AGRICULTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDA CR:1539 - UG /IFAD LN 159-
UG) THE CLOSING DATE FOR THIS CREDIT AND LOAN IS
SEPTEMBER, 30th 1993. THIS IS TO ADVISE YOU THAT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH CURRENT PRACTICE OF THE BANK,
FURTHER DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE CREDIT AND LOAN
WILL BE MADE FOR WITHDRAWAL APPLICATIONS RECEIVED
AT THE BAINK'S HEADQUARTERS BY CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON
J.ANUARY 31, 1994, IN RESPECT OF ELIGIBLE
EXPENDITURES INCURRED BEFORE THE CLOSING DATE
20



(PAYMENTS MIADE OR PAYMENTS DUE FOR GOODS, WORKS
AND SERVICES WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVIDED PRIOR TO THE
CLOSING DATE). PROCEEDS OF THE CREDIT AND LOAN
RErvLANING UNWITHDRAWN AFTER DISBURSEMENTS HAVE
BEEN MADE IN RESPECT OF THESE WITHDRAWAL
APPLICATIO1NS WILL BE CANCELLED."
There is need for the World Bank to indicate to Projects, three
months prior to the closing dates, what is actually involved in the
closing of a Project.
These guidelines should spell out the full methodology of recoveries
by the World Bank, of the initial deposit into the Special Account;
payment to suppliers after the closing date; reconciliation of
disbursements; and channels for clearing various outstanding issues
which may need the Bank's clearance.
2.  Government's Performance During Project Implementation
2.1 Timeliness of the Project Start-up and Implementation
ADP was a multi-component project designed to traverse mainly the
agricultural, livestock, and flsheries sectors. In effect, the project
took off in May 1986, a year behind schedule due to civil unrest and
cattle rustling which led to insecurity in most of the area. This
insecurity was to plague the region for most of the project's life,
largely contributing to the need for its extension of up to three and
a half years in total.
The prolonged insecurity stagnated movement within the region and
kept activity at a very low ebb. Apart from the loss of time which
was never to be regained, this greatly negated the project's
objectives which were to increase food production, raise farmer and
fishermen's incomes and generate data for the formulation of
sectoral ar.d nat npal developmental plans. This was in as far as it
rendered thc very same project beneflciaries unproductive, reducing
them to levels of p.verty, beyond that at appraisal.
21



The project was set-back by the looting of inputs then in store, and
the partial destruction and looting too, of those institutions
envisaged to greatly facilitate project activities. Meanwhile, there
had to be a relocation of many of the activities/components to
Tororo and Pallisa districts which were relatively safe.
2.2 Services and inputs Provided by Government
2.2.1 Financial Contributions
Of the total project costs, SDR 31.37 million, counterpart funding
at appraisal was stipulated to be SDR 6.54 million, 21% of the total
costs. By the en(d of the project, government contribution stood at
about SDR 2.58 million, about 40% of its planned contribution, and
even then releases were characterised by delays, contributing to lost
time for the project. Especially as the day to day activities were
greatly hinged on the availability of such funds.
Table 1. GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Exchange        UShs        US$
Rate
July 1993 -Sept 1993     1,200         118,000,000    98,33
March 1993 - June 1993    1,200        165,000,000   137fiOQ00
Nov 1992 -Jan  1993      1,180         109,647,000    92,921.19
July 1991 - Sept 1992     984         364,000,000   3E,91&70
July 1990 - June 1991     558          151,733,000    271,~94
July 1989 - June 1990     332          70,900,000    213,554.2
July 1988 - June 1989     162          23,000,000    141,75I31
July 1987 - June 1988      60          28,043,000    467,333
July 1986 - June 1987      14          11,983,000    857
TOTAL                              1,042,306,000   2,649,437.59
Source: AlP Accounts Section
22



2.2.2 Staffing and Office-space
Staff were to be seconded to the project by the respective
implementing ministries. This was to a larger extent fulfilled except
in the case of thc T & V extension component in which the staff
requirement was quite high, and could not therefore be completely
met.
Office space was a problem that could not be satisfactorily met until
the project's prefabricated buildings and uniports hadbeen erected.
2.3  Project Management
The organisational set-up envisaged at appraisal was that overall
coordination would be done by an Inter-ministerial Coordinating
Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the then MAF, a
PMU headed by an executive secretary would monitor the day to day
activities while PIU's would be established in both implementing
ministries. At the district level, project activities would be overseen
by a District Steering Committee.
However, because of the busy schedules of the officers charged with
these responsibilities, this set-up did not perform satisfactorily,
leaving most of the work to be handled by the PMU. On the basis of
this, overall project management was transferred to a PCU, within
which was the M & E component and with the coordinator deputised
in both the implementing ministries of Agriculture and Animal
Industries and Fisheries.
Initially, partly because of the poor deflnition of roles, the PCU
seemed to be bogged down by too much work. With the roles of the
different components clarified, this situation was rectifled and
management fared well. As part of the restructuring of the project,
deputies to the coordinator in the north and east were appointed.
Later under the Public Service Reforms, the implementing
ministries were merged. Both  these served to enhance the
coordination of prcoject activities.
23



During project design there were areas where, because of lack of
local expertise, it w-as realised there would be need to temporarily
employ consultants, Indeed 11 consultants In various flelds were
contracted by the project. Local understudies were expected to take
over at the end of the contracts which in all the cases but one, were
extended.
:4.4 Staff Motivation
Poor staff motivation was one of the risks identified during
appraisal. At project inception for instance, the extension staff had
lost credibility in the eyes of the farmer due to irregular visits and
uncoordinated and often conflicting extension messages from the
different departments. The staff were often undermined as they
seemed less knowledgeable than the farmers who had the experience
to draw from. This was partly because of lack of refresher and in-
service training to keep the field staff abreast with new practices
and lack of logistics to facilitate the operations of the staff.
Therefore in-order for the extension system to regain credibility,
these short comings had to be addressed. One of the strategies
adopted to enhance staff performance was by training. Staff were
given t-he opportunity to undertake the relevant training. Indeed the
pool of knowledge gained through such undertakings did revigorate
the participation of staff In project activities. When the project was
restructured in 1991, additional effort was made to improve staff
motivation by provision of performance allowances.
However, at all times the PCU did aim to achieve the set objectives
of the project, portraying their resourcefulness in activities that
were designed to reflect the changing circumstances of the
beneficiaries and under which the project was operating while
webbing the different components into an interlinked system.
2.5  Fulfilment of dated covenants
According to the SAR, audited project accounts were to be availed
to the do. or agerc'es not later than six months after the end of a
24



financial year. However as portrayed in the table below, this was
never to be fulfilled.
Table 2. SUBMISSION OF AUDITED PROJECT ACCOUNTS
Fiscal Year       Date of Submission         Months Overdue
1986/87           27th September 1989           21
1987/88           20th May    1991              29
1988/89           2 nd September 1991           21
1989/90           16th December 1991            11
1990/91           4 th May    1992               3
23rd June   1993              6
1992/93           23rd May    1993               5
Source: ADP Coordination Unit
The mid-term evaluation report was set to be out by the 30th
September 1988 but was submitted in October of the same year.
Planning targets set in annual work plans were to be submitted by
the 1st April of every year. However, because this relied heavily on
inputs from the different components from the districts, delays in
submission from even one component In a district, meant delays in
the submission of these reports as was often the case. The project
completion report is being submitted more than a month late
mainly because of lack of a qualified data analyst to help with the
analysis of the data gathered from the terminal socio-economic
survey carried out by the M & E component.
2.6 Government Policy
Given that the country's comparative advantage lies in the
agricultural sector, Government policy interventions have been
geared towards creating a favourable environment for especially the
25



small scale farmers, who form the backbone of the economy.
The project therefore operated under such conditions except for a
few instances here cited, where government policy interfered with
project implementation. This was especially in the field of input
procurement.
The only recommended company to clear and forward government
inputs, Transocean (U) Ltd, lacked the capacity to do so efficiently
and timely. This was a major handicap to the project on many
occasions.
Likewise in an effort to protect local companies, Government
instituted a policy dictating that locally manufactured inputs should
not be imported. This policy led to the cancellation of a number of
contracts e.g. for the supply of kidlima hoes and fishnets. The local
companies have, however failed to meet the local demand but the
policy still holds.
Government with the aid of World Bgnk and the [MF has since 1987,
been instituting economic reforms aimed at restructuring the
economy rendering it more productive. Among such reforms has
been the devaluation of the previously overvalued USh vis a vis the
international currencies, and the liberalisation of the foreign
exchange market. What did operating in such a macroeconomic
environment hold for the project?
For the largest component, input supply, constituting up to 75% of
the total project costs and relying heavily on importation, the
devaluations which render imports more expensive locally, meant
that the farmers had to meet higher input prices. However in a bid
to ensure that the farmers were still attracted to the inputs, the
project availed them at lower than market prices. This led to
leakages to non-project areas and eventually during the restructured
ADP, prices were liberalised and inputs sold to farmers at market
prices.
26



In conformity with the economic reforms, interest rates had to
reflect the actual costs of lending capital by becoming real and
positive (they rose up to 43.2 percent in 1989). The feasibility of the
Credit Component, introduced in the restructured ADP, was
therefore questionable as the tendency was to think that farmers
should get credit at subsidised rates. In spite of complaints about
the interest rates which have continued to fall as the economy
grows stronger, the Credit Component was well received and is
eagerly awvaited in the districts in which it is not yet operational.
2.7   Achievernents and lessons learnt:
In spite of having operated in a hostile environment for most of the
project life, ADP did indeed make a remarkable effort to fulfil the
objectives stipulated at project appraisal. However, given that
tangible indicators to achievement were not stipulated in the SAR,
it has been rather difflcult to exactly state the extent to which
project objectives have been met. It can safely be said though, that
without the project, the situation in these parts of the country
would have been worse than before appraisal because of the
devastation the civil war effected on the infrastructure and
productive ability of the population, on which agriculture, the main
stay of the peasantry in the region, is heavily reliant.
2.7.1 Beneficiarv coverage and response
Awareness of the project and participation in one or more of its
activities did gain ground especially during the restructured ADP
and with the return of security. Very notable has been the increased
participation of the women folk in project activities. The number
of women groups have grown from an average 60 per district to 360
in Lira, 123 in Kitgum, 350 in Apac and 100 in Gulu district.
The prcjf "t closely interacted with the beneficiaries and was
therefo-e able to e ssess their changing needs and  problematic
areas, ;: t're a-c! reflect them in sequential activities.
Some p:ib' c ancl p--ivate institutions were also planned to benefit
27



from  ADP.   These institutions were to be developed and
strengthened. The project did achieve a lot with regard to the
training institutions which had been ravaged and rendered non-
functional.
Ngetta DFI, Ngetta Experimental station, Arapal Agricultural college,
Serere DFi, and Tororo DFI were rehabilitated to an extent where
they are now carrying out their normal activities and have the
capacity te. carry out training for both farmers and staff. Twenty-six
courses/workshops/seminars for staff and/or farmers were held
during the project's implementation. The plan for Gulu DFI was
drawn and approved but its construction was time barred.
Another notable achievement has been the establishment of a well
equipped media resource centre in Tororo. It has greatly facilitated
the education of farmers and staff throughout the project area by
way of visual aids, handbooks, flip charts, pamphlets and taped
radio programmes. Likewise, Laliya fry breeding centre, Gulu, had
to be reestablished from a pool of water, bush, and silted ponds.
In addition to these institutions, the problem of office and staff
accommodation was greatly alleviated. Prefabricated buildings were
put up in Entebbe, Tororo, and Jinja, while uniports were erected in
Entebbe, Apac, Gulu and Kitgum. The DAO's offices In Lira and Gulu
also had some repair work done on them. Office space so created,
did not only serve the interests of the project, but was utilised by
other depa'rtmental staff and projects as well.
At appraisal, it had been envisaged that staff would live in their
work areas in order to enable them visit their farmer groups
regularly. The necessary accommodation would be constructed on
a self-hflA basis, but with the break down of societies during the
period cf iqsecurity, this was not feasible.
28



2.7.2 Institutior Building
Monitoring and Evaluation
Testimony to the achievements of this component which is part of
the institution building strategy of the project, is the recognition it
gained throughout the ministry, becoming the model around which
the MAJIF is establishing its M & E section.
Considering that resistance to M & E is the norm, ADP's M & E had
very good working relationships with the project management at all
times. It did register recognition within the whole ministry and was
referred to by other projects . However because of such exposure
and derrand, the staff turnover has been high, much as the said staff
remain to serve the interests of government elsewhere.
The component did also provide the necessary logistics for the
start-up of the MAAIF M & E section.
Procurement
The procurement unit also gained recognition by the MAAIF, and
staff were drawn from it to contribute towards the creation of the
ministry's procurement unit. This however does not overlook the
fact that at project inception, the staff were not well versed with
procurement procedures and had a lot to learn while understudying
the TA that was contracted.
Extension Methodology
The Worla bank's T & V method of extension was introduced on a
pilot ba'.is in part of the project area. Having tried it out for a while,
the srstai'iabill 4y of the system was questioned and consequently
it was r-ol lfied to form the ADP extension programme. It is on this
modifed programme that the unifled extension programme,
current'y being promoted nationally under the Agricultural
Extens-:n Programme (AEP), is modelled.
29



Project Management
The ability of project management to ably run an ambitious
programlme like ADP has also been given due credit and their skills
have be.n utilised in the implementation and formulation of other
projects, notably South West Region Agricultural Rehabiltation
Project (SWVRARP) and Smallholder Cotton Rehabilitation Project
(SCRP).
Beneficiary Institutions
Realising among others, the cost effectiveness of the group
approach to farmers problems, the project throughout its life,
encouraged farmers to form groups through which the project would
reach them and the spirit of self-help rekindled. That group
formation was appreciated by the targeted population has already
been alluded to in the case of women. They were found to have a
higher affinity for groups and at the same time to participate more
actively In group activities than the men.
The groups have therefore enlarged the outreach of the project than
-if the farmers were to be approached individually. Among the skills
imparted to the farmers has been book-keeping which was a
necessity for the success of the credit components and sale of
Inputs.
2.7.3 Achievements of Project Objectives
One of ADP's objectives was to generate data which would be used
for sectoral and national development plans. The baseline survey,
(1986) was carried out in five of the project districts, Kitgum and
Gulu being ormitted because of insecurity. The information
generated was utilised in the day to day activities of the M & E
component while monitoring the progress of the project, and also in
the drawring up of the mid-term evaluation report. The formulation
of the 'CR1' alsc dcrived a lot of information from the survey report.
30



The introduction and testing of a trapping technique for tsetse fly
control did not take place because it was tested and proven effective
in Kamuli district under a project financed by EEC. The same
technique was then introduced into the project area as a means of
control.
The fisheries survey yielded information which has been utillsed in
drawing up recommendations and management measures to
mitigate the decline of the fisheries industry on Lake Kyoga.
Has the project contributed to increased production and incomes?
Given the circumstances under which the project operated,it
remains very difficult to say to what extent the project did or did
not increase production and Incomes. However, there are indicators
that the project did contribute to improved well being.
Figures 2 & 3 indicate a cumulative increase in aggregate
production of some of the crops traditional to the project area.
However, drought conditions, increasingly frequent in most of
Uganda, leaves a marked reduction in the levels of production in
almost all crops during such bad years, e.g. 1986 and 1990. Even
then, most respondents to the socio-economic terminal survey
attributed most of their improved economic status, if any, to
increased agricultural production mainly achieved through
Increased hectarage, figure 4.
Figure 5 shows the proportion of respondents who acquired various
assets in the last four years. From the figure, it is clear that in the
districts which were more stable, i.e Pallisa and Tororo, the
proportion of beneficiaries who acquired assets were much higher.
Acquisitic.n of assets is a proxy indicator of improved incomes.
2.7.4 Sustainability of Project Activities
A major fa :tor related to project effects concerns the issue of
sustain..bi ity cf project activities. Sustainability in this
context rElrites to the capacity of the local economy to
31



continue to generate the beneflts of the project to the
beneficiaries on a long term basis following the expiry of the
financial assistance period. In the course of implementing
ADP a need has been identified to assess the project for
sustainability. In undertaking this assessment the project's
activities lhave been divided Into three (3) categories namely:-
Input distribution, Institutional Development and Research
and Surve-s.
The establ'kshrcnt of the input distribution system underADPis not
meant to be a permanent institutional development but a short run
solution to solve the problem of basic beneflciary inputs in the
project area. The project does not therefore have a plan for
distributirg inputs to beneflciaries beyond the project's closing
date. Following the expiry of the project, the local private sector
has now taken over the provision of inputs to the farmers.
With regard to Institutional Development, components of Extension,
Agricultural Training, Adaptive Research and Monitoring and
Evaluation, these have now been taken over by GOU either directly
or through new projects being implemented in the ministry.
2.7.5 Lessons learnt
In designing programmes like ADP the number of components
should be reduced for ease of management, and as much as
possible, be kept to one implementing institution for better
ccordiination and working relationships, otherwise a lot more
effort is required on the part of management to foster a
desirable working environment, and In so doing, a lot of time
is wasted.
Al0tl-vugh project sustainability was not given specific
cons-deration in the original design of ADP, it became an
iTr:pi. rtanr  aspect of the project in the course of its
inrxp'=-"rntation. The experience of ADP indicates that it Is
pc s! :ble to attain project sustainability if it is given specific
32



ccns deration in project design. It also indicates that
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework needs to be put
in r ace in order to support project sustainability efforts.
CouPled with it, there maybe need to consider lengthening the
dura;ion of such programmes as by the end of five years,
mrnaz activities would not have been fully entrenched into the
targc ted population and therefore the sustainability would be
qt'es ionalule at the end of the project. Ten years maybe found
to h- ve a more marked and longer lasting effect.
At rroject design, quantifiable indicators of achievement
should be clearly spelt out.
Whe-i project management is detached from the
bureaucracies, well facilitated and delegated with sufficient
powvrs, more is achieved than when they are amidst the
system. At the same time good working relationships do reap
high'y.
Given government's poor reoord for availing the necessary
counterpart funding when and as it is required, it is necessary
that the consequences be carefully looked into during project
planning. The success of an agricultural programme is greatly
determined by the timeliness of all activities, of which funds
will always be paramount.
Wh-erever possible, local consultancies, better versed with
lo" I conditions, should be engaged In place of external TA
wbfl.-h should be limited to areas where the country is totally
lic-ing Even then the TOR's should clearly include that the
slkil. be imparted to the local understudy within the
St ;4v\ lated period.
33



3.  Project Rclat2onshipsE
3.1  Project S3zkcholders: The design of ADP was fairly complex,
involving several components and
stakeholders. With this level of complexity,
the issue and nature of relationships
between the various stake holders played a
key role in project execution and
performance.
The stakeholders which were involved in the Project can be
categorized into seven as follows:-
1.  Funding agencies - IFAD and IDA
2.  Implementing Agencies - MOA and MAIF
3.  Cooperating Agencies - Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planniing (MFEP), BOU, Central Tender Board (CTB), Ministry
Of Lands Housing and Urban Development (MOLHUD), Ministry
Of Ju-stice (MOJ), Transocean-Uganda Ltd.
4.  Other projects.
5.  Political Establishments.
6.  Private sector agencies.
7.  Beneflciaries.
3.2  Funding Agencies:   The relationship between the funding
agencies, IFAD and IDA, was governed by the
DCA and other project documents. To the
extent that these formal agreements were
adhered to by the project, the Borrower-
Donor relationship remained good. But
instances of non-compliance resulted in
sanctions such as suspension of
disbursement by the Donors. However, in
times of genuine difficulties the donors
showed exceptional understanding
particularly during the period of insecurity
34



in the project area and the approval of up to
three extensions of the project closing date.
Another aspect of Borrower-Donor
relationship was in regard to Task
Management. The project saw a very high
turnover of Task Managers. Each of the
Task Managers had a slightly different
approach and personal peculiarities.
Depending on the approach and personality
of the Task Manager, the relationship was
either good or cool.
3.3 Implementing Agencies:
According to design, ADP was planned to be
implemented by the then Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, and Ministry of
Animal Industry and Fisheries. Before the
two Ministries were merged to form the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries, relationship between the project
and MOA was excellent except with MAIF.
This was partly because the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was located in MOA,
which caused MAIF to feel that they were a
junior partner in the project and therefore
gave the project only limited support.
However, when the project was restructured
and a Liaison Officer from MAIF was
included as a full time members of PCU,
cooperation and support from MAIF
improved significantly. The lesson that
should be learnt from this experience is that
projects which cut across several
implementing agencies require additional
effort in coordination. If this cannot be
established it would be better to formulate
35



smaller projects which are implemented by
the same agency.
3.4  CooperatingAgencies: Cooperating  agencies  are  those
organisations that were independent of the
project but were involved in some aspects of
implementation or facilitation of the
project. Their roles and the nature of the
relationship were as follows:-
a.   MFEP was involved in the project in four main areas namely;
approval of annual budgets, release of counterpart funding,
processing of withdrawal applications, and certifications of
audited accounts by the Auditor General's office. Although
there were often complaints of inadequate allocation of
counterpart funding and delays in release of funds and
carrying out other roles, generally the relationship with MFEP
was good.
b.  BOU's role in the project cor'prised; operation of the Special
Account, processing of payments through Drafts, LCs etc,
processing of import documents and maintaining of the
project collection account. The relationship between the
project and BOU was marked by cooperation and
understanding.
c.   CTB was concerned with award of contracts in regard to
goods, services and works. At the beginning of the project
when CTB meetings were being held monthly, approval of
contracts would take unacceptably long time. This strained
the relationship between the project and CTB. Later on,
how ever, when meetings were convened weekly, the
perfortrance of CTB improved and a more cordial relationship
began to prevail.
d.  MO>',UD in it's interaction with the project was involved in
the approval of building plans, evaluation of bids and
36



supervision of construction for prefabricated housing and
evaluation of consultancy bids for Gulu DFI. The performance
of MOLHUD in regard to the approval of plans and evaluation
of construction tenders for prefabricated housing was marked
by long delays. This had a negative impact on the relationship
betw.ven the project and MOLHUD. However, the performance
of the Ministry In regard to the Gulu DFI was relatively more
proficient.
e.  MO.1 involvement in the project was in connection with the
app-oval of the contracts to be entered into by the project.
Throughout the Ufe of the project relationship with MOJ
remained amicable.
f.   Transocean (U) Limited was a clearing and forwarding agent
appointed by the Government to clear project goods. It's
performance was far from satisfactory and this led to a cool
relationship for almost the entire life of the project.
During the final years of the project, through  Country
Implementation Reviews (CIR) Workshops, some of the
shortcomings in these agencies were addressed. For instance
special accounts were transferred to Commercial Banks thus
removing th-e role of MFEP and BOU from operation of special
accounts. The role of MOLHUD in approving plans and evaluating
bids for building was curtailed and transferred to appointed private
consulting firms.
3.5  Other Prcjects: There were no major projects in the project area
with which ADP interacted. But outside the area
South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (SWRARP), had a significant relationship
with ADP. SWRARP learnt a lot from ADP
experiences in the area of procurement,
monitoring and evaluation, adaptive research and
rural credit. This collaboration and relationship
w-.s a contribution to the achievement of the
37



project strategy of institutional building.
3.6 Political l;Zstablishw.mnts:
The project interacted with the political
eEtablishment at the national, district and local
level through the Resistance Committee (RC)
system.   The project enjoyed overwhelming
stupport from the RC's at the local and district
level especially in regard to mobilisation of
beneficiaries for project activities, credit recovery,
input sales etc.   However, due to lack of
information or misinformation the relationship
with some members of Parliament was marked by
unfair comments about the project. With time,
this was overcome through increased awareness
and information flow. The lesson that should be
learnt as far as relationship with political entities
is concerned is the importance of regular flow of
information and exchange of ideas. Production of
newsletters and having a regular forum for
interaction would be a suitable way of doing this.
3.7  Private Sector:  The private sector agencies with which the project
interacted were mainly manufacturers and
suppliers of inputs. The relationship with most of
these local manufacturers was cordial as long as
they were winning contracts but turned sour when
they lost. In such instances they accused the
project of favouring foreign suppliers.
3.8  Beneficiaries:   The relationship between the project and its
beneficiaries can be measured in terms of
beneficiaries participation.  According to the
Terminal Evaluation survey the level of
p,;rticipation by beneficiaries in two key activities
of the project i.e. extension illustrated by figures
38



6 (extension group formation), 7 & 8 (adoption
rates) and input purchases illustrated by figure 9.
Almost throughoi:t the life of the project the beneflciaries were
unhappy about the prices of inputs and the interest rates levied
under the Credit Component.
39



4.  Consultancies
4.1 The folloving table shows the consultancies which the project
employed, the actual man-months provided and the targeted man-
months at appraisal:
Table 3. CONSULTANTS CONTRACTED UNDER ADP
Component/Specialltv    Target        Actual   Actual as
Man-months   Man-months % of Target
1.  Input Management
-   Procurement Manager 24             48       200
-   Project Accountant   24            96       400
-   Warehouse Manager   48             60       125
2.  Research Surveys
-   Agronomist           24            48       200
-    lTsetse Fly Control
Specialist          8              1        1
-   Fisheries Stock
Assessment Specialist 24          48       200
-   Fisheries Statistician  24         24       100
-   Fish Biologist       12            0         0
3.  Extension
-   Training Specialist    30          48       160
-   T & V Extension
Specialist          36            45       125
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation
-   M & E Specialist     30            41       136
5.  Credit
-   Credit Specialist    0             18
Source: ADP Coordination Unit
40



4.2  As can be seen from the Table, 10 long term Consultants were
engaged by the project to facilitate the implementation of input
supply management, Research and Surveys, Extension, Monitoring
and Evaluation and Credit. Because the initial long-term Tsetse
Control Specialist cnvisaged to be engaged by the project declined
to take the offer of employment by the Project, a short term Tsetse
Control Consultant was employed to help review tsetse trapping
programmes in the country. The plan to recruit a Fish Biologist was
not implemented as local expertise was available.
4.3  All Consultants completed their assignments with the project. It is
difficult, however, to specify the extent of the skills transfer to
Ugandan staff by the Consultants as no detailed independent
assessment has been undertaken on the performance of the TA's.
However, with the exception of the Accountant, the management of
all components of ADP reverted to Ugandans from March, 1991 up
to the closure of the project in September, 1993. The reports by the
visiting Supervision Missions during this period have indicated
enhanced project performance during this period. This therefore
indicates that some skills transfer did take place between the
Consultants and Ugandan counterpart staff.
4.4  It is, however, also evident from the Table that with the exception
of the Fisheries Statistician, all TA's were engaged for an average of
1.4 times more man-months than initially targeted for in the SAR.
WYhile the extension for the period of the Accountant was justifiable
on account of the need to maintain flnancial discipline within the
project against a background of lowly paid local staff and an initial
breakdown in civility due to insurgency, other factors contributed
to the extension of other TA's.
4.5 - One of the factors wjhich contributed to this extension had been the
non-corairiehensive nature of the institution building objectives.
Although the TORs for the TA's included skills transfer, this had in
many caw,s been limited to only some of the activities to be
undertak E-i by thC. TA's, especially in respect of on-the-job training.
In addi ir: even ir: such cases the training programmes were not
41



tied to systematic action plan tailored towards achieving skills
transfer to Ugandaris. This lack of clarity therefore meant delayed
and inadequate transfer of skills to local staff.
4.6  The contribution of TA's to the project was also affected by the
sometimes incorrect perception by the Consultants of the
relationship between technical assistance and the project. Most of
the TA's scmchov. had the perception that they were employees of
the World Bank ra titer than the Uganda Government. This, coupled
with the very high renumerations of the TA's on the one hand and
the very low remutnerations of the local staff on the other, tended
to delay the forgirg of early close working relationship between the
two groups.
4.7  ADP has been a multi sectoral project, covering crops, livestock and
fisheries.  It's effective implementation therefore required an
interdisciplinary approach to work. The traditional apathy in the
working relationships between particularly the livestock and crop
sectors initially made it difficult to forge this approach to work and
therefore contributed to the delay in effective utllisation of the
TA's.
4.9  There was also a problem with the delivery of technical assistance.
There was an over emphasis on the need to recruit expatriate TA's
rather than local Specialists. Because of lack of exposure to the
local environment, expatriate TA's took disproportionately longer
time to adjust to and understand the project area as well as project
staff.  The process of effective problem  identification and
development of solutions as well as the treatment of counterpart
staff as eq,ual par.icipants in project implementation was therefore
unnecessarily delayed and perhaps even consciously stalled by the
expatriaite TA's.
4.10 Experinr,'e has alsc shown that some of the TA's were not very
knowle*.'e -table i,] their speciflc areas of assignment or lacked
initiati-e . v a'i-jul -  rogrammes In light of changing circumstances.
Such T! ' `iaw t h r-fore to spend considerable time in learning on-
42



the-job tc acqluire the required skills and in so doing delayed the
process o' skills tr..nsfer to Ugandans.
4.11 Civil disturbances which characterised the project area during the
earlyyeai s of projcc t implemcntationalsoaffected theperformance
of the TA's. Up to 1989 and with the exception of Input Supply in
the Nortl,crn D.s.r-cts, all TA's had to relocate to Tororo due to
Insecurity in other project districts. The process of effective skills
transfer h ad therefire to be delayed until after 1989 when normalcy
started tc return tt. the affected districts.
4.12 All in all therefore, the experience of ADP indicates that it is
possible for Institution building to take place through technical
assistanc:  in a project environment. However, the lessons learnt
indicate that this process can be enhanced through a clear and
comprehensive specification of skills transfer process, timely and
action plan-oriented delivery of on-the-job skills transfer, secure
project environment as well as capable TA's who are familiar with,
or can adapt easily to, the project environment.
43



Figure 1
ADP TERMINAL EVALUATION SURVEY
LEVEL Of AWA^RNESS Of AO;  A CIVITIGS
100
'a
00
70
tOO
I          50 
OISTAICT OF TU4E P~QECT ARES 
gZ AVARE
= NOT AWARE
44



Figure 2
PROJECT AREA, %TAGE CHANGE IN
PROON Of CEREAL     oar CfOPS
280
240-
220-
::OO
1100
140
120
'100
so
40
-20
1840  5s/o8        1987/ 8a          19iY 90 o          19v9 S2
1986/97           198 /89            1990/91
YEARS
CASSAVA
AIMZE       3 F.MILLET        SsoaG LA             SPOTATOES       =    RICE
Figure 3
PROJECT AREA,9 %TAGE CHANGE IN
PECO  OF LELE  & OIL CROPS
so
so
70
30
20
10
-10
- 20
t985 8e ,          198a8 0            19899/90          1991/92
i98S/87           1988/ac            1CCO/C1
TE.ARS
m3 0wPEA3
P PEAS      m      I G.rTS N5I7IM            83 Es se
45



Figure 4
ADP TERMINAL EVALUATION SURVEY
AREA BRF/T UNOER C:JLTIVATION CHm)
so
50
20
'0
CULU           K I TCLA       PALL I SA           L." I
6   NONE A7 ALL
MS THAN i M.              'I TO 2 M.          3 TO 4 1.       g  OVER 4 1,-           REOUCM AREA.
Figure 5
ADP TERMINAL EVALUATION SURVEY
. 5ISITION OF ASSETS IN LAST 4 YRS
so
so
la
I            80                .-
40
30                          ..
20
0APAC    L I RA  TPR   0c ;
ZJLEU          K  I TC.,      PALL I SA         KU  I
M    CATTLE
SHEEP    R      OArS          PiG           BI7CYCLES      PA15os
46



Figure 6
ADP TEPMINAL EVALUATION SUm /EY
EXTENSION CFAPmN42  GIOLP mEMBERSHIP)
90
so
70
_
40
20
20
10
CULU           K I TCt.A       PALL ISA          KAM I
m   BELD'r
DO OT BELONG
47



Figure 7
ADP TERMINAL EVA'UATION SUPVEY
EXTENS I ON C FOLLOW I C Of EXT  A0V I CS)
s0
70
50
so
4 0
30
cc       ~~20
I 0
0
CULU          K I TCLM        PALL I SA        KLA I
3 FOLLC-C
010 NOT FLOZW
Figure 8
ADP TEPMINAL EVALUATION SUPVEY
AOOPTION DF VETER I APT ADVICES
so
30
E FOLL0X VET' ADVICE
s    DOT FC_Lov
48



Figure 9
ADP TERMINAL EVALUATION SUJREY
PLQCHASE OF I NPLrS
30
70:
I         5~~0
40
30
I         ~~~20
0 
APAC            LIXa                             flOO I
CULU           KITCL&4         PALLISA           KCI
DIS7PICT5 IN THE PRPOJCT AREA
M EOLCGH.
DID Nor sur
49



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related IDA Credits
No.                  Title            Year of Approval        Amount           Status
(USSM)
1252-UG        Second Reconstruction           1982              70.00         Completed
Program
1328-UG             Agricultural               1983              70.00         Completed
Rehabilitation
1474-UG         Third Reconstruction           1984              50.00         Completed
Program
50



Table 2. Project Timetable
Item                   Date Planned       Revised Date       Actual Date
Identification                             7/81                -                7/81
Preparation                                6/82                -                6/82
Appraisal                                  10/83               -                11/83
Negotiations                               11/84               -                11/84
Board Approval:       :IFAD                                                     11/84
:IDA                                                      1/85
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness:        :[FAD                5/85              8/85
11/85
1/86              5/86
:IDA                9/85              12/85
6/86              5/86
Loan/Credit Closure                        3/90              3/91
3/93
9/93              9/93
Comment:
The Loan/Credit effectiveness was delayed by one year because of civil disturbances in the project area.
This, coupled with procurement delays and inadequate counterpart funding, were largely responsible
for the Loan/ Credit to be closed 3-1/2 years behind schedule.
51



Table 3. Cumulative IDA and IFAD Disbursements
(in '000 SDRs)
IDA Fiscal year                       1986      1987       1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994
SAR Estimate
IDA Credit                         300       1800      4000      6200      8500      10000
IFAD Loan                             0      2300      5400      8600      12100     14500
Total             300      4100       9400     14800    20600    24500
Actual
IDA Credit                            0       772      1995      2897      4600       5550      6789      8300       9141
IFAD Loan                             0       927      2895,     4253      7065       8511      9920     11634      12827
Total               0      1699       4890      7150     11665      14061     16709     19934     21968
Actual as % of Estimate                  0        41         52        48        57        57        n/a       n/a        n/a
Source: IDA and PCR, Entebbe.



Table 4. Key Implementaltion Indicators for Procurements
A. Procurements                                  Unit                       SAR Estirnates                      Actual                   Actual as % of SAR
.llnput Supplies'
- Lango Hoes                                     Prices                         160,000                         200.000                          125
- Round eyes Hoes                                                              1,700.000                      1,700.000                          100
- Pangas                                                                        240.000                         420,000                          175
- Ox-Ploughs                                                                     10,000                           9,000                           90
- Vegetable Seeds                                 kgs                             1.200                          16,520
- Hybrid Maize Seeds                              mA                               300                              330                          110
- Flour Mills                                     No.                             -                                  85
- Groundnut Shellers                                                                                               150
- Maize Shellers                                                                                                   250
- Rinderpest Vaccines                            Doses                            -                            3,550.000
- New Castle Disease Vaccines                                                  880.000                          120,000                            14
- Fishnets                                        No.                           81,000                           n/a
2. Vehicles
- Lorries                                        No.                              -                                 9
- 4OWD Vehicles                                                                  24                                 65                           271
- Other Vehicles                                                                  4                                 2                             50
- Motor Cycles                                                                   34                               143                            420
- Bicycles                                                                      1.600                           26,500
- Outboard Engines                                                                130                              132                           102
Source   PCU. Eniebbe
I   Details of inputs procured are set out in Annex 1.



Table 5A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual'
Local    Foreign           Total        Local   Foreign            Total
Input Supplies                                2.7         15.0          17.7         n.a.           n.a.         n.a.
Research &  Technical                          0.7          1.8          2.5         n.a.           n.a.         n.a.
Development
Institutional Development                      1.3          2.4          3.7          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Other Components2                              0.0          0.0           0.0         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
A
v.              Base Cost                                  4.7         19.2          23.9           2.1        30.8          32.9
Contingencies                                  1.9         5.6           7.5
Total Cost                                 6.6         24.8        31.43            2.1         30.8         32.9
Per IDA & IFAD disbursemnent records, and PCU, Entebbe. Acaual costs are inclusive of contingencies; details regarding actual costs are presently available by
disbursement catcgories only, as per Table 5B.
2 These components, viz., Women's activities, Ox-Plough revival, Cassava mosaic control, Pilot credit scheme and Veterinary services were added on, following project
restructuring in 1991.
1 Total project costs include USS 0.3 million, financed under the Second Technical Assistance Project (cr. 1434-UG), to cover the foreign-exchange costs of start-up
activities under ADP.



Table 5B: Project Financing
(in '000 SDRs)
PER CREDIT &                          REVISED
LOAN AGREEMENT                        ESTIMATE  1/                         ACTUAL
IDA     IFAD       Total          IDA      IFAD      Total          IDA      IFAD       Total
A. IDA/IFAD Category:
1. Civil Works                              200       200       400           750      1200       1950          694       1013      1707
2. Vehicle & Equipment                     6400      9160    15560           2595      4250       6845          3363     4980       8343
3. Materials & Drugs                       1400      2020      3420          2570      5180       7750          1615      2577      4192
4. Technical Assist. & Training            1500      2320      3820          2180       3220      5400          2305      3430      5735
5. Operating Costs                          100       200       300            435       650      1085           553       827       1380
t_n       6. Special Account                           100       100       200            100       100      200              0         0         0
tn          *                                                                 /
7. Rural Credit Scheme                                                        1370                1370           611         0       611
8. Unallocated                              300       600       900              0        0          0             0         0         0
Sub-Total                             10000     14600    24600           10000    14600    24600            9141     12827    21968
B. Government of Uganda                                               6540                              6540                               1535
Total                                 10000    14600    31140            10000    14600    31140            9141     12827    23503
1/ As per Credit/Loan Agreement of April 21, 1992
Source: Loan & Credit Agreements; SAR; WB & IFAD disbursements data and PCU records in Entebbe.



Table 6. Project Results
A. Economical and Financial
Unit            SAR Estimate       Estimated Actual
Incremental Area Cultivated              ha/p.a               44,000                 n/a
Incremental Herd                          %/p.a                   2                  n/a
Incremental Fish Catches                 tons/p.a             20,000               60,000
Comments:
I.           The SAR did not attempt to calculate an ERR for the project given the difficulties in quantifying
project benefits. The above 3 items were mentioned as achievable. Unfortunately, no data is available to
estimate to what extent the project has helped in attaining the incrementals mentioned above. The general
impression is that agricultural production has increased (see Annex 2). However, it is not possible to quantify
how much of the increase is attributable to the project. It is estimated that largely due to rustling, cattle
population has declined from 1.3 million heads in 1985 to about 0.34 million at present. A better idea of the
project results will emerge after a socio-economic survey being planned in the project areas by the M&E Unit.
2.           Incremental fish catch reached about 95,000 tons in 1990 and 1991, but declined sharply
thereafter to slightly over 60,000 tons because project inputs were finished.
B. Studies
Title           Purpose as Defined at            Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal
1. Fisheries Survey of   To assess the current   Satisfactorily completed    Studies found that the
Lake Kyoga            status of fishery in Lake                          Lake was over-fished
Kyoga
2. Catch Assessment     To assess the stock of   Satisfactoriloy
Survey               fish in Lake Kyoga        completed
by carrying out
biological
and related studies
56



Table 7. Status of Covenants
Page I of 2
Loan/Credit Agreement r              Subject                          Status
Section
2.02 (b)                  Borrower shall establish a               Complied
Special Account in BOU.
4.02 (b)                  (i) Borrower shall open a Project        Complied
Account in a bank.
(ii) Borrower shall open a              Complied
Transport Account in a bank
acceptable to IDA with an initial
deposit of USh 65 million.
4.03                      Borrower to maintain the                 Complied
Interninisterial Coordinating
Committee and establish and
maintain, a Project Managemet
Unit, Procurement Unit, and
Implementation Units in MAF
and MAIF.
4.07                      Borrower shall not later than    Submitted July, 1986 due to one
June 1985 submit to IDA/IFAD    year delay in project
for their review and comment    effectiveness.
extension messages proposed for
farmers in Project area.
4.08                      Borrower shall (i) ensure that   (i) Done
lorries acquired for ADP shall
be used for distribution of goods   (ii) Submitted late due to one
under the project; and (ii)     year delay in project
prepare for review by           effectiveness
IDA/IFAD a report every six
months, on the efficiency of the
input distribution system,
beginning December 31, 1985.
4.09                      Borrower shall, not later than    Largely Complied
April I of each submit to
IDA/IFAD Work Programs
covering 12 months commencing
in following July 1.
57



Table 7.  Status of Covenants
Page 2 of 2
Loan/Credit Agreement                      Subject                            Status
Section
4.12 (b)                          In order to ensure that            Training was initially confined
appropriate in-service training is   to Serere due to security
carried out in the Serere          problems in Arapai and Ngetta.
Research Station, the Arapai
Community Development              The 31 December 1985 deadline
Training Center and the Ngetta     was not met due to delay in
District Farm Lnstitute, the      starting project operations. In
Borrower shall take all necessary   any case most  of the training
measures to ensure the             activities were re-located to
availability of qualified training  Tororo DFI for security
staff, including training          reasons.
personnel from the Serere
Research Station as and when
needed. To this end, the
Borrower shall, by not later than
December 31, 1985, appoint
and post suitably qualified farm
managers and graduate teaching
staff to the Arapai Community
Development Training Center
and the Ngeta District Farm
Institute.
5. 01 (a)                         The Borrower shall maintain or            Complied
cause to be maintained separate
accounts adequate to retlect the
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
project.
(c)                               The Borrower shall have the        Audit reports were submitted
accounts referred to above,        late most of the time.
audited by independent auditors,
and furnish to IDA and IFAD,
not later than six months after
the end of the financial year, a
certified copy of the auditors'
reports.
58



TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOI9RCES
A: Staff Inputs
Stage of          '84       '85      '86      '87       '88       '89      '90      '91      '92       '93      '94
Project
Cycle
Identlircation    n/_
Preparation       n/a
Appraisal         21.0
Negotiation                2.2
Supervision                          2.1      0.2       1.1       5.7      5.8      7.6      8.2       6.5      1.5
Other                                                                                                  2.8      12.2
TOTAL             21.0     2 2       2.1      0 2        1 (       5.7     58       7.6      8.2       9.3      13 7
rl/a = Project identification and preparation were undertaken by IFAD staff.
ST



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
B: Missions
Stage of     Mission   Mvlonth/   No. of    Days   Specialization'   Perfor   Types or
Project CyclO4  Sent By    Year    Persons    in                        mance    Problems
Field                   Rating
Identification   IFAD       7/81       n.a       n.a
Preparation      IFAD       6/82      n.a.3
Post-            IFAD       10/83       1        14
preparation
Appraisal         IDA       11/83       5        21      A,F,L,I,S,E
Negotiations     IDA        11/84       3        7          A,F,G
Start-up          IDA       4/86        2        14          A,P
Supervision I     IDA       7/86        1        10           P            I          S
2       IDA        1/87        1        8            p           2          S
3       IDA        3/88        1        10          P            3         S,P
4       IDA        2/89       5         15       A,I,M,S         n.a        n.a
-      5       IDA        11/89       2        10          A             3          F
6       IDA                                         n.a          n.a        n.a
7       IDA        9/91       4         15        E,P,E           2       F,P,S
8       IDA        2/92       2         5          F,E           2         A,P
9       IDA        9/92       5         10      F,E,P,C,R        2        F,A,P
10      IDA         1/93       2        5            F            2
Project         FAO/CP      7/93        2        10          A,F           -
Completion
n.a.: Information not available.
Source: WB Documents.
Specialization: A=Agriculture; F=Finance; L=Livestock; I=Inputs Supply; E=Extension;
G=Legal; P=Procurements; M =Monitoring and Evaluation; T=Economnics; C=Credit;
R =Cassava Mosaic.
- Problems: S=Security; P=Procurement; F=Counterpart Funds; A=Credit
Task assigned to a Consulting firm.
60



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of    3
Part [IU S-aSsncal InornmaEion
Quantity of Inputs Procured: 1986-1993
G  M&WR * VEHICLE
LORRIES                                                          UNITS                        9
4 WO VEHICLES                                                     UNITS                       65
2 WO VEHICLES                                                     UNITS                        2
SPARES 8/FORO LORRIES                                             UNITS
UROVER SPARES                                                   ASSORTED:
MOTOR CYCLES                                                      UNITS              !        431
MOTOR CYCLE SPARES
BICYCLES                                                         UNITS           16001     26.500.1    1656:
MOTOR VEHICLE TYRES & TUBES
SEATRUCK LIVER CRAFT                                               .                           I
MOTOR VEHICLE BATTERIES                                                                      1031
BATTETRIES
H. OTHERS
UNIHUTS                                                           UNITS              I        1801
-ERROVALS                                                        UNITS                        401
MATTRESSES FOR STAFF                                              =CS                         1751
VIDEO CAMERA SPARES& ACCESORIES
-IOUSEHOLO PROPERTY
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT
OFF!CE SAFES
GALVANISED CANS                                                   UNITS                      300:
CAMPING EQUIPMENTS                                                                               I
BASE STATIONS                                                                                 t61
PAINT BRUSHES GLUE                                               UNITS                     750000
HANO TOOLS
;IELD EQUIPMENT jT7MEA SURES)
STATIONARY                                                         KGS                      8236!
DYEO TWILL BLUE & 3LACK
SENING MACHINES                                                                                21
TYRES TUBES & BATTEPIES
. BCRATORY EOUIPMENT
JNENSILS (HOUSE HCLOD
OFFICE ECUIPMENT
SAFE- Y ECUIP SURVEY
-:MPING SETS. SEWING MACHINES ORILLS                            UNITS                      1864i
NPF IFE GUARD
OUTBOARD ENGINE SPAFES
=ISHING LAUNCH
OUTBOARD ENGINES                                                  UNITS           1301       132'      'S2
OUTBOARD ENGINES SURVEY                                                                        61
:iSHERY & TSESE CANOE .IBER GLASS                                UNTS                           I
EMERGENCY HOUSE KIT
SPARES FOR PERUZZO
FISH NETS                                                                I      81000'
NETTING GILL NETS                                               VARIOUS
CIVING AND QUARIUM EQUIPMENT
COOKER                                                                   I           I          P
FRIDGE FREEZER                                                                                            :
rlLM PROJECTOR
_ENS CONVEYORS
FISHERIES SURVEY DRC7-CT7VE CLOTHING
PqoTEC, IVE CLOTHING
z1SHERIES SURVEY MINCR EQUIPMENT & CHANDLERY SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMEM
Source: PCU, Entebbe
61



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of    3
Par 111 - SuascaI Enhormuuon
Quantity of Inputs Procured: 1986-1993
G. MOR - VEHICL:.
LORRIES                                                           UNITS  .                         I
4 WO VEHICLES                                                      UNITS                         65.
2 WC VEHICLES                                                       UNITS                         2'
SPARES 8/FORD L ORRIES                                             UNITS
U/ROVER SPARES                                                    ASSORTED
MOTOR CYCLES                                                        UNITS                       143
MOTOR CYCLE SPARES
BICYCLES                                                            UNITS          1600 1     2655001     1656:
MOTOR VEHICLE TYRES & TUBES
SEATRUCK LIVER CRAFT                                                                   ,
MOTOR VEHICLE BATTERIES                                                                         1031
SATTETRIES
H. OTHERS
UNIHUTS                                                            UNITS                        180
PERROVALS                                                          UNITS  i                      401
MATTRESSES FOR S,-AFF                                               'CS                         1751
'lIDEO CAMERA SPARES& ACCESORIES                                                                    I
HOUSEHOLD PROPERTY
COMPUTER E5UIPMENT7
OFFICE SAFES
GALVANISED CANS                                                    UNITS                        ;001
CAMPING ECUIPMENTS
BASE STATIONS                                                                                    161
naiNT BRUSHES 3iLUE                                                UNITS                     7500001
iAND TOOLS
PiELD ECUIPME?NT T7!MEA SURPESI
STATIONARY                                                           KGS                       8236!
DYED 'NILL BLUE & BLACK
SFNING MACHINES                                                                                   2 1
7YRES TUBES & BATTEPIES
ABCPAT7RY EQUIP,M:ENT
iNENSILS (HOUSE HOLO)
DFPICE EQUIPMENT
DAF=E TY ECUIP SURVEY
,MPING SETS, SEWNING M'ACHINES ORILLS                             UNITS                       1864 i
NF L IF-- GUARD
OUTBCARD ENGINE SP66;ES
PISHING LAUNCH
OUT3BARD ENGINES                                                   UNITS            1301        132 '      82'
3UTBOARO ENGINES SURVEY                                                                           6:
-ISHERY & TSESE CANOE iBER GLASS                                    UNTS  ,
EMERGENCY HOUSE KIT
SPARES FOR PERUZZO
FISH NETS                                                                  I      81000
NETTING GILL NETS                                                 VARIOUS              !
CIVING AND QUARIUM EuUIPMENT                                    I          I           I
COOKER                                                                     I
FRIOGE FREEZEFR
FILM PROJECTOR
_ENS CONVEYORS
-iShERIES SURVEY :RCT-CTIVE CLOTHING
PqOT7C71VE CLOTHING
~ISHERIES SURVEY "AINCR EQUIPMENT & CHANDLERY SCIENTIFIC EOUIPMEM
- = == ====================== ======s================s=========S= =StS==  ==f== ==sx=rX=s =sow
Source: PCU, Entebbe
62



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of 3
P3rt III StaLisucal Irformarion
z. VETERINARY ORUGS,VACCINES & ACARICIDES
RINCERPEST VACCINES                                                  DOSES                   3,550.000
S p0                                                                DOSES                     1 450 000I
='CT NO MCUTH~ DISEASES                                             DCSES          15sBCoo      64 500        41
BLACK QUARTER/ANTHRAX                                                DOSES         440.000 i    210.000 1     .18 
RABIES                                                           I  DOSES           17,6001      6.4001       36,
NEW CASTLE DISEASE                                               I  DOSES         880.0001     120.000 1      141
FOWL TYPHOID VACCtNE                                                 D O0SES  .
FOWL POX                                                             DOSES               1      10.000 I
BRUCELLA S 19                                                        DOSES  I        7.0001     .1750 1       251
(BRUCELLA) 0 O 45/70                                                 DOSES           7 0001     1t7501        25 i
BISSEC                                                               DOSEgS       .000.0C0.
T7RYPANCCIOES CURS7IVE                                               PKTS                        2.300.
7RYPANOCIDES POPHLACTIC                                              PKTS                      140.000
ANTHEMNTICS ORENCH                                               .  PKTS                         3.0001
ANTHEMNTICS ROLUS
ANTHEMNTICS INJECTABLE                                               L iTRS              .        9601
ANTIBIOTIC INJECTABLES                                               LTRS                      500.000 .
ANTIBIOTIC INTRAMMAMARY                                              TUBES                      15.000 I
ANTIBIOTIC EYEiEAR OINTMENT                                          TUBES                       3,0001
ANTIBIOTIC AEROSAL SPRAY                                           KGS                            5001
,ASCiOLICICE DRENCH                                                  LTR S
,ASC;OLICIDE INJECTABLE                                                                            ,0I
CORUCOSTERIODS INJECTABLE                                            L_TPS                         171
ANAg THETHICS INJECTABLES                                            LT5S                          35,
BERENIL PANACUR                                                      UNITS                       6.500,
-,NTIPIRCPILASM INJE7ABL=                                            _7 RS                         I
StiL?HANCMIDE 133,
SLiLPHANCMINOE SC_sS
OCULTRY ORMUULA                                                        GS3* 060
-_EGG FRRMULA                                                         <GS
_,lICK ,ORMULA ANT7:ICTIC PW0CE'                                      KGS                       ,0 C00
S'uLPHANOMIDE 16",
-CUL-RY ,oRMULA                                                      _TRS                        2 500
-aNTHELMNTICS POUL-RY F^RMUUA                                      KGS                            450
'CCARICIDE C                                                         LT7RS         27.200        5e800       32
-:CK GREASE                                                        KGS                           t 000
SMULSiFIABLE CCNC                                                    LTRS                        8 400
F. VETERINARY EQUIPMENTS
VETERNARY NEEOLES                                                  DOZEN
G 16 X13 MM                                                        DOZEN                         2000:
G 16 X 25 MM                                                       DOZEN                 .       1000C
3 16 X 13 MM                                                       DOZEN                          300!
,, 18 X 25 MM                                                      DOZEN                          500'
CASTRATION EQUIPMENT                                                 UNITS                        300 1
SPARE CLASS CYLINDER                                                  PCS                         6001
SHOVLES                                                              UNITS                          Si          I
TOOL SET                                                             UNITS                         201          1
3UCKET HANO SPRAY PUMP                                               UNITS            7001         1001       141
CE BOXES                                                         r  UNITS                I         401
VE-ERINARY THERMCMETRES                                              UNITS                        4001
VETERINARY STEITOSCOPES                                              UNITS  .                      1001
FIELD MICROSCOPE                                                     UNITS               1         201
FLASK                                                                UNITS                        2001
DCUL7RY H 0                                                          UNITS                          2'
CHICK BROODE-t                                                       UNITS                          2'
AU7TMATIC GENERA70RS                                                 UNITS                          12'
'/Cl'7AGE STABILISERS                                                UNITS                          3'
--GG PERTILISER                                                                                120.000 !        I
-    ESTER                                                          UNITS               I          4'
:HICK BOXES                                                          UNITS               !       2,500
^CNC FEED PRE MIX                                                  KGS                          10 000'
M'IAlLK CANS                                                      '   LTRS   .                  27,5001
REFRIGIRATORS & SPARES                                            !  UNITS  I          121         281       2331
SYR:NGES i20 CO & 30 CC)                                                               ee88
MORCRISED SPRAYgR                                                    UNITS  ,            '         65!
63



Pasl  I II   - StI ist iciaI  Ilog imat ion
SIMSIM                                                       (utput of Foawkrnps in tatc A.D.P'. Project Area (tons)
DIS}RICTIYEAR      I             19851             19861              19871             19801              19891             19901             1991 1            19921
APAC               I             51551             7221 1             7619 1            70821             8062 1            10224 1           111981            21109 1
I        I                 ~        ~        ~        ~        ~         ~~I IIII 
GULU               I             41241             62431              51661             57871             76661              99601            100241            127761
I 1  1            I                 I                  1                                   1                 1
KITGUM             I             42931             70501              58341             74801             9211 1            107671            119221            141341
KUMI               I               531               54 1               461               611                681              1671              122 1              951
LIRA               I             4974 1            6253 1             6597 1            7012 I            9024 1            12739 1           12273 1           19625 1
SOROTI             I             1795 1            2059 1             1704 1            1792 1            2379 1             3559 1            3302!             1121 1
I                 I                  I                 IIIII
TORORO             I                71                121               131               121                181             1796!              7361              138!
1  I 1            I                 I                  1
PALLISA            I                  I                 I                  I                 I                 I                  I                1              370 1
TOTAL              I           20401 1            28892 1           26979 1            29226 1           37228 1            49212 1           49577 1           69368 1
<   SORGHUM            I                  I                  I                                                                                                            I
DISTRICTNYEAR      I             1985 1            1986 1             1987 1            1988 1             1909 1            1990 1            1991 1            1992 1
APAC               I            21216 1           19990 1           23417 1            26411 1           26861 1            27698 1           149451            40772 1
I                 I                  i                 I                 I                  I                 I                 I                 I
GULU               I            20887 1           25497 1            23477 1           26481 I           26891 1            27757 1           26884 1           37341 1
I                 I                  I                 I                 I                  I                 III
KITGUM             I            22741 1           22642 1           21474 1            23517 1           24389 1            24834 1           29195 1           88272 1
KUMI               I            18765 1           20673 1            20134 1           21411 1            19661 1           217371            172721             4495 1
I ~     ~ ~~          ~~~~ i  .                                                    I                 I                 I                 I  
LIRA               I            23630 1           21713 1            25485 1           28744 1            29440 1           30220 1           34867 1           49009 1
i                 I                  I                 I                 I                  I                 i                 I                 I
SOROTI             I            24494 1           20322 1            18708 1           21106 1            19327 1           21368 1           24682 1           31411 1
TORORO             I            13902 1           22110 1            27453 1           292t0 1            2803 1            29633 1           24275 1           17562 1
PALLISA            i                                                       I                 I                  I                 I                 1           11060 1
C        =======.--- -       ===== ==z===========================-================================
TOTAL              I           1456351            1529471           1601481           1770001            173372!           1832471           1721201           2799221
'0h
e m
aNJ



ONIONS                                                   OuIix.t oi toCuNkrN IC   01 11 A1. 1-. 1'r..jet:t Ai cis (ilo)
DIS[IRICT/YEAR    I             19851            19861              19871            198D1             19B91             19901             1991 1           19921
APAC              I              1451              201               231               251               291               421               441               01
GULU              I             207 1              42 1              36 1              371               46 1              671               69 1              0 1
KITGUM             I             149:               50 1              43 1             44 1              591               86                H8                01
KUMI               I             230 1            240 1              207 1            210 1             194 1             281 1             2911               0 1
I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                II
LiFnA              1             344 1              74 1              811              83 1             109 1             158 1             164 1              0 1
, I                I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 II
SOROTI            I              2801                01                01               01                01                01                01               01
TORORO            I              2601              170 1             187 1             1911             1811              2631              272 1              01
TOIAL             1             16151              5961              5771             5901              6181              8971              9281               01
SWEET POTATOES I                    I                 I                 I                                                                                        I
DISTRICT/YEAR     I             19851             1986 1            1987 1            1988 1           1989 1            1990 1            1991 1           1992 1
APAC               I           894311            962591            900431           91961 1           895241            899351            95629 1         1419201
0"                     I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I 
-'  GULU               I          1274801           837251             614291           G24101            604721            826871            724201          1775281
I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
KITGUM                        1073091            91999 1           67499 1          6n937 1           65158 I           75328 1           73770 1         2727111
I                i                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
KUMI               I           930691           1281421            940171           955191            93322 1           865411            970241          2293351
LIRA               I            59021            525351            491421            501891           48864 1           527501            534831           43934 1
SOROTI            I            982291           92404 I            677961           608791            71189 1           746261            756621          154062 1
TORORO            I            796971           100101 1           93637 1          95631 1           879981           1104531           1035791          122545 1
I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
PALLISA           I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I           87221 1
TOTAL             I           6011171          6451651            5235631          5335261           5165271           5723201           5715671         1229254,
Page 2 13-Jul-93



1. POTATOES                                            Dutput of Foodcrrps in the A.D.P. Project Area (tos)
DISTRICT/YEAR                  19851            19B61            19871             19081            19891            19901             1991 1          19921
APACII                            01               01               01                01               01             4241             5811               01
I                                I                 I                I                I                I                II
KITGUM            I               01               01               01                01               01              711              711               01
I                I                I                 I                I                I                I                I                I
KUMI              I               01               01               01                01               01            69721            56411               01
i           ~~~I              I                I                I                 I                I                I                I
LIRA              I               01               01               01                01               01           627931           443071               01
I                I                I                                  I                I                 I                II
SOROIl            I               01               01               01                01               01            57351            62931               01
I                I                I                 I                I                I                 I               II
TfJRloilO         I               01               01               01                01               01            72891            91211               01
III                               I                 I                I                         I                I                I
PALLISA           I                I                 I                I               01               01                 I                I              01
TOTAL             I               01               01               01                01               01           832841           66014 1              01
MAIZE             I                I                                                                                                                        I
DISTRICT/YEAR     I            19851            19861             19871            19881            19891             19901            19911           19921
ON  APACH              I           23027 1          20907 1           22991 1          29G46 I          43795 1          37533 1          24304 1          50842 1
OS                     I                I                 I                I                I                 I                I                I                I
GULU              I           187961           18704 1           118201           152461           225231           210411           186091           313201
KITGUM            I           127521           123621            109771           137421           203011            191351          223341           405571
KUMI              I           142981           164251            149861           182721           197261            228271           147471            17621
LIRA              I           220691           196531            216121           278671           411681            384651           319921           315331
SOnOTI            I           176811           144781            124871           161001           173891            197921           121151           39421
I                I                 I                I                I                I                 I                I               I
TORORO            I           214391           237851            276691           337271           364101           421381            387561          242991
I                I                 I                I                I                I                 1                I               I
PALLISA           I                                  I                I                I  I                                                            9944 1
TOTAL             I          1300621          1263141           1225421          1546001          2013121          2009311           1628571         1941991
O wZ
a jm



Par:l III - Stat ist ical IIlornmat ion
F. MILLET                                               kailt,nt of fxxkros. in the A.J.P. Project Area (tons)
DISIRIC1I/YFAR     I            19851             19861             1981I            19881             19891             19901             19911             19921
APACII             I           34'83 1          30201 1           30992 I           430411            47304 1           438951            449761           273111
GULU               I             1              279201            20202 1           30294 1           33544 1           298721            30714 1          27884 1
I                                  I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
KIl GUM            I             .              276241            279791            300051            345301            322381            331471           655871
I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                1
KUMI               I                            378081            30294 1           410201            379111            382521            393301            0067 1
LIRA                                            27154 1           350501            306981            423041            382101            391321           363861
SOROTI             I             *               30B231            312211           334431            309071            336351            345831           214841
I  I             I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I
TORORO             I           3?27U1I           35991 1           '64671           512921            474881            485601            499291           306741
I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                  I                I                 I
PALLISA            I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I           141471
TOTAL              I          2434841           2175211           2462931          2686731           2740761           2646621           2718111          2315401
G. NUTS            I                 I
DISTRICT/YEAn      I            19851             19861             1907 1            19881            19891             19901             19911             19921
APACH              I            6954 1            74201             76751             84781            9262 1           103111             0157 1          313831
I                I                 I                 I                 i                 I                 I                I                 I
GULU               I            61121             97071             90281            99151            113321            126231             97091           221951
I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                  I                I
KITGUM             I            65441             88151             93931            100581           111471            121461             95701            276641
KUMI               I            94801            109191            117231            123221           111651            115301            100961            28261
LIIIA              1            82041            61441              61021            64621             65931             78571             61991            39681
SOnlOTI            I            80161            78061             741B1             77371             71051             85111             67071            44561
I                i                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                II
TORORO             I            50091            89931            308001             9652 1            92401            108301             85351            85971
PALLISA            I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                1            34951
TOTAL              I           503191           598041            60219 1           646241            65844 1           730001            589731          1045841
to E
oo m
co 



Part III  Stnt it ical Information
BANANAS                                                   &utgIut of foo crxs iri the A.D.P. Project Area (tom)
DISllICTTYFAII    I             19851             19861              19871             19081             19891             19901              19911             19921
============== ==================                               -=============================                                      =4 4========
APACII             I            435151            431821            45640 1            472881            484261            508511             523931            521381
1                 1                 1 I                I                 I                 I                  I                 I
GULlJ              I             88281             87621             9621 1             95951             98261            103171             106291            197981
I                 I                 I                  I                 I                 I                 I
KITGUM             I             11701             11611              12271             12721             13021             13681              14091            21531
KUMI               I            305771            303421            32069 1            332271            340261            357311             36814 1           357981
1  I 1            1                 1                  1                 I                 I                 I
LIRA               I             86951             86301             9121 1             94501             96781            101581             104681            107921
1  I 1            I                 1                  1                 I                 1 I
SOROII             I             17471             17341              18321             18991             19441             20451              21031             31981
TOFORO             1            759501            753731            796641             825401            845261            887611             914491           610201
PALLISA            I                  I                 I                 I                  I                 I                 I                  1           261481
TOIAL              I           1704821           1691841            1791741           1852711           1897281            1992311           2052651           2110451
SUNFLOWEn   <IdJ                       1 
CO===
DISTRICT/YEAn      I             19851             19861              19071             19881             19891              19901             19911             19921
APACII             I                01                01                 01                01             50121             24661              23521             64761
GULU               I                01                01                 01                01             14381               5271              5181             11761
1                 1                 1                  I                 I                 I                  I                 I                 1
KITGUM             I                01                01                 01                01             195031            154401            198301            222041
I                 I                 I                  I                 I                 I                 I
KUMI               I                01                01                 01                01                 21               321              4341                01
LInA               I                01                01                 ()l               01             94731              20381             169G1             39001
I                 I                 I                  1                 I                  I                 I                 I
SOnOTI             I                01                01                 01                01                01                861               671              2401
TOROnO             I                01                01                 01                O1             20741               5101              1631             22341
1                 1                 I                  I                 I                 I                  I                 I     
PALLISA            I                  I                 I                  I                                   I                                    I               01
TOTAL              I                01                01                 01                01            375021            210991             250601            362301
================.=====.==,=.=======  =========================  ===================  ====.====.=.,
0 GZ
00 



BEANS
OuStput of fnnodcrps in the A.D.P. Project Area (tans)
======= ========S========:ss===:=======a======-===== ====== == ==:= == == = == = = _== === :====== -======  -=:========:==__ - ___ - -_ - - - - - - - - -- -  -
DISTRlICT/YEAR      I              1985 1             1986 1              1987 1              1988 1             1989 1              1990 1             1991 1              19921
APACII              I             13951 1            17580 1             18026 1            20093 i             23556 1             250281             24194 1            52491 1
I                  1                   I                  I                   I                   I                  I                  I                   I
GUI-U               I             102901             127361              12211 1             13611 1            159571              160751             155391             238101
I                  I                   I                  I                   I                   I                  I                  I
KITGUM              i             120071             119201              118641              132241             155031              145001             140171             419361
I 1                I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I
KUMI                I              80981              8621 1             109921              122521             124051               97531              94281                5601
.    I             I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I
LIRA                I             133171              154391             158301              176451             206071              233591             225801             479581
I                  I                   I                  1                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I
SOROTI              I              93501              80991              103251              115101             116541              102141              9B731              59791
I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I
TORORO              I             181581             173091              22061 1            245921              248961              261091             252381              105021
PALLISA             I                   I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  1             107761
TOTAL               I             85171 1            91704 1            1013091             112927 1           1246581             1250381            1208691             1940121
RICE                I                   I
MD   DISTRICT/YEAR        I             19851               19861              19871               19881               19891              19901              19911               19921
GULU                I               961 1              12871              10561               11681              12661                941 I             19491             265731
I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                  I
KITGUM              I               6061               6531                5361                 301                291                 251               1751             122531
I                  I                   I                  I                   I                   i                  I                  I                   I
KUMI                I              22331              36331               40301               33011              46201               30921              5749 1              16951
LIRA                I               2481                2191               2301                1661                1391               5191               3551                4591
I                  I                   I                  I                   I                   I                  I                  I                   I
SOROTI              I               5231                5781               4731                504 1              4001                1241               108 1              11621
TORORO              I              78701              9940 1             104031              115551             122931              422111             385681              173671
I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  I                  I
PALLISA             I                   I                   I                  I                   I                  I                   I                  1            119631
TOTAL                I            124411              16310 1            I67281              IG724 i             180271            469121              4G904 1            714721
f >
00   X 
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 



CASSAVA                                                   oi. mnix at (o xtrops in the A.0.P. Project Area (tons)
DISTRICT/YEAIR    I             19851             1986i             19071             19801            19891             19901             19911            19921
APACII            I           1610181           162422 1          101636 1         187046 1          212 101 1         201577 1         231512 1          673499 1
GULU              I           1909611           1181731           1036791          1112721           1256871           1197721           1602901          4364781
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 1
KITGUM            I           158154 1          153819 1          1349611          1372501           155030 1          168601 1         4020361           601990 1
KUMI              I           1337051           2138321           1876041          201:3261          1820191           2034231          2098241            957171
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
LIRA              I           1669531           1494741           1671521           1721471          1944481           1047291           1939491          7054861
I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
SOROR             I          1405391           165172 1          144920 1          155524 1         141654 1          1415201           1I5860 1         1032781
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 i
TORORO            I           1104341           1722841           1926661          2008661           1807411           2004091           1266561          7982931
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
PALLISA           I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                1          5583621
TOTAL             I          1061764 1         1135176 1         1112618 1         1174231 1        1199760 1         1220031 1         1476127 1        3973103 1
COWPEAS            I                 I                 I
DISTRICT/YEAR     I             19851             19861             19871             19881            19B9 1            19901             19911            19921
APACH             I              1961              4931             5271              5501              5731              4371             5881             17531
GULU               I            20431             22531             18891             19511            20571             19881            28501             16301
KITGUM            I             42871             33191             27831            29021             33151             36711             1879 1           55291
I                 I                 i                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
KUMI              I             86911             73571            61671             63711             57101             58971            58351             21701
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
LIRA               I            21451             26391             28201            29401             3034 1            3017 1           20891             57131
i                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
SOROTI            I             43411             59051            49521             51151             44981             33081            41651             35521
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
TOORO            I             42981             51051             54571            5691 I            5004 1            79381            60611             95151
I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I                 I                I                 I
PALLISA           I                 I                 I                 I                 I                 I                I                 1            54591
TOTAL              I           260011            270711           24595 1           255201            241911            26256 1          23467 1           353211
00 x
-4t 2-



Pari  I I I   Stat i1st ical Inlformat ion
SOY AOFAN                                                               DJIjlAt of hoxnkrops; in the A0DP. Project Area (tons)
DISIniCI/YFAn          I                1 985 1               19861                  1980/I                1 9881                 19891                  1 990 1               1 991 1                1992 1
APACI! II                                  31                     3 1                    21                    4 1                   111I                   10!                   11I                  M121I
I          I                    ~~                     ~~~~~I  I              I                      I                      I                     II
KIJIOUM                I                      I                     I                      IIIII                                                                                                         21 1
LOlA                   I                 2`101                   861                    701                  7121                   812 1                9001 1               13603 1                199751
sonlOTIIII                                               I                      I                     I                                             I                     I                           26171
Tonono                 I                 294!1                  392 1                  .11                   5061l                  544 1                9271 1                6893 1                 40101
1                                                                                   1~~1I                  I                      I                     I                     I
PALLISA                I                                                        I I                                                                                                                   951301
1                                                                                   1~~II                  I                      I 
KUM~I                   III                              I                                                        I                      I                     I                                       351 I
TOTAL.                  I                5071                   4811                   391 1                12221                  13671                182821                205071                 376661
Pigeoni Nan             I                     I                      I                                                                                                                                      I
DISTlOICT(YFArl         I               19851                  19861                  19071I                19881                  19891                 19901                  19911                 19921
AP'ACII                I                6285 1                 6744 I                (3014 I              10661 I                121881                 10834 I               10699P I                7214 I
GULU                    I               6767 1                 63001                 (30061                 9300 1                95131                  7154 1                62501                  54721
KIT'OUM                 I               7114 1                 74001                  511634 I              9175 1                1001311               193621                 17051 I               19314 I
LInA                    I               6704 1                 64701                  (,13'flh             102281                 109591                1112841                12422 1               118221
500011                  I                4091                   3281                   250o1                 4021                   424 1                  3781                  3731                    471
TOIAL                   I              272791                272421                 ?',/I 71I             3976631                431651                 490121                4(3705 I               438691
00 2
Source: PCU, Entebbe






IBRD 18036
MARC-H '984
U GANDA                                                  34
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOROTI DISTRICT
* DISTRICT AGRICULTURE OFF CE
EXTENSION UNIT AGR C JLTJRE OFFICES
A  NAT ONAL  RESEARCH STATION
A  VARIETY  TRA L CENTER                       : C            Kopelebyor      \
*  D STRICT FARM iNSTITUTE                      . Agu,ya
0   AGR CULTURAL COLLEGE
)o  A   5             f        ,                          \       .TO MOO T,)
'IO         \                    <                                          |             0d 
2~~~~~~~~~~~
2.  \2/ aW                         I       \                   *I          ><Norla
a 'aerma'do    1                     Asp,oro,,a                                           J
*                   J                                      \--~-                              b             A\ K  YgoAj
Guu
MApe ROD                                                                  ZAIREp      /     t\    ir^
SECONDARY  J ROADS(                                          1 \                  /  Akum(j aEs .fTeXrL 4 
SWAMPS/                                          /{                                   /                         >''  ,Itf,S'.
s  y   \   )  '!  h v > w R .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                            To,oIo/~Ngo,
.Mulondo                   Pg.re                      ,lt6     
\-cS                         u D A N   ,-     - KENYA
Maga 0m_.,<J<       
.   TANZANi A N  F, A
Z     A   I   R     E__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
VtA N ROADS                                                                        .T. \
S E COND)A R YROADS                                                 _:i<i
RA LWAYS                                                                            /\ 
*  AIRPORT                                                            
SWAM^PS/.                                                                                               
COu NTY BOUNDARIES                                                         v*H 
-   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                            KAMPALA//G 
0   10      20      30       40      50 KILOMETERS                            
0     10            20           30~A    MILES                      I          Oi A,0A C.PITAL(
3_   /  .  T A N Z A N I A"






IBRD 18035R1
3 2                     33*
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           s  u  D  A   N
PROJECT  AREA                                                            .-N  
f t        ~~~OYC   
j$14  Pro ec? Are=                                                                KITCUM
ers di
nerno-,ool BoOndorIes                                                                                                    MC7''_5   m
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-0
o 25   so  75   'M  0k,,0TEIRS                                                                                              N     'd,\
\  AEJJ                       T      A~~    N     Z       ,A    N      A     d                       \TANZ,ANA           
t      > 2      o   ~~~~MASININ                     o       -                   W      
/-'~   WN                                                 - N*k=4  ,HOIAAPCHORWAJ
30                                         32                       33 5 p;    |  / *S - , .  ,3 >M AME 
L 2^ctd / /, Al BR                           USHENDE|lC    
tyL r>XS 7    BARARA    t    ' ' RAfAI  <                     t            l   /             r      T      -N.
VD9@ RWANDA  a             21-                     23-:                                          <.1XE; XJ~~SUDA



