OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1539-0 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           wd-s, 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1539-0 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        19-yL        , 1985,
between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
fourteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 14,600,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Cooper-
ating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association
is prepared to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿- 2 -
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)  "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(c) "Fund Financing Agreement" means the Financing Agree-
ment dated March 26, 1982 between the Borrower and the Fund;
(d)  "ARP" means the Agricultural Reconstruction Program
described in, and carried out pursuant to the provisions of, the
Financing Agreement;
(e) "MAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry;
(f)  "MAIF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Animal Industry
and Fisheries;
(g) "Project Area" means the Borrower's administrative
districts of Apac, Gulu, Kitgum, Kumi, Lira, Soroti and Tororo;
(h) "T&V" means the training and visit method of agricul-
tural extension;
(i) "ARP Program Account" means the program account estab-
lished by the Borrower with the Bank of Uganda pursuant to Sched-
ule 4 to the Fund Financing Agreement for the purposes of the ARP
and into which local currency funds generated by the sale of
inputs under ARP were deposited;
(j)  "Project Account" means the account to be established
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) (i) of this Agree-
ment;
(k) "Transport Account" means the account to be established
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of this Agree-
ment;
(1) "IMC" means the Inter-Ministerial Conmittee established
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Fund
Financing Agreement;


﻿-3-
(m) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 4.03 (ii) of this Agreement;
(n) "PIU" means a Project Implementation Unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 4.03 (iv) of this Agreement;
(o) "USh" means Uganda Shillings, the currency of the Bor-
rower; and
(p) "MEU" means the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be
maintained pursuant to Section 5.02 (i) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to ten million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1990     or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Secticn.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1995, and ending November 15,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided, shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds
to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by *he Association, as nearly as practicable in the circum-
stances, between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of
2:3, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Associa-
tion and the Fund; provided, however, that, if such application
shall be made in respect of expenditures that shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan only, such
application shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:


﻿-6-
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agree-
ment; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the por-
tidn, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Fund Loan Account or the Credit Account only, and
the provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the
Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Association that any such special commitment shall,
once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation
on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MAF and MAIF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 4.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
(a) cover part of the local costs of the Project from the
ARP Program Account;
(b) open and thereafter maintain until the completion of
the Project:
(i) a Project Account in the Bank of Uganda, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and
the Fund, and shall deposit therein all revenues
from inputs sold to beneficiaries under the
Project. The amounts so deposited shall be used
for rural development purposes by the Borrower
after consultation with the Association and the
Fund;
(ii) a Transport Account in a bank acceptable to the
Association and the Fund and shall deposit therein
an initial amount of sixty-five million Uganda
Shillings (USh65,000,000). Thereafter, the Bor-
rower shall, at the beginning of each quarter,
deposit the amount estimated to be required to
cover the expenditures under the Project for staff
travel and transport allowances during such quar-
ter;
(c) Except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not distribute acaricides financed from
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan until the Borrower
shall have paid into the Project Account the Uganda Shillings
equivalent of the cost of the subsidy on such acaricides.


﻿-8-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall for purposes of the Pro-
ject: (i) continue to maintain the IMC with representation from
MAF, MAIF, and the Ministries of Finance, Cooperatives and
Marketing, Local Governments, Culture and Community Development
and Planning and Economic Development; (ii) establish and there-
after maintain a Project Management Unit to be headed by an
executive secretary whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for the
day-to-day management of the Project and coordination between the
Project components and who shall serve as secretary to the IMC;
(iii) maintain a procurement unit within the Project Management
Unit to carry out the requirements for the procurement of goods
and works under the Project; and (iv) establish and thereafter
maintain in both MAF and MAIF Project Implementation Units, to
coordinate each Ministry's activities under the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall, as and when needed,
employ consultants, experts and specialists whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The   consultants,   experts   and  specialists   to  be
appointed under this Section shall include: (i) a procurement
manager, (ii) Z. project accountant; (iii) two warehouse managers;
(iv) an adaptive agricultural research specialist; (v) a tsetse
fly control specialist; (vi) a fisheries stock assessment spe-
cialist and a statistician; (vii) three fish biologists; (viii) a
training specialist; (ix) a training and visit extension spe-
cialist; and (x) a monitoring and evaluation specialist.
(c) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
facilitate the work of said consultants, experts and special-
ists. To that end, the Borrower shall cooperate fully with said
consultants, experts and specialists in the performance of their
services, and make available to them all such information, staff
and other facilities as shall be necessary or useful for the
successful execution of the Project.
(d) Notwithstanding the generality of paragraph (c) of this
Section, the Borrower shall take all action necessary to provide
full-time services of fisheries statistics and field staff to


﻿-9-
assist in the carrying out of the studies under Part B.3 of the
Project.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and, any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's and the
Fund's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿- 10 -
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishmment of
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, by not later than June 30,
1985, prepare and submit to the Association and the Fund for
their review and comment the extension messages proposed to be
given by extension workers to farmers in the Project Area.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the lor-
ries acquired for the purposes of the ARP shall be used for the
distribution of goods under the Project; and (ii) prepare and
furnish to the Association and the Fund every six months, begin-
ning from December 31, 1985, a report on the efficiency of the
input distribution system under the Project, including, if
applicable, any changes therein which might make it more effec-
tive. Upon review by the Association and the Fund, the Borrower
shall implement any changes therein which may be considered
appropriate.
Section 4.09. (a) Except for the Work Program for the
1985/86 fiscal year, the Borrower shall, by not later than April
1 of each year, prepare and submit to the Association and the
Fund for their review and comments, Work Programs covering the
period of 12 months commencing on the following July 1.
(b) Each Work Program shall set out detailed proposals of
the Borrower for the carrying out of the Project in the period to
which it relates and shall contain information satisfactory to
the Association and the Fund.
(c) After review of and comment on each such Work Program
by the Association and the Fund, the Borrower shall make such
revisions to such Work Program as may be appropriate, having due
regard to the comments emanating from the said review and, except
as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise agree, carry out
the Project in the year in question on the basis of such Work
Program, as so revised.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall provide bicycles and motor-
cycles to extension staff under a hire-purchase scheme satisfac-
tory to the Fund and the Association.
Section 4.11. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Fund and the Association for their review
and comment by not later than September 30, 1987, a detailed
assessment of the overall Project performance. After review of
the assessment, the Borrower, with the approval of the Associa-
tion and the Fund, shall make such changes in the Project as are
considered necessary to ensure the achievement of the purposes of
the Project as set forth in the introductory paragraph to the
Project described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 4.12. (a) In order to ensure that (i) the warehouses
in Lira, Soroti and Tororo continue to be operated in accordance
with sound management practices, and (ii) agriculture extension
services provided to farmers in Soroti District are strengthened,
the Borrower shall take all necessary measures including those
designed to retain existing staff and to fill vacancies with
appropriate qualified persons.
(b) In order to ensure that appropriate in-service training
is carried out in the Serere Research Station, the Arapai Com-
munity Development Training Center and the Ngetta District Farm
Institute, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
ensure the availability of qualified training staff, including
training personnel from the Serere Research Station, as and when
needed. To this end, the Borrower shall, by not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985, appoint and post suitably qualified farm managers
and graduate teaching staff to the Arapai Community Development
Training Center and the Ngetta District Farm Institute.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, the ARP Account, Project
Account and Transport Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested including without limitation
to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing said separate accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, until
completion of the Project, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
establishe6 within MAF during the implementation of Jhe ARP to
monitor all Project components; (ii) by June 30, 1985 furnish to
the Association and the Fund for their review and comment a
monitoring and evaluation system for the Project; (iii) make such
revisions to such system as may be appropriate, paying due regard
to any comments made thereon by the Association and the Fund; and
(iv) monitor and evaluate the Project in accordance with such
system.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall adequately maintain or cause
to be maintained adequately the facilities constructed, improved
or otherwise assisted under the Project in accordance with


﻿- 13 -
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices
and provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 5.04. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all such action as is
necessary to ensure that the subsidy on acaricides is phased out
by not later than December 31, 1986.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan (including the Fund
Loan) made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the   Association  that:  (A)   such  suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified in
paragraph (i) B of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the Fund
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been duly fulfilled, and the Fund has appointed the Asso-
ciation as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b) the Borrower has submitted to the Association and the
Fund the Work Program for the 1985/86 fiscal year in form and
substance required under the provisions of Section 4.09 of this
Agreement;
(c) the procurement manager and the project accountant
referred to under Section 4.04 (b) (i); and (ii) have been
employed;
(d) the Project Account referred to in Section 4.02 (b) (i)
of this Agreement has been opened;
(e) the Transport Account referred to in Section 4.02 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement has been opened and the Borrower has
deposited therein an initial amount of USh 65 million; and
(f) the PMU and the PIU's referred to in Section 4.03 (ii)
and (iv) of this Agreement have been established and an executive
secretary of the PMU appointed.
Section 7.02. The date   M    0                 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.03. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified


﻿- 15 -
in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund
Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions,
the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to
remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of
orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties
thereunder, subject to such modifications of the Development
Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution
under the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of
this Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund
Loan, forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the case
described in the foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall
apply only to the responsibilities of the Association as such
Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For Lin Borrower:
Th.- Secretary to the Treasury
'44.iistry of Finance
.0. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINSEC                            61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          AL    ,   Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund
Loan and the allocation of amounts of the Credit and the Fund
Loan to each Category:
Amount of the          Amount of the
Credit Allocated          Fund Loan
(Expressed              Allocated
in SDR              (Expressed in
Category            Equivalent)          SDR Equivalent)
(1) Civil works               200,000               200,000
(2) Vehicles and            6,400,000             9,160,000
equipment
(3) Materials and           1,400,000             2,020,000
drugs
(4) Technical               1,500,000             2,320,000
assistance
and training
(5) Operating costs           100,000               200,000
for training,
workshops, equip-
ment, PMU, PIU's
and MEU
(6) Special Account           100,000               100,000
Authorized Allo-
cation under para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated               300,000               600,000
TOTAL    10,000,000             14,600,000


﻿- 18 -
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement or the date of the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever
shall be the later; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan set forth in the second column of the table in
paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, correspondingly reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement or of
the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan
as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or
the Fund Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan as
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan
Account, respectively, and to be deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.    (a)  For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation and the Fund that the Special Account has been duly
opened:
(i) withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from         the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account; and
(ii) promptly notify the Fund to withdraw on behalf of
the Borrower from the Fund Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account,
such amount or amounts of the Authorized Allocation as the
Borrower shall have requested, up to the total of the Authorized
Allocation.


﻿- 20 -
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan to replenish the Special Account, the Associa-
tion shall, on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished
to the Association at such intervals as the Association shall
specify, withdraw from the Credit Account and authorize the Fund
to withdraw from the Fund Loan Account and, deposit into the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of pay-
ments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures
which shall not exceed the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account and
by the Fund from the Fund Loan Account, respectively, under Cate-
gories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), and in the respective equiva-
lent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association and the Fund into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Association in respect of each payment
made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such documents
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association or by the Fund (a) when the Association
shall have determined at any time that all further withdrawals
can be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account and
the Fund Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise agreed by
the Association, when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Fund Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and
(5), minus the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse
made by the Association and of any special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions or on behalf of the Fund pursuant to Section 3.07 of
this Agreement with respect to the Project, shall be equal to
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation,
whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account and
the Fund Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit and the Fund Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3),
(4) and (5) shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 21 -
specify by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, be made only after and to the
extent the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association or the Fund,
deposit into the Special Account or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association and the Fund Loan an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association and the Fund Loan such amount then outstanding.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase agricul-
tural production and the income of smallholder farmers and
fishermen in the Project Area; and (ii) increase the availability
of data needed for the formulation of sector development plans.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Input and Other Supplies to the Project Area
1.   Provision of agricultural implements and inputs including
hand tools, ox carts, ox plows, small flour mills, motorcycles,
bicycles, wheelbarrows, workshop equipment, spare parts, agricul-
tural chemicals and forestry nursery supplies.
2.   Provision of livestock inputs including veterinary drugs and
equipment, vaccines, acaricides, spare parts, vehicles and a
mobile laboratory.
3.   Provision of fisheries supplies including outboard motors,
spare parts, fish nets, boat building material and vehicles.
Part B:   Research and Surveys
1.   Establishment of an adaptive research section at Serere
Research Station including a sub-regional team at Lira, and
provision of technical assistance, training, housing, storage
facilities, vehicles, and equipment therefor.
2.   Establishment of a pilot tsetse fly control program based on
the trapping technique by the Borrower's Department of Tsetse
Control.
3.   Carrying out of a fish stock assessment of Lake Kyoga and a
fisheries statistics and evaluation study to assess the current
status of fishery in Lake Kyoga and monitor changes in fish pro-
duction, including training and provision of launches, dinghies
about 3 four-wheel drive vehicles, housing, camping gear and
protective clothing.


﻿- 23 -
Part C:   Institution Building
1.   (a) Strengthening of the general agricultural extension
services in the Project Area by the provision of in-
service training for agricultural extension staff and
the upgrading and rehabilitation of the Serere DFI,
Arapai DTC, Arapai Agricultural College and Ngetta DFI.
(b) Introduction of a T & V extension system on a pilot
basis in Soroti District.
(c) Provision of equipment and vehicles, and building mate-
rials for housing, for extension workers.
2.   Strengthening of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in MAF
headquarters by the provision of technical assistance, training,
vehicles and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and prefabriated
housing works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the
Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for goods, and for prefabricated housing works
shall be grouped together to the maximum extent practicable for
the purposes of inviting bids, and such grouping of items shall
be subject to the approval of the Association.
B.   Preferen2e for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Uganda may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less may be procured on the basis  of local competi-
tive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for certain specialized items, including seeds,
veterinary drugs and equipment subject to the approval of the
Association, may be procured by negotiated purchase in accordance
with the Borrower's procurement procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Contracts for minor works shall be grouped together to the
maximum extent practicable for the purposes of inviting bids and
may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association, except that rehabilitation
of landing stages under Part B.3 of the Project may be carried
out by force account by the Borrower's Public Works Department.


﻿- 25 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
,b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the credit account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of _     _
198
FOR SECRETARY


