/   <    ')  -)  t/   / -        (' /
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MI CRUF I COlE COPY
Re7port No.: 103.1-TU        Type: (SAR)                  Report No. 10331-TU
litle:   EMPt OYMENT &, TRAININIG PRCi]EUT
Author: MERTAJ[GIH, fV.
Ex't.: .>-3'14  Room:IlA -1111 Dept.:EC1HR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6, 1992
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
Value of USS 1.00
1987*           TL         674.5
1988*           TL       1,422.3
1989*           TL       2,121.7
1990*           TL       2,629.0
Dec. 1991       TL       5,200.0
Oct. 1992       TL       7,500.0
V/ Anmual Average
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATHB     Research and Technical Services Unit (Arasirma ve Teknik Hizmet
Blriml) of the Occupational Standards Commission
CIAC     Career Information Advisory Committee
CIU      Career Information Unit
DSPW     Directorate for the Status and Problems of Women
EC       European Community
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IIBK     Turkish Employment Agency (Is ve Is$i Bulma Kurumu)
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
METARGEM Vocational fraining Research Center (Ministry of Education)
MOE      Ministry of Education
MEKSA    Foundation for Promotion of Vocational Training and Small Industries
MSK      Occupational Standards Commission (Meslek Standartlarl Kurumu)
NPC      National Productivity Center
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OSI      Occupational Standards Institute
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
SIS      State Institute of Statistics
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
SPO      State Planning Organization
TISK     Turkish Confederation of Employer Associations
TMSE     Turkish Standards Institute
TOBB     Union of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Maritime Commerce and
Commodity Exchanges of Turkey
TURKIS   Turkish Confederation of Employees Unions
TUSIAD   Turkish Industrialist and Businessmen Association
YOK       Council of Higher Education (Yoksekagretim Kurulu)
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURRY
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Cgnt=
Loan and Project Summary  . .  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   i
I.  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ISSUES AND STRATEGY .1
Background    .1....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Employment and Training Issues    ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Training  .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
The Unskilled Unemploye   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Career Guidance Counselin.                                                        5
Labor-Market Information.                                                         6
Occupational Standards and Certification.                                         7
Women's Employment.                                                               8
Employment and Training Strategy    ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    8
II. THE PROJECT ........................... . 10
Project Objectives    ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Rationale for Bank and Government Involvement .10
Project Components    ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
A. JOB-INSERTION TRAINING ..12. . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . ...  12
Job-Insertion Training Fund .....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
Technical Assistance  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    15
B. DIVERSIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES.                                           15
C. EMPLOYMENT AND COUNSELING SERVICES .17
Davelopment of Improved Employment Services .17
Development of Counseling Services .18
Implementation of Improved Employment and Counseling Services                    18
Automation of Employment Services .19
Project Coordination .20
D. LABOR-MARICET INFORMATION .20
Improved SIS Employment Statistics .20
Labor-Market Information Data Base .22
Labor-Market Research and Dissemination .22
E. OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION .23
F. WOMEN'S EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   25
Environmental Impact .26
Tis report Is brsed an findings of an appraitsal mission *blh visited Turkzey in Ifveu1s4/D*ccV. 1901.
The mission compriued of Michael oertaugh (Missian Lader, ZeCnomdst), Dowid ProtKOLL (Laborg-Nsket
SpecialLet). Patricoia loysteuber COp rtions Officer). and Mb*ios brg (Io o-in-Devalcst Specialist).
The report also reflecta ea*lier inputs by cenAultonts WillIm_ CLetenoff. FhLiP Jarvis. nd Fr k
Sevacqua, as well the finding of a post-approisal mission by Miohael Mertturb, RaLph Egbhiso. en*d David
Fretwell. In July. 1992. Poer r<viewrs for tho project are J r E 0pp.heho and Arvil Ven U_. Ralpb
8arbison is Division Chief; Michael H. Wishes In DepartmDt Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contIM1n2U
1II. PROJECT COSTS AND FIANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Basis of Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Duties  and  Taxes   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Contingency Allowances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Fore'gn Exchange Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Incremental Recurrent Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Project Financing  ......   . . . . . . . . ..29
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IKPLEXENTATIO   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)  ......   ........  ..  .   .   31
Job-Insertion Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Diversification of Employment Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Employmant and Counseling Services.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Labor Market Information   ........   ........  ...  .   .   35
Occupational Standards and Certification   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
Women's Employment Promotion   .......    .......  ..  ..   .   36
Loan Administration  ..............  .   .. ......    37
Project Budget and Accounts  . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .  37
Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ..                 . .   37
Progress Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
V.  PMOCURE NT AND DISBURSEHE     . . ............... .  38
Project Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Job-Insertion Training . . . ................   .   38
Equipment and Vehicles  .......   .........  ..   .   38
Technical Assistance and Fellowships . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Books, Materials, Staff Trainlng, Travel, Subsistence  . . .  39
Contract Review and Approval . . . . . . . . . .                40
Loan Disbursements .. .40
Special Account and Project Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
VI. BlE ITS AND RISKS ....................... .  42
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
RLsks            .................. . 42
VII. AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
Agreements Reached   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
Recommendation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
ANNEX A Selected Documents Available in the Project File
ANNEX B IIBK Structure and Programs
ANNEX C Detailed Project Cost Tables
ANNEX D IIBK Branch Offices
ANNEX ' Schedule of Projected Disbursoments
ANNEX F Implementation Schedule
ANNEX G Summary of Project Technical Asslstance Requirements
NAP: IBRD 23363



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Turkey
Amount:                 US$ 67.0 million
Teras:                  Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period,
at the ..6D standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:     The proposed project has four objectives: a) to
improve allocative efficiency through liberalized
employment services, b) to improve the absorption of
unemployed, unskilled workers in productive
employment, c) to improve the efficiency of labor-
market decisions by providing better information for
several categories of users, including secondary
students who must choose between alternative education
And training options with different employment
implications, employers wishing to recruit employees
with specific job skills, training providers who must
plan the offering and content of training courses, and
collective bargaining agents who must reach decisions
on appropriate levels of staffing and remuneration,
and d) to promote women's productive employment.
Project Description:    Iumroved allocative efficiency through liberalized
euDloyment services would be achieved by the
development and phased implementation of a strategy to
diversify employment services.
Improved absor2tion of unemployed. unskilled workers
in oroductive emlovment would be accomplished by: a)
generalizing the pilot program of job-insertion
training developed by IIBK, and b) strengthening
public employment services, including the introduction
of employment counseling for job seekers and screening
of job seekers, the modernization of job placement
practices, and improved management of employment
services.
IgRroved efficiency of labor-market decisions would be
achieved by: a) developing and introducing career
counseling services in labor offices and secondary



- ii -
schools, b) developing and adopting employer-relevant
occupational standards and certification, and c)
producing and disseminating information from various
sources on labor-market trends.
Women's productive emRloyment would be promoted under
the project by: a) deliberate actions to meet the
needs of women's employment under the other project
activities, and b) conduct of research and
dissemination of research findings on how to alleviate
the constraints on women's employment.
Beneflts and Risks      Benefits:  The project would promote the integration
of the unskilled unemployed into productive
employment, and would improve the efficiency of labor-
market choices through improved information on
employment prospects, on training requirements, and on
job-seekers' skills. It would make a particular
effort to provide better employment opportunities for
women. In addition to the equity benefits for the
unskilled unemployed, the project would contribute to
macroeconomic performance through the improved
efficiency of labor markets. For example, the
development of occupational standards and certifi-
cation under the project is expected to lead to
improved productivity by promoting the movement of
skills to their best uses in the economy. And the
improved labor-market information to be developed
under the project -- in particular, relating to trends
in labor productivity by sectors and occupations --
will provide a more objective basis for wage
determination than the current, confrontational
process of collective bargaining. By reinforcing job
placement capacity and providing job-insertion
training as part of the job placement process, the
project would help minimize the effects of worker
dislocation resulting from the planned restructuring
of public enterprises and other adjustment actions.
Risks: Project risks relate to: a) the IIBK's limited
implementation capacity and b) the need for
cooperative action among numerous public-sector and
private-sector agencies in order to ensure coherence
of implementation among the various elements of the
project. This coherence is necessary if the
objectives of the project are to be met. To address
the risk that project implementation could suffer from
IIBK's limited implementation capacity, the project
provides for management assistance to IIBK throughout
implementation of the project. To address the risk of
inconsistency in implementation of the project



- iii -
actions, the pxoject provides for participation of
other parties in the various advisory and policy-
making bodies to be established under the project,
including the National Employment Board and the
Provincial Employment Boards for the Job-Insertion
Training component, the Career Information Advisory
Committee for the Employment and Counseling Services
component, the Labor-Market Information Advisory Board
for the Labor-Market Information component, the
Occupational Standards Commission for the Occupational
Standards and Certification component, and the
Research Advisory Committee for the Women's Employment
Promotion Component.



- iv-
ESTINATED P0J1CT CMT
Project Component                          Local   Foreign    Total    A Froian p        of Total
Exchang     m 8e Costs
-US M ILLION-- -
Job Insertion Training                    36.44      6.31     42.76          15        47
Diversification of Euptoyntin     'ices    0.03      0.22      0.25          69          0.3
Employment and Counseling Servict.         28.15    12.25    40.40           30         4
Labor Market Information (SI$)              1.07     1.54      2.61          59          3
Occupational Standards & Certificatfon    2.39       1.16      3.56          33          4
Women's Employment Promotion                1.22     0.22      144.          1S          2
Total Base Costs:            69.31    21.72    91.03           2          100
Physical Contingencies        0.99      1.23     2.22          55           2
Price Contingencies          12.19      1.97    14.17          14          16
TOTAL PROUECT COSTS          82.49      24.92   107.41         23         11
FINANCING PLM CUSS WILLICf3s
Category of Expenditure                    Government         Bank           TOTAL      Dutie
uiJ #            USSE          UStN          Taxes
Investment Costs
Job-Insertion Training                   16.6               31.1          47.7            0.9
Equifexnt                                 0.9                8.4           9.3            0.9
Furniture                                 0.6                              0.6            0.1
Books/Haterials/Supplies                   0.3               2.4            2.7           0.3
Technical Assistance                         -              13.2           13.2            -
overseas Fellouships                                         3.6            3.6
Local Training                                               3.0           3.0
Vehicles                                   0.2               1.9            2.1           0.2
Travel, Subsistence                                          3.4           3.4
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Salaries                                   18.6               -            18.6
Materials/Operating Costs                   1.1               -             1.1
Rent/Maintenance                            2.1               -             2.1            -
TOTAL:           40.4             67.0          107.4           2.4
ESTIMATED DI0 US1   Xr
BANK FISCAL YEARS: 1 M      1994    1995    1996    1997    199    1999    2000
----------------------Us$ MILLIONS. ................
Arnnual:              4.0     4.1     7.9     8.0      13.4   16.8    10.5     2.3
Cumulative:           4.0    12.2    16.1    24.0      37.4   54.2    64.7    67.0
RATE OF RETIRE:   Not Applicable
MAP NUBER:  IB 2R   3



R1PULIEC OP TURKEY
EMPOYMNTAND TRAINING PROJECT
gTAf APPRAISAL REPOfl
I.  EMPLOYMENT AND TRAIN  0 ISSUES AND STRATEGY
Background
1.      In 1980, following a serious external crlsis, Turkey embarked on a
major economic reform program, which constituted a sharp break from earlier
policies of import substitution, market intervention, and pervasive
involvement of state-owned enterprises in all sectors of production. The
reform program aimed to improve the efficiency of production and allocation
through greater reliance on competitive market forces. It included measures
intended to reduce public subsidies to the state-owned enterprises, to control
the fiscal deficit, and to simplify the trade regime -- thereby exposing
domestic producers to external competition. An underlying goal of the reform
effort was to raise Turkey's competitiveness in European markets, thereby
bolstering Turkey's bid for European Community (EC) membership.
2.      These efforts produced results.  Real GDP growth averaged about 5
percent between 1980 and 1986, and exceeded 7 percent in 1986 and 1987. In
1988 there was a current account surplus fcvr the first time in 15 years. But
the fiscal discipline which marked the early years of the reform gave way to a
more expansionary policy as the 1987 and 1991 elections approached. This
interruption of the reform process reversed many of the early achievements of
the reform. By 1990, the current-account deficit had returned, inflation
exceeded 60 percent, and state-owned enterprises continued to require massive
operating subsidies. Unemployment, which had risen earlier in the decade,
abated -- to an overall rate of 7.2 percent in 19901. Economic output grew
at 9 percent in 1990, reflecting the combined effect of a tight monetary
policy, expansionary fiscal policy, and large foreign capital inflows. But
the situation again deteriorated in 1991 as public-sector borrowing
requirements rose to 15 percent of GNP, output growth slowed to less than 1
percent, and the rate of inflation rose to 70 percent.
I/ Bousehold Labour Force Surve, October, 1990. The uwi1loymt rate was sightly higher for .ls (7.5
percent) than for fnales, (7.2 perrmt), ad much higher In urba areas (10. percent) than in ural areas
(4.8 percent). The awerage wwmloymamt rate was particularly high for general secondary school graduates
(17.7 percent). Unemployment _n graduates of secondary vocatioal training programs was somewhat lower
(13.9 percent), but the results of the 1W7 7lsebold Income and Ipenditure survey show that average
earings of vocational secondua graduates are sinifLcantly lower thn earnings of general secondary
graduates.



-2-
3.      Following the October, 1991 elections, one of the first acts of the
new coalition Government was to confirm its commitment to the main goals and
policies of the reform strategy adopted in the early 1980s. But there has
been little progress in implementation of policies under this strategy.
Public enterprise reform is one key area requiring urgent government action.
Successful implementation of public enterprise reform is likely to require the
creation of suitable programs to train and redeploy workers who would be
displaced by the reform, as well as of programs to provide temporary income
support during the transition to new jobs.
EmRloyment and Training Issues
4.      Training:  Average labor productivity in Turkey today is less than
one-twelfth as high as the average in the six original EC members, less than
one-third as high as in Greece, and less than one-half as high as in Portugal,
the country with the lowest average labor productivity among the current
members of the EC. During the past decade, the Government has invested
heavily in training programs designed to raise worker productivity and support
the development of a liberal, externally competitive economy. Most of the
Government's investments in this area have focussed on fermal programs of pre-
service training at the secondary and post-secondary levels. The Bank has
supported this effort through four projects in the 1980s -- two for post-
secondary technician training, and two for secondary-level training for
skilled workers in industry, commerce, and tourism.2
5.      The Government's pre-service training programs -- including those
supported by past projects -- have provided specialized training to young
people in a specific occupation which they were expected to pursue throughout
their working lives. But the acceleration of changes in technology and in the
structure of the ecoromy implies the need for a more adaptable labor force,
and for better problem-solving skills in all occupations if the gap in labor
productivity with the EC is to be closed. Increasingly, there will be a need
for Job changes -- often involving occupational changes -- throughout an
individual's working life. Even within occupations, the content of work is
changing and will contirnue to change.  There are three important implications
for education and training programs:
(a)      The labor force needs a better grounding in basic literacy,
problem-solving skills, and trainability in specific tasks.
Currently, 79 percent of the labor force has a five-year
primary education -- the legal minimum -- or less; 15
percent of the labor force is illiterate. The length of
compulsory education needs to be extended, and its
scientific content improved. The Government's education
af These projcts are the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU), the Industrial Schools Project (Loan
2535-TU), the Second Industrial Training ProJect (Loan 2922-TU), and the Won-Formal Vocational Training
Project (Loan 2776-TU). Implementation of these projects is gonerally satiafactory, but few results are yet
available on their perforsmnce in terms of Job placement of graduates; only one of the projects in
completed.



program als to address both thes needs -- an effort which
the Bank is assisting.3
(b)      Vocational education and training at the secondary level
should be altered to provide skills which are generic to a
broad occupational area, rather than limited to a narrow
specialization. In the future, as Turkey follows the
example of other OECD countries, specific tralning for
skilled workers will tend to be provided at the post-
secondary level.
(c)      Flexible programs of training need to be ma'  available to
provide job-specific skills throughout an - vidual's
working life. The Turkish Employment Agenp-. (Iq ve Iu¢l
Bulm8 Kurwau, or IIBK) of the Ministry of Labor has
developed a pilot training program of this type which the
proposed project would support (paras. 11, 31).
6.      The Unskilled Unemploved:  There are currently 1.8 million unemployed
workers in Turkey, comprising 8.5 percent of the labor force. Over two-thirds
of the unemployed have a primary-school (grade 5) education or less, whereas
training programs for skilled workers in the conventional sense begin at the
upper secondary level (grades 9 through 12). Turkey's efforts to extend and
improve its education programs should help to reduce the problem of unskilled
unemployment in the future. But in the meantime, the needs of the unskilled
unemployed constitute a serious welfare problem for the country. A major
objective of the Government and of the proposed project is to promote the
absorption of these unskilled workers into productive employment.
7.      Under current legislation, job placement and other employment
services can only be provided by IIBK (Annex B), or by other agencies which
IIBK specifically authorizes to perform these services.4 This restriction
reflects the Government's acute concern to prevent a recurrence of past
exploitation of workers by private job-placement agents. The Government
wishes, however, to move towards diversified employment services to help meet
the increased needs for labor mobility as the economy itself diversifies.
Competition in job placement and other employment services would also provide
a continuous incentive for IIBK to improve the quality and efficiency of its
own employment services. The Government is thus preparing to liberalize
employment services within an effective regulatory framework to prevent abuse
of job seekers (para. 44). Bi,t even in the presence of other agents providing
/ A project to Improve the quaUty of primary and secondary education was approved in 1990 *nd is under
implmentation. (The National Educational Devolopret Project. Loan 3192-TU). A Basic ducation Project,
currently undor preparation, is expected to support en exteonsio of the schooling Infrastructure to pezmit
extending compulsory education to eight years, together with m"eures to lmprove the relevaneo, quaolty. nd
accessibility of basic education programs -- particularly in area with cuwrent low ratoe of school
attendance.
hi Although IrBK has received requests to approve private job-placement agencies, none of these requests has
been approved. IIU has, however, authorized private training agenieLs to participate In job plaeoment for
the graduates of Its job-insertion traLaing progrem (paragraps 10, 31).



- 4 -
assistance to job seekers, the employment services of IIBK need to be
strengthened as an instrument of poverty allevlatlon and labor-market
integration for the unskilled unemployed. This resLdual, bottom tier of the
labor market constitutes the bulk of IIBK's current clientele and is likely to
remain so, even as umployment services are liberalized.
8.      In spite of its effective monopoly on job placement services, IIBK
has the capacity to place only a small fraction of the unemployed. In 1990,
672,000 individuals -- a little more than one-third of the unemployed --
applied for jobs at the 110 branch offices of IIBK. The IIBK listed 294,000
job vacancies during the year -- 151,000 (512) from the public sector, which
is required to list non-professional vacancies with the IIBK, and 143,000
(49%) from private employers. IIBK staff made 547,000 referrals for those
vacancies, which resulted in 283,000 placements. (Twenty-five percent of
IIBK's job applicants and 31 percent of its job placements are female.) Thus,
only one-third of the unemployed bother to register with IIBK, and less than
half (42 percent) of those who do are placed in jobs through IIBK. Expressed
otherwise, IIBK job placements amount to just 16 percent of the number of
unemployed.
9.      One reason for this limited coverage by the public employment agency
is the shortage of IIBK service staff. There are about 1,850 staff in the 110
branch offices of IIBK, implying a ratio of 1 staff member for every 362 job
applicants, or one staff member for each 990 unemployed. These ratios place
Turkey far below OECD norms for the provision of public employment services.
The number of public employment service staff in relation to the number of
unemployed is 1/10 in Sweden, 1/36 in England, 1/57 in Germany, 1/120 in
Portugal, and 1/990 in Turkey. This ratio, which is a frequently used measure
of government commitment to labor-market equity, indicates that there Is major
room for improvement in Turkey, in terms of both quality and range of
employment services which IIBK offers.
10.     In addition to staff shortages to deal with its caseload, IIBK
employment services also suffer from a number of technical and qualitative
deficiencies. The employment services of IIBK are outmoded and inefficient by
comparison to the employment services of the EC. IIBK employment counselors
are not trained to screen job applicants and counsel them about job prospects
and related training requirements, nor do they have the necessary information
and matirials to do so. As a result, IIBK's employment services are limited
to a rudimentary form of job placement, in which applicants' reported skills
are matched with the skill profiles called for in employers' vacancy
announcements. IIBK also lacks the capacity to verify applicants' reported
skills in order to ensure that candidates referred for specific jobs will be
able to perform to employers' satisfaction. These deficiencies reduce IIBK's
usefulness to both job applicants and employers as a job placement service.
This, in turn, causes many of the unemployed not to register with IIBK, and
causes many private employers not to list their job vacancies with IIBK.
Employers frequently report that they recruit new staff informally, often on
the recommendation of existing staff, but that they would recruit more of
their staff through IIBK if IIBK could screen candidates more effectively.
Better screening of job applicants would increase the number of vacancies
listed with IIBK. and would improve IIBK's effectiveness as a job placement



v 5 -
service for the unemployed. Expansion and improvement of IIBK employment
services would require new programs and better materials for applicant
screening, employment counseling, job development, and other service areas.
More fundamentally, it would require a major effort to train existing and new
employment service staff.
11.     The IIBK, like the public employment services of other OECD
countries, has initiated a program of training to improve the employability of
its job applicants. The IIBK was faced with the problem of numerous unskilled
job applicants whom it could not place in jobs. At the same time, some of the
low-skill job vacancies listed with IIBK went unfilled, due to the lack of job
applicants with even the minimal level of skills called for. To address this
problem, the IIBK initiated a pilot program of short-term, job-insertion
training to provide the specific skills needed to fill the vacancies. It
requested and obtained financing for tie pilot program from several extra-
budgetary funds. Although the program has been successful in training and
placing over 10,000 job applicants in jobs, th's financing has now been
exhausted. The Government's new policy of eliminating extra-budgetary funds
makes it unlikely that IIBK will be able to obtain additional financing for
the program from this source. The Government has also developed under
bilaceral assistance a related Self Employment Prog-am for Bulgarian Ethnic
Turks, and wishes to extend this program for Turkish nationals5.
12.     Career Guidance Counseling:  At present, systematic career counseling
for youth and adults is not available in Turkey. Initial career decisions are
based more upon traditional family influence than upon deliberate, informed
choices. Even job decisions by experienced members of the labor force tend to
be shaped by one's own work experience rather than upon fuller information
about job options. Thus, careers tend to be chosen on the basis of very
imperfect information about how well an individual'- aptitudes and interests
are suited to particular jobs, and about the employ.ent prospects, work
content, and training requirements associated with alternative jobs. The job
allocation which results from this process is clearly suboptimal in terms of
productivity and job satisfaction for many individuals. Needs for better
information are particularly conspicuous among students faced with schooling
decisions. Secondary-school students face a bewildering choice among
alternative specializations at the completion of basic education, yet the MOE
currently has no career guidance programs to counsel students about course
selections which fit their aptitudes, interests, and aspirations, and are
likely to lead to jobs. Counseling on employment prospects and associated
training requirements is also absent in higher education. Career guidance
counseling needs to be developed to improve the efficiency of students'
choices of specializations, to inform students of the employment prospects
associated with alternative specializations, and to inform their eventual
labor-market choices. Much of the content and methodology which needs to be
developed for career guidance counseling of secondary and middle-school
students is also appropriate for employment counseling of job seekers, which
should be an integral part of job application and placement services.
/ The proarm is scheduled to end et the end of 1992; no furthor funding is available from the original
donor.



-6-
13.      Labor-Market Information:  In many respects, Turkey has a rich array
of labor-market information. Considerable amounts of useful and relevant
labor-market information are produced, Inter alla, by the State Institute of
Statistics (SIS), IIBK, MOE, YOK, The Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen
Association (TUSIAD), The Turkish Confederation of Employer Associations
(TISK), The Turkish Confederation of Employees Unions (TURKIS), The National
Productivity Center (NPC), and The Union of Chambers of Commerce, Industry,
Maritime Commerce and Commodity Exchanges (TOBB). In each case, the data
prepared reflect the responsibilities and interests of the entity concerned,
and are different in character, coverage and relevance. However, these
elements together represent invaluable sources of information to organizations
and individuals which need to use labor-market information. Examples of the
latter are career guidance counsellors in schools, occupational counsellors in
IIBK branch offices, planners of (and potential investors in) vocational
education and training programs, and wage negotiators representing employers'
and employees' organizations. It is difficult for users of labor-market
information to gain the full benefit from the various data sources which exist
because these data are held separately; most are not readily accessible to
users, since they are made available, in incomplete and often inappropriate
form, long after their collection; and little analysis is carried out of the
implications for future employment requirements. The accessibility of labor-
market information needs to be improved as an input to both career guidance
counseling for secondary and middle-school students, and employment counseling
for job seekers. Many potential users need simple, easily accessible analysis
of major employment trends; others need more detailed information than is
available in the current published survey results. Better use needs to be
made of existing labor-market data, a task which can be achieved largely
through more practical and more timely presentation of existing survey
results. Beyond that, there is a need to expand the coverage of labor-market
issues in existing surveys, and to provide for analysis and systematic
dissemination of information on labor-market trends.
14.      The State Institute of Statistics is responsible for the collection
and dissemination of official data on behalf of the Republic of Turkey. With
its staff of 2,500, it undertakes a wide range of statistical services
including the Population Census, Establishment Surveys, Household Surveys, and
Income and Expenditure Surveys. SIS survey results are used to help inform a
broad array of public and private decisions. Among the uses of SIS data is
the preparation of a monthly report on economic developments -- including
labor-market developments -- for the President's Council which is the basis of
the Council's monthly policy briefing for the President. The semi-annual
Household Labor-Force Survey is the most extensive source of labor-market
information, but most of the other surveys also collect some labor-market
data. The SIS wishes to improve the coverage of labor-market data in its
surveys in order to make them more useful to potential clients. It also wishes
to publish the results of its surveys more promptly. Presently there is a
delay of about one year between collection of data and publication of results
for the semi-annual Household Labor-Force Survey and the quarterly Survey of
Manufacturing Establishments. Furthermore, survey results are held on tapes
which are accessible only through SIS staff using the SIS mainframe computer.



15.      Occupational Standards and Certification:  A fundamental obstacle to
labor mobility for workers of all skill levels in Turkey is the lack of
occupational standards and certification which reflect employers' needs. At
present, there is no commonly accepted method of defining occupational skills
in Turkey, or of comparing them with international standards. As a result,
workers do not have a means of documenting and communicating to employers and
employment agencies skills learned through informal and formal channels, and
employers do not have a means of defining skill requirements by occupation and
communicating them to employment and training agencies or evaluating the
skills of individuals presenting themselves for employment. Employment and
training agencies do not have good information to screen job seekers or
develop training programs. By law, the Ministry of Education (MOE) dominates
the process of certification for skilled occupations; the Council of Higher
Education (YOK) dominates certification of technicians and professional
occupations. But the certification dispensed by these agencies documents a
candidate's completion of a sanctioned program of studies. It reflects an
academic view as to the appropriate preparation for a given occupation; it
does not demonstrate that che candidate can perform the tasks required in an
actual job. Employers frequently report that the existing process of
certification is not relevant to their needs; they often find that job
candidates with certification in a particular occupational skill are in fact
not competent in that skill.
16.     To permit more efficient recruitment and improved labor mobility for
all occupational groups, there is a fundamental need for occupational
standards and certification which reflect actual work practices throughout the
economy, and which have credibility among employers. Training programs should
prepare candidates to meet those standards; they should not attempt to impose
their own standards. Ultimately, the content of vocational education and
training programs should evolve to provide the skills called for in the
occupational standards and certification (rather as the content of graduate-
level programs in finance and accounting in North America has evolved to
prepare candidates to pass the CPA examination). Occupational standards are
available for many OECD countries. In addition to its benefits for more
efficient labor recruitment, the development of occupational standards could
provide a valuable basis for Turkey to assess the competitiveness of its
technology, as embodied in the content of occupations, in relation to other
OECD countries. This informetion could signal needed areas of improvement in
terms of investments in plant and equipment, as well as in development of
training programs.
17.     Ultimately, it is desirable that autonomous, professional bodies
carry out the work of standards development, as is the case in most of the
OECD countries. The typical model involves a cooperative, voluntary
association in which member firms carry out job analyses to develop
occupational standards for a few occupations, in exchange for which they
receive standards developed by other firms for other occupations.  Such
standards are often sold to groups outside the association.  Various sets of
occupational standards developed in North America and Europe are available,
and should be used as a basis of comparison for the Turkish standards as they
are developed. It is likely that industries in Turkey would eventually take
the initiative to develop occupational standards to serve their own needs



- 8 -
through such a process. But Government can play a useful role as a catalyst,
as it has in most of the OECD countries, in starting the process.
18.     Women's Employment:  Women's labor-force participation in Turkey is
about half as high as for men. Moreover, women's employment is, to a
remarkable degree, concentrated in the agricultural sector. As of 1985, fully
85 percent of working women worked in the agriculture sector, most of them as
unpaid family workers. A corollary of this fact is that there are far fewer
women than men working in urban, non-agricultural employment. In 1985,
women's employment in scientific, technical and professional areas was one-
third as high as for men; in manufacturing, it was just one-ninth as high as
for men. Yet the findings of recent research show that there is widespread
support among Turkish women for work outside the home.6 An objective of
government policy is to improve women's productivity and employment
opportunities -- including opportunities in occupations which offer better
career prospects than the traditional female-dominated occupations. Some of
the constraints on female employment are known and can be remedied. For
example, the gender typing of job vacancies listed with IIBK unnecessarily
limits women's employment opportunities; this practice is to be terminated
under the project (para.43). Other constraints to women's employment are less
well understood. In these cases, better information about the nature of the
constraints is necessary before remedial action can be taken.
Employment and Training Strategy
19.     In 1989 and 1990, the State Planning Organization (SPO), with Bank
assistance, carried out a series of studies on employment and training
issues.7  The findings and recommendations of the studies, covering a broad
spectrum of policy issues, were presented in a March, 1990 synthesis report,
Republic of Turkey: Human Resources and Employment Development Strategy.8 In
May, 1990, the SPO convened a national seminar to discuss the report and its
recommendations. The seminar included representatives of labor and employer
associations (including TISK and TOBB), IIBK, MOE, YOK, and other public and
private agencies interested in human resource and employment development
policy issues. The seminar endorsed many of the recommendations of the
synthesis report. As agreed earlier with the SPO, the proposal for the
project was developed around the policy consensus which emerged at the
seminar. The Government's immediate strategy for training and employment,
then, consists of the actions which the project would support. As described
below, those actions are intended: a) to improve the absorption of the
unemployed in productive employment, b) to improve the efficiency of labor-
market decisions, and c) to promote women's productive employment. Some of
the recommendations of the seminar, such as making vocational education more
§/ Toros, et al , "Female Participation in the Formal Sector", *a background paper for a World Bank Regional
Study on Female Employment in the EMENA Region, March, 1990.
y/ The consultant studies commissioned under this effort, together with other background documentation on
the project, are available in the project file (Annex A).
I/ This report, bearing the uame title, appeared as a yeLlow-cover Bank sector report in November, 1990
(Report No. 9192-TU).



responsive to employers' needs, are clearly of a longer-term nature and will
require prior actions which the project will support. For example, making
vocational education more relevant to employer needs will require the
development of practical occupational standards and better information on
labor-market trends. The proposed project would support these actions.
20.      In addition to the equity benefits expected under the project, 1.he
Government sees the project as an important instrument for increasing economic
efficiency through liberalizing labor markets -- an element of its general
economic strategy of liberalizing factor and product markets. The project
will make a direct contribution to this goal by supporting the preparation and
implementation of a plan for encouraging the development of professional
employment services in the private sector. The development of employer-
relevant occupational standards and certification under the project is
expected to lead to improved productivity by promoting the movement of skills
to their best uses in the economy. And the improved labor-market information
to be developed under the project -- in particular, relating to trends in
labor productivity by sectors and occupations -- will provide a more objective
basis for wage determination than the current, confrontational process of
collective bargaining. The Government also considers the training and
employment services to be supported under the project as an important tool for
dealing with the worker dislocation which it foresees as a by-product of the
planned restructuring of public enterprises.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
Project Obiectives
21.     The project has four objectives.  The first is to improve allocative
efficiency through the diversification of emIloyment services. The project
would finance the development and initial implementation of a strategy for
provision of employment services by a range of public and private providers.
22.     The project's second objective is to improve the absorption of
unemployed. unskilled workers in productive employment. To support this
objective, the project would finance: a) the generalization of the pilot
program of job-insertion training developed by IIBK, and b) the strengthening
of IIBK's employment services, including the introduction of employment
counseling for job seekers and screening of job seekers, the modernization of
job placement practices, and improved management of employment services.
23.     The third objective of the project is to imRrove the efficiency of
labor-market decisions by Rroviding better information on emRlovment prospects
and training requirements by occuRation. and on the skills of job seekers.
This information is intended to benefit several categories of users, including
secondary students who must choose between alternative education and training
options with different employment implications, employers wishing to recruit
employees with specific job skills, training providers who must plan the
offering and content of training courses, and collective bargaining agents who
must reach decisions on appropriate levels of staffing and remuneration. The
project would do this by supporting: a) the development of career counseling
services in labor offices and schools for students and members of the labor
force, b) the development of employer-relevant occupational standards and
certification, and c) the production and dissemination of information from
various sources on labor-market trends.
24.     The fourth objective of the project -- a subset of the second
objective -- is to promote women's Rroductive emglovment. It would do this by
supporting: a) deliberate actions to meet the needs of women's employment
under the individual project activities outlined above, and b) a program of
research under the Directorate on the Status and Problems of Women (DSPW) to
clarify the nature of the constraints on women's employment.
Rationale for Bank and Government Involvement
25.     The rationale for Bank involvement is that, by supporting liberalized
and more efficient labor markets, the project would complement the support
which the Bank has provided over the past decade for economic reforma designed
to improve Turkey's competitiveness abroad. The project would also strengthen
basic employment services for unskilled job seekers, many of whom are poor.



- 11 -
The Bank is well situated to support the proposed project initiatives because
of the knowledge of sector issues and institutions which it has gained from
past lending and sector work. The Bank collaborated with the State Planning
Organization in conducting a broad-ranging sector study on employment and
training policy in 1990. The study identified the issues which the project
would address, and developed the strategy for dealing with them (para. 19).
26.      The rationale for government involvement in the proposed project
actions is economic. This rationale has several elements, corresponding to
the distinct objectives of the project and the interventions proposed for
achieving them. First, market imperfections call for government involvement
in training. In a theoretical sense, training decisions are subject to the
same profitability considerations which govern other investment decisions.
Individuals would seek training to the extent that the benefits of training
(in the form of enhanced earnings) exceed the costs of training (including
income foregone); firms would provide training for their employees to the
extent that productivity gains exceed training costs.@ In either case, the
private sector would capture the benefits and pay the costs of training.
27.      The form in which training is provided throughout the world differs
very much from this abstract ideal. There is in all countries a debate about
the appropriate balance between public and private sector roles in training,
but there is no debate about whether the public sector has a legitimate role.
Government plays an important role in training in virtually all countries,
either as provider or as financier of training activities. This is
particularly true for the least skilled members of the labor force, who
account for most of the clientele of public employment agencies. In most of
the OECD countries, governments play a major role in training and the other,
related areas -- certification, career counseling, and job placement -- which
this project would support. In Turkey, as in other countries, government
involvement in training is justified as an instrument of both equity
promotion, and of efficiency in a situation of market imperfection. Sources
of market imperfection affecting the provision of training include the
pervasiveness of training externalities and the absence of collateral to
secure human capital investments. Market imperfections justify a government
role in financing adult training;10 the lack of a private training
iv suran capital theory proposes that individuals have en incentive to finance general training because it
raises productivity in a given occupation regardless of where It ls appled; the costs of such training
should, therefore. be recovered by the trainin recipient in the form of increased earnings. In contrast.
employors have en Incentive to fnence ospecific trainlng -- which raises productivity only in that firx,
end thus does not provide higher opportunity costs nd higher earnlns for mployees who are tralned.
IV Although we would expect that general training would typLealy bo provided by private training agents
nd paid for by thb lndLviduals recelving tr aniLg. this for. of training provision is rare ln many
settiags, including Turkey. The main obstacle to this private provision end private financing of trailnng
Is trainees lack of accen to credit -- a market faiure which results from the absence of collateral to
secure huna capital. In practice. ployeo  oftan pW for general training provided on the Job by
temporarily accepting earnins belcv their arinal productlvity. Labor "poaching" occurs when another
employer lures en mployo away fro en employer wbo has sponsored general trainlng before the employee has
repaid (through earnings below marginal productivlty) the cost of his training. Labor poaching is possible
because of the mpractLiabliLty of contracts to bLid _ployees to employers who sponsored their training
until the full coat of the training ls repd. Thlis too, costitutoeo a mrket fallure which leads to
underprovLiLon of trainLang unless governmet intervenes to encourage a filler proviLsion of training. One
fo. In which this comonly occurs is a trainLng levy, ia wibLb employers are assessed a tax which ls



- 12 -
infrastructure justifies a transitional government role in provision of
training.
28.     The primary rationale for government provision of employment
services, career guidance, and -- by implication -- labor-market information
is equity promotion, since the unemployed and the poor would be the principal
beneficiaries. A secondary rationale for government provision of these
services is promotion of labor-market efficiency. The rationale for
government involvement in occupational testing and certification is that it
would provide on a transitional basis a service to improve labor-market
efficiency which eventually is to be provided by user associations, but for
which the capacity does not currently exist.
Proiect Components
29.     The proposed Project comprises six major components: a) Job-Insertion
Training, b) Diversification of Employment Services, c) Employment and
Counseling Services, d) Labor-Market Information, e) Occupational Standards
and Certification, and f) Women's Employment Promotion. The proposed project
components and subcomponents are described in the following paragraphs.
Additional detail on activities under each component is available in the cost
tables presented in Annex C.
A. JOB-INSERTION TRAINING (US$ 42.8 million)11
30.     The project will support a generalization of the pilot program in
job-insertion training, which was recently introduced by IIBK. A new program
of short-duration training for self employment is also to be developed and
delivered under the project. The component consists of two major sub-
components: (a) the financing of a Training Fund to support job-insertion and
self-employment training, and (b) the provision of technical assistance to
support development of the Fund and related project activities.
Job-Insertion Training Fund  (US$ 41.6 million)
31.     This sub-component provides financing for creation of a Job-Insertion
Training Fund, which would support the development and delivery of short
courses of: (a) job-insertion training, and (b) self-employment training. The
Fund would reimburse training providers for costs of instructors, training
materials, and marginal costs -- notably, rent and utilities -- of training
facilities which are directly attributable to job-insertion training under the
project.2 It would also provide for modest transportation stipends for
earmarked for public training programs which aro meant to respond to employers  needs. Training levies
often embody a rebate provision, under which enterprises may be exempted from the tax if they provide their
own training.
W  Project costs an presented with component and sub-component headings throughout this chapter represent
(investment plus recurrent) basc costa -- i.e., not of contingencie.
3/ Fund proceeds are not to be used to reimburse costs of durable equipmmnt or civil works.



13 -
participants (para. 34). About one-third of the resources of the Fund would
come from IIBK budget resources; the other two-thirds would be from the Bank
loi.n. The number of people to be trained under both programs is estimated at
73,200 over the six-year duration of the project.13 As under the IIBK pilot
program, training courses and self employment programs supported by the Job-
Insertion Training Fund are expected to be of short duration (averaging about
five months) and small in size (averaging about 30 trainees per course.)
Assistance is to be provided without cost to the trainee or the employer.
Training may also be provided under the project on a cost-recovery basis for
firms which request specific training for existing employees. Like the IIBK
pilot programs, the training under the project will focus on (but will not be
restricted to) unemployed job applicants with a primary-school education or
less. One application of job-insertion training which is expected under the
project but which has not yet been put into practice is training for workers
dislocated from their jobs due to structural changes in the economy. Workers
in the coal mining industry, which is no longer competitive, and in
restructured public enterprises are two groups for which training programs are
expected to be developed under the project.
32.     Job-insertion training urnder the project Fund would extend the pilot
programs of training and self employment initiated by IIBK (para. 11) to
regions, industries, and occupations not covered under the original pilots.
Job-insertion training would be of two types. The first -- the predominant
form under the pilot program -- would be training to provide job-seekers with
the additional skills needed to fill existing, unfilled job vacancies listed
with IIBK and training in particular skill areas identified by employers and
others as priority needs in a particular locality (paras. 73 and 74). The
second would be training in particular skill areas identified by employers and
others as priority needs in a particular locality. Self-employment training,
which was originally developed by IIBK for Bulgarian Ethnic Turks, would be
extended to Turkish Nationals under the project. Self-employment training is
designed to provide the necessary skills for self-employment -- particularly
in rural areas, where there are few non-agricultural employers. The training
may provide skills specific to an occupation suitable for self-employment,
such as rug-weaving, or information on how to set up a small business --
including such information as methods of marketing, satisfying legal
requirements applying to small businesses, and sources of credit.
33.     Job-insertion training would be delivered under two formats.  Under
the first, IIBK would contract, on a competitive basis, with a training
institution or employer to develop the program, deliver the training, and
participate in job placement of trainees. In these cases, a portion of the
payment to the training institution would be withheld until graduates are
placed in jobs. Under the second format, which would be used when no
appropriate training institutions are available or at the initiation of
W/ This figure, which is constrained by resources expected to be available to the project, is based on an
assumed level of training of 12,000 people the first year of the project, followed by a 10 percent increase
each year thereafter. The largest share of training under the project -- about 90 percent of the total --
is expected to be job-insertion training. Self-employment training, which is intended principally for job-
seekers in regions with few employers, is expected to comprise only about 10 percent of the training under
the project.



- 14 -
employers in a needed occupational area of training, training programs would
be designed Jointly by IIBK staff and enterprises which agree to employ the
graduates; IIBK would provide resources to engage experienced instructors for
each specific course from industry or from vocational training schools. As
under the pilot program, training would usually be carried out either in the
premises of one of the employers, or in a vocational school of the Ministry of
Education or Ministry of Tourism. In exceptional cases when no other training
facilities are available, training would be provided in premises which are
rented for the duration of a specific training course. The firms or the
schools providing training places would be compensated for the cost of
training materials and utilities. Self-employment training would be de]ivered
under both formats.
34.     Following the practice in the IIBK pilot program, trainees in the
job-insertion program and the self-employment training program would receive a
modest stipend (amounting to about $1.30 per day) to meet the cost of
transportation. As under the pilot program, trainees would pay no fees; the
enterprises which employ them would pay the normal IIBK placement fee of TL
20,000 for private enterprises and TL 50,000 for public enterprises. Last
year (1991), the pilot program trained 13,000 job applicants in custom-
designed training courses varying in length from three weeks to six months.
Virtually all of these were subsequently employed by the participating
enterprises.
35.     The job-insertion training program is a cost-effective instrument for
supplying an unmet demand for specific labor skills. The average cost per
trainee under the pilot job-insertion training program was US$ 440, which
amounts to less than three months' average earnings of trainees placed in
jobs. On average, the cost of an individual's training under the program is
recovered through direct and indirect taxes generated by post-training
earnings in six months.'4 Thus, the program is expected to achieve cost
recovery -- and even to generate surplus revenues -- through the tax receipts
generated by job creation.15  In the longer term, as the Government moves to
implement a national unemployment insurance system, the job-insertion training
program would also contribute to reduced unemployment claims.
36.     The average unit cost of training under the job-insertion training
program is estimated at US$ 520. This figure is about 20 percent higher than
the average cost of training under the pilot programs, reflecting the
expectation that unit training costs for instructors and materials will rise
as the proportion of training in the industrial sector and the proportion of
training offered through training institutions increase. Separate accounts
are to be maintained for IIBK training expenditures to be financed under the
project. Reimbursements from the project loan account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, which will be subject to Government audit
1_ Calculated on the basis of the monthly minimnuu wage (as of September, 1991) of TL 800,000, equivalent to
US$ 170, and the following actual, average tax rates: 25Z personal income tax. 121 value added tax on
personal consumption. 49S corporate profit tax (assuming a 10 percent return on incremental labor).
.1S This result assumes that jobs filled under the program would not otherwise have been filled, which is
consistent with IIBB's experience for most of the vacancies filled under the pilot program.



- 15 -
and periodic review by World Bank staff. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that, unless specifically agreed by the Bank in advance,
loan funds are to be made available only for training: a) consistent with
annual training plans developed by the local employment office and endorsed by
the local tripartite Employment Council and National Employment Council (para.
75), b) providing flexible entry and exit for trainees, c) not exceeding a
maximum unit cost of US$ 600 or an individual contract value of US$ 10,000 or
as subsequently agreed by the Government and the Bank, and d) requiring
training providers to meet specified goals for job placement of trainees
(except for self-employment training).
Technical Assistance   (US$ 1.2 million)
37.      In addition to the Training Fund, the project would provide for
technical assistance comprising 138 person-months of local consultants and 24
person-months of international consultants, 24 person months of fellowships,
and small amounts of equipment (Annex C, Table 1) to assist the IIBK to
operate the Training Fund, including the development of six inputs to the
program: a) general support for development and implementation of the Job-
Insertion Training Fund, b) refined self-employment programs, c) customized
training programs for firms, d) local training plans, e) competitive
contracting procedures, and f) actions to promote female employment in non-
traditional occupations -- in which few women are currently employed, but
which offer good potential for productive employment of women.
B. DIVERSIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (US$ 0.3 million)
38.      This component provides for the development and phased implementation
of a plan to diversify employment services through the encouragement of
appropriately regulated private employment services. The project would
finance technical assistance, comprising 7 months of international and 7
months of local consultants plus 16 person-months of study tours (Annex C,
Table 2) to help IIBK complete three activities:
(a)      Conduct a study to assess the effectiveness of private
employment services and related regulations for different
types of clients in Turkey and selected OECD countries.
This will involve: i) developing a Steering Committee with
balanced tripartite representation and representation from
other concerned institutions to provide guidance on the
design and implementation of the study, as well as the
subsequent actions described in paras. 38b and c, ii)
reviewing the employment services currently provided by
IIBK, iii) reviewing the employment services currently
provided by private agents in Turkey, together with the laws
and administrative regulations relating thereto, iv)
conducting a study tour for selected IIBK and Steering
Committee members to private and public employment services
in at least four countries with different approaches to
management of private employment services, and v) developing
case studies on the four counties visited.



- 16 -
(b)      Identify alternative strategies for diversifying employment
services, including job-placement services, such that
private employment services can make a larger contribution
to improved labor-market efficiency in Turkey. This will
involve: i) preparing a report which identifies alternative
strategies through which private employment services could
be brought to play a larger role in promoting labor mobility
in Turkey, including means to progressively involve private
agents in providing employment services for different
sectors, clients, and occupations, and ii) discussing the
results of the report with the Steering Committee, the Bank,
and with the participants at a national seminar to be
convened to discuss the findings and recommendations of the
study. The seminar is to bring together representatives
from a broad group of interests, including the public
employment service, labor and employer groups, and public
and private bodies concerned with Turkey's national
development strategy.
(c)      Develop and implement a phased plan for diversification of
employment services. This will involve: i) development of
the plan, based on the outputs of the two previous
activities, setting forth mechanisms for phased
liberalization of private employment services, ii)
preparation of whatever draft legislation, ministerial
directives, or regulations may be necessary to implement the
plan,16 iii) development of procedures to improve
licensing, oversight, and evaluation of private employment
services, and financing of these activities on a partial or
full cost-recovery basis, iv) discussion of the plan with
the Bank, and v) implementation of the plan, as discussed
and agreed with the Bank.
39.     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
a) conduct a study on private employment services under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, commencing not later than September 1, 1993, b)
discuss the findings and recommendations of the study at a national seminar,
to be held not later than September 1, 1994, and to include representatives of
the Government, employers, employees, and public and private bodies concerned
with Turkey's national development strategy, c) on the basis of the
recommendations of the study and the seminar, develop a plan for phased
diversification of employment services in Turkey, and d) subsequently
implement the plan, as discussed and agreed with the Bank, beginning not later
than December 31, 1994.
,  It is understood that this action would not guarantee that a*y such proposed legislation would
subsequently be approved by Parliament.



- 17 -
C. EMPLOYMENT AND COUNSELING SERVICES (US$ 40.4 million)
40.     Currently, IIBK's employment services are limited to a rudimentary
form of job placement, in which applicants' reported skills are matched with
employers' vacancy announcements. This component is designed to improve
IIBK's basic job placement services, and to incorporate employment counseling
and applicant screening as an integral part of IIBK employment services. The
counseling programs to be developed for inclusion in IIBK's employment
services would also be valuable as a source of career guidance for secondary
students. In addition, the component provides for introducing career guidance
counseling on a pilot basis in public secondary schools, and other
education/training institutions.
41.     The component would support the development of employment counseling
and applicant screening programs, and the training of IIBK central and
provincial staff in providing the new services. It would also provide related
materials and equipment -- including computer equipment valued at US$ 4.0
million -- to automate management of IIBK programs and to assist branch office
staff in implementing the new services. Materials and training would also be
provided to introduce career guidance counseling in about 300 public secondary
schools, non-formal training centers, and technician training centers.17
42.     The Employment and Counseling Services component comprises five
distinct sub-components, described below, to be implemented by IIBK: a) the
development of improved employment services for local employment offices, b)
the development of counseling services for employment offices and schools, c)
the implementation of improved employment services throughout IIBK, and the
introduction of counseling services throughout IIBK and in about 300 secondary
and other schools, d) automation of IIBK services to improve their quality and
cost-effectiveness, and e) coordination of project implementation among She
diverse public and private agencies involved.
DeveloRment of Imgroved Employment Services   (US$ 1.6 million)
43.     This sub-component of the project would finance technical assistance
comprising 40 person-months of local consultants, 23 person-months of
international consultants, and 45 person-months of fellowships to expand the
breadth of labor exchange services at local employment offices and to improve
the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of employment services (Annex C, Table
3). It would also provide related materials to assist staff in implementing
new services. IIBK would develop the following services and products under
the component: a) work-plans/procedures, and related staff training materials
to revise the management and administration of employment services in order to
improve existing functions and incorporate new functions such as payment of
future benefits, increased automation, and expanded basic services including
occupational counseling and expanded labor-exchange services, b) an
operational plan for launching the Government's new unemployment insurance
D/ One of the selection criteria for the secondary schools in the career counseling pilot in availability
of computers to implemrnt the PC-based counseling software to be developed under the component. There are
at least 500 middle and secondary schools which are equipped with PCe suitable for career counseling.



- 18 -
program, c) a plan, procedures, and related training materials to improve
client intake, registration, and job referral services, d) procedures and
staff training materials to expand employer services and job development, e)
programs and related staff training materials to promote job search, job club,
and job coaching activities, f) mass-layoff procedures and related training
materials for employment office staff, and for enterprise, union and community
personnel in affected communities, and g) improved local labor market
information reporting procedures. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that IIBK will: a) identify six staff counterparts (e.g.,
In management development, unemployment benefits, client application and
referral, job development, job search/job club, mass layofi, and collection
and analysis of local labor market information) by the tim6 the employment and
counseling services technical assistance contract is signed, and b) cease the
practice of stipulating gender preferences in its job vacancy listings.
DeveloDment of Counseling Services   (US$ 2.2 million)
44.     This sub-component would finance technical assistance (consisting of
73 person-months of local consultants, 22 person-months of international
consultants and 27 months of fellowships), equipment and materials to develop
career information to help students and job seekers make informed career
decisions (Annex C, Table 4). It would include the creation of a fully
operational Career Information Unit (CIU) within IIBK, and the development of
career information (in print, video and computer formats) and voca~;onal
assessment and counseling procedures, materials and resources for use in local
employment offices. These materials are also to be the basis of the career
guidance counseling which is to be irtroduced into secondary schools and other
education/training institutions under the project. There is to be a
particular effort to eliminate gender stereotyping from counseling materials
and procedures under the component. The CIU is to carry out its work in
consultation with a Career Information Advisory Committee (CIAC), organized by
IIBK, and including representatives of MOE, SIS, YOK, TURKIS, and TOBB. The
Committee is to provide advice and counsel to the CIU on standards for career
information, vocational assessment, and career counseling for employment
service offices and schools. The CIAC is also to select the pilot schools
which are to offer career counseling under the project. Counseling programs
are to incorporate several elements, including aptitude and interest
assessment, and profiles of occupations, education and training programs, and
career paths. The work of developing counseling programs is expected to draw
heavily upon existing counseling products, including the vocational assessment
profiles and counseling software already available and in use in other OECD
countries. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the
IIBK will substantially staff the CIU with approximately six full-time staff
by the time the employment and counseling services technical assistance
contract is signed.
Implementation of ImRroved Employment and Counseling Services (US$ 25.7
million)
45.     This sub-component would finance technical assistance (consisting of
202 person-months of local consultants, 37 person-months of international
consultants, 245 person-months of fellowships, a lump-sum contract for long-



- 19 -
term staff training, and participant subsistence costs during training),
equipment, materials to support the implementation of the programs developed
in the two previous sub-components (Annex C, Table 5). Specific inputs to be
supported include: a) materials, equipment, and technical assistance to make
more effective use of IIBK's three in-service staff training centers, b)
short-term, in-service staff training for approximately 2,000 existing IIBK
staff, and related materials and equipment to provide improved basic
employment services -- including the introduction of employment counseling --
in all 110 existing IIBK branch offices, c) long-term (eight-month) staff
training in new and existing programs for up to 1000 IIBK employment
counselors, d) basic materials and equipment for all 110 IIBK branch offices,
plus additional resources for 15 very active offices and 39 active offices,1
e) staff training, materials, and equipment for in-depth vocational assessment
facilities in 4 very active branch offices, f) in-service staff training plus
software and material resources to implement basic career counseling in up to
300 pilot secondary schools, non-formal training centers, and technician
training centers, and g) development and delivery of career counseling courses
for teachers and student affairs staff and a certificate/diploma program for
school counselors and local labor office staff. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that IIBK will substantially staff its three
staff in-service training centers by December 1, 1993.
Automation of Employment Services   (US$ 9.1 million)
46.     This sub-component would finance technical assistance (comprising 72
person-months of local consultants, 10 person-months of international
consultants, 30 person-months of fellowships, and 244 person-months of local
training), equipment, software, materials, and supplies to refine and fully
implement automated management and service delivery throughout IIBK (Annex C,
Table 6). Specific actions under this subcomponent include: a) review of
IIBK's current automation plan to ensure its consistency with the expanded
program of employment services to be developed under the project, b)
completion of the conceptual design for thte IIBK system and ensuring
compatibility with the hardware and software configuration in the current
system, c) preparation of revised specifications for computer hardware,
software, multiple user systems, site preparation, installation, training and
maintenance for local labor offices, d) procurement and installation of
equipment and software, e) staff training, and f) review and evaluation of
program modules and equipment following system installation. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that IIBK will staff its
Automation Department with core staff, including a systems analyst, systems
programmer, systems administrator, and technical training specialist, by the
time the related technical assistance contract is signed.
Vl/ These offices have been selected as because they have the greatost needs lo teos of nuxbor of cliente.
These offier are listed in Aznnex D, together with their current staff also end client case Load.



- 20 -
project Coordination   (US$ 1.7 million)
47.     To ensure timely implementation of scheduled project activities and
suitable coordination and monitoring across the public and private agencies
involved in the project, as well as within IIBK, the project would finance
technical assistance (comprising 341 person-months of local consultants and 29
person-months of foreign consultants, and 5 one-month study tours), furniture,
equipment, and materials for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be
established in IIBK, the lead project agency (Annex C, Table 7). This sub-
component would support implementation of all project components. Technical
assistance for this sub-component is expected to be provided under a
management services agreement with a United Nations agency. However, IIBK
line units would retain direct responsibility for implementation of the
project.
D. LABOR-MARKET INFORMATION (US$ 2.6 million)
48.      Improved labor-market information is needed to help inform key
decisions involved in employment and training -- decisions by Government and
by the private sector about appropriate training offerings, decisions by
secondary students among alternative secondary school specializations,
occupational decisions by members of the labor force wishing to change jobs or
obtain new jobs, and decisions by collective bargaining agents as to
appropriate levels of staffing and remuneration. The Labor-Market Information
component aims to improve these decisions by improving the coverage of labor-
market data (including data on labor productivity), by supporting analysis of
labor-market data, and by improving the dissemination of labor-market
information. The Employment and Counseling Services component, described
above, includes several actions which will improve the quality and timeliness
of IIBK data on job applicants and placements. It will, in that sense,
contribute to the objectives of this component. The Labor-Market Information
component focuses on actions to be led by SIS to improve labor-market
information. The component consists of actions to: a) improve the coverzige,
quality, timeliness, and accessibility of labor-market data generated by SIS,
b) improve the accessibility of labor-market information from all sources
through the creation of a labor-market information data base, and c) promote
the dissemination and use of labor-market information through the production
and distribution of semi-annual bulletins on current labor-market
developments, and the conduct of research studies on longer-term labor-market
trends.
49.     The Labor-Market Information component comprises three sub-
components, described below, to be implemented by the SIS: a) improved
coverage and reporting of SIS employment statistics, b) creation of a labor-
market information data base, and c) labor-market research and dissemiration.
Improved SIS Emloyment Statistics   (US$ 1.8 million)
50.     This sub-component will finance equipment, software, staff training,
and technical assistance (consisting of 23 person-months of foreign
consultants, 16 person-months of local consultants, and 77 person-months of



- 21 -
overseas fellowships and study tours) to enable SIS to make the results of its
Household Labor-Force Survey and Establishment Survey more accessible to users
by improving their coverage and publishing their findings in two new forms: a)
an abbreviated, hard-copy report of principal findings within three months of
survey completion, and b) a detailed diskette version for users desiring more
complete survey results (Annex C, Table 8). The diskette version of survey
results, to be made available to users after data cleaning and removal of
information on individuals, will present survey results in a far more detailed
form than the current hard-copy report. The diskette version will present
survey results in a level of detail as close as possible to raw-data form.
The exact content of the detailed diskette version will evolve over time
according to user needs as conveyed through a Labor Market Information
Advisory Board.
51.      Survey coverage is to be improved through three sets of changes to
existing SIS surveys designed to provide fuller treatment of labor-market
issues:
(a)      With project support, the SIS will expand the coverage of
employment issues in the existing Survey of Manufacturing
Establishments, to include questions on employees' age,
gender, level of qualification, occupation, wages,
productivity, labor turnover, and duration of employment.
The Establishment Survey Series currently covers all
manufacturing establishments with 10 or more employees in
the private sector and all manufacturing establishments in
the public sector once a year, and cn a quarterly basis
covers all manufacturing establishments with 25 or more
employees. However, the survey currently includes very
little detail on employment issues. The addition of this
information under the project will materially improve the
usefulness of the survey to inform career planning and
training program design.
(b)      The SIS will develop a module which will be administered
with the Household Labor-Force Survey, and which will
address issues of education and skill development. The
module will enrich the coverage of the existing survey by
providing more detailed information than is currently
available on the education and training attributes of the
labor force by economic branch and occupation. This
information is expected to be instrumental in helping to
identify areas of skill deficits and surplus -- in part, as
a guide to the design of future training initiatives.
(c)      The SIS will also conduct feasibility studies to prepare for
expanding the coverage of the Establishment Surveys. The
existing Establishment Survey series covers only modern-
sector, manufacturing enterprises. In order to improve the
utility of the series, the SIS wishes to extend coverage to
the service sectors and the informal sector. This expansion
of the Establishment Survey would provide a rich source of



- 22-
additional information for the Labor Market Information Data
Base.
Labor-Market Information Data Base (US$ 0.3 million)
52.      In order to assist institutions and individuals to benefit more fully
from existing labor-market information, the project will support the
establishment and maintenance of a Labor-Market Information Data Base within
SIS. It will provide training, technical assistance (consisting of 12 person-
months of local consultants, 8 person-months of international consultants, and
3 staff-months of overseas fellowships), and local user training to support
this effort (Annex C, Table 9). The data base will comprise a sub-set of all
labor-market information collected by involved agencies. Contents of the data
base are to be discussed and agreed between contributors and users of the data
base -- including SIS, IIBK, the National Productivity Center, TISK, TUSIAD,
TOBB, TURKIS, DSPW, and MOE. The SIS is to be responsible for the design and
management of the data base, in consultation with the Labor-Market Information
Advisory Board, comprising representatives of the agencies contributing to and
using the data base. Information in the data base is to be made available to
contributing agencies at no cost; other users may have access to the data base
for a charge which covers direct costs. Labor-market information from the
data base is also to be used for the dissemination activities described below.
Labor-Market Research and Dissemination (US$ 0.5 million)
53.      This sub-component will support two activities to improve the
dissemination of labor-market information: the production and distribution of
a labor-market bulletin on current labor-market developments, and conduct of
research on longer-term labor-market trends. These activities are described
below:
(a)      The establishment of the Labor-Market Information Data Base
will improve access to labor-market information for the
specialized user, but there is also a need to improve access
for non-specialized users, such as career counsellors in
schools, employment counsellors in IIBK branch offices,
occupational counsellors in enterprises, school headmasters,
union officials, and planners of education and training
programs. To help meet this need, the component will
support the production and distribution by SIS of a periodic
Labor-Market Bulletin, prepared initially two times per year
and perhaps on a quarterly basis once established. In non-
technical language, the Bulletin will summarize key, current
labor-market developments, and describe longer-term
employment trends. It will also include commentary and
review of education and training developments related to
employment prospects. The Bulletin is to be produced by SIS
with assistance from consultants, largely on the basis of
information from the Labor-Market Information Data Base.
The project will supporL the provision of equipment,
technical assistance (consisting of 24 person-months of



- 23 -
local consultants and 1 person-month of international
consultants), overseas study tours, and the costs of
production and distribution of the Bulletin to a wide
audience of users (Annex C, Table 10).
(b)      An important complement to the information on current labor-
market developments is information on longer-term labor-
market trends. This information is necessary, for example,
to guide the planning of education and training programs of
long duration. Under the component, SIS will, with guidance
from the Labor-Market Information Advisory Board, commission
a program of research on longer-term labor market
developments affecting Turkey's employment prospects and
training needs. Findings of this research are to be
included in the Labor-Market Bulletin as they emerge from
the commissioned studies. To support this effort, the
project will finance technical assistance (consisting of 12
person-months of local consultants and 8 person-months of
international consultants) to commission studies and
consultant reviews of proposals and studies (Annex C, Table
10).
E. OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION (US$ 3.6 million)
54.     The objective of this component is to improve labor force mobility,
recruitment efficiency, and training program relevance by developing emplover-
relevant occupational skill certification. The component is to establish a
process and a structure for generating occupational standards and
corresponding certification which are relevant to employer needs. It is also
to begin the task of drafting, reviewing, and approving such standards.
Because occupational standards need to evolve with the c;anging content of
occupations, the project would initiate a process which is expected to be
self-sustaining after the project is completed. Employers and other
beneficiaries of occupational standards are to provide the key inputs in their
development.
55.     As the first step, IIBK has circulated and gained approval an
Occupational Standards and Certification Protocol,"9 which establishes the
procedure and structure for developing occupational standards and
corresponding certification. The Protocol was signed by senior
representatives of interested government, employer, and employee
organizations, including the MOL and IIBK, MOE, SPO, the Prime Ministry, TISK,
TOBB, TESK and TURKIS. In addition to defining the procedures for
occupational standards development, the Protocol establishes an implementation
structure for starting the process and preparing for the establishment of a
permanent, tripartite Occupational Standards Institute. This is to consist of
nl A draft Protocol, acceptmbl. to the Bank, has been prepared by I13K in consultation with all the
prospective participants. This document is to bo circulated for ratification to prospective members of tho
Occupational Standards Commiosion which would be established under the Protocol.



- 24 -
a tripartite Occupational Standards Commission (Meslek Standartlari Kurum-i, or
MSK), which will legitimate and oversee the development of occupational
standards, and a Research and Technical Service Unit (AraqIrma ve Teknik
Nlzmet Blrlmm, or ATHB), which will coordlnate the actual development of
occupational standards and serve as a clearing house for completed standards.
The ATHB is to he attached to the Foundation for the Promotion of Vocational
Education and Small Industries (MEKSA), an organization accepted by MSK
members, as a source of administrative support. The MSK is to serve as the
executive committee of the ATHB.20 IIBK is to provide project resources to
the ATHB host institution to carry out the project actions described below.
Organizations represented in MSK would also provide cash or in-kind resources
to support successful implementation of ATHB activities.
56.     The Project would finance technical assistance (consisting of 55
person years of long-term local consultants, 62 person months of short-term
local consultants, 30 months of international consultants, 43 person-months of
study tours, and local training), equipment, and materials to establish a
fully operational ATHB and develop occupational standards and related (written
and performance) test items for occupational certification for approximately
250 priority occupations (Annex C, Tables 11 - 14).21 Specific activities
under this component include the following:
(a)     Provision of cost-effective management support for
development and use of occupational standards, including
initiation of ATHB operations, review of occupational
standard development actions in several other countries with
analogous organlzatlons, and development of short-range and
long-range ATHB work programs.
(b)      Support for documentatlon and record-keeping, through
development of a documentation center which would promote
the use of occupational standards, would maintain
certification records, and would obtain and disseminate
ATHB-developed products and products on occupational
standards and certification from other countries.
(c)      Development of procedures for carrying out occupational
analvsis with enterprises and employment-and-training
institutions, including updating the Turkish Dictionary of
Occupational Titles, developing occupational analysis
procedures, developing related training materials for
technical writing teams, field testing procedttres, and
providing ongoing support for development and use of
approximately 250 occupational analyses.   Particular
attention would be given to ensuring the gender-neutrality
AV With the *entual creation of the Occupational Standards Institute, the Institute would assume the
functions of the A5TB. end the 'MK would be transformed into the Institute's Board.
XV In addition to skill requirmente, employment prospects nd career growth profiles, these standards are
to Include occupationel sefety nd health *"pcts of work In particular occupations.



- 25 -
of occupational standards and test items to be developed
under the component.
(d)      Development of procedures to provide occuDational testing
And certification products to enterprises and employment-
and-training agencies, including defining procedures for
development of test items and construction of tests,
developing related training materials for technical writing
teams and agencies developing tests, field testing
procedures, providing ongoing support for the development of
approximately 250 test item data banks, and training a cadre
of individuals at the local level to assist local agencies
conduct occupational testing in accordance with ATHB
standards.
57.     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the MSK
will review the legal status of NSK and ATHB by September 1, 1994, and, if MSK
members concur, the Government will support development of plans to formalize
MSK as a fully or partially self-financing foundation or association by
December 1, 1995.
F. WOMEN'S EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION (US$ 1.4 million)
58.     The overall objective of the Women's Employment Promotion component
is to expand women's access to jobs offering better prospects for career
growth -- including jobs in traditionally male-dominated occuipations. It
comprises two elements. The first, involving no additional project costs,
consists of actions to promote women's employment under most of the individual
project components outlined above. The second element is a Policy and Action
Research Fund which the project would support within the new Directorate on
the Status and Problems of Women (DSPW).2
59.     Actions to promote women's employment under other project components
include the following:
(a)      More than half of the individuals trained and placed in jobs
under the IIBK pilot program of job-insertion training have
been women. It is expected that women would continue to
benefit significantly in the extension of that program under
the job-insertion comRonent of the project. The component
would also support the development of actions to promote
women's employment in non-traditional occupations -- in
which few women are currently employed, but which offer good
potential for productive employment of women.
(b)      The employment and counseling services component would
promote women's employment opportunities by halting the
fl/ The Directorate was created early in 1991 within the Milistry of Labor. It was subsequently moved.
together with the foramer Minister, to a State Ministry under the Prime Ministry.



- 26 -
specification of gender preferences in Job vacancy listings
and by eliminating gender stereotyping from counseling
materials and procedures.
(c)      The labor-market information component would provide for
collection, documentation, and analysis of gender-specific
employment data as a basis for identifying trends in female
employment and developing appropriate policies to promote
productive employment of women. It would also eliminate the
gender stereotyping of job categories in those data series
where it currently exists.
(d)      The occuRational standards and certification component would
ensure gender-neutrality of occupational standards and test
items to be developed under the component.
60.     In addition, the project includes a Policy and Action Research Fund
Component to support action-oriented research on female employment issues in
Turkey. Research studies would be commissioned by the DSPW under the mandate
of the DSPW and in consultation of a the Research Advisory Committee convened
by DPWD comprising representatives of other project agencies, NGOs,
universities, research institutes, and other government agencies with a
mandate and interest in women's employment. The studies would document the
existing situation of women's employment and training, and would identify
factors which impede and promote women's access to productive employment and
to improve women's productivity and earnings. The project would also support
seminars and other activities to disseminate research findings on actions to
promote women's employment. The project would finance technical assistance
(consisting of 6 person-months of international consultants, 120 person-months
of local consultants, 6 months of study tours, and local training), plus
equipment and materials to support these activities (Annex C, Table 15).
Environmental Impact
61.     The project is not expected to result in negative environmental
impacts. Accordingly, the project has been placed in environmental screening
category "C", which does not require any environmental analysis. The
occupational standards which are to be developed under the occupational
standards and certification component are to include occupational safety and
health aspects of work in particular occupations.



- 27 -
.II. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
62.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 107.4 million, or
TL 2,042 billion, equivalent. Base costs are calculated at US$ 91.0 million,
and contingencies at US$ 16.4 million. Physical contingencies represent US$
2.2 million. Price contingencies, calculated at US$ 14.2 million, reflect
Bank guidelines on expected local and international price increaser.23 The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$ 24.9 million, or 23 percent of
total project costs. Project costs are defined to comprise investment costs
(estimated at US$ 85.6 million) and incremental recurrent expenditures
(estimated at US$ 21.8 million). Project duration is six years.24 A summary
of project costs by component and category of expenditure is presented in
Tables 1 and 2, below. A more detailed breakdown of costs is presented in
Annex C.
63.     Basis of Cost Estimates:  Cost estimates for the Job-Insertion
Training Fund are based on actual costs incurred by IIBK in 1991 in the
implementation of its pilot program of job-insertion training, consisting of
instructor fees, training materials, rent and utilities for training
facilities, and modest participant transport allowances. For other project
elements, cost estimates are derived as follows: Costs of equipment,
furniture, materials, and vehicles are based on local market prices, or CIF
unit prices adjusted to include local transportation and commissioning costs.
Costs for computers are based on current international prices. Costs for
foreign and local technical assistance are based on current rates experienced
for similar contracts in ongoing projects in Turkey. Overseas
fellowship/study visit costs are estimated on the basis of short-term
fellowship costs in Europe and the United States of one month average
duration. The cost of local travel and subsistence varies according to the
type, duration, and purpose of activity, assumptions for which are noted in
the detailed cost tables. Incremental recurrent costs for salaries,
materials, and rent are based on current Government rates. Base costs reflect
a Negotiations exchange rate of US$ 1 - TL 7,500, and include a price
adjustment between appraisal and negotiations. In addition, a price
contingency adjustment is included between Negotiations and start-up.
L_ International price increaseo for the six projoect years, frau January 1, 1993 through December 31. 1998,
are sot at: 3.9X, 3.91, 3.81, 3.81, 3.68, 3.8Z. The corresponding local price increaos are got at 66.31,
40.5X, 23.61, 17.9Z, 13.0X, and 10.61; Anual . ehange rates for project years are set at: 11,444; 15.518;
18,777; 21,612; 23,817; 25,675. Projections are as of Harb 2nd, 1992. A 12-month price adjustment in
included to reflect inflation during the period between appraisal nd negotiations, and between negotiations
and project initiation.
3_/ The project would be implmnted ovez siz years, and disbursed ovor seven year, or six months lese than
the 7-1/2 year country profile for Turkey. The alightly shorter period is justified in view of the fact
that the projoct actions consist largely of either pilot program for which there is a good record of past
implementation, or short-toer initiatives to develop new program which are to be integrated into ongoing
progress of the implmnting agencies.



-28-
Table  1                                                 EMPLOYMENT AND TAINING PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(TURKISH LIRA  Millioni                                    (US$ million)
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I Total                                     11 Total
I1 Foreign  Base                            I Foreign  Base
Local       Foreign       Total      Exhange   Costs   Local Foreign Total  Exchange   Costs
842:3:242333    332232:22* :s.:::s::s:: x:::s:u.8  *Ss :z:  mass$ :33:::: 33:322 3:21:3332  332:029
A. JOB INSERTION TRAINING             2732333.79  47.353.04   320.686.63             II      47  36.44    6.31  42.76             15      4?
B. DIVERSIFICATION OF
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES                    203.64   1.660.28        1,664.12         69        0   0.03    0.22   0.25            89        0
C. EMPLOYMENT A COUNSELING
SERVICES                          211, 127. 48  91.675.23   303. 002.71          30       44  26.15I  12.21  40.40            30       44
0. LABOR MARKET
INFORMtATION  ISISI                 8,025. 61  11,561.23      19. 166.684        19        3   1. 07    1.154   2. 61         59        3
E. OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS
TESTING A CERTIFICATION             11.960.51   6,736.29    26. 696.61           33        4   2.39      1.16   3.16          33        4
F. NOMENS EMPLOYMENT
PROMOTION                            9,166. 29   1.667.23    10. 633.12          Is        2   1.22    0.22   1.44            is        2
.. . . . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . .       . . . .    . . .
Total BASELINE COSTS                    519,817.53 162.873.30   662,690.63             24      100  69.31   21.72  91.03           24       100
Physical Contingencieis                7,430.23   9.2t8.06       16.646.31         11        2   0.99      1. 23   2.22         11        2
Price Contingencies                t,090,620.20 212. 114.44 1. 342. 974. 64         19     197  12. 19    1. 97  14. 17         14       lB
... . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . .       . . . .    . . .
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1. 618.087. 95 424. 241.862 2.042. 313. 77       21      299  62.49   24.92 107. 41           23      II6
2:2222.2s8:g              asn:::  333202230  2.2320. 20 lsaf   2ase2 A222232  223322 .233322 ....   23...
-..  .  . . . .  . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . .
October 28. 1992 12:21
Table  2                                                      SUANIAY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
ITURKISH LIRA  MillionI                                    (US$ Million)
I Total                                     2 Total
I Foreign  Base                             Z Foreign  Bsse
Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange   Costa   Local Foreign Total  Exchange   Costa
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. .JOB-INSERTION TRAINING                          268.060.68  43.733.25   312,393.93              14      46  31.62    1.63  41. 65           14       46
B. EQUIPMENT                                           1,669.17  13. 006. 15    18,691.72          90        9   0.79    7, 07   7. 85          90        9
C. FURNITURE                                           3, 519.16     160. lB     4. 139.71         14         I   0.47    0. 06   0.15          14        I
0. VEHICLES                                            5,452.62   7, 641.6St    13,094.63          16        2   0.73    1.02   1. 75           58        2
E. OVERSEAS TRAINING                                           -  23.838646    23.8636.46         too        3       -    3. 18   3. 18        100        3
F. LOCAL TRAINING                                     13,6802.6 U  4,242.69      18.045.?7         24        3   1. 84    0.157   2. 41         24        3
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I. FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            -  20,941.93    20.941. 93          100        3       -    2.79   2.79         100        3
2. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     63. 177.92           -    63. 177.92           -        9   6.42         -   6.42           -        9
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                        63. 177.92  20,941.93    64. 123.85          25       12   6.42    2.79  11.22            25       12
H. LOCAL TRAVEL / SUBSISTENCE I HONORARIA            15,912.00   4,691.22    20. 803.22            24        3   2. 12    0.65   2. 77          24        3
I. BOOKS I MATERIALS I SUPPLIES                       12,953.92   3.993.44      16,947.36          24        2   1.73    0.53   2.26            24        2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS.                                 369. 409. 31 162.873.30   552.282.65          29       61  51.92   21.72  73.64            29       61
Physical Contingencies                                 7.430.23   9,216.08    16. 648. 31           5        2   0.99    1.23   2.22            15        2
Price Contingencies                                 727. 506.07 252. 114.44   979. 662.5 I         26      144   7.60      1. 97   9.77         20       Il
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         I. 124,347.65 424,241.82 1.1546.193. 47          27     227  60.71   24.92  85.63            29       94
938:ss.533:: u=s:s:.s.x  9:223.232325    8353*232  322        323:: ese  :5::3   2:::            Message 3332
II. RECIURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                                  111.527.94             - 111,527.94                     16l  14.67        -  14.87           -       16
6. OPERATING MATERIALS /SUPPLIES                      8,487.60            -     6,467.80           -        I   0.87             0.67                    I
C. RENT                                                 199.04                    599.04           -        0   0.08         -   0.06                    0
0. COMPUTER MAINTENACE                               11. 793.60           -     11,793.60                   2   1.57         -   1.17           -        2
Total RECIURRENT COSTS                                  130,406.186                130,408.18           -       19  17.39         -  17.39           -       19
Price Contingsncls                                  363,312.13             -   363.312.13            .      53   4.39         -   4.39           - 
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           493,720.30            . 493.720.30                      72  21.78         -  21.78                  24
3022Z20  3223225 321522222222 28223232*  228222  M282s 52.2202 223352 a ....:33 Z..  ex ..
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     19673    2.330 682,690.83                      24      100  69.31   21.72  91.03            24      100
Physical Contingencies                                  7.430.'23   9. 218'. 08    16, 646. 31      51        2   0.99      1.23   2.22          15        2
Price Contingencies                                1, 090.6820. 20 212. 114.44 1.342.974.64          19     197  12. 19    1. 97  14. 17         14       16
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    I, 616. 067. 91 424,241.62 2. 042. 313. 77       21      299  82.49   24.92 107.41            23      I16
222258.23X2   22822938  223222522232 225332233 3532353  22252 2232222 a22e33 X2.2232552 5:553:
October 26. 1992 12:21



- 29 -
64.      Duties and Taxes:   The project implementation agencies -- IIBK, SIS,
DSPW, MOE, and MEKSA/ATHB are expected to be exempted from import duties for
goods to be purchased under the project. Therefore, estimated project costs
include only a value added tax of 10 percent, payable on all imported and
locally procured goods. Taxes amount to US$ 2.4 million equivalent, to be
financed by the Government.
65.      Contingency Allowances:  Physical contingencies are estimated at 10
percent for equipment, furniture, materials, and vehicles, and 5 percent for
technical assistance, fellowships, training, and subsistence. No physical
contingencies are calculated for recurrent costs. Overall, physical
contingencies total US$ 2.2 million, and represent 2.4 percent of base costs,
or 2.1 percent of total costs. Price contingencies on base costs plus
physical contingencies are estimated at US$ 14.2 million for the period
between negotiations and the end of the project. Total contingencies
represent 18.0 percent of base costs.
66.      Foreign Exchange Component:  The foreign exchange component is US$
24.9 million including contingencies, or 23 percent of total project costs.
It includes direct and indirect foreign costs estimated as follows: 15
percent for furniture and job-insertion training, 25 percent for books,
materials, and local training and subsistence, 60 percent for vehicles, 90
percent for equipment, and 100 percent for foreign and local technical
assistance, fellowships, and study tours.
67.      Incremental Recurrent Costs:  The project will generate incremental
recurrent costs through additional staff to be contracted and recruited to
expand services at IIBK, SIS, and DSPW. It is estimated that the project will
generate US$ 17.4 million (base costs) in recurrent costs, out of which 85
percent (or US$ 14.9 million) would be for salaries; the remaining 15 percent
is for materials, operating costs, and rent. The estimated annual incremental
recurrent cost for the last year of the project is calculated at US$ 5.0
million for 1998, which is 50 percent of IIBK's 1991 recurrent budget,
representing a reasonable increase in view of the scale of expanded and
improved services to be implemented under the project. The project does not
include incremental salaries for official drivers for vehicles purchased under
the project as it is expected that, under new legislation, users will be
responsible for operating the vehicles, or existing drivers would be
transferred.
68.      Project Financing:  The proposed loan of US$ 67.0 million equivalent
would finance 62 percent of total project costs of US$ 107.4 million; the
balance of US$ 40.4 million equivalent would be financed from the government
budget. The Bank Loan would finance 100 percent of direct and indirect
foreign costs (US$ 24.9 million), net of taxes, plus 51 percent of local
investment costs, net of taxes (US$ 42.1 million). The high percentage of
Bank financing for local costs reflects the predominance of local costs in
job-insertion training, a major project activity. The proposed financing plan
is presented in Table 3, below:



30  -
Table 3: FINANCING PlUN (US$ MILLIONS)
Category of Expenditure                    Goverewknt         lank           TOTAL   DUTIES
USS N            US$"          US$N      £ TAXES
Investment Costs
Job-Insertion Training                     16.6             31.1          47.7        0.9
Equipment                                   0.9              8.4            9.3       0.9
Furniture                                   0.6                            0.6        0.1
Books/MaterIals/Supplies                    0.3              2.4            2.7       0.3
Technical Asesstance                         -              13.2           13.2        -
Overseas Fellowships                                         3.6            3.6        -
Local Training                               -               3.0            3.0        -
Vehicles                                    0.2              1.9            2.1       0.2
Trovelt Subsistence                                          3.4           3.4
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Salaries                                   18.6               -            18.6
Materials/operating Costs                   1.1               -             1.1        -
Rent/Naintenance                            2.1                             2.1
TOTAL:           40 4             67



- 31 -
IV. P     COJ? NAUM NUNT MD IMPMMENSTATION
69.     With the exception of procurDemnt (para. 92), the project Is to be
implemented directly by the five agencies involved: II5K, SIS, DSPW, KOB,
and the MEKSA/ATHB. The MLnistry of Education (MOE), as a dlrect
beneficiary of Career Guidance Counseling activlties, would work closely
with IIBK to coordinate thLs work. The Sl8 and DSPW would not require
specialized project management staff, although these agencies would each
appoint a Project Coordinator who would be assigned Implementation
responsibilities.
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
70.     To ensure the timely implementation of scheduled project
activities, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established at IIBK,
the lead agency (Annex B and D). The integrated nature of the project
requires close coordination and monitoring across the public and prlvate
agencies involved, as well as withln the IIBK. To achieve this
coordination, the project would finance technlcal assistance for project
management in the PCU. This technical assistance would be obtained by
requesting proposals from interested UN agencles for long-term assistance
of local consultants and short-term assLstance of International consultants
to help administer the project. However, IIBK line units would retain
direct responsibility for implementation of the project.
71.     The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator, accountable to
the General Director of IIBK with the necessary support staff (including
financial officer, procurement officer. clerical and support staff). The
respective line Departments of IIBK and the other agencLes Livolved in the
project are to be responsible for implementing project activities. The
IIBK Accounting and Procurement Departments would assLst the IIBK line
units in carrying out these actlvities. The PCU would monitor
implementation of project activities by these Departments, and facliltate
assistance where necessary.
72.     The PCU is to be composed of national experts engaged for the
duratlon of the project, under specific terms of reference.
Responsibilities of the PCU Include: a) overseelng project execution, wLth
a particular view to ensuring the consistency and timellness of project
activities, b) disseminatLng information regarding project activitLes to
other employer and employee asociatLons and to prospective clients of IIBK
and the Mlnistry of Education, c) finalizing terms of reference and
contractlng foreign and local technical assistance for project activitles,
including the Annual Project Implementation Assessmont, d) overseeing,
with technical departments, the selection of fellows, and e) producing



- 32 -
consolidated semester progress reports for the project, coordinating the
input of technical, financial, and administrative units.
73.     A Project Operational Manual has been developed which includes
agreed terms of reference (TOR) for technical assistance for all project
components (Annex G). These are listed in Table 4, below.
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENT=TION RESPONSIBILITIES
. ........ .................... .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Component &        Responsible Agency/Department       Project Operational
Sub Component                                                 Manual
Reference
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -  . ..... ............. .  
Job Insertion:
Training Fund        IIBK - Emp./Voc. Rehab. Dept.             TOR #1
Technical Asst.      IIBK - Emp./Voc. Rehab. Dept.             TOR #1
Diversification of
Employment Services   IIBK - Director Ger.eral's Office         TOR #2
employment and Counseling:
Develop Emp. Serv.   IIBK - Emp./Voc. Rehab. Dept.             TOR #3
Develop Coun. Serv.  IIBK - Emp./Voc. Rehab. Dept.             TOR #3
Implement Services   IIBK - Emp./Voc. Rehab. Dept.             TOR #3
Automation           IIBK - Automation Dept.                   TOR #4
PCU Support          IIBK - Director General's Office          TOR #5
Labor Market Information  State Institute of Statistics (SIS)       TOR #6
Occupational Standards    IIBK/MSK/MEKSA/ATHB                       TOR #7
Women's Employment        DSPW                                      TOR #8
Job-Insertion Training
74.     Implementation of this component is to be coordinated by the IIBK
Employment and Vocational Rehabilitation Department at IIBK.
Implementation of training under the Training Fund subcomponent would
differ from the existing IIBK pilot program in that the responsibility for
day-to-day implementation would be devolved to local branch offices of
IIBK. With technical assistance to be provided under the project, IIBK
branch offices will be invited to develop an annual training plan which
describes the rationale, training and small business development areas,
approximate number and timing of courses, and proposed annual budget for
the program. Technical assistance is to be procured through ICB under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
75.     Project-financed training would be limited to activities
consistent with an annual training plan endorsed by a local Employment



- 33 -
Council,25 comprising representatives of IIBK, local employer and employee
associations, the Governor's office, and the Ministry of Education.26
Project technical assistance would be available to provide orientation to
Employment Councils as needed. Annual training plans are to be submitted
for approval by a National Employment Council, chaired by IIBK and
including representatives of employer and employee groups such as the TISK,
TOBB, TUSIAD, and TURKIS, as well as the Ministry of Education and Ministry
of Tourism. The National Council will review proposals, particularly in
light of the suitability of the proposed training actions to meet
'demonstrated local employment needs. Once the plan and its associated
budget are approved, local branch offices will be free to implement the
plan without further approval from the center, as long as unit costs are
within the norms established by IIBK and meet agreed criteria (para. 36).
In-service training requested by firms would also need to conform to the
local training plan. Such training would be developed on demand at the
discretion of IIBK branch office managers at a negotiated rate of cost
recovery. Implementation is to be reviewed on an ongoing basis by the
Local Employment Councils, which are to report semiannually on plan
implementation to the National Employment Council.
Diversification of EmDloyment Services
76.     Implementation of this component is to be managed by the IIBK
Director General's office, in consultation with a the Steering Committee
which is to be established under the component.  Implementation is to
conform to agreed terms of reference, as presented in the Project
Operational Manual.
Em2Loyment and Counseling Services.
77.     The first three sub-components of the Employment and Counseling
Services component27 are to be implemented by the Employment and Vocational
Rehabilitation Department of the IIBK, in close cooperation with the
Personnel and Training Department. Identification of firm(s) to provide
technical assistance will be accomplished through LIB, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. A single contract will be developed to
support the design and implementation of programs, and in-service staff
training materials for the employment and counseling service sub-
components. This assistance would consist of support in designing and
field testing employment and counseling materials in cooperation with IIBK
staff, including materials for short-term and long-term (eight month and
diploma courses) training programs.
&W As distinct from the apprenticeship, or eiraklik, comittees which the Minist7y of Education ha
established in sme localities.
Z&1 Active Employment Councils exict in many, but not aUl largo and medium-sise cities. Under the project.
IIBK is to take the lead in developing Employment Councils, in a phased manner, in cemmunities "here
currently they do not exist.
ZZ/ These are Development of IMproved Employment Services (para. 41), Development of Improved Counseling
Services (para. rZ), and Implmentation of Improved Employmant and Counseling and Employment Services (para.
43).



- 34 -
78.     Short-term, in-service training for 2,000 staff in local
employment offices throughout Turkey would be dellvered by teams of local
consultants working with the IIBK Director of Personnel Training. Training
schedules would be developed in cooperation with local offices and the IIBK
Employment and Vocational Rehabilitation Department. Training would be
conducted at local offices, regional sites, or in the three IIBK in-service
training centers. Local consultants are to be hired under the technical
assistance contract and trained by the personnel who are to develop
materials for short-term training. The project provides resources for
hiring these consultants, subsistence and travel costs of local labor
office staff engaged in training, and materials and equipment for upgrading
the three IIBK in-service training centers. The implementation and
training of Ministry of Education school staff who are to introduce the
pilot program of career guidance counseling in secondary schools will be
coordinated through MOE and delivered by the same technical assistance and
local personnel who are to develop counseling materials for IIBK and to
train IIBK staff.
79.     Long-term (total eight month), pre-service training for IIBK staff
will be carried out by an organization identified and selected under ICB as
part of the overall technical assistance contract for the Employment and
Counseling component. This organization will develop the training program
during the first year of the project, then train approximately 250 staff
per year for the next four years. Participants are to be selected by IIBK
based on criteria acceptable to IIBK and the Bank.. It is expected that
about one-half of these individuals will be from existing IIBK staff, and
the remaining half from newly recruited staff. Staff receiving long-term
training will be required to serve at IIBK for two years following
completion of their training. All training will be done in Turkey. The
development and implementation of the university-level diploma program for
job counselors will be carried out in collaboration with a selected
institution (e.g. university) under the technical assistance contract for
this component.
80.     The Career Information Advisory Committee (CIAC) and Career
Information Unit (CIU) established by IIBK will make recommendations on and
review all aspects of the development and dissemination of the career
information and counseling products of the CIU. The CIAC will include
representation from IIBK, MOE, SIS, YOK, TURKIS, TISK and/or TOBB.
Participants would be at the Director level and below, and would be
selected on the basis of subject matter expertise and pertinence of career
information and counseling to their mandates. The CIAC would be organized
by IIBK. Members would be expected to organize career information review
committees within their organizations, and to facilitate field-testing and
implementation of CIU products.
81.     The CIU will be staffed by six professional staff, and will be
located at or near IIBK national headquarters. In order to avoid very
large research and development expenses and major delay, adaptation of one
of the major career information delivery systems now in use ln North
America and Europe is anticipated. The CIAC would review and provide
advice on standards for career information, vocational assessment and



- 35 -
career counselling for labor offices and schools. The CIU would, with
technical assistance provided under the project, select and adapt or
develop aptitude and interest assessment procedures. Excellent paper-based
and computer-based interest and aptitude tests are available from several
sources, and are expected to be used for this purpose.
82.     The Automation sub-component would be implemented by the
Automation Department of IIBK. Two technical assistance support contracts
are to be let for the automation sub-component: the first to provide
general management assistance, and the second to provide specialized
support for installation of the new automation programs, including training
of local employment office staff.
(a)      The first technical assistance contract would provide for
the review and finalization of IIBK's automation plan,
including equipment lists, specifications, and plans for
installation and staff training. The team will also
assist in: i) procurement of automation equipment and
related services (software development and staff
training), ii) monitoring equipment installation,
software development, and staff training under the sub-
component, and iii) evaluation of the fully installed
IIBK automation system. The technical assistance team
would be supported by about six full-time IIBK staff
(director, employment operations expert, systems analyst,
systems programmer, systems administrator, and training
expert).
(b)      The second technical assistance contract under the
automation sub-component would provide support for
installation of systems and training of IIBK branch
office staff in use of the new automated programs. This
contract would be integrated with the contract for
procurement of automation and software development.
Labor Market Information
83.     The Labor-Market Information component is to be implemented by the
SIS line units responsible for the various actions in the component, and
coordinated by the SIS External Relations Unit.2 Component actions
involving publication of survey results and survey development are to be
implemented by the line units of SIS responsible for the surveys in
question: the Labor-Force and Price Statistics Department for actions
involving the Household Labor-Force Survey, and the Agriculture and
Industry Statistics Department for actions involving the Survey of
Manufacturing Establishments. The Labor-Market Information Data Base is to
be implemented by the Labor-Force and Price Statistics Department; the
&/ rhis Unit in 18I was respnsible for Implementlng a fellowshp prosr_ for SIS umder the recently closed
Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU). end Is responsible for nplmmntation of the SIB component in
the Second Small and Nedium-Soale Industry Project (Loan 3067-TU).



- 36 -
Labor-Market Research and Dissemination is to be implemented by the
Research, Analysis, and Statistical Techniques Department. Project
technical assistance, under terms of reference approved by the Bank, is to
be used to assist in these tasks.
Occupational Standards and Certification
84.     This component is to be implemented by the MEKSA/ATHB, acting
under the policy guidance of the MSK and with project technical assistance
under terms of reference approved by the Bank. The IIBK PCU will carry out
procurement of Bank financed goods and services for MEKSA. The MSK would
approve the annual plan and budget developed by the ATHB staff.
Occupational standards and corresponding test items are to be written by
practicing, experienced individuals from the occupation in question.
Typically, these are expected to comprise two experienced individuals to
write the standards and test items, and two others to review them. MSK
members, as well as other organizations concerned, would be expected to
identify the appropriate individuals for this task, and to donate their
services. The ATHB is to train and assist the writing and review teams to
develop analyses and test items. For example, two experienced employees
could be identified to develop standards for a diesel engine mechanic, one
from a TISK source and one from a TURKIS source. These occupational
experts would receive several days of training from ATHB staff in how to
write occupational standards. The actual drafting of standards may take 4-
5 days, after which ATHB staff would review the format of the analyses,
then invite the two writers to meet for one day with two other skilled
diesel mechanics, nominated from the MSK membership, to review and validate
the standards. Using project funds provided from IIBK, MEKSA/ATHB would
reimburse the direct costs incurred by these writing and review teams
(travel and per diem), but not salary costs. However, project funds would
finance the costs of long term ATHB staff, and short term consultants.
Women's EmRloyment Promotion
85.     This component will be implemented by the Directorate General on
the Status and Problems of Women (DSPW), using technical assistance
obtained under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The Directorate
was established in 1991 with the mandate of promoting the full integration
of women into the economic, social, cultural and political life of the
nation. Its specific responsibilities under the project are: a) design and
management of the research program, b) creation and operation of the
research fund, c) design and management of research promotion and d)
dissemination actions, including information campaigns and organization of
training seminars designed to translate research findings into action
programs and viable policy recommendations for implementation by the
appropriate units in the Government, and the creation and operation of a
documentation center.
86.     The component demands close management and coordination of both
the research program and the research dissemination program, for which
technical assistance is provided under the project. DSPW staff will be
assisted in the research management by an international consultant and



- 37 -
local consultants for research management and research promotion and
dissemination; four incremental technical and support staff are to be
provided by the Government.
87.      At the national level, the DSPW will be assisted in the
definition of research priorities and the selection of research proposals
by a Research Advisory Committee, with membership from government and non-
government institutions, and the research community, such as the Ministry
of Labor and Social Security, IIBK, TURKIS, TISK, Turkish Development
Foundation, Foundation for the Advancement and Recognition of Turkish
Women, Turkish Social Science Research Foundation, and Hacettepe, Middle
East Technical, and Istanbul Universities. The Research Advisory Committee
will meet every six months to review and select research proposals relevant
to women's employment issues in Turkey to be funded under the Policy and
Action Research Fund on Women's Employment.
88.     At the local level, DSPW local committees, composed of political,
community and religious leadership will advise on local relevance and
follow-up action of research findings, until such time as DSPW field
offices -- which are planned to be established with Government resources --
are established and functional.
Loan Administration
89.     Project Budget and Accounts:  The implementing agencies are to
maintain separate accounts and budgets for project expenditures and
activities, through their respective Financial Departments. Each Agency
incurring expenditures vwll also open and maintain throughout the project
years a Special Account in the Central Bank. In addition, IIBK would open
and maintain separate Local Project Accounts to finance job-insertion
training in those localities with approved training plans.
90.     Audits:  Project accounting, and the use of the "Special
Accounts", "Project Accounts", and of "Statements of Expenditure" used for
Loan disbursements would be audited annually by independent external
auditors in accordance with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank". The
Government provided assurances at negotiations that it would provide to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year an audit report of
such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request. Model Terms of
Reference describing the desired scope for such audita were reviewed during
Negotiations.
91.     Progress ReRorting:  The implementing agencies will provide the
Bank with Semester Progress Reports with sufficient detail as the Bank may
reasonably request. Reports would monitor agreed key indicators to
periodically asses achievement of the project's physical and financial
targets.



- 38 -
V. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Prooct Procurement
92.     IIBK will conduct project procurement for the IIBK, MOE, DSPW, and
ATHU components; SIS will conduct procurement for the labor-market
information component. It is expected that these agencies will be able to
carry out project procurement efficiently. SIS has procurement experience
under other Bank projects; IIBK is to receive very significant support in
procurement through the project technical assistance provided for
implementation of improved employment and counseling services (para. 45)
and the project coordination unit (paras. 70 - 73). The following
procurement procedures are to be followed for each category of expenditure
(total cost) with Bank financing:
(a)      Job-Insertion Training (USS 47.7 Million):  Procurement
of training inputs -- i.e., engaging instructors,
purchase of materials, payment of travel stipends, and
contracting of training services29 -- for job-insertion
programs which meets agreed unit-cost and other (para.
102a) norms as reviewed periodically by the Bank and IIBK
is to be carried out by IIBK under established
procedures. Training inputs for training which deviates
from agreed norms are to be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines for procurement of equipment and
consultant services, which includes prior Bank review.
Reambursements from the Loan account for eligible
training expenditures would be made against statements of
expenditure, subject to periodic review by Bank staff.
(b)      Equi2ment and Vehicles (USS 11.4 Million):  Items will be
grouped to permit efficient procurement. Contracts
estimateL. to cost more than US$ 150,000 will be awarded
on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Contracts of less than US$ 150,000, but not exceeding an
aggregate total of US$ 500,000 will be awarded on the
basis of LCB in accordance with local procedures to be
acceptable to the Bank.30 Items which cannot be grouped
into economical packages for purchase under ICB or LCB --
expected to be the case for some of the software and
W  The cost of contracted Job-Insertion progress La expected to vary fro, about U88 1,000 to US$ 10,000,
ineludAiu the cost of tral stipend for participants.
:U/ Turkish LCl procedure are generay consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in execution of
projects, and procurement under the project would follow a fozmt agreed under *earlier Bank projects
regarding LC procurment.



39
equipment under the labor-market information component --
may be procured on the basis of three quotes, in
contracts not exceeding US$ 50,000 each, up to an
aggregate of US$ 400,000. A domestic preference of 15
percent, or the applicable duty, whichever is less, will
be given to domestic suppliers of locally manufactured
items for supply of goods under ICB, provided that it
could be established that value added in Turkey exceeds
20 percent of the ex-factory bid price. (About 40
percent of the value of project-financed equipment and
vehicles is expected to be procured from local
suppliers.) To facilitate equipment and vehicle
procurement under the project, the Bank's Sample Bidding
Documents, appropriately modified to meet the needs of
the project, are to be used as the basis for preparing
project bidding documents under ICB and LCB procedures.
(c)      Technic&l Assistance and FellowshiRs (US S16.8 Million):
All contracts for project technical assistance, including
IIBK staff training (summarized in Annex G), are to be
awarded in accordance with Bank Guidellnes for the
Selection and Use of Consultants.
(d)      Staff Training. Books, Materials. Travel, and Subsistence
(USS 9.1 Million):   Contracts for staff training, would
be awarded in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August, 1981), including some
books and materials (US$500,000) which would be awarded
in direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. 31 Local travel and
subsistence costs would be paid directly by IIBK under
established government procedures. Reimbursement from
the Loan account would be made against statements of
expenditure, subject to periodic review by Bank staff.
fl/ Project book purchoase are to be Lmited to existing stocks and, therefore, do not entail printing,
trnslation, or other publishing activities.



40
Table 5.        MCUOMET NTkODS (US NILLIU3) a/
Mon-Bank
Catesories of Expenditure          ICe      LC3    other Ffnanced Total
Job-Insertfon Training                          47.7 k/         47.7
(31.1)         (31.1)
Equipment and Vehicles          10.5     0.5     0.4            11.4
(9.6)    (0.4)   (0.3)         (10.3)
Furniture                                        0.6             0.6
Technical Assistance/Fetlowships                 16.8           16.8
(16 8)t        (16.68)
Books, Nateriaels, Staff Training,
Locat Travel, end Subsistence                   9.1 k/         9.1
(8.8)          (8.8)
Incremental Recurrent Costs                            21.8    21.8
JfT&L   10.5       0.5   74.6   21.8    107.4
(9.6)    (0.4) (57.0) ( 0.0)   (67.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses represent IBRD Loan financing.
b/ Consisting of consultants and staff training engaged under Bank guideline for technical assistance,
books and mterials procured through negotiations with suppliers (USS500,000). in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and direct payment of subfistence and trowl costs.
c/ A United Nations agency my be contracted directly for a small portion of the technfcat assistance.
Procurement of other technical assistance will be carried out under Bank guidelines.
93.       Contract Review and Approval:   For contracts over US$ 150,000 for
goods (estimated to comprise 93 percent of the value of goods to be
procured under the project), prior Bank approval will be required; smaller
contracts for goods will be subject to selective post-award reviews. All
technical assistance contracts and overseas fellowship contracts would be
subject to prior review and approval.
Loan Disbursements
94.       The Loan will disburse the following percentages by Category of
Expenditure:
(a)        65 percent of direct costs for job-insertion training and
self-employment training;
(b)        100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 90X oi local
expenditures for other items procured locally for
equipment, vehicles, and materials
(c)        100 percent of consultants' services and staff training



- 41 -
95.     Disbursements against Job-Insertion Training will be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE) documentation for eligible expenditures
according to agreed criteria. Receipts and/or contracts made for such
training will be kept separately by the provincial IIBK offices to comply
with separate annual audit requirements; SOE receipts would be available
for inspection by Bank staff. Disbursements against contracts for goods,
vehicles, technical assistance, and fellowships will be made against normal
documentation. Disbursements against items procured under procedures of
three quotes or force account will be made against SOE documentation
(books, materials, local training, travel, and subsistence); documentation
will be kept by the Finance Department of the IIBK for review by auditors.
96.      Special Account and Project Accounts:  Since withdrawal
applications below US$ 20,000 equivalent cannot be processed directly from
the Loan proceeds, in order to facilitate project implementation, the
Government will establish and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in
the Central Bank, and a Project Account in IIBK in local currency. Upon
project effectiveness, the Bank will make an initial deposit into the
Special Account equivalent to about US$ 4.0 million, representing an
estimated average Bank financing for a four-month period. The Special
Account will be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance
falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit.
97.     The proposed IBRD Loan of US$ 67.0 million is projected to be
fully disbursed in seven years (Annex E), allowing one year beyond the
expected completion of project activities. This additional period is
provided to accommodate unforeseen delays in implementation and in requests
for reimbursement of local expenditures through the SOE procedure.



- 42 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
98.     The project would promote the integration of the unskilled
unemployed into productive employment, and would improve the efficiency of
labor-market choices through improved information on employment prospects
and training requirements, and on job-seekers' skills. It would make a
particular effort to provide better employment opportunities for women. In
addition to the equity benefits for the unskilled unemployed, the project
would contribute to economic efficiency through the liberalization of labor
markets -- an element of the Government's general economic strategy of
liberalizing markets for factors, products, and exchange rates. For
example, the development of occupational standards and certification under
the project is expected to lead to improved productivity by promoting the
movement of skills to their best uses in the economy. And the improved
labor-market information to be developed under the project -- in
particular, relating to trends in labor productivity by sectors and occupa-
tions -- will provide a more objective basis for wage determination than
the current, confrontational process of collective bargaining. The
Government also considers the training to be supported under the project as
an important tool for dealing with the worker dislocation which it foresees
as a by-product of the planned restructuring of public enterprises.
Risks
99.     Project risks relate to: a) IIBK's limited implementation capacity
and b) the need for cooperative action among numerous public-sector and
private-sector agencies in order to ensure coherence of implementation
among the various elements of the project.  This coherence is necessary if
the objectives of the project are to be met. To address the risk that
project implementation could suffer from IIBK's limited implementation
capacity, the project provides for management assistance to IIBK throughout
implementation of the project. To address the risk of inconsistency in
implementation of the project actions, the project provides for
participation of other parties in the various advisory and policy-making
bodies to be established under the project, including the National Training
Review Board and the Local Training Advisory Committees for the Job-
Insertion Training component, the Career Information Advisory Committee for
the Employment and Counseling Services component, the Labor-Market
Information Advisory Board for the Labor-Market Information component, the
Occupational Standards Commission for the Occupational Standards and
Certification component, and the Research Advisory Committee for the
Women's Employment Promotion Component.



- 43 -
VII. *AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
Agreements Reached
102.    During negotiations, the Goverrnment provided assurances that:
(a!      unless specifically agreed by the Bank in advance, loan
funds are to be made available only for training: a)
consistent with annual training plans developed by the
local employment office and endorsed by the local
tripartite Employment Council and National Employment
Council (para. 75), b) providing flexible entry and exit
for trainees, c) not exceeding a maximum unit cost of US$
600 or an individual contract value of US$ 10,000 or as
subsequently agreed by the Government and the Bank, and d)
requiring training providers to meet specified goals for
job placement of trainees (except for self-employment
training).
(b)      it will: i) conduct a study on private employment services
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, commencing
not later than September 1, 1993; ii) discuss the findings
and recommendations of the study at a national seminar, to
be held not later than September 1, 1994, and to include
representatives of the Government, employers, employees,
and public and private bodies concerned with Turkey's
national development strategy; iii) on the basis of the
recommendations of the study and the seminar, develop a
plan for phased diversification of employment services in
Turkey, and iv) subsequently implement the plan, as
discussed and agreed with the Bank, beginning not later
than December 31, 1994 (para. 39);
(c)      the IIBK will: i) identify six staff counterparts (e.g., in
management development, unemployment benefits, client
application and referral, job development, job search/job
club, mass layoff, and collection and analysis of local
labor market information) by the time the employment and
counseling services technical assistance contract is
signed, and ii) cease the practice of stipulating gender
preferences in its job vacancy listings (para. 43);



- 44 -
(d)      the  IIBK  will   substantially   staff  the  CIU  with
approximately  six  full-time  staff  by  the  time  the
employment and counseling services technical assistance
contract is signed (para. 44);
(e)      the IIBK will substantially staff its three staff in-
service training centers by December, 1, 1993 (para. 45);
(f)      the IIBK will staff its Automation Department with core
staff, including a systems analyst, systems programmer,
systems administrator, and technical training specialist,
by the time the related technical assistance contract is
signed (para. 46);
(g)      the MSK will review the legal status of MSK and ATHB by
September 1, 1994, and, if MSK members concur, the
Government will support development of plans to formalize
MSK as a fully or partially self-financing foundation or
association by December 1, 1995 (para. 57); and
(h)      the Government will provide to the Bank within six months
of the end of each fiscal year an audit report of such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request (para.
90).
Recommendation
103.     Subject to the above, the project would constitute a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$ 67.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Turkey at
the standard variable interest rate for a term of 17 years, including a grace
period of five years.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Prolect File
A.       Commissioned Background Papers
A.1      John W.  Havery,  Sub-Study on Enterprise Manpower and
Training
A.2      George Genz, Training Standards and Testing!  National
Occupational Standards and CoQmetency Testin Certification
System, February, 1990
A.3      Phillip Jarvis, Human Resources and Employment DeveloRment
Systems in Turkey:  Occupational Counseling, February 9,
1990
A.4      William McMichael, Human Resources and-Development Systems
in Turkey:    Labour  Codes  and Regulations  Sub-Study,
February 9, 1990
A.5      Richard Mines, Human Resources and Development Systems in
Turkey: Worker Mobility Sub-Study
A.6.     Emel Danisoglu, Income Security!  Old-Age and Retirement
ProvisLion, 1990
A.7      Ray D. Ryan, Employment and Training Research Sub-Study,
March 1990
A.8      William A.  Hart,  Private  Soctor Training  Initiative,
February 1990
A.9      Richard  Dempsey, Turkey Industrial Training:  Technical
Re2ort Labour Market Occupational Information System,
November 27, 1989
A.10     Clarence Burdette, Turkey Industrial Traininge Technical
Report. Job Analysis Programs, March 1990
B.      Other Documents
B.1      1990 Statistical Yearbook, Turkish Employment Organization
B.2      ReRublic  of Turkey:    Human  Resources  and  Employment
DeveloRment Strategv (Yellow Cover Report No. 9192-TU),
November 15, 1990



- 46 -
B.3       Emplovment and Training Project, Report No. IIBK-EN-91.6,
August 1991
B.4      Dr. Yusuf Hamurdan, ImDroving the Labour Market Information
System in Turkey, May 1991
B.5      William H.G. Plumbridge, A Proposal for the Establishment
of a System of Competency Based Occupational Standards.
Testing and Certification, February 1989



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
IIBK STRUCTURE AND PROGRAMS
Structure
1.          The Turkish Employment Agency (IIBK) is an agency of the Ministry
of Labor and Social Security. As shown in the attached chart, the current
IIBK structure comprises three line units (the Directorates of Employment and
Vocational Rehabilitation, Employment, and Research), and three staff units
(the Directorates of Finance, Personnel, and Administration). There are 2325
IIBK staff, of whom 472 are stationed at IIBK headquarters in Ankara, and 1853
are stationed in IIBK's 110 regional branch offices (Annex D). The larger
branch offices replicate the central structure of IIBK, with units for each of
the central directorates.
2.          The main constraint affecting IIBK's capacity to provide effective
employment services is limitec, staff qualifications: 33 percent of its staff
have just a primary or middle-school (grade 8) education; only 24 percent have
some university education. IIBK has prepared draft legislation, currently
under review by the Government, which would provide more autonomy of
operation, closer ties to employers and labor organizations, and better staff
remuneration. If adopted, these changes should strengthen IIBK's capacity to
offer a full range of employment services. Among other things, it would help
tIBK attract and retain appropriately qualified staff.
Programs
2.          Although IIBK aspires to offer a complete range of employment
services, it currently provides significant services in just two program
areas: job placement and training. These are provided, respectively, by the
Employment Department, and the Employment and Vocational Rehabilitation
Department.
3.          Job Placement:  Under current legislation, job placement and other
employment services can only be provided by IIBK, or by other agencies which
IIBK specifically duthorizes to perform these services. In spite of its
effective monopoly on job placement services, IIBK has the capacity to place
only a small fraction of the unemployed. In 1990, 672,000 individuals -- a
little more than one-third of the unemployed -- applied for jobs at the 110
branch offices of IIBK. The IIBK listed 294,000 job vacancies during the year
-- 151,000 (51%) from the public sector, which is required to list non-profes-
sional vacancies with the IIBK, and 143,000 (49%) from private employers.
IIBK staff made 547,000 referrals for those vacancies, wihich resulted in
283,000 piacements. (Twenty-five percent of IIBK's job applicants and 31
percent of its job placements are female.) Thus, only one-third of the
unemployed bother to register with IIBK, and less than half (42 percent) of
those who do are placed in jobs through IIBK. Expressed otherwise, IIBK job
placements amount to just 16 percent of the number of unemployed.



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
4.          One reaoon for this limited coverage by the public employment
agency is the shortage of IIBK service staff. The 1,853 staff in the 110
branch offices of IIBK imply a ratio of 1 staff member for every 362 job
applicants, or one staff member for each 990 unemployed. These ratios place
Turkey far below OECD norms for the provision of public employment services.
The number of public employmerz service staff in relation to the number of
unemployed is 1/10 in Sweden, 1/36 in England, 1/57 in Germany, 1/120 in
Portugal, and 1/990 in Turkey.1   This ratio, which is a frequently used
measure of government commitment to labor-market equity, indicates that there
is major room for improvement in Turkey, in terms of both quality and range of
employment services which IIBK offers.
4.    In addition to staff shortages to deal with its caseload, IIBK
employment services also suffer from a number of technical and qualitative
deficiencies. The employment services of IIBK are outmoded and inefficient by
comparison to the employment services of the EC. IIBK employment counselors
are not trained to screen job applicants and counsel them about job prospects
and related training requirements, nor do they have the necessary information
and materials to do so. As a result, IIBK's employment services are limited
to a rudimentary form of job placement, in which applicants' reported skills
are matched with the skill profiles called for in employers' vacancy
announcements. IIBK also lacks the capacity to verify applicants' reported
skills in order to ensure that candidates referred for specific jobs will be
able to perform to employers, satisfaction. These deficiencies reduce IIBK's
usefulness to both job applicants and employers as a job placement service.
This, in turn, causes many of the unemployed not to register with IIBK, and
causes many private employers not to list their job vacancies with IIBK.
Employers frequently report that they recruit new staff informally, often on
the recommendation of existing staff, but that they would recruit more of
their staff through IIBK if IIBK could screen candidates more effectively.
Better screening of job applicants would increase the number of vacancies
listed with IIBK, and would improve IIBK's effectiveness as a job placement
service for the unemployed. Expansion and improvement of IIBK employment
services would require new programs and better materials for applicant
screening, employment counseling, job development, and other service areas.
More fundamentally, it would require a major effort to train existing and new
employment service staff.
5.          Training:   The IIBK, like the public employment services of other
OECD countries,2 has initiated a program of training to improve the
employability of its job applicants. The IIBK was faced with the problem of
numerous unskilled job applicants whom it could not place in jobs. At the
same time, some of the low-skill job vacancies listed with IIBK went unfilled,
due to the lack of job applicants with even the minimal level of skills called
for. To address this problem, the IIBK initiated a pilot program of short-
term, job-insertion training to pro'ide the specific skills needed to fill the
vacancies. It requested and obtained financing for the pilot program from
several extra-budgetary funds. This program has been successful in training
and placing over 10,000 job applicants in jobs.
1/ Labour Market policies for the 1990s, OECD, Parfs, 1990, table 4.
2/ Labour Market Policies for the 1990s, OECD, Paris, 1990, pp. 32 et seq.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
6.          The program starts with the commitment of enterprises to employ
job applicants when they have completed their training. At first, the IIBK
developed job-insertion training only with enterprises which had unfilled
vacancies listed with the IIBK. It now combines this with a more active
approach, in which the staff of IIBK branch offices visit employers to see
whether they would be willing to hire job applicants who completed a job-
insertion training program which employers would help design and, in some
cases, deliver. In most cases, training programs are designed jointly by IIBK
staff and the enterprises which agree to employ the graduates. Experienced
instructors are contracted for each specific course from industry -- often,
from one of the enterprises agreeing to employ the graduates -- or from
vocational training schools. Training is carried out either in the premises
of one of the employers, or in a vocational school of the Ministry of
Education or Ministry of Tourism. The firms or the schools providing training
places are compensated for the cost of training materials and utilities. In
some cases, IIBK contracts with private training institutions to deliver job-
insertion training, using programs which it develops jointly with the training
institution. In these cases, the private training institution is contracted
by IIBK to deliver the training and place the graduates at a per-person rate
slightly higher than the average unit cost of training under the normal, firm-
based or school-based training formula. A portion of the payment is withheld
until graduates are placed in jobs. Trainees in the program receive a modest
stipend (amounting to about $1.30 per day) to meet the cost of transportation.
Trainees pay no fees; the enterprises which employ them pay the normal IIBK
placement fee of TL 20,000 for private enterprises and TL 50,000 for public
enterprises. Last year (1990), the program trained 11,700 job applicants in
custom-designed training courses varying in length from three weeks to six
months. Virtually all of these were subsequently employed by the
participating enterprises.
7.          Soecial Initiative Programs:  IIBK also conducts some special
initiative programs. The most important of these is a vocational training and
job placement program for Bulgarian Ethnic Turks (BETs), financed by a UsS 10
million grant from the US State Department. Since its start in June 1990,
this program has effectively provided job-oriented vocational training for
5,600 BETs and job counseling to 17,000 BETs, and has placed 14,000 BETs in
jobs. It also assisted with the creation of self-employment for 2,600 BETs.
The program was scheduled to be completed in June, 1992; it was recently
granted a six-month extension (to December, 1992). The program is implemented
tirough a management services agreement with UNDP. The director of the
p-cgram reports directly to the General Director of IIBK. Staff of the
technical assistance teem work in parallel with line units in IIBK branch
offices, under direct authority of the IIBK General Director.
8.          Another special initiative program of IIBK is a program for
rehabilitation (through training and job placement) of the handicapped. The
program is financed by UNDP and implemented by a team attached to the Director
General's office.



aMX B
Attachment
IIBK ORGANIZATION
GENERAL DIRECTORATE  ---  ADVISORY BOARD
DEPUTY GENERAL DIRECTORATE            DEPUTY GENERAL DIRECTORATE
t   (Technical)      l       l     (Administrative)
LEGAL CON NT          INSPECTION BOARD           DIRECTORATE OF
|DIRECTORATE OF EMPLOYMENT    l                          |DIRECTORATE OF
< AND VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION|                       8    PERSONNEL
DIRECTORATE OF
ADMINISTRATION
REGrONAL DrRECTORATES
Provincial
Directoratea  Branch office   Sub-Offices
ANDANA           5                  6
ANKARA           8                  4
BURSA            5                  7
DIYARBAKIR       8                  -
ERZURUM          6                  -
ISTANBUL         6                  5
IZMIR            6                  8
KONYA            8                  I
MALAYTA          6
SAKARYA          s                  3
SAMSUN           7                  1
TRABZON          6                  -
TOTAL       76                 35



ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OP TUR3Y
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Cost Tables
Table 1.    Job-Insertion Training
Table 2.    Diversification of Employment Services
Table 3.    Employment Services
Table 4.    Counseling Services
Table 5.    Implementation of Employment & Counseling Services
Table 6.    Automation of Labor Offices
Table 7.    Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Table 8.    SIS Labor Statistics
Table 9.    SIS Labor Market Information Da_a Base (LMIDB)
Table 10.   SIS LMI Research
Table 11.   Turkish Occupational Standards Commission (MSK)
Table 12.   ATSU Occupational Documentation Center
Table 13.   Job Analysis
Table 14.   Occupational Testing and Certification
Table 15.   Women's Employment Promotion
Table 16.   Summary Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Summary of Project Components by Year
(including contingencies)



ANNEX C
Table 1
ftaloltl
ttr.att ll m   Table
.............                 .................... ............................        .        .................. ...........................................
1.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atl                                                                                                         8484 Costtt.  COS
9o 11    1141911 116  11? 118ltl                 SS         ll                                    lost18  II  lii11   Io
................~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.  .   ...   ..IQ3I
. .......................
I. 1.0160 CltttIlStUtitlE   lttU
13.200 P8t1ICIPANIS OER 0       ItARS                        li OtM           I    I    I    I    I    .            .33.,841, 1.30.1415  t.231.111  S.330.S             L 330.11       -  41."!2.!;4
lA-total *I1lttotttn   9uSll1Lt0  110,011111 /a1                                                                                        3 0  S"    L 330.1e S"   t330. se5  3L 330.tO  5e5     1. .4 
lA-totai  r    1 0ttSEUr(O1t (r6Itt1                                                                                         tt336.4 u   u 330,1   4.330.1011  1.330.101   L330.14               4t. 4eI. 1S4
tL leuUtruan
PC II5SIAIIO6S                                                 4001          2                            *                L.18                                                                 0.8
.........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; . .......... ..........                                                                                           .. ~
l.A-TtoIl (1UI6ING 63611100631                                                                                                1308                                                                 138
l.A-tS;;;io;s'''l' 0                                                                                                       130'                         .     .     .         .       . ........  X  ,,,,Xt,k,*,ttR.t,,,,,,,                                 ,,,,. ........ ..........    ........   ....  13.6.'.ttt
SW  *T tt EIPN IttlcO  ztO^E,,sL, tt,a ,,,,,,   ,,,,,                                                                                                            ,,,,,,,,,,,,    ,,  t
1. 1981016tD ElUCtORAIE
-........... .. .......
PC 11MSTA(IO1 FUIUUI(8                                           aI          3.3                                           38               .           ..a3385
a   srinoll ruXtstirun  t  ,  , , , 2 ,,,,.a tt,1.5 ,,,,,.,,, ,, .................... ,,..,,,,,,.........,.........          .........    .........         ...... ! '   ""
l.A-total TRAINING 01611101811                                                                                                3.381.                                                                3.36
!^XTotel Tl^lttXllG Ot"ttiOst&Tt t 'tZ , ,,, ,,,,,,,,, ,,, ~~~~~~~.......... .........  .....   ......  t......    ..    ....
l.A-Total FURNI1TURE                                                                                                               .8                          .            .           -              3.20S
0. 80083 I MAtERIALS / SUPPtt(S
.. ..*16160 OIKICTo8II0
.............. .......
t5.000 CtPitS PER iSS'uCI                                86/sam           I    2    3           I     -      5         3. us       S.6t8 Nrt                S.660 IR     S.NS              2t3063
(tUItM Ct  5StsTaCE SIUOtES (uet                                     s,       I    I    I    I    1.14                                10.8   -     0 S.4       1*8 ,,4      10., ,,4 ,         1. 3.,
t A-Total TRAINING 013t11108*11                                                                                              is.83        18.13        123         1.823         1823      .       ti, 30
..................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    . .. ... . ..         . .. . .      . . .   ..   .. . .. .. .. ......
l.h(otal SCS  I  MATERIA6LS1  / SUPPtttS                                                                                          3.8138      88 23       01.833      IL. 823      10.8233            SI. 130
L        I
I. (1I1I1K OliK(CT0**E
9800808 16910618ttP1      J E01916   I t           I  s          a.           I    I    I    :  ,                1        48.3 S"     41 4S 11 4 22            46.192       4L.12             2 332. 60
SuPsOt TO LOCAL ofFICES I L I                                 68ths          8    2    6                        24        23.366      48.C92      233                             .      .2  ,, ,
Sub-Total TUINING 010810CIO E                                                                                                a8.8usI8 9314            It.888       411832      8111 S             3161:4'
3. S1UO61S 8 E195611 SERVICES
............. ............... 
st1t19.1tt0191( P0    I1O10E100  ElPtl                           _                       5                       5                                 Il. 1-4                        .    . -lt 71N4
'IL!-IIPIOIN(N( 9800  (LOCAL 1XPT5                            WA4A4                      5    S                 13                                 23.316      23.366                  -       00.S"
Of . Of A83L TIM Pt9149FO t1161ElP0                               -tke        4.       .       .'.                 :3. In6                            .            .                           13. 96
690. OF &=AL* T8191tM  (LOCAL E25(1                           WmUss           6   Il    2                       30        23.2NS      40.502        (.181            .II.(1.813
0f . 0F LOCAL 110   M(6(ACTIII90KII   1XP15                     ok.          I.       .     .     .    .     .            IL10                           .           .                  .      211L
936. Of LOCAL TO0L *        CONTaC1L0CAL £P91                  _mIe           4    .        .        .    .               1 31              *            *                        *    ,         5 . 11
C153turl318 41515.51081 tp35                                  18as6 _tU       *                .    .    .                      . *         *       1 rtt, nt. *                  *(*.r11
0USt681110 915108-STUAT 91OOL88                               mItke           -                                 It :                               33.3"S      23.216                   .      0.103
HMO10$ 6I19101161A60-18*1010CU98(168   19081108               Soth            .          .                                            ft1. 164           .                              .        7814
t68Su r1to1tt9tntntuu0eccun6e(u _1/ 6 * 6 8  -(      C         m,,,,,,,,, ,,,,ke t t     t                        ,,,,,,,,                                           ,     .     ..... ...........2...  , , , ,S. . t . ..
SW-Iotal  tftolasalxtlft gSERICS                                                                                                                                     ;wS2                  *-      --- - ^52L   6
l....otal (......aL 855...... ...                                                                                                                                                ...
F. LWAL TRAVEL A PiftiM   FM                                                                    I&L S"~~~~~~~~:8.11  243. 88  211. 833  63.164     40.L .9     814.1144
(86169  '1 1  's-  I            i         . Is I    . 1  LI  1431  S.431  5.431  S.439   .       23. 1:4
l.-tl L0081 1*UEL A 9f            EN FUND                                                                                    .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...............
IL  900611*1 I01iStniIs / STUD? (YOU9s                                                                                             1.436       1436             n       549          S422.1
.... ;. ... .........................
1. StUIOIS 8 UtYUIS Stti(t31S
nr9. 0f LOA   TR1I, PUlANS                                         i3                                                                               21524 S
OV. OF 0 OuL T*iK  CO91R8CTS                                  _     i         3.3                                          n552 411                                                                 Ss?
CUSIOJIFOQUIC-STAT P"ft"                        oths                                             3             913 "                      .                                      20.113
Sab-lotEl 111501S  8 046. 104                                                                                                                    .     (3.655                                      12-.,60
108.8  .11.       3s"      to:. 216  1 440.6S"0, S".31.3        .  43.158.244
.... t!tt ... ......  ..........    ,... .............. .* **.
tlt...............                     ... ............................. $$|4....   .. 8
Ia  CetIa I iIs.4s PefllGl9a..t trbon$ lsWt      ISee"  Gole  tVf      mlbe ,atla46
........................................................................................
en,s{"loe  s" *_ *1 ltre fe i '^:2 i"*;



ANNEX C
Table 2
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 2. DlvtmslulCaTION OF
E1PtOYNTII    SERVICES
Coto.led Coat table
Qa"ntity                                      Ba.W   Costs in S
Unit   1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 tS  Total             1993      1994   1995 1996 19S7 199   Total
... ....  .... ....    ..... ............... .................................*     
1. INVEStMERI COSTS
........ ............
A. TECN1ICAt ASSISTANCE
........... ............ ..
I. ASSESS PRIVAtE ENP SERVICES
..... ..... . ........
FOREIGN EXPERTS                           moth        3                                    3     39.91                   -39. 897
LOCAL EXPERTS                             month   3 -3   11. 646                                                                            11. 646
Se-lotal ASSESS PRIVATE EMP SERVICES                                                                St. 545                                    S1.545
2. OEFINE ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES
FOREIGN EXPERTS                           sonth   2 -2   25.598-                                                                            26598
LOCAL EXPERTS                             month       2                                   2       7. 7657 765
Seb-Total DEfINE ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES                                                             34. 363                                     34. 363
3. ASSIST Ill8 IMPLEMENT ACTION PLAN
. ...  _...... ...............
FOREIGN ElPERTS                           month  2                                         2  26.596-                                       26. 598
LOCAL EXPERTS                               onth      2                                    2      7.765                                      7. 765
Seb-lotal ASSIST IIBI IMPLEMENT ACTION PLAN                                                         34. 363                                     34. 363
Sib-lotal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                         120.272                                    120. 272
B. OVERSEAS STUDY TOURS
..................
stuoD  OURS                                 month                         -    -    -    16        65. 472  65.472                           130. 44
Ste-total OVERSEAS STUDY TOURS                                                                          65. 472  65.412      -    .    -    -  130. 944
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    185 744  65.472        -    -    -    -  251.216
..ss, ..trai.. .s.               t  st.t iri.....
Yotal                                                                                                        85.744  65.412          -    -        -  251.216
t.* ......  .S2 S:                   .... 2
..... ..... ..... ..... .............. ..... ..... .... ..... .......... ..... .....  __.. ....... ... .... ... . . . . . .. . . . . . ...
5wtatder 1. IS112  15:27



ANNEX C
[Nk.mEolt8hi me fUltti" Pancl                                    Table  3
Table 3. IEWOTENI 8 COUSELtIl  SERVICES CCNO  ENT
Eastovunf Et nncgs TastE
Dlataled Colt  table
Quant,ty                                             Base Cost, in S
.._................ ..................................  ................................................................
Unit       199U  19S4 TIl IlS19S    ? 1S99 t9  otal   1993      19U4      1991      1998      It91      1996      Totlo
3322 ...    !.2..1 T.23  222:     233  22223 .                                2*33   3*33   22*3    222
118NESTNENTB COSTS
................
U. BOOKS / liAtERIALS / SUPPLIES
I. NSAOAENENT USO AD NEP. SENVICES                  i-ss             I          -     -2    2?. N?1   27 941                           -                  -                lIo
.............................~~.....  .....  ..........  .....  ...........
Se-Totall BOOSE  / 8ATERIMsI   / SUPPlIS                                                                         37.U61   37. 87                                              75 .975
. TECHNIrCAt A5sItSiCE
1. IWAEfENt B AN4 ENP. SEnICES
.............................
FOREICG  EUPEBTS                                    Sath          4    2                                  5  12.    2S 5119                  -                          79 .94
LOCA  ElPENTS                                      Im.n           4    4           .                4        .531   15531                                               3 1.051
Sub-Total  AUAOEKENTI a aM  ENP. SERVICES                                                                    B4 t2?   42. 121          -                   -         -    110:5
2. EV.111ENPI.OTNENT FINBUCIBO 4 B*ENFItS
.....................................
fOREIC4 EIPEtS                                      mh            -    2    -                       2           -   2S 598                                   -          2S.598
LOCAL EIPEIS                                         th                2                            2                I 169          -                                      t55
Sb-total  EV.UNEINPLOtNET FINUCINBO 4 SENEFITS                                                                    -   34. 33                                               4.3
3 DEVEtOP APPLICANT SERVICES
.........................
fORElcr4 NIPERTS                                   moth           2    2                      -     4     2S. 598   2S.598                                              5' 1
LOCAt EIPERTS                                      math           3    3                            6      11,S48   11.848                                              2. 299
Sub-total OELEtOP APPLICAT4  SERVICES                                                                          8. 24    38.24                    -                          7 1,492
4. OEClEOP EtPtOtER SERVICES
.........................
fORICII EEPERTS                                    mnth           2    2                -           4     26.59    2S. 598          -3.3 19
LOCAL EXPERITS                                      enth          3    3                            6      It.t48   11.             -                                   23.298
Ske-Total DEVELOP EIPLOVEB SERVICES                                                                           35. 24    38.249                                              78.492
. OEV. U0 SEARCH ASST. PROCRIIS
.............................
FOREIGN EXPENTS                                    math                5                            3                39 89          -                                   39.997
LOCAL  lPENlTS                                     mnth               12                           12           -   46.192          -                   -         -     49592
Sub-Total OEV. JOB SEIC0  SSt. PR0AS                                                                                -      ; is                                             8V4i9
B. DEV. KISS LATOFF PROCEBUNESITECH.
................................. 
FOREIU E1PERBS                                     month                     2                      2                     -   29 98           -                         2t. 598
LOCAL EVPERTS                                      mnath                     4                      4           -1.531                                                   15.531
S*-lotsl OEV. NeSS LTYOFF PROCEDU4ES/TECH                                                                                        ;42.12                                     42. 2i
1. REFINE SuNVEI IECHBIQIUES
........................
F0EICI4 EIPERTS                                    month                -    2                      2                         2S9 a           -                         28. 5U
LOCAL EXPERITS                                     manth                     2                         -                  -    7215           -         -                 1. t1
Seb-ToEl  REFINE SUOVEY TECHiNOUES                                                                                                ; 34.U3                                   ;4.393
Seb-tolol TECHICALt  SSISTANCE                                                                                    454.219  239.413   ? .492          -                   -    451 14
C. OVERSEAS fELLOWSHIPS
......... ..........._
NAN8EIUER1II8N ENPL. SENVICES                         mnth          6    B              -    -        12     49. 14   49. 104                                       -     U208
OEV. U*ENPLOtttENT fiNANCING 8  ENEFITS                math          -    6                             S- -            49. tO4         -                             -     492 I04
DEVELOP APPLICAt SENVICES                               nath         4    4                             a U   32. 73    32. 73                    -         -           -    5.412
OEVELOP ENPLOVER SENVICES                              moath         3    3                             6     24.912   24.512                               -         -      't I04
CEVELOP il0l  SEARC  ASSI. PROORlIt                    math          3    3                 -    -      6     24. 552   24. 55          -         -                   -     U 4   l04
ElVELOP KUSS LAtOFf PROCEOUIES/TECN                    manth          -    3                            3           -   2453,                                               24.U52
REFINE SURVEY TECtlIOUIS                                eath                                            4                         n.  n 0                                   n - 32.36
Sube-etol OVENSEAS FELLOSHNIPS                                                                                  130.944  204. S      32. 3U                                   38. 280
Total  INVlESIINT COSTS                                                                                            314. ISO  482.00  1t05 22            ;                        90;.438
II. RECUNOlNT COSIS
...............
IL INCIENENt5L  SALARIES
.....................
NIlttENENT OEVEtOPtENT                             stafflers         I    I    I    I    I    I        6     19. 9U    1o9. 9U    19. 98   11.111  6.3i9n    19.9U        119980U
INUiPLOTNENT BENEFITS                              stff/yeas         I    I    I    I    I    I        6     19. SU         1919U    19 .    .9 19 98    19U8    19. 9U   119 .60
CLIENT APPLICATION 8 AREFEIL                       staff/years       I    I    I    I    I    I        a     1. 9S8   19 mU    19.998    19.89U    1.9 98   12. 9U        119 .04
4   DEtELOPlENT                                    staff/yea's                 II            I         4                         19.16S   t9. 9SU    19. 9U    19. 1U        . 52n
SEUAE/     CLUB                                   steff/years              -  I    t    I    I        4           -             19.18   t96.8U      19. SU       19  9   199812
USS  tAYOff PIOCEtUNS                              stsfflyeas        -          I    I    I    I       4                         11. 9U    19. Oa    19.19U   19.9U        19.812
COLLECtIQNIUHALISIS LNI DATA                       staff/yesr       -    I           I    I    I       5               194   I. U1   i9.             19.918   19.619       93.U40
Se-TotlU  INECEENII L SALb IES                                                                                  59..04   79.812  132. 719  139. 116  139 t119  13. 17        69. "O
8. NATEOIALS 8AD SUPPtIES                                '    a         I    I    I    I    I    I        B      1 1.093   11.093   I I093    1. 093   11.093   11.093        99.560
Total NECUENT COSTS                                                                                                  i0t "    90.95  S5 8a8   150.849   110. an   I10.9no    795.440
fotsl                                                                                                                391. 14?    3.029  23o.08?   150.;69 I  S103"4  ISO,. 88   1.9 G089
la.t.r............92.......11:2 .........
S411t_18e 1. 1092  IS 27



rise,                                      ANNEX C
lit 111 41  144UL111 UIWICU                               Table  4
hiastla  Coal gag.1
............................  .........................                        ............ ..............................................
ulet l      3  1               9I4 I t     1   It"  te gal  1912    1664       IM        Im        Itl        Ill        fetal
,........ .... ... .... .... ....  ....  ..... ..........  ........  ........  ........  ........  ........ ..........
1     I  ""{§StZ   OIS
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 450                                         * 0050                                                 oO                                                    *
. e.......
95t450"1t.SltdlUltNI  ICluc  -_ e                                      I        -                                   - Im                 -         .          .         .
mrIu   otuinL       STsTIS                                                                                     ILIie   I.,I -  -                    -                    -        . so
Se tota   Ilfihtgg                                                                                                    4.     4                     .          .          . 0
a. leS Rliun
..u.e......     tlb  self  I Ct~                   It..ima.t                                                  it. . o  ..        .. . .. . ..21..!
t. lOSS  I lhttltILS  , lentilslim                                                              OL S
S lesCittbAt t              tnew                Ic             I t            .                            21.3134          .         .          .         .          .          1 
...........l..................t.t                                                                         441.40.. .. .. . .. .. . ..                                     4.      4
tfltODllCt       Te. 1tT111L11t1-ta.                                                                           21.314                                                           21. -   .
C.h-ON, t "tillALS                                                                                              3.4                                                              1.4
............
SO-totot NUt    " ATIN"                                                                                        2 1ft551.134                         -                    -     I. an4
rcutlle sose         os           1t.                                                                                                                                      44 3. .  .  . .. en
ozVtLOSt IRsI Of tRGt II,EIL                        see                                                  ML la                                                                 I 70
......        ........ ............... ......... ........ .... 
A-Tsotal sCwITtNbL   TIO S 1t. II                                                                                              .         .          -         .          .            2
o  rte4et tt 61111inU                                             I        .           .     .         t       1224                                                      .      I. 1
LIthe 11915                                        ote        2......                                 ...                                        ........ ....             .........
WO13  / tl AtSlit                             _,1,,li                                                   $3.2 1                                                            3N11.*' 4
a0ttlOl OCUA I TTUI/tTSt£51.2.1                                                                                                          .2491
lttc  sr1ertS                                    3oe          3                                           ILm        atll                                                   I 9.f94
LEAL EIPRlTS                                     _  e,"       *                    -        -     t        22.                                                              29.2-  41    fi
;   ..  ........  ........  ................................ ......................... 
S,e-Tal ost etP aets S            laNNJ  L                                                                      . I      at-                                                   t2t 2I
&  OUl   5CilPlTtmflxtn  *sstsa1 I
;uatse  lins;                                   insre          t             -                     2        3a m           -si                                               11 m 
10ICk UflltS                                    Mole          I                                             3   M-                                  1                           11
taIsletlet uno tn rtsn1 t*sat                                                                               Iam t      61.444                     -                           n  tn44
1.oSIT tSIChl5a   ilt*                                                *  OaatIS                                          I                                                    z > 
1641 (EMITIS                                     mot.s         4                                  l        t1.44113I t                -                                     0.1
................ .................  ....................6...
20-Total NUtV     CA T IS OS T aSa. mS. l                                                                     U  I      U                                               -         ]
3.t me       OCC14TS144    551e AL05
at tWr  tlffOIS                                 _molt             t 2                              I 4      J * n    aSN                                                    19 tJt
iOUL   NITUtS                                   -t"e          2    9                  -          '      t         31t4    atm M                           -$ .
tS-total CfT II NIctWITo, iZTi"tll                                                                            21.44 S    Ot                         -         - .I  e 4.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........  ........  .......    .....  ....... ......................  !.
.u  sor Va Tnn s arlelaT sTNU                                  |    2      .                *      In-t
#0MIG  txtAti                                   _,,           ,                                            13  M     A  in ,t Is,3  3
rS ts  esni                                      mer            -    a      -     -    -      -     2              -   21.51 ;    - -;-                                       U sIn
L oCno uptals         SToS4                                                                                   s n           a     a                                            3.S
.........................~~~......                                                            ..........           ..........            ...........
fOct   awl lti tst e                                           - d"-J            -          -      4              - m   1nnr          -          -U                         s3a"
I.etol    ltttlDUtT    _l TeuTElt                               *     *16 -                                                                       - tS    t  -         -       8§§
l.a-blot teomicis Lseisreac           tis                                                                      22U  132   U3.9             -          -         -          -       steoa
t. fAw     l m   f e am Is   a^
..............................
t(5ILIPCIINICIIC                                metr                *           -                            .1 -  -*^5                               -                      t. 5914
56144 litel /s  tTVIMS£1U5 -Sn                                 t           -    -           -                                                       =2  ":2
NV.a  "Pot4sI54i   IS                             er                                               It      21S131   24.9612-                                                 4.I
t   cuAP o            Inroeea0 s la tUl"                                                               ,                 at                                                    , 4TI
411 CONP   4TE   tleOtR  StIPAt                   mte           I                       -     -      3        tI         tU                                                   2.
mill..... ti-ut  1---1                          me-re-                                      -      4         1 4        10                                   --               nil
ONVILNUI  IS TI.45                              - n            I    I     -                                 13.1 M     I "           -          -         -          -          1
5.rotol "eKITS                                                                                               11. ith  141.3 M                                                 I -  -  s I
s e-blo   oveesosrn IU Sh          /to    rUstn rus141    1.22                                                                               -                               -     a    m
....................................                                                             ... ..   ... ..     . .. ..   . .. ..   .....   . .....
1. VISItLES
I00ooi-                                                                                                     14.12     31                                                     31-.-I "I
ta-bl t wipernoto                                                                                           .....  ......1     - .....  ... - ....   ....   ........
Toa   Seernr oso VJPMOFKNR                  L                                                                 1....... .        "41........ .....              ....  .   .........
I...........
Ii. NUIUI      IUts  DCA                                                                                         4      isd4'lc
I        Otl°t   eso21t-14ts3114                                                                                                11-to4* -44 Us                                1412
ea-uVtam   Ase        11111em  W      t tti4 - M                                                                       1.144 _ta         t          1          t       -I1
-old      _teahm ar   ta23nts                     -a :1  ILI   ttU t                                                                           S    t           t:s
1   n. mtan                                                                                            , e,.eS. : me *--es'
le       hlIonus nurIU*IiCII                        taI, SlO  IX                I1   m t                                       m      *              - 2       2          2i
la-oast  ouetlon    N            IIOe N me   ifIl                                                                 -9   24 M                                                       i is
a  KLIViff, systinLiS CL POK4t1                                                                                                       1      t-t                        M
SU                                                 _  Of    tt-5                                              .....        ....................  ...... ---....
a er-lsel  1ntf:31pt                                                                                      ...       ..  .    . ttt          .     .        .      .     .
tde-l4l mWrcu          IT                                                                                       t}  2
....................
................................~~~........   ....                                                                    .....   ....
s*-1 eX IasulW szZ1gs                                                                          sr  11t anS  ltat 11tz   sn *~~~~~.0112.62
................................. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ..        ....   ..........   ....
CUtt  IftF4tl r4 z411 I tl I * | | X e 2 t ..6                      6                  .... .. ... tSXX
W   ,46«1        cm^41"  r4r4tot1^W   m"_e,  I......                                                       ........      Tt                    Tl                      !!..T
............  CO  I                                   sww......................                                                         .     ............................................ ..............................................................  .-.      ..._. 
t_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t I.L att "& 1tlt1964  toe11.1



Aull C
ft1s.1445Cal tamle
gm    lat                                       Is    Is                                                                                                     U. ou~~411m,  enCa. s 
to"! '10   = 04                      m         la  go    oe  m          oo   moiss;             93         14        11          et          n.        mo.       m..
I  IShttOICI autumn. U5iE#  men-sn  -    a                        .       3          -   231~~~~~    ~     ~     ~    ~~~. IssII .14 12.4 -  -      13. 1II
*. m     au t"oii-tmatm    Itsu.                               -   1f11           -   3               t        1        14.1fee    16.14N1        . I"       Oi                  jam 3
a. tao-  uisa  mus cptumiesLU                                                                                                                                                      O   f
Stame  Mlmsm   *aamI-n                                          -    m      e    m                                       mIt      mat i;       "ile      iti                     .an
Mn-ftalmt-al   est  tummies                                                                                               241.5?. 3  14112      141.1no    M.t 114                 1311.4min
tan14st        giIco                             In-,.                so                                                le - -  too 44 ni                                          131401
a.5M-tIle autumn0 Cn-sn LI   1                                                                   -     em        ~          w-    4  L 6 a, 1111    -4    -1"                     it  a.
*. cAtaotl ""      taOT   tuaIS4 
nfIlas  Sam  ia 11amamas an1   m                  mn-sn          -     .                  a      -      m                434          . 1414    A 44614    21.3.1113
tans S.u..                                                     -   ti    Ia                                             M    al -  4.41   12L.1M    -          -           -      451M
tlam"jutl      ats o                              ne           -     o    14 -    s -    -                        -    I41                    14 1                                 4.116
I. ;GE-mnitl cogassume. stsm.esais
FOmma oimus                                    aeam.Sea -                              -     -                        1.14       214                         -" U'163
t655s5.tDSlts     mmsmmm        -    II    54    50    14       -    in.           -   ~~~~~~~~~~MUl?  411     ui U1.13                             13 3
SWa-igsal seam-ise1 ll WisleRI.11 sc Sata                                                                          - M   Net li:M. e utpt. 131    mU. ma)II I5. 633         -    sit. It
1CAsa    515Lm                                                                               -                  -    141.21.      i  e                                         mit en
emma ssnsms           nesm.         -     3      -     .      .     .       1         -~ ~~~~~~             ~     ~    ~      ~    ~     ~      ~~~ 13. M  -L   -       i   4
tacit taemJaI                                    Sah          -     i      -               -                               I76   -1               -                               .11.41
in-smaL  pleatus   aieausS-3.3                                                                                                        -             -          -3.6
5m-Finim smasts                                                                                                             "A64    iPle1                                          IL.   9137
talmiG  5i45i1                                  01.           e        4         -     .     -       I        'so1311    He13. me I                 ........   -........
a.sesastias  timsliT Centls  em ti5S   n                                                                                 S&I          &i
manum'i t cats ASSatas                                m                  4     I     6                      4141.S         66.641.1    *11.3f1    74.1NO    -4 ON-                    & 11414
1mb-tea      ClOats tSttlflLUs /   ICS                                        I e                                    -    4640       3413          UtIle    2412                  6414.5g
a. twit mutuan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                               20I& 4
int-ir    mania   atumea,.  u.msmpss   -   te     41   III In          -  te             -   14611    14611    14615    14411                     -   mltlS
Wmb-EsslsasnmalCA  N C-SLN                                                                                                 u 14611    1461      sgtlfl M     43 11-                   4. mat
9. 956041 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.;   .....   .....    .....   .....  .....
Sn6-a.tal tWAa 1-61 taetnm           4uaa                                                                                  14. US3   143. muS    -4.41      -4 7              -    m,   s 
SW-foastleta -g      l     w scu          E                                                                                412m  1.3 4".113           -; .J641. ata
ae-mt4.1L        VI eeslCi                      an-IL110.URI In      .     .1 ta0 1            -        a        -13.m            i. ?        a  t,     e.ma                    o
Sn6-vteat sleg-ignmis       sl   mme                                                                                    13.  m      is.al'    ital    iii. IN 14-1 t i Ott4
a.  sCullttVf
ma. ms   ants.
au-4umiN moinut  ditOsem                                                 0.3-    .                   ai              maI?.       ateImge                3144*    amI            on dosm
saaas  stm        inmate-n        -      -   ii.   m    an   ne    mel            -~~~~~~~~.....   -.   ..  Is   .em            ..a ........  .........
InsM6atamsae   smeI C      Lls                                                                                     -    mutiGs. in   mSne 1 16gmz I   tate12  tsiea               ms4c.
tam  M     $atos-                                                                                                        mta       it        sme           ai         o    e 6,
memam                                                                                                 well~~~~~~~~~~~w'sol  S     3e....  ....m..... slO   t....... ...... na. o
e.mstauie                                                                                                ..-nsa muss..  .ss.......  .......a.....a.
-.                                                                                                                           .. - -MIL /  U- S.-UIn.----               
iunur m6. am maim                                                                                                                                                                U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..TT . ~T..nT............ .. .t



AINNE C
~.(16098l0368liu88        c                          Table  6
........................ ...   C , ...........
........ II146669    9111    48               IO        It"         91       199       191?     Ifts     l*l
£ 14Il130101~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04                                                   eu       "
I. 8010181101 Of LOCAL L1041 411.
10301101 usfauaI Iu/luIeabs~~~~~~~~~~~~141101
RINI statem.                                                     3           .          30                *   GL.6 Gm.1. Os& of;1
p0614t 011 WI'MOeo                                               1    S911.3                                                1 ......  .....  .....
COP 0II   II6ST&LtAtiI91168I0I
S. 9110111UN
1.41-total 481461101 tog"L 0140 3111                                                                              130. I Is&14131                                   4013.21
C TWu6CAL 1111IS6U
I. U14413001/PLII6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. I
6180"" "'LLI,
I01AL  .1331186                                                                                      6.1                                                            .1
LOCIL 4130115        mm,         3                                  3     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................. .....6.... 1...
TIAN114 SUICTIM  1101114 hl6
3. 401018101A'ID390
30811  CPIIl                                   66                                               3 .111        11. ne     13.11                            .         I
LOCAL 61011                                      60         1    0                             '      I-m       333 19   1  3.30                                   4.0
3. 193t68 21150119
l411  m$3031$                                                                                    13.10 "I                                                     ILI
LOCAL U114611                                   ROMA                                           4       31       3.96       1.1                     .1.1 
3014119 3im411                                 mm                                                    310.                                                           .9
L CALNmits                                   -           2    *                             4      1.18M     13.4Il    2334.                                    4
LOCAL 1330811                                                            3                                       . 2;~;  2        1.16                  .      1.161
S**.6a to"  I I 18(111,11310 I90    191111                                                                             .          .    1.4                         v8
$*-twtal 4*6  40939                                                                                    11.404     33.4SHIP    13.316  2.6            -141
G.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
1. 101018 UNIS 184i. 0112
30111  13341                                    6W14 66t                                             P.         63.46      13.4 M333
LOC.108111                                       618                   3      1     *           I 1911           114        1.1      1.16                         41.1Sig
LOCAL008  l61096163  .'                                                   S     I                 s          W196111 1667.                                           4, 
P1181668 346. 301101813809  -~~~~~~  3    3    .      .                 *   34~...   1.......  .......... .....  ..... .......
63461301 LOCLu  14001108                                            I     3     .                 34              0.11       9816       11                    .    198.418
Uh6.14Io 01(83(11j    31L061     /100   00$146                                                                      13143.0  319.436                    .        . 34an3
I.0114105L       I        / E 0  
&413.4l  9-1118.ta a.16.40                                                                                        43Su 85    4945                                   19. 11
S.614ta.l lOCAL  148L1    in1.6SIM3.6w 141.SU                                                                       IM6OIt "SIt. S"
Tawon-OIL111N80083                                                                                                    S 6. S11331
fetal-foUIN 1MI831$  6111                                                                                 194L48  3419.46    33.448 l 314.81    319.M1  S1941     21. 18.
8t.  030816  01688LIm0
list"$ 01(0111  0111361                          01661                  6    140    40     6   34 PCI09             a          an       It0. Mt   PC 6.8    6t.16n  33.16n
S,                  ...~~~..c..  *.*........ *6    **S8             .         *~**
.4... .......  ...... .....1 ... .        ..a. ..  T    . .*  ...... *.SS...
.- . ---..-...-..-..- .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.             .        -          -          -         -          -         -~.....   ..........



ANNEX C
Gate, led Coat Table
ought Itby                                              Call Ct   it t
........ ........ ......... ............-- ..-.-........... ...................................................
.ni..      993 IT8 !!1986 16  94 ee  1198 total         1993       9924     '996      1998       1992     998    ltotl
I  INVESTENTI COStS
A  E9U IFNEt
I PCU OFFICES
.. ..........
GNERAI  OFFICE EQUI13ENI                          l  sa  m       I               .                          6.118                              .8. 173
PC   8K5IAn6IIS                                     cacti        3 W                                3      246934
St-otal PCU OFFICES                                                ;;;.                                                       --        - -                        - .... ....... ...
2. F IAN"CE  FINEC90IAEE/ACCT/8U0GET
..................... ..................  
PC NORNSEATIOES                                      aCh         2                                  2      1g 3s           *6. 368
Sb-total FINANCE DIRECI.ORTEU.CC178UOEI                                                                        8. 3M8                                                     I6. 38
3                   DWIINISFRIO DAE OIRECtORtAE / PROCURERENT
......................... .........................
PC MOR8STATIONS                                      eh          3.2   1 88                                                                                            e 16. 3I
Sidlotal *86INISIIRTIVE OIRECTOAID E Y PROCURENEI                                                             ;8.3 u                                                      18.356
Sib-total  ECUIPROINT                                                                                             63.4 6                                                     63.42
8 FUR8IIuRE
. PCU OFFICES
...i.........
IENERNA  OIIICE FU1`T1UNE                         7IssI'        I .  .*41  5                                                                                           .41
PC  ORESSII ION TURFNIUIE                           each         3                                          4.927          -                                             922
St-toIaIu  PN  OFFICES;00?0;?
2. fINlANCE OIRECIOROIE. ACCTf1742
..............................
PC NOR865ATION FURNIltURE                           ach          2    -           .2                        3.386 .  ?                                                 3.785
sbt- otal FINANCE OIRECOIORIE. CCT/IY8uOT                                                                      i      ?                                                    ; ?8
3  AOEINISTRATIVE OIRECTORARE / PROCUREMENT2
PC tiORtX518110t FUNRTITURTE                        each         2. each2                                   3.81                -                                      3 285
Sib-lotl ADNINIStRATIVE OIRECTORA4E Y PROCURElthlt                                                              3?85                                                       3. 65
Se-total FURItIURE                                                                                                it oft                                                     ;6 S;?.
C  NOxs / tNATERIALs Y SUPPFtES
PCU OFFICES                                          Iuip-sn         I    I    I    I    I              6      13.024   t3. 034   13.034   II. 024    13.024             t6. 12t
St-lotal NOES Y SNTERIALtS   SUPPtIES                                                                              3.024   13. 024    12.024    13.024 1?2. 04               65. t21
O tECtiNCALIU ssISIAtCE
I  PCu OFFICES
............
PROMiECT COOROINAO1R ILOCALI                       yea s         I    I                                       2 I    I    -  6  S 8    53.248   5 38 653.348    3 348  286.240
OEPU7t PORECI COONO  IOCLI                        y ers         I    I    I            I    - '           42. ISS   42. ISS   42.1t5   43.I t5   42. 155    -    210. 273
IRANtEIGOR IliNEl                                  yeas          I    I    I    I    I              6          3. 83  3.3- 33   S 136  63. 836   29 816    -          m..80
SUPPORI STAFF IEOCAtL                              years         I    I    I    I       I    *      s      13W 31     2 12 t3o 212        13  312 t3. 280
S?bdotal  PC5 OFFICES                                                                                         144.      t48.N61  t48.65t ;4865t1  148.651           ;   243.23
2.  IFIAC  DIECI T
ICCOUtIRE/8;11801` OIPT. 1OCtII                    y_rs          I    I    I                           -   39S  3    39.838   38 838            -                    11. so8
Ga-total FINANCE OIRECTORATE                                                                                  39.9836    gt 938   39  9836                               it4 6
2. LE8INISTUATIVE OI8ECTOUTIE
PROCg IENtEtl EIPORt IFOREIGNI                     wanth        12   12    -                       24     1595.88 U    .4           *          - -     -            319 2178
:MOE ItEri EXPERT ILOCLI                          y.ara         I    I    t                               7 t            t 838.83    39.36   38.838    1.8346    9  38  9  80
Sth-lotoal AMINISTRATIVE CINECIORATE                                                                         1t9.524  te9.564   39. 86   38. 36   39. 836               51S  866
4  PROJECT IRPtEtERENAION ASSESStlRET
.................................
FOSEIIGt EIPERl                                   .Ath           I    t    I    I    I    *                13.299   13.2?9    13.299    13.299    13. 29              66.495
LOCA  EFIPERNT                                     wt            I    I    I    I                   5       3.83    3. SU        3. Us     382 .883 s8t               i9. 413
S.e-lotal PROIECT INRPELENIaT lOU ASSESSIERt1                                                                  I7 982   I. 182    1 9182   il t82   IT 182?               65 908
Sb-Tolal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                    40S.239   481.322  2456.04  3059 18   205.268    -  1 467.862
E. oVESEIAS FEELOES8IPS / STUDT TOURS
...................................
t  PROJECT coRoIAtION I AODINISTRATION
.....................................
sruov TOURS                                       Iwp-sa         I    I    I    -    -    -                 5, 345   is S346 I    346                                 48 o0S
Sb-Total PROJECI COORDINATION 4 AINIIRIst8AtlON                                                                16,346 15 tr 346    6 5346          -               -      46.0 35
sb-Fotl OVERSEAS FItoLSiIPS / STUO  TOURS                                                                         t I345   16. 34S   I5 345           -          -    -      46 03s
f. VEHICEES
I  PCU OFFICES
SCUMS                                               each         I-12. 621                                                                                             1    - I. 821t
VMSE                                                each         I        -    -    -  -                   2 33.139        -          -         -            -        33.13
vErs~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   .....   .....   .....   .....   ... .,..I.I...9.?.It
S-tletal PCU OFFItES                                                                                           220                                                        t 36.760
St-tote l EHICLEES                                                                                               3.85 1t                                                    35.720
h  LOCAL thREL 8 PEROIEt
..;....................
TR  VEL A SUItSIStIENC  COST                             -                                                      4.361     4.361    4.3 11    4.1  l      4. 3t I          21. 266
St-totol LOCL TRtArIL 8 PER4OItIEt                                                                                 4.36 ''   4        -  .31  ..4 36t'      4.31 ''          21. 756
loll ItivE51ttEtFt COSIS " t ^X!;°' ?t!;^i25 ?2si;ii^ ,??,|, ~.....    .....    .....                                                   ,     ..,, ...,
lotal INCESTRNTI COSTS                                                                                              66'. III  e38.0t3  3218.421  233. 144  223.1t44    -1.218.481
tota66.lt   49.9   3843    3.144  323;".144                                                                                                                                      TN  8
,  t ................................................................2..........
... ... .. .... .... . . .. ... .. .. .. . .. . . .. .. . .._. . . .. . .. . . . .                                       ........... .. . .. . .. . ... .. ... .... ... ...



1065Ev                                       Table  8
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
labIa 8 SIS LABOR StATIStItCS
DOast sd Cost labia
Quantity                                               eas. Cost,  in $
Unit       1993 T994 1995 1998 1997 1998 Total          1993       1994      1995       1996     1997      199$      floal
1.INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT
I. EXPANSION Of SURVEYS
HOUSEHOLD SURVEYS                                         package          I           -     -                      192.580                     -                             -     192. 580
USTABLISHMENT SURVEYS                                     package .            ..I 192.580                                            -         -          .                       192.590
INDUSYTRIAL STATISTICS                                    package          I-           --                     I 192.51A1-                                          -              192. 580
Sub-Total EXPANSIOIN OF SURVEYS                                                                                        577. 739                     -         -         .        -     5??. 739
Si6tiotal EQRIPNENT                                                                                                        572. 739                               -        .         .    577. 739
8. FURNITURE
386 - PC - WORKSTATION FURNITURE                                each         TA .          .        .        .    T      10.811          -                    .                         10.511
Sub-Total FURNIITURE                                                                                                         OSti.                                         .                10.511
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I. PRODUCTION OF QUARTERLY REPORTS
FOREIGN EUPERTS                                            months          2    2      I                -            26.5VU    26.59U    13.299                                     66 8.495
Sib-Total PRODUCTIOR Of QUARTERLY REPORTS                                                                               28. 598   25. 598    13. 299                             .      5. 495
2. IMPROVE tNt DATA. ESIARLISARENI SURVEY
FOREIGN EXPERTS  lIPX4a. I                                 months          I                                   2    13. 299    13. 299                                              2635598
LUCAL EXPERTS  lipl4mn I                                   morals          4.      .           .     .         4    IS. S3T I                                       .        -      15.531
Sut-Total IMPROVE LMI DATA. ESTAULISRMENT SURVEY                                                                        2.8. 30    13. 299                                              4    2. 13$
3. IMPROVE ENI DATA. ROUSEHOLX LAROR-FORCE SURVEY
FOREIGN EXPERTS (IlPXIoI                                   months          I.      .     .           .     .         13. 299         -                                              1  3.299
LOCAL EXPERTS  11pX3a1)                                    months          3.      .           .     .         3    11.848                                                          It  - - 1. 684
Sit-total IMPROVE EMII DAlA. HOUSEROtR ERROR-FORCE SUUVEY                                                               24. 947                               .                         24. 947
4. EUPANSION Of ESTABLISHMER4T SURVEYS
DOREIGN EXPERTS                                            months          -     -    4      -          -      4           -53. 19$6                                                52.196
LOCAL EXPERTS                                              months                     9                        9          -          - 34. 944                                      3 4. 944
Sit-Total EXPANSION Of ESTAULISHENET SURVEYS                                                                                  -          -   8R. 140                                    88A.140
Stb-TotaT  TECMNICAL ASSISTARCE                                                                                            R0.375   29.897   101.439             -         -        -     221.711
D. OVERSEAS VELLOASHIPS I SYTUDY TOURS
1. PRODUCTION OF QUARTERLY REPORTS
STUDY TOURS (2-IIEEKSI                                       each          2.2    12. 276                                            -.                                      -       12. 276
Sit-Total PRODUCTION OF QUARTERLY RUPORTS                                                                               12. 278                    -          .                         12. 276
2. IMPROVE EMI DARTA
FELLONSHIPS  l22pX3ai                                      months         14   20   20      6                 Go 6    114.576  163.680   T83.680   49, 104          -        -     491,040
Sit-Total IMPROVE LMI DATA                                                                                             1 14.5S76  T63.680   163.680   49. 104                         491.0$40
3. EXPANSION OF ESTABLISHNENT SURVEYS
fELLOWSHIP                                                 months-                         10     -     -     10                          -         81R.840         -               81.840
Sit-Total EXPANISION Of ESTABLISHMENIT SURVEYS                                                                                           -         -   81.840                    -      81.840
Sit-total OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIIPS I STRUY TOURS                                                                              126,8R52  163. 680  183.6800  130. 944          -        -     585. I56
E. LOCAL YRAINING
I. CHNAGFES A MEN SURVEY INSTRUMENTS
NORKSHOPS                                                    oach          -     I     I    I    I             4          -    5,439      5.429      5.439   5.429           -     21. 755
Sit-Total CUIANGES S NEWI SURVEY INSTRUMENTS                                                                                 -    5.439       5.439    5.439   5.439            -      21. 755
Suit-Total LOCAL TRAINIRG                                                                                                        -    5.439      5.439      5.439   5.439           -     21. 755
Total INVUSTMANT COSTS                                                                                                       785. 477  209. 016  270. 558  136. 382   5.439            -1.416.872
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES
1. CHANGES U MEN SURVEY INSYRUMENYS
NETWORK MANAGER                                         ntaff/yea,        I    I    I    I    I    I          A    19, 968   19. 968    19. 968    19. 96R  T9. 968  T9. 96$      119.808
SOFTWARE REVELOPER                                      staff/pear        I    I    I    I    I    I          6    18.'968    T9.966    I9.968    19.868   19.968   19.968       119.8Bog
Sub-Yotal CRANGES B MEN SURVEY INSTRUMENTS                                                                            39.9236   39. 936   39. 928   29. 936  39. 938  39, 93A        239. 616
Sit-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES                                                                                            39. 938   20. 936   39. 938   39. 926  39. 926  29. 926       239.61t6
B. MATERIALS/SRPPLIES U MAINTENANCE
T. CHANGES AND NEW SURVEY INSTROMENTS
SUPPLIESli-na                                                             -        I    IT       T I I                        1 I. 749    17. 749    17. 749  12. 74S   17. 749    88. 747
MAINTENANCE                                             10Xof eq          -        I    I    I T              5          -   19. 958    19. 968   ID. 989  19.9686  18.858         98, 849
Sibt-otal CHANGES AND NEW SURVYE  INSTRUMENTS                                                                                    3221 37.717 3   7?i    37.717  37.717  37.717       188.587
Sit-Total MAYERIALS/SUPPLIES 8 MIAINTENANCE                                                                                     -   37.717    32.717   32.717  37.717  37.717            188.587
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                          39. 236   77. 653    77. 653   77. 652  77. 653  77. 653    428. 203
....33.31. 3 ..  3:=.- 3z=z 33333333- 1   -33=333
Total                                                                                                                          835.413  286.669  348.2it  214.036  83.092  77.653  1.845.075
October 28. 1992 12:21



ANNEX C
tilPttil t      E                  BASE                             Table    9
tl 9,SIS t409 NIVEt INfORIUIIOtt DATA SASE  (LItilOB
Betel Ild Coat table
"untity                                              Base Costs in S
. . .. . . . ... . .         ... . ..    ....... ....  °-,,,,,,,,,...................... ...... ... ...... ..      
Unit       1993 1994 1995 IIB  19"? 1228 Total   1993             ;j94      199;      1996      199?     1998      Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
..............
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. DESICGN 8 NMANGEMENT OF LNI DATA BASE
FOREIGN EXPERTS                                  tenths          2     2      I    -      -            5   265598  26.598   13.299             -                  -   66.495
LOCAL EXPERTS                                   tmnths           6     6      -                       1 -  2   23:296  23,295                  -         -        -   46 592
Sib-Total DESIGN 8 MANAGEMENT OF LNI 04TA BASE                                                                 49.894  49,894   13.299                       -        -  113.08?
Sib-Total TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE                                                                                     49. 9u   49,894   13.299                                   113.08?
B. OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIPS / STUDY TOURS
1. DEV/MAANAGEMENT OF LMII DATA BASE
. .......................
STUDY TOURS                                      months           I     I    I                         3   12.276   12, 276   12.276           -         -         -   36. 828
Sub-Total 0EV/MANAGEMENT OF LNI DATA BASE                                                                       12 2;8 IX.i26 ;2  76 S                                     36.828
Sib-Total OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIPS / STUDY TOURS                                                                       12.276   1.216   12.276                                     36.828
C. LOCAL TRAIHI-;
..............
1. USE OF LMI CATA BASE
WORKSHOPS FOR USERS                                each                2     2      2     2     -      6          -   6. 52?    6.652     6.52       . 52?         -   26. 106
Sib-Total USE OF  Ul DATA BASE                                                                                           6.52?    6i52?    6.52?    6.652?           -   26.l06
Sib-Total LOCAL TRAINING11                                                                                                    6.512     6.52?    6.527   6.527                 i 26. 06
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                 62.170  68.69    32i,102   6.52?    6.527                 176.021
23*334*  *3*fl*1  *n3h3z   :-32.  :::::::                  ------ .
11. RECURRENT COSTS
..... .... ...
A. INCREMENTAL SALARIES
............. ....
1. MANAGEMENT OF THE LMI DATA BASE
P,ROF,E-SSIO,N-A-L-S-T,AFF -------            staff/year        -     -      I     I     I                       -         -  13.312   13.312   13.312   13.312    53.248
SUPPORT STAFF                                 staFf/year                     I           I            4                    -   8.875    6.875    8.875        . 875    35. 499
Sib-Total MANAGEMENT OF THE IMI DATA BASE                                                                                         22  18?  22. ;8;  22. t8;  2  ;8;   66. 74?
... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   .  . .    ...............             ..  .. .  ..  .. .  .. ..  .
Sib-Total INCREMENTAL SALARIES                                                                                           -        -22. 18?  22. 16?  22.187  22. 18?   88. 747
B. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
1. GENERAL OFFICE hATERIALS/SUPPLIES               luip-sub         -                                    5           -   3.328   3.328    3.328    3.328    3.328    16.640
Sib-Total MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                                                                                             3.328    3.328   3.328    3.328    3.3328    16.640
Totcl RECURREII COSTS                                                                                                        - 3.328   25.515   25.515  2s.515  25.515   105.38?
Total                                                                                                                  62,170  72.025  5t.6 ;6   32.0;41  32.041  25.515  281.408
....... .......... .................. .................................. .............................
October 28. 1992  12:21                                                                                                    --



ANNEX C
TUBKEY
AD TRAINING PROE ECY                                   Table   10
T4bio 10. LABOR lftR1IT INfORUITIOtt RESEARCH
D514l1d Cost Tool.
Qantity                                          Bane Costs in S
Unit      1993 1994 1995 1996 1991 1Q98 Total   tO1 - 1994             1995    1996    199.   1998    lotal
1. INVESTMENIT COSIS
A. EOUIPMENT
1. PRODUCTION Of SEMESTER BULtETIN
...... ..... .................
DESKTOP PUBLISHING iORSTTIOS11           package         I-                                    38.363                                                  38.363
Sit-Total PRODUCTION OF SEMESTER BULLETIN                                                         38 363                                                  38. 363
Sub-Total EOU!PHENT                                                                                  38.363          -        *        -        -            38 363
B. FURNITURE
1. PRODUCTION Of SEMESTER BULLETIN
.... ... ... .... ... ... ......
itORiSTATION FURNITURE                   package         I                                 I    2.73?                                                   2.737
Sib-Total PRDOUCTION OF SEMESTER BULLETIN                                                          2.73?                                                   2.737
Sit-lotal FURNITURE                                                                                   2.737                                     -        -    2.737
C. BOOMS / MATERIALS / SUPPLIES
1. PRODUCTION OF SEMESTER BULLETIN
_  . . ..  . . . ..  . . .  .....
PRINtINGS  DISTRIBUTION                    assue         -    2    2    2    2            6         -   23.876   23.878  23.878  2388 -7   9S 511
Sib-Total PRODUCTION OF SEMESIER BULLETIN                                                              -   21.678   23.678  23t878  23.878           -   95.511
Sit-Total BOOMS / MATERIALS / SUPPLIES                                                                    -   23.876   23.878  23.8768  23.878               95.511
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
.. ................
1. PRODUCTION Of SEMESTER BULLETIN
..  .......     ....  .. ........
FOREIGN EXPERTS                            ontihs        I    -  -     -    -     -        I  13.29           -        -        -        -        -   13.299
LOCAL flPERTS                              ontihs       6   12    6         -       -    24   23 296   46. 592   23. 296                              93. 164
Sib-lotal PRODUCTION OF SEMESTER BULLETIN                                                         36.595   46.592   23.296          -       -        -  106.483
2. COMMISSIONING OF AD HOC STUDIES
FOREIGN EIPERTS                            nniths        -    T    I    I    I    -       4         -   13.299   13.299  13.299  13. 299              53 196
LOCAL EXPERtS                             ronthi         -         6        -       -    12             23 296   23. 296                 -            46 592
Sib-Total C3NINISSIONING OF AD HOC SIUDIES ;                                                               36.595   36.595  13. 299   3. 299         -   99. 788
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                       36.695   83.187   59.891  13.299  t3.299              206.271
E. OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIPS / STUD? TOURS
1. DEV/MANAGEMENT OF LMIDB A BULLETIN
STUD? TOURS                               months         I    I    I                       3   12. 27    12. 276   12. 276                            36. 628
Sib-Total DEV/MANAGEMENT OF LMIID  A BULLETIN                                                     12.276   12.276   12. 276                3-        -   3.828
Sit-Total OVERSEAS FELtONSHIPS / STUDB  IOURS                                                        12. 276   12. 276   12.276        -       -        -   36. 828
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                  89.971  119.341   96.045  37.1737. 77               -  379.710
11. RECURRENT COSTS
8. INCREMENTAL SALARIES
1. PRODUCTION OF SEMESTER BULLETIN
PROFESSIONAt STAFF                      sFF/ys          -    -    I    I    I    1       4                   -   13. 312  13.312  13. 312  13.312   53.248
SUPPORI STAFF                          stff/yar         *    *    I    T    I    1       4                        8 B75   8 .675   8.875   8.675   35 499
Sib-lotal PRODUCTION OF SEMESTER BULLETIN                                                                  -        22 t87  22. t87   22. t?  22. 87   88.747
Sit6-Total INCREMENTAL SAtARIES                                                                          -         -   22. 187  22.187  22. 187  22.187   88. 741
B. MNTERIALS AND SUPPLIES
I  GENERAL OFFICE MATERIALS/SUPPLIES       luip-nun        -    I    T    I    I    I       5              3.328   32328   3.328   3.328   3.326   t6.640
Sib-Total MATERIALS aND SUPPLIES                                                                         -    3.328    3.328   3 328   3. 32    3. 328   16.640
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                        *    3.328   25.515  25.515  25.515  25.515  105.387
Total                                                                                                    8991t  t22.669  T2t.559  62.69t  62.69T  25.515  485.096
_ e   2..                                                                                                   ...         . . .... .    .          ... .. .          ....
Octabsr 28. 1992  12:21



ANNEX C
EMPLOtINNI An toin PitTg                                   Table  iI
OtUIS9I 90CltlU         StitOS
DetelledCt   *
Oum'stety                                           6las" Costs an s
.................. .............................................  ............................................................
Uni         1293 t924 '995 19os  1997 1998 total         1223      19t4      1995      l9oS      19921    998   Total
t. INVESTNEiT COSTS
.......... .......... 
A. EQUIPENTI
1. DEVELOP ATSU OPERUTIONS
......................
PC NORASTATIONS S OFFICE EOUIPSEINT                 l -t                   *           .I   112.530                                           -                          112.530
....... ........ ........ ........ ........ .... ........
Sub-total OEVELOP fTSU OPERAtllONS                                                                               112.530                                                    112.530
Stb-total EQUIPMENT                                                                                                  112.530                                        -    -      112.530
8. fUAisIUAJE
1. DEVELOP ATSU OPERATIONS
........................
HWSMSt5  ttON 3 iEtERiL FUNITUK                     lptI      4.14 -                                            -       -      -I                                         54.147
S*-Total DEVELOP AtSU OPEiRATI                                                                                    S4. 747                                                    54.74?
St-Total FURNITU2E                                                                                                  54.747                                         -            54 14?
C. TECHAICAL ASSISTANCE
.....................
1. DEVELOP a OPERUTE LTSU
......................
fOREIGN EIPERTS                                       mnth           2     1    -    -    -    -                  S 3 t595    13.29S     -               *                 9.62?
PROFESSIONAL STAFF I LOCAL I               8                         a    S    a    a    a    -    40   212.5S2  212 912  212.922  212.902  212.992                -  1.054.S60
SUPPOPT  STAFF I LOCAL I                              Yar            2    3    3    3    3    -    IS    26. 624   26. 624   21. 624   26.624   26. 24                   133. 120
1TE18il*.S DiVELOPISEiT STAFF  I LOCAL I            lmp-su*          I    I    I    I    I                5   13.312    13.312    13.312    13.312   13.312              68.560
FACILITIES RENT                                   attatl Pont        I    I    I    I    I    -          5    26. 624   26 624   26.624   26.624   26.624                133. 120
Sub-Total DEVELOP S OPERATE ATSU                                                                                 306. 150  292.851  27S.552  2T9.552  279.552         -  I43? 657
......  .......  ........ ........ ........ ...  ..........
St-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCtE                                                                                     30 1ISO  292.651  279.552  279.552  219.552           -  I437.t651
0. OVERSEAS FEiLOSHIPS / STUDY TOUIRS
.................................. ........................... 
1. DEVELOP ATSU
...._.........
FELLONiSHIPS  112 PERSONSz2NEERSI                     month          2     1                -    -             16.366    S. 14                                            24. 552
Sub-Total DEVELOP ATSU                                                                                              .36 o       14 U             -               -    -      24.552
2. PREPAUE ATSU NORm  PROM"511
..........................
FEttOSUIPS                                            mnth           9    9    -    -    -    -    18    IL .56   13. 6s5i                                               14,. 312
Sob-Total PREPARE ATSU NORK PioA                                                                                  t3.656   73.6556          -                    -    -      14.312
SeA-Total OVERSEAS FELLOSHIPS 2 STUOT IOUiS                                                                          90.024   ;1. 80                                            ;;;.864
E. VEHICLES
i. ATSU OPfROTIONS
S1ECANS                                                ach           2--                                 2  25243 .               .                 . -    -              25.243
thb-Total ATSU OPERATIONS                                                                                         25.24s3                                                    25.243
t-Totael VEHICLES                                                                                                    25.242          -                    *               -      25.243
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ .... ..........
Total IRVESTNET COStS                                                                                                  5ML  94  374. 691  279.552  219.552  219.552          -  1.602.041
....8.. .;.4... |  BZs. l4sg ---z-Ba ...... ........ ..... gs ... 8.0................ -s.
total                                                                                                                     86L 694  34.691  219.552  279.552  279.552          ;  1.802.041
........................................................................................................ .............................................................
Septer t. 1992  15:21



ANNEX C
Table 12
EMPLOYtNENT AND TUOIBA NJECT
Table  2  ATSU M0e1otl IN  cUEu
Detailed Coat Table
Qunttty                                       e.. Costs   s
, .............. ........................ ...........................   ........................................... ............
Unit    1993 1994 199S 1996 1997 1998 total    1993             19U4      1995    BIS9  1997 1996  Total
tattata ttl flat =StS fitS tttt fitS flttaISat *ttattaas ssss ssatan. an.s ass. wstt *tastn.t
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
...............
A EeUIPIIENT
1. PtAN A 0EV. ATSU LIBRARY
........................
ORIKSTATIONS 8 LIBRARY/OFFICE EQIuIPNENt           two-sun                         .     .            I   132. 99D             ;132.990
Sub-Total PLA  A DEV. AlSU LIBRRY                                                                             32.10 s                                        132.990
Sub-Total EOUIPIIENT                                                                                             132.990                                        132. 990
8. FURNITURE
L. PLAN 6 DEV. ATSU LIBRARY
........................
NRSTATIONS A LIBRARY/OFFICE FURNITURE              lio-swi        I                                        2 -  -      - X  2                             21. 99
Sib-Total PLAN A DEV. ATSU LIBRARY                                                                            21. 899                                         21. 899
Sub-total fUNITURE                                                                                               21.899          -          -         -     -    21.699
C. BOOKS / NATERIALS / SUPPtLIES
.............................
1. PLAN * DEV. ATSU lIBRART
........................
HERIALS A SUPPLIES                                 Iim-as         -                -                 2               54.268   54,26s                      108.l35
Sub-Total PLAN - OEV. ATSU LIBRARY                                                                        .             5 4.268   54.268            -    -  tD8. 535
2. OBTAIN ATSU RESOURCES
.....................
8MS/KPRIODICALS/SOFTUARE                           Ii-a.          *          I                       2               70. S48   70.546                     141. 096
Sub-Total OTAIN ATSU RESOURCES                                                                                      -   10.t48   70.548    -    -    -  141.096
Sib-Total Wa1S / NATERIAUS / SUPPLIES                                                                                      124.815  124.815                     249.631
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
.................... .................
I. PtL A DEV. ATSU LIB ARY
........................
FOREIN CONiSULTMTS                                  month         2  -        -2    2B.598                                           -                -   26.598
tec t C"SUltUtS                        ">"~~~~~~~~~~~~moth  2    - -  -     -    -      2      7. 7657   s
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                                   7aih         2     --                                    .,                                             . 66
Sub-Total PLAN A OEV. ATSU tIBRARY                                                                            34.363          -         *                -   34.363
2. OBTAIN INTERNATIONAt RESOURCES
..............................
FeRE ION CONSULTANTS                                imnth              4           -    -            4          -   63. 196               -               53. 196
. ...... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ........ .......... ..... ... . .. . .... ...... . ....
Sib-Total OBTAIN INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES                                                                                53. 196         -    -                53. 196
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                   34.3J3   63. 196                 - - -  -       87.69-
E. OVERSEA FEILONSHIPS / STUDY IOURS
...................................
1. PLAN 8 OEV. ATSU LIBRAR
........................
FELtOSISIPS                                         month        2    2            -          -          *  6.368    16.368                               32.738
.Sb-Total PLAN A OEV. ATSU LIBRARY                                                                               .366    v. 26 36s                            32.736
Si-Total OVEISEAS FELLOWSHIPS   STUs T TOURS                                                                     Lt368    16.368                                 32. 736
Total INVESTiNENT COSTS                                                                                             20S.60  194.319  124.815         -    -    *u24.61t
I......... ............ s 8| ........ ....a... &*. -*ese .
total                                                                                                                205.620  194.370  124.815                   -  624.815
.  ........a    t  .t... .. -. ta t:   tt.t t.t.a



ANNEX C
Table 13
TUNE?
E(iPLOTtEKt  Mto lUiitO  P30CCEc?
*,,,, 13.   6 uIITSIS
Dot a I.     Coslt tab I
otaatny                                                  Gas* Costs .n S
Unit       9;i33   ; 9   'i34  ;;;;  ;;;6 13?    ;96rtl         993j      9;;4       ;;5       '9;6    ;939      toll    Totl
1. INVISltENT COSTS
................
A. BOKS / R IfTRIALS     SUPPLIES
.............................
1. DICTIOKAoT Of OCCoPaTOgUt lITLS               Iwo  -.om                                                         27. 134         .2. 134
........ ......... ........ ....... ....... ....... ............
Su,-T0otl  M906S /  TAfERIALS / SUPPLIES                                                                                27 134                                                     27. 134
R. TECHNICAL ASSISTIACL
.....................
t  OICTIOIRY OF OCCUPSTIOINAL TIttLS
................................. .......................... 
FORlEGN COtSUULtAITS                               It                               -                      3      6.  6    13.23 n                                          35. "?
toCAt COKSUtLIAttS                              _at                   3      I *                          25     34. 44   34. 944   2? t1S                              -     74Sf
Sub-Total OICTIONAR? Of OcCuPtiOAL TIlSts                                                                             ;.942   46. 243   2?. ;9; 13L 364
2. OEFINE AISU P,OCtmS OCC. AUOtS7S
...................................
fOREIOD  CONSULTANTS                           _ItA            2      t      -                             3     26. 5ft    13. 2Ss                                         3. 6
Sub-total OEFINE ATSU PROCEOUlSm   OCCC   aILtIS                                                                     2f i;;    132.231                                          39 j;
3. DEVELOP aUSU fIAINOit NAIE3IALS
................................
FOREIGN CONSUIAIUS                             melha                      -                                            -   93. 2S                                            1 3. 293
LOCAL CONSULTANS                               2ntaa                  2                                    2           -      . 1f5         --                                7. 65
Sub-totel OEVELOP £ISU  TAAINIto  N*tESIALS                                                                                    2;.064           -                               i2. 64
4  flEUO TESI Pl?OCUIES
.....................
FOREIGN6 COSttIANIS                            mAthi           *      I      I                             2                93. 239    13. 299                               25. 569
S*-total FIELO  TEST PEOCCIES                                                                                                    i3.263    13.2 23                              25.6$96
5. OCCUPATIONAL *N6t6SIS
.....................
FOREIGN CONSUIIS                               "Rit                  I      I                             2                13 229    13. 23                                 25.593
LOCAL COiSUILTANTS                              wths           .                     I      .    -        93                23. 23    23. 26   3 ADS                         50.475
Su-total OCCWPAIIOKAL AN6t?SIS                                                                                                  26.63    3. "S36     3.5 5 1113             . 7. ?
Sub-Total TECtNICAtl  ASSISt4CE                                                                                          U  64     32.60   77.072    3.6 i i3                      i;30;.i;6
C. OVERSEAS FEU&OWSNIPS / stUof tOU1S
=...................................
1. SUPPORT USE Of OCWUPAT IONAL  AKLIIS
.....................................
FELtLOSHNPS                                    mAIS            5      4                       .            9      40.o20   32.136                                            *   H6
Sub-lotal SUPPORI USE OF OCeIJPAt 936  04316SIS                                                                       40.220   32.;,36                                            ;3. 6
Sub-10thl OVERSI 5S fFELIOiSHIPS / STUg? lUoS                                                                            40.320   32.   ..6 ;i                 . .                      HS 73 
0. LOCAL IRAVEL ANO PEROIEf FUO
..............................
I OCCUPAIIOKALt aDtTSI5
................... ............... _
tRAVEL OF 250 IECiHNIC&L  TEUS                * of *tz              30    6OO   SOO    700            2. 000            -   32 633   54. 3S  564.2         16 943           17 297.50
............................. ....... ................
Sub-lotal OCCUPAT01NAL T AtTSIS                                                                                             -   32. 63    544 3     S64.     76. 143        -  2?. 650
SubTlotl LOCAL ItAvEL AO PEROBIEN Fts                                                                                          -    2. 633  564 .U    4. 3U   76. 143           -  i21.t  0 .
.. ............ ........ ....... ....... ......-4 .  ts$.|..  as........... | . tt. 
total INVESTRNKT COSTS                                                                                                      966 994  197.866  312.460  66.210  IL. 143              -  6193.33
.........  sa .sa           ... .....   see55          ..585£SSS  ........
11. 3EC9INRlKT COSTS
...............
A. 6tIt39*1S AND SUPPIIES
.......................
9. OCCUPATI*L AtNATSIS
......................
SUPPtIES                                     ItN    m                I 9           t 9          t         5                t 9.033    t .023   9. 093 e   . tl    11.0 S2 61.467
Sub-total OCCUPATIIOUL *6i8YS1S                                                                                           .   99.033    99.093 tt    .033   99.03 tt03 O t tt t     S
Subelo¢t RAi'ItIL3 s ANO SUPLIts                                                                                              -       W tt . . Ot .Ot3  tt9.03tt3  t.3 t. . 03     5 346?7
Total PEeCR9 KT COSTS                                                                                                     ;;  ;;093 "093  11.013  9o.033   M9ODS   665.46?
aa.a.aaS  Sa*a5555lsseseS   sss... .a a *a55.5   88hts..a
total                                                                                                                        9619420.              43. 564  63.364  A1.236   9t. 033  66. 402
.......................................................................................... ............... ................................................................................................... ......................................
Sotaem    1. 1932  IS: 2?



ANNEX C
Table 14
ENPiOTNENT lEO TURINING PROJECT
table 14. TESTING AND CERTIFICATION
Detailed Cst Table
O,ta*tiy                                           Bass Costs in S
un t      ntu1 iii    I iI, 11n     II '1  9  Totl       iggs      1114     1195    1196    119?    l9og      Total
*sn.s.ut  5e55 :5... *35.5 ....... 8s .335 's S5*tS5         a    stas *s a=tS tsslss 5.5, 5  ts.:: .........  .s t*-
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
................
A. TECIlCAL ASSISTANCE
.....................
t. EVELOP PROCEOURES FOR OCC. TIC
..............................
FOREIGN EXPERTS                          wmthi         2      2     -                          4   2.         6.591 U  5                                  53. tS
Sub-Total OEVELOP PROCEDURES fOR  CC. TIC                                                             25        26. 596        -                             53 t96
2. DEVELOP TRAINING RtATS. FOR OCC TIC
........................ ........................ ....
FOREIGN EXPERTS                            fiths              2            -                   2             26.5U6                               -       26.598
LOCAL EIPEITS                             inths        '      2                                2              T 165                  -       -        -    ?. 765
,......;.... ................ ....... ....... .......
Sm-Total DEVELOP TRAINING RATS. FOR  CC. TIC                                                                    34 .363                                      34.363
3. FIELD TEST TRAINING NATERIALS
.............................
FOREEIGN EXPERTS                         sfths         -      I      I                 _       2             13. 29    13. 219               -            26.598
LOCAL EXPERTS                            mionthis                          .     .     -.                         .         .        .       -
lecit EXPERTS lW"thS , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......    ........                                                .......    .......    .......    ........
Su-Totel FIEtO TEST TRAINING MATERIAIS                                                                          13. 211   13.299                             26. 598
4.  EV. TEST ItEI DA 8AMS  FOR OCCS.
.,,,....................
FOREKIN ExPERTS                          moths                t      I     *                   2        -   13.29    13.2 t                           -   26.596
LOCAL EXPERTS                            months               9     9      -l                                34.944   34.944                             ;69. a
5th-Total DE. TEST ITEt DATA  AMS  fOR eCS.                                                                     4A243   4A 243 J                         .   25.486
S5b-Totol TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                           2ASU   122.503   51.542          -       -           210.643
L OVERSEAS FELtLOSNIPS / STUOT TOURS
...................................
i.  EV. TEST ITENt U1TA  SAS FOR OCS.
...................................
FELLONSNIIPS                             mntlhs        6      3         .     .        .       9  49. 104   24.552          -       -        -            73.656
9t-Total DE. TEST ITEN D8TA  AxS FOR OCCS.                                                            49. 104   24.552                                       13. 656
Sub-Total OVERSEAS FELLOIISNIPS / STUDY TOURS                                                              . 104   24.552         -                         -   73. 656
C. LOCAL TRAVEL AND PERDIElt
1. DEW. TEST lIEM DATA RAS FOR OCCS.
...................................
TEoCICALt IEUS                          * of datys          304   SOO   500   700          2.00             32.633   54.386  54.3    76. 143            217.550
Sth-Total OEV. TEST ITEN DOATA  IPS FOR OCCS.                                                                  32. 633   54.38  54. 36   76. 143           21?. 550
$ub-Total tOCAL TRAVEL AND PEflDIEt                                                                                32.633   54.38b   54.3U6  76. 143           21? 550
Total INESIENT COSTS                                                                                        15. 102  119.6 U   115.930  S4.36  76. 143         . 5016e49
sas.t **Sa5S ;v.sca s sass  nega       .st, *esta. ass8..
It. RERcuRnE COSTS
...............
IL KATERIALS AND OERIATIN SUPPLIES
IMAYERIALS                                'Itwe           -     I      I     I      I            '            11.03   1 1.013  1 1.03  11.0t   3  11.003   55.467
Sto-lotal RATERIALS AND OPElATING SUPPLIES                                                                            3    10.93 I3  11.OS3 tt  e2        3   55.467
Total REcunENT COSTS                                                                                                  I I1.003    I10O     0 OJ    .093  11.093   55.467
565358538855  58l55588a.25              a...55   5825  50568552
Total                                                                                                        15.102  190.181  121.023  65.481 6U .236  I1.003  55?7 316
Tetel ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~at~ .;                                         ..5  8358  sts.  .sss   553  2..   5



a Imewie leojiCtANNEX  C
ieot   wes4 Eeiaci nimAinm                                                     Table  15
oFfict iqulpr4mi                                                           l~~~~~~~~~~~hIie    m   el
I                                                                                2       ts                                                 is. MI~~~~~~4*12  en0oe  i 
£ 194104013~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
*iiei@i   1184a  146  n"loS
Uie-l.eel MlO/AII46i06lo 8*3860161414841N.......   ....   ........ 2...8.                                                                                      2.......
C. aD,rAll. 1e4i18144116  041811                 eif                                                 '4 jf                             ..                        614*
611010912081     IC,,,4                                   I                                   I      o      . '         . So       .  .'6. 1ff
1*na   iffooc  pecutlo a OiISIAIffIlIO                                                                                         ISO   it   . .... ........
1*-bed   £44i911  ~~~ 44 104   2.19    2. i                                                                                     2.           .        .     49.1at
U01i41ec mN 44116    4:6110                                                                         .....1 4 ...... .....                                     1.42$....
Se-Intl l03hIi44                                                           12.444                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.47 1.77 S ;.,1S.044
0    lI    4111                                 I-s           I    I     I    I    Iit a112   1.18126.211 21.112                           I 1112              216 1.o
SISif O iCttiI ~                                                                        1. 224 I  6.42?    L 9.421    12421    94?          .     2.2
A1AIee       '  %(AKxII   64w11                                                             1. 21      . S21    1.4?     141       1413   2
64414*46    441l44l 111919351 ILl  08*1*1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~12 2   Ii   '2   of  60    212I     6  2      144 212             12                 f  2
9 h-i#l4A  40508L lhOIliCI086646400                                                                 144, 282  IIL 282  II ff2  13.0149    II.af 44                41.24
ffM14046  Nni lIIUlll                        n""          '     2   '2  '2  '2            4       12        12       12        12        12                  2 
I1-es-In   4014434  Poop"   4n 611131E10                                                            216       16240   21424 244   21 64soI 12
k1i*Ioe.i,CI1i45 6t 4581r04C                                                                          144 141444   322. I   ¶2 101    944                   .     112
6. 094,04 Maine311
12a104    3Plllie&l8                                 2    2    2                            . 0228        10.210   10.220 I!.  .                 21444
15-Ulen; 09112UIffs12                                                                                                     10.2274   1122£8  -0                     am 4s
1-noteS  14441 1601514020   I:    O                                                        'G*    S 16    II:82       2.1168   0828 414826 Al*"*
Se-bed   lOlIClIS                                                         22. :21  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ...  ..... ..... ....   2......
mvii  a  104111i4*CI     "'44        20   20   20   20~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ 2    .1.41        17.426   11. 42    !!.!49    1.44         .     2. IssI.I"o.a
se-rue Ls4095  ocasruro                                                                        t4[A  wopI4 l  7.6149    1.6Us11.614  tel. fe1.14        20.211
1681,6*1 4*9496  13855     m Ataf-,.                            2          2    2    2            18241   It. 249    ?. 14£   ;;Il.24    52.244  lIsI a06. li
l6h6inrIU    "Ml666ii   514                sie         82                           I    i1    2- 2442   52. 212   ii31 li   3I. 212    til3l    Li, 2     t2 4822
Se-louta Immolaion ag63"                                                                           2. 642  1I21  111   12   12.312   132.12  11212          41.22
Isa-hod   icgaesea  utates                                                                      54. 1"   AL9  1 44.222   44.3222   44. III   44.12   1382  221 ai
L.WSIS3186£06
Inm,minunuup s                               iS-s c                              I        S I~10           222      124       311        13       .1         21
1   4101*1 518*1W                            i.e-vs 01  41                             .         11412    114123.                  .        It  1.3         34.12
Saw-reici. 0curia  mrAcM*uWmna                                                                       2106      22.8139   112312   12.21 Sol l3  1121IL         1111 82
;;-;ees El    e-    mI                                                                              IL3ii?    IL. Silt   IL I    11212   12.121  'LSII         I983
i 6t0i sinum.  cus1K1aiCi    19                                                                                                       092 2.1?242                4.1
Seine. 1.mo i        TP                                                                                                                on I?tO0                     47



ANNEX C
Table lo
TURKEY
EMPLOYNENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Financing Plan By O,sbursswnt Catgory
luss '0001
90  K-              -                    Local (Xtol.  Duties A
Amount      *       Amount      3       Amount      a      For. txzb.      Te ste)       Taxa
A. J06 - fl$sialOW TMUIN                    31,061.11  65.23  16,564.97  24.77   47,"44.0$  44.36    4,451.59    4*,241.56    952.92
S. =UllaOzI,                                 0,350.66  90.00       927.87  10.00    9,278.74   8.44    0,350.06               '. 00    927.87
C. 1URfOIU                                           -       -     652.20 100.00        352.20   0.61         90.42         496.56      65.22
0. vUCLZ                                     1,997.00  90.00       210.76  10.00    2,107.78   1.96    1,213.34             683.16    210.78
*. vom111111 T . ASSST.                      3,113.59 100.00             -      -    3,113.59   2.60    3,113.59                  -         -
P. LOCKL SC. ASS6S.                         10,092.69 100.00             -      -  10,097.99   9.40               -      10,092.09          -
0. 09fJlm  ?LIAgSUIPS                        3,627.02 100.00             -      -    3,627.02   3.33    3,627.02                  -         -
B. L4eAL IfthSN                              2,966.54 100.00         0.00   0.00    2,966.54   2.76          666.45       2,300.09          -
X. BOOKS I NWAItZALS I SUPPLIES              2,444.02  90.00       271.56  10.00    2,715.5$   2.53         630.52        1,013.50    271.56
S. WeAL TRAVZL / SUDSS. / MONORANIA          3,426.10 100.00         0.00   0.00    3,426.10   3.19          771.24       2,654.06          -
R. 8ALASJIS *1=n   AZLXAMUS                          -      -  13,640.61 100.00   16,640.61  17.35                -      16,640.61          -
L. OPROATIMG NkTARL  / SUPPLiZ8                      -      -   1,059.4S 100.00    1,059.48   0.99                -       1,059.46          -
M. 3x35                                              -      -       94.27 100.00         94.27   0.09             -          94.27          -
P. 00Sor   NAZNTUIACS                                -      -   1,987.47 100.00    1,987.47   1.65                -       1,937.47          -
Total DSxburo_ent                             67,001.13  42.36   40,409.21  37.62  107,410.33 100.00   24,917.54           60 064.45  2,4'9526
-    -    -   -    -  -                                          -
Windov CANOD/I at Itca
Project Coisponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                              Totals Including Contingencies
ITURKISH LIRA  Million)                                          IUSS t illion)
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997 .    1998       Total      1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
A. JB0 INSERTION TRAINING       97. 383.69 144, 594.82 190, 419. 73 222. 268.46 254. 410.44   -  909. 076.93   8.51  9.32 10. 14 10.28 10.68   - 48.93
S. OIVERSIFICATION OF
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES           2.271.79  1. 135.39                    -          -                3.407.18  0.20  0.07     -                    0.27
C. EMPLOYMENT * COUNSELING
SERVICES                     37. 726. 10 186. 372. 12 193, 940.62 166,603.07 227? 356.86 163. 268.45  975. 267.21   3.30 12.01 10.33  7.71  9.55  6.36 49.25
0. LABOR MARKET
INFORNATION ISIS)            12,435.21   8.366. 78  11,692.06  8. 184.44  5,498.50  4,398. 16   50. 575. 1S  1.09  0.54  0. 62 0. 36 0.23 0. 17  3.03
E. OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS
TESTING A CERTIFICATION      12,626.71  17,076.48  15,545.66  11, 473.08  14.465.78   758.30    71,946.02   1. 10  1. 10 0.83 0.53 0.61 0.03  4.20
F. NOIENS EMPLOYMENT
PROIlTION                     3.858.56   5. 125.96   5,941.43   7. 153.32  7.535.44   2.426.57    32,041.28   0.34  0.33  0.32 0.33 0.32 0.09  1.73
Total PROJECT COSTS              166.302.05 362,671.35 417,539.50 415.682.37 509,267.02 170.851.4U 2.042.313.77  14.53 23.37 22.24 19.23 21.38  6.65 107.41
... ...... .:sm .   .....                  act.s_ ..      ........  .  _ _ ...  ____ .S=.   . .. .=S  as.tcS soots _age* _....
October 28. 1992  12:21                                                       1



G Is    ,I  II .                                      I  IaaIuI I                       I              Ia.         . Iuu  .                  I
E Luau    I  Y--Irr-r-11          u,l3iI, I        i Laa3.I"aaI         a a I  Y   I  Y        I     aYa a    a YI   I a a a
8     s11I'          8ll1t1I              1 "-'t'1 ss-at12--!-!                        ! t1s   12aae~La    Ie3u!**s32i3z3Iaw3Re5353l'3 I.
2  |as|    |  §'l6'|''g''1  st'''!Xil*1   l''''|'ll'JII   |lg§''ll   !lEEll    l*'-'!|-'ll   E'''l''l''' II



11111LM,   an       M*ddiW    Wm
ass  wgogs  #"I    as  m,As NAS.eAOOs WA.
_ _a -L   ""I |_*             1          W"YI__   At        tt
.. so  An              ssmeweact                  i eew amma  51
I  Id   :,   Ms           asn   as  uanasuWnwqAs 
.   at  ats  'a       nitsea  inA5U5  3 
11    of  $11mewsewto             sm   a,es        wmLM- as   ,
__  t) _ _ qt$ I-e zt~~~~~~- h
L-  -  -  -                                        -  --O-m                      t
in          win      In         _            _ _ _ _t-'WAAL
asd            ogle      se       LasE     St
a W   No.  U   _ s _ - - as  -                            W _   _*_ _
35        ai        s       115 anl 0            ,          - i
id ts         sies     a         ass      s                   smqsob
=3 D N  as        as                 at
v a   ast           t5e mit   III *                         'WA
PM   en Xie                   as I_e _s 
_      x                  S                 0.                                     " O
x                    11gexl ts  IN      Lcw      C                      t
x N          -                       's  e  e  es        a 
= a    im            sea      as        eas      e
x     Ut   as        ass      as        0i      is                     we
:t       X           "~~~.o   Ws       "I        la                SA
x     a      s       a1 l a                                            -Wus  amy
N          Its       *mes     use       not      a1
x     a   e          o        o         o        *         .
X     a   e          e        o        o         *
Id-  oft         Ms       WIF      WmC                          WPM
X           m        e"       Col      o §l
X     a    o         o        o         o        I
x             Lx                            cm        gmZw f"
x N  N  Mm   U.      aLe      as_ we.i           a
x x   a      s       foas      It       am       *s                    sew
of   as                 C sa     an                           ALm
x1    of   "x        also      _        gm 
sx           a     s         ewo     siL       es                            _
X             X     B       a*       Go         u       It94
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                             S U _ WO *
X           aL       was                onee     us         wiol
x      x                    am*a            *1
x   so   ag                        |            z*^*
a x              _          iSis Nn u M c       a       L
N  -   we  SN     as       aLl       ii     asmwv
N  N  a    a,  mci     cii      aa        Si~~~~ sssflms1U110           oh
x      a   e         e        os        as       *
-aZ }°     aas                                                                     i



ANNEX E
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions]
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Disbursements       Disbursements           Balance
WB Fiscal Year/
Semester Ending   Amount    %        Amount      %        Amount      4
FY 1993
June 1993           4.0      6.0         4.0      6.0       63.0      94.0
FY 1994
December 1993       2.0      3.0        6.0       9.0       61.0      91.0
June 1994           2.1      3.2         8.2     12.2        58.8     87.8
FY 1995
December 1994       2.4      3.6        10.6     15.8       56.4      84.2
June 1995           5.5      8.2       '6.1      24.0        50.9     76.0
FY 1996
December 1995       2.6      3.9        18.7     27.9       48.3      72.1
June 1996           5.4      8.0        24.0     35.9       43.0      64.1
FY 1997
December 1996       5.4      8.0        29.4     43.9       37.6      56.1
June 1997           8.0     12.0        37.4     55.9        29.6     44.1
FY 1998
December 1997       8.7     13.0        46.1     68.9       20.9      31.1
June 1998           8.0     12.0        54.2     80.9        12.8     19.1
FY 1999
December 1998       6.7     10.0        60.9     90.9        6.1       9.1
June 1999           3.8      5.7        64.7     96.6         2.3      3.4
FY 2000
December 1999       2.3      3.4        67.0    100.0        0.0       0.0
NOTE: First semester disbursements reflect Initial Deposit into the Special Account.



RepubliC of Turkey
Employment and Training Project
Quarerly lImplmentatlon Schedule od Project Activtles
1993         1994        1995         1996         1997         1998
Project ActMritlesfinputs                   1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Meet Ln.Effectliveness Conditions           x
Set Up Prolect Coordination UnH             x
Bid/EvaluatelContract:                      0
Start-up of TA PCU Team                    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Technical Assistance Procurement (Five Packaaes):
1. Bld/Evaluala/Contract:                   o  o
Job-insertlon Tralning                     x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Diversification o1 Empl. Serv.                    x  x
Employment Services Management                    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Development Counsellng Services                   x  x  x  x  x  x
Delivery Emp.& Couns. Services                                 x  x      x    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  X X
2. BldlEvaluatelContract:                      o  o
Automatlon of Labor Offices                    x  x         x  x         x  x        x  x
3. BldlEvaluatelContract:                   0  0
Improve Labor Statlistics                     x  x          x  x        x  x  x
Development LMIl Data Base                     x  x     x  x
LMl Research StudleslfBuiletin                    x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x                          x  x  x
4. DldlEvaluatelContract:                   0
Occupatlonal Stand.Comm.QMSK)              x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Job Analysis                                   x  x  x  x  x X X   X X X   X X
Testing and Certification                            x      x  x  x      x  x  x
5. BldlEvaluatelContract:                   0  0
Women's Employment Promotion                   x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Eauloment Procurement:
BldlEvaluatelContract:                         0  0
Deliver & Install:
Training Direct. Workstations                        x  x
CounselIng Services Workstatn. -                     x  x
Staff Tralning/Emp&Couns.Serv.                       x  x
Automation of Servics                                x  x
SIS Househwd Survey Computers                        x  x                                                                               0
SIS Desktop PubJLMI Research                         x  x
MSK Office Equipment                                 x  x
ATSU Lbrary/Occup.Doc.                               x  x                                                                               0
Bid/Evaluate/Contract:                      0  0
Dolver & Install:
Women's Employment Promotion^                     x  x



Republic of Turkey
Empkoyment and Training Project
Quartery Implementation Schedule of Project Activities
1993         1994         1995         1996         1997         1998
Prcect Activitlest/nputs                     1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Procurement of Vehicles
Bid/EvaluatelContract:                          0  0
Carreer Informatlon Unit                              x  x
Implementatlon EmplCouns.Serv.                        x  x
ATSU Operations                                       x  x
Delivery Local Trainina Proarams
Employment Serics                                            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Automation of Emp. Offices                                   x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Workshops LMI Data Base Users                                      x             x            x            x
Women's Emp. Promotion                                          x         x     x      x      x     x      x
Overseas Fellowships & Stucdy Tours
Job Insertion Training                             x                   x         x
Diversilication of Emp.Serv.                   x  x          x  x
Employment Services                            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Counseing Servikes                                 x  x  x  x  x
Implementation EmplCouns.Serv.                                     x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Automation o1 Emp.Serv.                               x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
PCU StudyTours                                        x            x            x
SIS Household Survey Stafl                         x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
SIS LMIDB Study Tours                              x            x            x
Develop MSKJATSU Program                       x  x  x       x  x  x
ATSU Doc. Center Study Tr.                     x             x
Occupational Job Analysis                          x  x      x  x
Testing and Certification                          x  x  x
Women's Emp.Prom. Study Tr.                                  x            x            x
Local Countermart Stafflina
Employment Services                          x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Counseling Services                                       x xx   x x x   x x   x  x xx  x xx  x xx  x  x
Automation Employment Services               x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x3
Improved Labo Statlstics                     x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
LMI Data Base                                                          x  x  x  x xx  x xx  x xx  x  x  x  x                              cX
lMI Research Dissemination                                             x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x                     o  i
Womnon's Employment Promotion                          x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Includes procurement of office equipment and office vehicle for the PCU.    0- Procurement
Includes procurement of one vehicle for research disseminatIon.            X - Implementatlon



ANNEX G
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Summary of Proiect Technical Assistance Requirements
----PERSON-MONTHS--------
COMPONENT/ACTIVITY                        IT   YEAR: 1  2  3  4   5  TQTAL
1. JOB-INSERTION TRAININQ
Training Directorate:
Program Implementation Expert (L)      year         1   1   1   1   1   5 1PY
Support to Local Offices (L)           month        6  12   6   -   -  24 1M
Studies & Expert Services:
Self Employment Program (F)            month        -   -  6   -   -  6 EM
Self Employment Program (L)            month         -      6  6  -  12 LPM
Development of Annual Trg.Plan (F)    month         4  -  -  -  -   4 FPM
Development of Annual Trg.Plan (L)     month        6 12  2  -  -  20 LPM
Dev. of Local Trg. Contracts (F)       month        2   -   -   -   -   2 MM
Dev. of Local Trg. Contracts (L)       month        4  -  -  -  -   4 LPM
Customized Quick-Start Programs (F)   month          -  -  6  -  -   6 FPM
Customized Quick-Start Programs (L)   month          -  -  6  6  -  12 LPM
Womens Emp/Non-Traditional Occ. (F)   month          -  6  -  -  -   6 FPM
Womens Emp/Non-Traditional Occ. (L)   month          -  6  -  -  -   6 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA: 
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:
2. DIVERSIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
Assess Private Employment Services:
Foreign Experts                        month        3  -  -  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month        3  -  -  -  -   3 LPM
Define Alternative Strategies:
Foreign Experts                        month        2  -  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month        2  -  -  -  -   2 LPM
Assist IIBK Implement Action Plan:
Foreign Experts                        month        2  -  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month        2  -  -  -  -   2 LPN
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                           72JH
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                            7 HM
3. EMPLOYMENT SERVICESL
Management/Administration of Emp. Services:
Foreign Experts                        month        4  2  -  -  -   6 FPM
Local Experts                          month        4  4  -  -  -   8 LPM
Dev. Unemployment Financing & Benefits:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  2  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month         -  2  -  -  -   2 LPM
Develop Applicant Services:
Foreign Experts                        month        2  2  -  -  -   4 FPM
Local Experts                          month        3  3  -  -  -   6 LPM
Develop Employer Services:
Foreign Experts                        month        2  2  -  -  -   4 FPM
Local Experts                          month         3  3  -  -  -   6 LPM



ANNEX G
Page.2 of 5
Dev. Job Search Assistance Programs:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  3  -  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month        - 12  -  -  -  12 LPM
Dev. Mass Layoff Procedures/Techniques:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  -  2  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month        -  -  4  -  -   4 LPM
Refine Survey Techniques:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  -  2  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month        -  -  2  -  -   2 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                            23I
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                           40
4. COUNSELING SERVICES
Occupational Standards:
Foreign Experts                        month        3  -  -  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month        6  -  -  -  -   6 LPM
Dev. of Aptitude/Interest Assessments:
Foreign Experts                        month        1  -  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                          month        3  -  -  -  -   3 LPM
Dev. of Vocational Assessment Materials:
Foreign Experts                        month        3  3  -  -  -   6 FPM
Local Experts                          month        6  6  -  -  -  12 LPM
Adaptation of Occupational Information:
Foreign Experts                        month        1  2  -  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month        6 18  -  -  -  24 LPM
Adapt Educational Information:
Foreign Experts                        month        1  2  -  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month        4  8  -  -  -  12 LPM
Computer Delivery Systems:
Foreign Experts                        month        1  3  -  -  -   4 FPM
Local Experts                          month        2  6  -  -  -   8 LPM
Delivery of Training Materials:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  2  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month        -  8  -  -  -   8 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                            22
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                           73 LK
5. IMPLEMENTATION OF EMPLOYMENT & COUNSELING SERVICES
Short-Term Training, Basic Services:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  6  2  -  -   8 FPK
Local Experts                          month        - 50 50 50 50 200 LPM
Long-Term Counselor Trg.- Extended Services:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  8  4  -  -  12 FPM
Local Experts                          lump-sum    1  1  1  1  1   5 SUN
Vocational Assessment:
Foreign Ecperts                        month        -  2  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                          month        -  2  -  -  -   2 LPM
Schools:
Foreign Experts                        month        -  1  2  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          lump-sum    -  5 10  -         15 SUM
University Career Counseling:
FP. wign Experts                       month        4  4  4  -  -  12 FPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                            37}MM
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA.:                         X DM



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 5
6. AUTOMATION OF LABOR OFFICES
Management Planning:
Foreign Experts                        month         1  -  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                          month         2  -  -  -  -   2 LPM
Automation Plan Review:
Foreign Experts                        month         1  1  1  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month         2  6  6  -  -  14 LPM
System Design:
Foreign Experts                        month         1  -  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                          month         2  6  6  -         -  14LPM
Specification Revisions:
Foreign Experts                        month         1  -  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                          month         2  6  6  -  -  14 LPM
Mid-Project System Review/Evaluation:
Foreign Experts                        month         -  -  -  I          1 FPM
Local Experts                          month         -  -  -  2  -   2 LPM
Procurement:
Foreign Experts                        month         1  -  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                          month         2  6  6  -         -  14LPM
Software Development:
Foreign Experts                        month         -  1  1  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                          month         4  3  3  2  -  12 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                             ]PFE4
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                            72
7. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
PCU Offices:
Project Coordinator                    year          1  1  1  1  1   5 LPY
Deputy Coordinator                      year         1  1  1  1  1   5 LPY
Translator                              year         1  1  1  1  1   5 LPY
Administrative/Sec. Support             year         1  1  1  1  1   5 LPY
Finance Directorate:
Local Experts                          year          1  1  1  -  -   3 LPY
Procurement Experts:
Foreign Experts                        month        12 12  -  -  -  24 FPM
Local Experts                          year          1  1  1  1  1   5 LPY
Project Implementation Assessment:
Foreign Experts                        month         1  1  1  1  1   5 FPM
Local Experts                          month         1  1  1  1  1   5 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                             29 _
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                           341 DM



ANNEX G
Page 4 of 5
8. SIS LABOR STATISTICS
Production of Quarterly Reports:
Foreign Experts                         month        2  2  1  -  -   5 FPM
Improve LMI Data/Establishment Survey:
Foreign Experts                         month        1  1  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                           month        4  -  -  -  -   4 LPM
Improve  II Data/Household Labor-Force Survey:
Foreign Experts                         month        1  -  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                           month         3  -  -  -  -   3 LPM
Expansion of Establishment Surveys:
Foreign Experts                         month         -  -  4   -  -   4 FPM
Local Experts                           month         -  -  9  -  -   9 LPM
SUBTOTAL F'JREIGN TA:                             23 OM
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA;                             16 . M
9. SIS LABOR MARKET INFORMATION DATA BASE
Design & Management of LMI Data Base:
Foreign Experts                         month        2  2  1  -  -   5 FPM
Local Experts                           month        6  6  -  -  -  12 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                              8 M
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:
10. SIS LABOR MURRET INFORMATION RESEARCH
Production of Semester Bulletin:
Foreign Experts                         month         1  -  -  -  -   lFPM
Local Experts                           month        6 12  6  -  -  24 LPM
Commissionirfg of Ad Hoc Studies:
Foreign Experts                         month         -  1  1  1  1   4 FPM
Local Experts                           month         -  6  6  -  -  12 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                              9
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:
11.  TURKISH OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS COMMISSION (NSK)
Develop and Operate ATSU
Foreign Experts (F)                     month        2  1  -  -  -   3 FPM
Professional Staff (L)                  year         8  8  8  8  8  40 LPY
Support Staff (L)                       year         3  3  3  3  3  15 LPY
Materials Development Staff (L)         lump-sum    1  1  1  1  1   5 SUN
Facilities Rent (S)                     annual rent  1  1  1  1  1   5 Sum
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                              3
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                             CA T
12. ATSU DOCUMENTATION CENTER
Plan & Develop ATSU Library:
Foreign Experts                         month        2  -  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                           month        2  -  -  -  -   2 LPM
Obtain International Resources:
Foreign Experts                         month         -  4  -  -  -   4 FPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                              6
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:



ANNEX G
Page 5 of 5
13. JOB ANALYSIS
Dictionary of Occupational Titles:
Foreign Experts                         month        2  1  -  -  -   3 FPM
Local Experts                           month        9  9  7         -  25 LPM
Define ATSU Procedures for Occup. Analysis:
Foreign Experts                         month        2  1  -  -  -   3 FPM
Develop ATSU Training Materials:
Foreign Experts                         month        -  1  -  -  -   1 FPM
Local Experts                           month         -  2  -  -  -   2 LPM
Field Test Procedures:
Foreign Experts                         month        -  1  1  -  -   2 FPM
Occupational Analysis:
Foreign Experts                         month        -  1  1         -   2 FPM
Local Experts                           month         -  6  6  1  -  13LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                               LE
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:                            40IEM
14. TESTING AND CERTIFICATION
Develop Procedures for Occupational Testing & Cert:
Foreign Experts                         month        2  2  -  -  -   4 FPH
Develop Training Materials for Occup. T&C:
Foreign Experts                         month         -  2  -  -  -   2 FPM
Local Experts                           month         -  2  -  -  -   2 LPM
Field Test Training Materials:
Foreign Experts                         month         -  1  1  -  -   2 FPM
Develop Test Item Data Banks for Occupations:
Foreign Experts                         month         -  1  1  -  -   2 FPN
Local Experts                           month         -  9  9  -  -  18 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                               M
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:2 
*c,  WOMEN'S EMPLOYMENT PRONOTION
Design and Monitoring of Research Program:
Advisor Female Empl. Research Prog.    month          2  2  1  1  -   6 FPM
Research Management (lpX5y) (L)         month       12 12 12 12 12  60 LPM
Female Employment Research Fund         lump-sum    1  1  1  1  1   5 SUN
Research Promotion and Disseminationupations:
Local Expert (lpX5y) (L)                month       12 12 12 12 12  60 LPM
SUBTOTAL FOREIGN TA:                              6
SUBTOTAL LOCAL TA:
November 4, 1992
File Name: tasummar.ta



ISRD 73363
ByI Th                                                            1ACK SnA _  /  Mw                                                                       T                                   R      E
F4SN<<910MMEi\;    i'-91    *99i 92  5   r  -   o    =s,                                                   ,   _ {Ms               ¢>;\s  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ARMhENIA   )
,- ~~~~~-
' -!i4i;'(=             T ;                  JC- 0   > \/UiLleb'-'/_   ?OF0ICO
Gro,sm  rdono, ios forsMEeISRtI                                   SEA                                                                            ocj .ror (9 20IFFE                  snorctE cA'oWNSFNUIC
ond tie boendoata di8w                                                                                                                     fl PCoi n e                           tXIH[CR
onthis mopdo not iMp  n the  Sr          50       T                                r                                                        p   lOrNf                                 ^I0ucm
any jndgoent on thE eg                                                                                                                                                               tenc snonIs
et0et'O art trtoy emer           i.0         -s------                     CYPRUS  =It^OE-S
NM                      ArAUST 9



