Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H192 DRC 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Transitional Economic Recovery Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 9,  2005 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H192  DRC 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 2005, between the DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter dated 
November 4, 2005 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in 
poverty (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Recipient's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; 
 (B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“Advance Funds Mechanism” means the procedure for  granting Public 
Entities (as hereinafter defined) advances of funds allowing operating expenditures of a 
clearly known nature to be covered; 
(b) 
“Budget Execution Report” means the report on the execution of the 
budget (
état de suivi budgétaire
)
prepared by the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Budget; 
(c) 
“Education Bloc Grant” means budget allocation to be made available 
quarterly to publicly administered schools pursuant to the Education Bloc Grants 
Program (as hereinafter defined); 
(d) 
“Education Bloc Grants Program” means the program adopted by the 
inter-ministerial decree No. 17 dated June 14, 2005, relating schools operating costs; 
(e) “Gecamines” 
means 
Générale de Carrières et Mines
,
a
mining company 
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient; 
(f) 
“Mining Titles Validation Commission” means the commission 
established and operating pursuant to Article 338 of the Mining Code (
Code Minier
)
in 
charge of reviewing the existing mining titles (
Commission de Validation des Titres 
Miniers
); 
(g) 
“Province” means any of the 11 administrative areas within the territory 
of the Recipient established pursuant to 
Décret-Loi No. 081 du 2 juillet 1998 portant 
Organisation Territoriale et Administrative de la République Démocratique du Congo tel 
que modifié et complété par le Décret-Loi No. 018/2001 du 28 septembre 2001;
 
(h) 
“Provincial Medical Inspectors” means the authority established by 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Health at the Province level in charge of managing the 
delivery of health services (
médecin inspecteur de province
); and 
(i) 
“Public Entities” means the Recipient’s ministries, services, 
Provinces, and other public institutions authorized to use the Advance Funds 
Mechanism. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.01 The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty-two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 62,100,000). 
Section 2.02 (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from 
the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account of the Central 
Bank opened in Dollars designated by the Recipient; and (ii) the Recipient shall ensure 
that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into said account, an equivalent amount 
is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to 
the Association.  
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03 The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04 (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the  territory of,  the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for  
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05 The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01 (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:   
(i) 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Grant into 
the Recipient’s budget management system referred to in  
Section 2.02 (b) audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not l
ater than four months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit  
 
by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
said account and recording of Grant amounts into the budget 
management system, and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01 The Minister Finance of the Recipient is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
Minister of Finance  
Ministry of Finance 
 
BP 12997 
 
Kinshasa I 
 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
243 88 02 381 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By /s/ 
Faïda Mitifu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Nils O. Tcheyan 
 
Authorized Representative 
Region 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of 
Page  11
-
10
-
such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Recipient has produced the Budget Execution Report every month 
since January 2005 and has issued an instruction on the procedure to justify 
expenditures executed by Public Entities using the Advance Funds Mechanism, in 
accordance with paragraph 36 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
2. 
The first group of civil service retirees defined in the strategy adopted by 
the 
Recipient’s Council of Ministers has been identified, in accordance with 
paragraph 59 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
3. 
A presidential decree dated October 24, 2005, has been adopted and 
published in the 
Journal Officiel
 defining criteria and transparent procedures to 
review all existing forestry titles, and extending the moratorium on issuing new 
titles until the legal review is completed, new auction procedures are adopted, and 
a
3-year plan for future concession is adopted; the list of existing titles providing 
the basis for the legal review has been published jointly by the Ministry of 
Environment and Ministry of Finance on 
 
November 1, 2005; and an independent expert has been recruited to assist the 
legal review and assess compliance with the procedures, all in accordance with 
paragraphs 94 and 95 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
4. 
The Recipient has entered into a management contract for Gecamines with 
a
competitively selected company; the Mining Titles Validation Commission has 
been established in accordance with Article 338 of the Mining Code, in 
accordance with paragraphs 105 and 107 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
5.   
The Recipient has disbursed the first quarterly Education Bloc Grants;  
an effective publicizing of the Education Bloc Grant Program has been carried 
out, in accordance with paragraph 123 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
6. 
The Ministry of Health has presented the budget for 2005 for each 
Province, indicating clearly the funds to be made available to Provincial Medical 
Page  12
-
11
-
Inspectors; and each Province has been informed of the approved allocation, in 
accordance with paragraph 118 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General 
Conditions are modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, and Article VII, are 
deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
12. 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is 
made.” 
4. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency 
Page  14
-
13
-
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Grant Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the 
Recipient shall be made in such currency or currencies as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably select.
”; 
(b) 
Section 4.02 (a) and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are 
Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(d) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03. Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Grant Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
5. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant 
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
6. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
7. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant, 
credit or financing agreement”. 
Page  15
-
14
-
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant, credit or financing 
agreement”. 
8. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
9. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Grant.” 
10. 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
