                                            Documentof
                                         TheWorld Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                   Report No. 33785-ZR


                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                               FORA

                                       PROPOSEDGRANT

                            INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR62.1 MILLION

                                (US$90 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                          DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

                                               FORA

        TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT FORECONOMICRECOVERY OPERATION




                                         November 8,2005




PovertyReductionandEconomic Management
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distributionand may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performanceo f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                 (Exchange Rate Effective October 2005)
                                     Currency Unit = Congolese Francs
                                              US$1 = CGF455

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                        January 1      - December31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                       African Development Bank
CAR                        Central African Republic
CFAA                       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGF                        Congolese Franc
COPIREP                    Public Enterprise Reform Commission (Commission de Pilotage de la Rkforme des
                           Entreprises Publiques)
COREMAP                    Procurement Reform Commission (Commission de la Rkforme des Marchks Publics)
CPAR                       Country Procurement Assessment Report
DDR                        Demobilization, Disarmament, andReinsertion
DRC                        Democratic Republic o fthe Congo
EITI                       Extractive IndustryTransparency Initiative
EMRRP                      Emergency MultiSector Rehabilitation and ReconstructionProject
ERC                        Economic Recovery Credit
EU                         EuropeanUnion
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GECAMINES                  Public Enterprise for Mining (Gknkrale de Carridres et Mines)
HIPC                       Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
HIPC AAP                   Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries -Assessment Action Plan
ICCN                       Congolese Institute for Conservation andNature (Institut Congolais de Conservation et
                                                                                       -
                           de 1; Nature)
IDA                        InternationalDevelopment Association
IMF                        InternationalMonetary Fund
I-PRSP                     Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MAD                        Advance Funds Mechanism (Mise d disposition defonds)
MONUC                      UnitedNations Observation Mission inthe Congo
NGO                        N o nGovernmental Organization
OECD                       Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
OHADA                      The Organizationo fBusiness Law inAfrica (Organisation pour 1'Harmonization en
                           Afrique du Droit des Afaires)
ONATRA                     Public Enterprisefor Transportation (Ofice National de Transport)
PMPTR                      MinimumProgramofPartnership for Transition andRecovery
PRERC                      Post Reunification Economic Recovery Credit
PRGF                       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SIG                        Civil Service Management System (Systdme Integrk de Gestion Financidre et
                           Administrative)
TSS                        Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP                       UnitedNations Development Program
UNICEF                     UnitedNations Children's Fund

                                 Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director:        Pedro Alba
                        Acting Sector Manager:         HinhDinh
                             Task Team Leader:         Keiko Kubota

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                      THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF THE CONGO
        TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT FORECONOMICRECOVERY OPERATION

                                            Table of Contents

CreditandProgramSummary

I.
 INTRODUCTION........................................................................................................................ 1
11.COUNTRYCONTEXT..............................................................................................................       2
111.THEGOVERNMENTPROGRAM..........................................................................................                    5
IV.BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENTSTRATEGY .................................................                                          13
V. THEPROPOSED OPERATION..............................................................................................               17
VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION.............,,.,,..,,...,,....,.,....................................................18

Box 1: Evolution o f Forestry Sector Reforms, 2001-2005 ..........................................................                   23

List of Tables

Table 1: DRC - Selected Economic Indicators, 2002-2007 .......................................................
Table 2: Status o f Budget Execution Report Production(Selected Countries) .........................                                 5
                                                                                                                                     7

Listof Annexes
Annex 1: Letter o f Development Policy ....,,,...,,..,..,..,...,...,,,,....,..,..,........................................, 24

Annex 3: Operation Policy Matrix.........................,.,.......,....,,,...,..,...,........................................ 109
Annex 2: Government Policy MatridOverall Government Development Program .................. 76

Annex 4: FundsRelationsNote .................................................................................................
Annex 5: DRC - Country at a Glance .........................................................................................         113
                                                                                                                                     119
Map: IBRDNo. 31546................................................................................................................   121


This operation has been prepared by a team led by Keiko Kubota (Senior Economist, AFTP3),
and comprising Helena Ramos (Economist, AFTP3), Emilie Mushobekwa (Economist, AFTP3),
Susan Opper (Senior Education Specialist, AFTH3), Bernard Kwindja (Education Specialist,
AFTH3), Patrick Mullen (Health Specialist, AFTH3), Ivan Rossignol (Senior Private Sector
Development Specialist, AFTPS), Craig Andrews (Principal Mining Specialist, COCPO), Laurent
Debroux (Forestry Specialist, AFTS3), Kankonde Mukadi (Forestry Specialist, AFTS3), Gilles
Veuillot (Counsel, LEGAF), Renee Desclaux (Finance Officer, LOAG2), Joseph Kizito Mubiru
and Jean-Charles Kra (Senior Financial Management Specialists, AFTFM). Brendan Horton
(Lead Economist, AFTP3) has provided advice and guidance to the team. Yvette Shungu
(Program Assistant, AFMCD) and Josiane Luchmun (Program Assistant, AFTP3) assisted in the
preparation o f the report. The peer reviewers are Philippe Auffret (Senior Economist, SASPR),
Birger J. Fredriksen (Consultant, AFTHD), and Adrian Fozzard (Senior Public Sector Specialist,
EASPR).


                                             11




                 THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF THE CONGO
       TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT FORECONOMICRECOVERY OPERATION

                           GRANTANDPROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower:       Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Beneficiaries:  Population of the Democratic Republicof the Congo.

Amount:         SDR 62.1 million (US$90 millionequivalent).

Terms:          Grant.

Description:    The proposed Grant, a one-tranche operation in the amount of SDR 62.1
                million, would be the third budget and balance o f payments support
                operation to DRC since 2002. The Grant i s designed to support key policy
                measures aiming at: (i)  increasing the impact on the poor o fpublic spending
                in key priority areas, education and health; (ii)strengthening public
                expenditure and civil service management; and (iii)     improving governance
                inforestry andminingsectors.

Benefits:       The proposed Grant would address poverty reduction in two important
                ways at a critical time inthe country's transition from post-conflict phase to
                peacefbl elections. First, the Grant directly contributes to the maintenance
                o f a stable macroeconomic framework conducive to economic growth by
                helpingto bridge the financing gap associated with the implementation o f
                Government's Economic Program as defined in the I-PRSP. Second,
                reforms which the Grant i s designed to support will have positive impacts
                on poverty reduction.      Improved efficiency and transparency in public
                expenditure management will ensure that the Government's budget
                priorities are increasingly in line with the priorities defined in the I-PRSP,
                and result in actual releases o f resources to public service providers. In
                particular, better budget execution o f health and education ministries will
                help improve access by the poor to public services provided by these
                ministries,   by reducing user-fees       which     are  currently   collected.
                Strengthening civil service management will help restore motivations for
                civil servants to provide quality public service on which the poor depends.
                Finally, improving governance in two o f the key productive sectors,
                forestry and mining, will help the population share the country's natural
                resources in a more equitable manner and enhance sustainability o f policies
                governing the sectors.

Risks:          The proposed Grant i s o f high risk. The four main risks are: (i)    renewed
                conflict; (ii)political risk; (iii) shortfall in external financing for 2005;
                                                  a
                and (iv) the low implementation capacity o f the Government.

                                        ...
                                        111




Estimated
Disbursement: The proposed Grant amounting to SDR 62.1 million (equivalent to US$90
              million) would be disbursed inone tranche in2005 upon effectiveness.

Implementing
Agency:       The Ministryo f Finance.

ProjectIDNo.: PO91990.

                             DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
             TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT FORECONOMIC RECOVERY OPERATION

                                           PROGRAMDOCUMENT

I.INTRODUCTION

1.     This document proposes a Grant o f US$90 million equivalent to the Democratic Republic o f the
Congo (DRC) to finance a Transitional Support for Economic Recovery.

2.     The proposed Grant i s the third operation to support the economic recovery o f DRC, following the
economic recovery credit (Cr. 3660-DRC) in 2002 for US$450 million equivalent, and the post
reunification economic recovery credit (Cr. 3862-DRC) in 2004 for US$200 million equivalent. As was
the case with the previous two operations, it aims to support the transition government's economic
program to fight against poverty. The immediate objectives o f the Grant are to aid the Government
sustain macroeconomic stability, strengthen efficiency o f public expenditure and civil service
management, improve governance innatural resource sectors, and resume delivery o f social services.

3.      The progress the DRC has made over the last few years i s extraordinary, when it i s contrasted
against its history. After about eighty years o f colonial rule, several conflicts in the immediate post-
independence period, and a long period of corruption and mismanagement under President Mobutu Sese
Seko, the DRC entered the 1990s in a state o f quasi-collapse. The 1990s were marked by successive
episodes o f increasing violence: looting by the armed forces in 1991, 1997, and again in 1998. In 1998,
President Mobutu was overthrown and was replaced by President Laurent-DCsirC Kabila, and an armed
conflict involving several countries erupted within the Congolese borders. The conflict lasted until 2003.
Duringthis conflict, areported3.3 millionpeople died, andmany more were displaced. The magnitudeo f
devastation caused by these conflicts i s extreme, as illustrated by the collapse o f per capita income, which
at a little over US$lOO in2004, i s only a fraction o f its 1960 level (US$380).'

4.      The country has started to turn around since 2001. A transition government o f national unity
comprised o f all stakeholders including domestic parties to the conflict was formed, and started to
implement the 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord and agreements reached through the inter-Congolese dialogue.
This transitional coalition government has managedto maintain the tenuous peace and to improve security
with the help o f a United Nationspeacekeepingforce, although there are sill localized flare-ups inparts o f
the country, especially inthe East. It has taken a number o f important steps to liberalize political life, and
i s preparing for general elections and a referendum on a new constitution. Just as instability in the D R C
had serious regional implications, the stabilization o f the DRC i s essential to sustainable peace in the
region.

5.      The newly established peace has allowed the Congolese to resume productive activities.             The
economy registered a positive growth rate o f 3.5% in 2002, for the first time in decades. It continued to
grow at or over 6% every year since. Contributing to this performance was the success the Government
has had inbreaking hyperinflation through restrained monetary and fiscal policies. The Government has
also put an end to years o f unaccountable use o f public resources, a habit which started during the Mobutu
era.

6.      Looking forward, the challenges which the DRC faces are formidable. The peace the authorities
have managed to maintain thus far cannot be taken for granted. Formerly rebel-held provinces are


     In2000 constantdollars.

                                                      2


reunified but still not 100% under the transition government's control, as the size o f the country and the
lack o f effective communication and transportation networks present obstacles which are not easy to
overcome.       Many economic reforms in the areas o f governance, public finance, and civil service
management have just begun, and despite the best intentions o f the Government, have not yet succeeded
incompletelyreversingthe damage inflicted duringthe decades ofmismanagement. The pace ofreforms
i s set by the resource constraints, both human and financial, as well as by the political constraints imposed
on the coalition government preparing for national elections.

7.      The support to the transitional peace process by the international community i s critical at this
juncture.    IDA'Srole is particularly important as its presence lends credibility to the process, and
strengthens the hands o f the reformers within the coalition government. IDA also acts as the catalyst to
galvanize support from other development partners for much needed technical and financial assistance.
The resources made available would enable the transition government to continue to implement the reform
program, The proposed operation will reinforce the Government's efforts to rebuild basic state functions
so that the country's rich resources can be shared by a larger group o f people, and in particular, by the
poor. Without sufficient external financial support, it i s likely that many reform programs, including those
directed to fight poverty will be interrupted. The critical fear i s that such interruptions can lead to the
country slipping back into a civil strife.       The proposed operation i s high risk, but i s well-worth
undertakingwhen the potential returns are taken into account.

11.COUNTRY CONTEXT

Recent political and economic developments

 8.     The transition period has been extended by six months, and the general elections are now planned
 for the first half o f 2006 to allow for adequate preparation time for this historic event.            As for
 decentralization, a task given to the transitional government by the Lusaka Peace Accord (1999), a draft
 base law (loi organique) on territorial organization was prepared by the Government, led by the Ministry
 of Interior, and was submitted to Parliament in2004. Parliamentarians held a workshop, sponsored by the
 World Bank, to review the draft law in September 2004. InM a y 2005, the Parliament adopted the new
 draft constitution, which proposes a new territorial organization, inter alia, increasing the number o f
 provinces from 11 to 26, and providing for elections o f the provincial assemblies and executive. The
 constitutionwill be submitted for adoption by a referendum.

 9.     The national Demobilization, Disarmament, and Reinsertion (DDR) program was launched in
 December 2003. The institutional structure to steer and implement the national program was established
 and the DDR program finalized in January 2004, as targeted, after consultations and national
 dissemination. The disarmament and demobilization phase has begun in April 2004, and the reinsertion
 and reintegration phase was launched in November 2004. Logistical and organizational problems have
 slowed progress but both the Government and the international partners have been takmg measures to
 strengthen capacity to implement the program.

 10.    Governance. A code o f good conduct for civil servants, a law against money laundering and
 financing   o f terrorism, and an anti-corruption law were enacted between 2003-04. Legal and judicial
 reforms accomplished so far include the creation o f new investment and labor codes (2002), publication o f
 a new mining code (2002) and its application decrees (2003), creation o f commercial tribunals (2002),
 designation o f personnel to work at the commercial tribunals (2003 and ongoing), and creation o f a
 national arbitration center (2003).     In addition, a draft review o f the Congolese judicial system was
 completed, and a broad diagnostic report was presented in 2004 (with assistance from the EU). In the
 financial  sector, the. legal and regulatory framework i s being modernized and strengthened with the
 support o f the IMF:new laws governing the central bank, commercial banks, and savings institutionswere

                                                      3


enacted (2002); steps are being taken to strengthen the central bank as a financial institution as well as the
monetary authority (ongoing); commercial banks are being restructured beginning with the decision to
liquidate 3 public commercial banks in 2003, followed by a review o f other banks. Since 2003,
preparations for new legal and regulatory frameworks for the petroleum, energy, and water sectors are
underway. A comprehensive audit o f business-related administrativeprocedures was undertaken in2004.

11. Growth and inflation. GDP growth was 6.8% in 2004. Inflation was contained at a single digit
level untilend 2004, when an upward pressure on the price levels was observed: the cash-flow constrained
government had resorted to printingmoney in order to finance emergency security expenditures, which
caused exchange rate depreciation. The prices increased 17% between December 2004 and April 2005, or
an annualized rate o f roughly 60%. The authorities took corrective measures immediately and decisively,
including a sharp increase inthe interest rate from 20% to 65%, an aggressive reduction in Government's
expenditures (by 0.7% o f GDP) except for pro-poor spending, and a significant curtailing o f the
emergency extra-budgetary expenditures.        As a consequence, the exchange rate stabilized and then
appreciated slightly, and as a result, annualized rate o f inflation started to decline correspondingly since
mid-April2005. The corrective measures and their effects were deemed satisfactory by the MF, and the
fifth review o f its PRGF program was closed and approved by the board on August 29, 2005 (the
economic data are summarized inTable 1).

12.    Fiscal policies. Fiscal revenues, which were only 5.1% o f GDP in 2000, are estimated to have
reached 9.6% in 2004 (see Table 1). The tax system has been improved by the publication o f new
customs duties (2002-2003), finalizing o f the new customs code (2004), suspension o f certain fiscal and
para-fiscal levies (2003), and preparation o f a global action plan for direct and indirect tax reform
concerning firms (2004). Expenditures have increased from 9.3% o f GDP in 2002 to 15.4% in 2004. A
higher pro-poor spending accounted for some o f this increase, as it reached 2 % o f GDP in2004, up from
less than 1% in 2003. Budget allocation for education and health sectors has increased slowly in real
terms over the last 3 years (although not as a share o fthe budget inthe case o f health sector).

13.    External balance. The overall balance o f payments improved when all debt relief i s taken into
account, However, the current account deficit widened as trade and income balances deteriorated (see
Table 1). The growing deficit reflects the pick-up in imports o f capital and consumer goods (including
for foreign-financed projects), which i s normal in an economy with reconstruction needs and rising
income. The trend was somewhat offset by the favorable terms o f trade: as a net-exporter o f oil, the value
o f DRC's exports increased recently. The income balance deteriorated largely because o f higher interest
payments on the rescheduled debt. The official reserves inweeks o f non-aid-related imports o f goods and
services increased from 2.4 weeks in2003 to 4.8 in 2004 (see Table l),       a sign o f improving management
o f external balance.

Macroeconomic outlook and debt sustainability

14. The macroeconomic framework is adequate to support strong medium-term growth and poverty
reduction, as evidenced by the recent approval by the IMF's board o f their fifth review o f the PRGF
program. The economy i s expected to continue its growth path at an annual rate o f 7% over the next few
years. The sources o f this growth are mining, construction and public works, trade and commerce.
Agriculture and forestry, which represent 42% o f the formal economy, are expected to grow at 3%. These
estimates are predicated on continuedmaintenance o f peace and macroeconomic stability.

15.    Fiscal revenues are projected to be 11% in2005, and continue to increase thereafter, reaching 12%
in 2007. Customs and excise taxes account for roughly 40% o f the revenues (excluding grant), and
petroleum revenues make up 20%. The expenditures are forecast to be 23% o f GDP in 2005, up from
15% in 2004, with the cost o f elections, demobilization and reintegration program, and payments for the

                                                       4


retirement program accounting for the increase. In2005, the budget allocation for pro-poor spending2i s
7% of GDP, or 30% o f expenditures, up from 6.3% o f GDP in2004.3

16. On the balance of payments front, DRC i s expected to run a current account deficit (including
grants and debt relief) o f 5 8 % over the next few years, although figures are highly dependent on external
assistance.

17.    The debt burden i s becoming less onerous as the DRC was granted debt relief on Naples terms by
the Paris Club in September 2002, and on Cologne terms when it reached the decision point under the
enhanced HIPC Initiative inJuly 2003. The country i s now working towards the completion point, which
could come as early as 2006. It should be noted, however, that the country's effective debt service has
increased significantly after the normal relations with the Bretton Woods Institutions were resumed, as the
DRC was not servicing its debt obligations before then. Even with the interim debt reliefprovided to the
country after the HIPC decision point, the country's debt service to all creditors increased effectively from
essentially none in 2001 to 29% o f Government revenues (before grants) in 2003, 15% in 2004, and i s
estimated to remain above 20% for the next three years (see Table 1). Despite these constraints, the
Government has serviced all its external debt obligations since the normalization o f relationships with the
Bank and the Fund. The new debt relief initiative proposed by the G8 and adopted by all member
countries o f the World Bank and IMF in 2005 i s estimated4to lead to a further reduction o f debt service
by approximately 10-12% (the debt service would represent 17-18% o f fiscal revenues) once the country
reaches the HIPC completion point. It should be noted, however, that the cancellation o f debt service for
the eligible IDA credits will be offset by a corresponding reduction innew resource transfers, as the net
flow to the country would not be affectedby this initiative.

18.    Financing needs. As i s the case in other post conflict countries, there exists, on the one hand, a
large demand for rebuilding infrastructure as well as an urgent need to resume public service delivery to
the poor. Similarly, it i s vital for the Government to implement expeditiously expensive programs, such
as demobilization and reinsertion o f former combatants and elections, in order to strengthen the fragile
peace. On the other hand, however, the Government faces a severe budget constraint while the tax
mobilizing capacity i s being rehabilitated. The country's reliance on foreign assistance i s evident in the
small share o f development expenditures financed with domestic resources (22% in 2003 and 21 % in
2004, respectively, see Table 1). The overall financing needs for 2005 are estimated to be approximately
4.1% o f GDP or U S 2 8 0 million. The Government took into account the pledges made during the
consultative group meeting held in November 2004 when deciding the budget allocations for 2005 in
order to carry out its economic program (described in Section 111), which was endorsed by IDA and other
international development partners. IDA pledged US$75-100 million in a new budget support operation
inaddition to the civil service retirement (US$47.5m) and internal debt (US$42.5m) tranches o f PRERC,
which were approved for disbursement on August 23,2005.




     The breakdown of the total CGF 238 billion allocated for pro-poor spending i s as follows: own resources
     (24.4%); external financing (52.9%); and HIPC resources (22.5%).
     The executionresult(preliminary) in2004 was only 2% o f GDP (see paragraph 23).
     The preliminary estimations are sensitive to the cut-off date, the timing o f the completion point, and other
     factors which are to be worked out inthe coming months.

                                                                         5



                     Table 1. Democratic Republic of The Conao: Selected Economic Indicators, 2002-2007
                                                    (YOGDP, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                                              2003        2004          2005       2006        2007
                                                                                        estimates      budget          Projections

 Real GDP Growth Rate (YO)                                                        5.7           6.8        6.6         7.0        7.0
 Inflation (% change of CPI, e.0.p.)                                              4.4           9.2       22.6         6.2        5.0
 Public Finance
 Total Revenue, excluding all grants                                              7.7           9.6       10.7        11.5       11.9
   Grants (excluding humanitarian aid)                                            2.0           2.0         9.5        7.5        7.8
 Total Expenditures                                                              13.6         15.4        22.5        20.6       20.9
     Current expenditures                                                        10.8         12.5        10.4        10.5       10.6
     Capital expenditures                                                         2.7           2.8         6.9        8.4        8.6
           of which foreign financed                                              2.1           2.2         6.4        7.8        7.8
     Exceptional expenditures'                                                                    0         4.6          0          0
     Other HIPC-related expenditures2                                                             0         0.6         1.7        1.8
 Primary balance                                                                  -1.o0        -0.8       -0.3          0.7       0.8
 Overall fiscal balance3                                                          -4.5         -4.6       -3.3         -2.2      -1.7
 Balance of Payments
 Exports of goods and services                                                   26.1         30.5        32.3        28.8       28.7
 Imports of goods and services                                                   33.3         39.4        45.6        42.0       42.5
 Current account balance, incl. grants                                            -1.5         -5.5        -5.1        -7.9       -7.9
 Official   Reserves (weeks of non-aid related imports)                            2.4          4.8          7.2        8.5        8.9
 Financing
 Domestic financing                                                                1.2             0       -0.8           0          0
 Foreign financing4                                                                3.3          4.1          4.1        0.4        0.3
 financing gap                                                                       0             0           0
 Memorandum Items
 Nominal GDP (CGF billion)                                                      2,299        2,587       3,380      3,814       4,270
 Exchange Rate (end of period, CGF/$)                                             373          444          500        500        500
 Debt service due after debt relief (in % of government revenues5)               28.7          15.2       19.8         24.5      25.3
 Source: IMF (2005)
 1,Exceptional expendituresincludespendingfor the DDR program,cost of the elections,paymentsfor retirementallowances, repaymentof the
         domestic arrears, and paymentfor bank restructuring.
 2. For2005, useof HlPC resourceson pro-poorwages and domestic investmentwas recorded underwages and domestic-financedinvestment.
 3. Includingcentral bank operationalresultsand change in arrears.
 4. The 2005 estimate includes the disbursementsof 2 remaining PRERC tranches($90m).
 5. Excluding grants.


111.THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM

19.        The Government's medium term development goals are expressed inthe I-PRSP, prepared in2002,
which are based on three pillars: restoration and consolidation o f peace; macroeconomic stabilization and
stimulation of pro-poor growth; and community dynamics. The I-PRSP breaks down the strategy into
three time periods, 2000-2002,2002-2005, and 2005-2010. Inthe first period, the Government focused on
consolidating the peace. Inthe second (current) period, the Government i s tackling three sets o f priority
actions: (i)        mitigation o f the effects o f the crisis and the war on the standard o f living o f the poorest
segments o f the population and the victims o f war; (ii)                    rehabilitationof economic and social infrastructure
and of human capital; and (iii)                  bolstering the capacity for good governance. The Government plans to
present the full PRSP before entering the third period when it would shift its attention to executing the

                                                      6


strategies to bring about the recovery o f the economy and set it on a path o f sustainable and equitable
growth.

20.    During the current (second) period, the Government is implementing a far-reaching economic
reform program called a Program o f MinimumPartnership for Transition and Recovery (PMPTR), which
i s supported by the World Bank, the IMF, and internationaldevelopment partners. The program, which i s
summarized in the Government's letter o f developing policy (Annex l), 10 pillars, macroeconomic
                                                                             has
and budgetary frameworks, poverty, peace and governance, financial sector, private sector development,
public enterprise reform, natural resources, social sectors, agriculture and rural development, and
infrastructure.

Macroeconomicframework

21,    Key issues. The authorities have implemented prudent policies and maintained macroeconomic
stability successfully, helped by a sizable external assistance. The challenge consists o f maintaining the
stability in 2005-06, as special programs such as elections, and disarmament, demobilization, and
reinsertion (DDR), as well as sporadically recurring emergency security needs present competing demands
on the state budget (even though the bulk o f expenses for the elections and DDR are expected to be
externally financed).

22.    Reformstrategy. The authorities are committedto maintaining the macroeconomic stability based
on fiscal discipline. They are aware that a stable macroeconomic environment i s sine qua non for peace
and stability. Their commitment was evident in their efforts in early 2005 to reestablish fiscal and
monetary discipline. The next IMFreview i s scheduled for FebruaryMarch2006.

Poverty

23.    Key issues. Poverty reduction i s the Government's overriding concern, and resuming delivery o f
basic public services to the poor i s the most urgent priority on the Government's agenda. To this end,
efforts to increase the pro-poor spending need to be redoubled because the experience to date shows that,
despite the political will, actual pro-poor spending reached only 2 % o f GDP at the end o f 2004 (up from
less than 1% in 2003). The l o w execution result was not due to a lack o f budgetary allocation, as a large
majority o f what was allocated to pro-poor spending in2004 (6.3% o f GDP, including infrastructure) was
not spent. Instead, the obstacles for executing the pro-poor spending appear to lie in, inter alia, the lack o f
capacity at line ministries and poor communications across and within ministries. For example, line
ministries are often unable to procure goods and services using appropriate procedures, and even the
simplified system suggested for usingHPC resources is cited as a major obstacle to executing the budget.
Another frequently mentioned problem i s that a budget proposal made by a line ministry (e.g., Ministry o f
Health) typically does not reflect a consensus or even discussions within the ministry, let alone the actual
needs o f the end service providers (e.g., health clinics). As a result, the budget allocation for line
ministries are often not known by the officials who were not directly involved in the budget process, even
when their division i s the beneficiary o f the resources, and even less by lower level governments and by
end service providers.

24.    Reformstrategy. A full PRSP is in the final phase o f preparation, with the adoption planned for
end-2005. The Government's strategy i s to adopt and then to implement the PRSP with continued
involvement o f all stakeholders.     The preliminary draft o f the PRSP indicates that the Government's
poverty reduction strategy will continue to stress the need for maintaining peace and stability, fighting
corruption, and improving public service delivery benefiting the poor. On increasing the execution o fpro-
poor spending, the Government i s strengthening public expenditure management (paragraph 26), and is

                                                       7


also piloting two programs in two key sectors: an education block grant program (paragraph 44) and an
inter-ministerial worlung group to improve budget process for the Ministry o f Health (paragraph 46).

Public expendituremanagement

25.    Key issues. The public expenditure classification has been completely revised in conformity to
international standards. Modernization and streamlining o f public expenditure procedures (chahe de la
dkpense) were achieved in2003, although scopes for improvement still remain. The progress made allows
the government to analyze its expenditures better, as well as to disseminate the budget execution results
for improved transparency. A poverty expenditure monitoring committee, which verifies the progress
made in combating poverty, was established in 2003. Compared to the improvements in the budgeting
and expenditure procedures, the progress in the reporting and control side o f the process has been slower.
Budget execution reports (Etat de suivi budgdaire or ESB), cross-checked with the treasury operations,
must be produced monthly and in a timely manner. These reports must be presented using the new
economic, administrative, and functional classifications, and also describe the execution results o f
poverty-relatedand HIPC-financed expenditures.

                  Table 2. Statusof BudgetExecutionRer>ortProduction(Selected Countries)

 Country      RealGNI      Monthly      Budget      How long        Annual      I s the     How long
              per capita     budget    execution  does it take to   budget     annual      does it take
              in2003       execution    reports    produce the     execution   budget     for the reports
               Atlas         reports  reconciled     monthly        reports   execution   to be audited?
              method       produced?      with       reports?      produced?   report
               (US$)                    treasury                               audited?
                                      operations?

Chad                240       yes         Yes        1month          Yes          Yes      <6 months
DRC                 110       yes         Yes      2-3 months        Yes         Yes        -1  year
Rwanda             220.       Yes         N o      <2 months         Yes          Yes      <6 months
Niger               200        no          --           _-           Yes          Yes        > 1year
Burundi             100        no          --           --            No           --
CAR                 260        no          --           --            N o          --           ----
Source: World Bank, '2004 data.

26.    Reform strategy. In countries o f comparable development stage, governments often find it
difficult to reconcile what the government authorizes to pay (budget execution) and what are actually paid
(treasury operation), due to capacity problems (equipment and human resources) and timeliness o f
information. The Government o f DRC has yet to produce the monthly budget execution reports within 30
days o f closing o f the month (international standard): it has taken 3-4 months to prepare the reports instead
o f 30 days.5 However, it i s malung significant progress, and indeed, i s more advanced intheir efforts than
many countries in the sub-region (see Table 2). The delay i s caused partially by the fact that cross-
checlung between the budget execution and treasury operation i s currently done manually, as the treasury
operation reports are not yet fully computerized due to the lack of an adequate accounting system. The
Government i s now implementing an action plan to introduce a simplified double-entry accounting system
at the Treasury Directorate, as a first step towards adopting the full-fledged double-entry accounting
system (the production o f monthly budget reports and malung operational a double-entry accounting
system are HIPC completion point triggers). The government is also working on reducing the remaining
inaccuracies inclassifying the expenditures, a major source of which i s misreportingby line ministries and




    Preparing the monthly budget execution reports up to June 2005 was one o f the pre-negotiation conditions,
    which the Government has met.

                                                          8


other public entities.6 Monthly budget execution reports are submitted to the Council o f Ministers and the
Parliament for validation, and the annual report i s audited by the independent audit office (Cour des
Comptes).

Procurement reform

27.
ensure transparent and rule-based procurement of all government purchases. Following the Government -
      Key issues. A new procurement code and its principal application decrees are needed in order to

World Bank joint review o f the national procurement system (Country Procurement Assessment Report,
CPAR) in 2004, the Government adopted an action plan to improve the legal and institutional framework
and to develop procurement capacity. The need for strengthening the private sector performance was also
underscored by the CPAR. A commission incharge o f reforms, COREMAP (Commission de Riforme des
March& Publics), was created in October 2004 to oversee the implementation o f the adopted action plan,
and started to operate in March 2005. The initial cost o f the reform will be financed by the World Bank.
Inaddition, theGovernmentandtheWorldBankcreatedtheCentralCoordinationBureau(Bureau central
de coordination, BCECO) and the Bureau for the Coordination o f Infrastructure Procurement (Bureau de
coordination des marchis d'infrastructure, BCMI) inorder to ensure the use o frules designed to increase
transparency, cost-savings, efficiency, and competition.

28.   Reform strategy. The Government's action plan remains measured and realistic, for installing an
adequate procurement regime requires extensive capacity building and strong behavioral changes. Inthe
immediate future, the continued use o f two coordination bureaus, BCECO and BCMI, will allow the
government to ensure minimum fiduciary standards. The Government plans to establish gradually an
effective legal and institutional system. To this end, the COREMAP will recruit consultants to propose a
new legal and institutional framework, which complies with OECD best practices. Consultants will also
be recruited for preparing a comprehensive capacity building program targeting the ministries, major
public enterprises, and the private sector. The Government intends to complete the elaboration and
implementation o f a new procurement code and its principal application decrees before end-2006 (HIPC
completion point triggers). Inthe medium term, procurement reforms will be an integral part o f an overall
civil service reform, as greater skills and motivations o f staff are needed for the reforms to be effective.

Civil servicemanagement reform

29.    Key issues. Better control must be established over the number o f civil servants, their roles and
responsibilities, their salaries, and their eventual retirement. To this end, a civil service census has been
launched in Kinshasa with the technical and financial assistance o f South Africa and other partners. The
rest o f the country will be covered sequentially. The results are expected by mid 2006. Payroll system
was audited in 2004 and priority reforms were recommended. As for a retirement program, a working
group consisting o f representatives from the Ministries o f Civil Service, Finance, Budget, and Interior
developed a detailed strategy and an action plan in 2004 (supported by PFWRC (Cr. 3862)), which was
adopted by the Council o f Ministers and was judged satisfactory to IDA.

30.   Reformstrategy. By January 2006, the Government intends to introduce a transitional simplified
payroll system (procidures transitoires simplifikes or PTS) to reestablish the procedures o f securing and
managing civil service payroll (supported by France). The PTS i s designed to be a transitory solution


    Delays in producing budget execution reports (&tats de suivi budgdtaire) cross-checked with the treasury
    operation, inaccuracies of expenditure classifications, and misreporting by the line ministries and other public
    entities o n the use of advance funds (mise a disposition defonds, MAD) were identified as weaknesses in the
    recent CFAA exercise. The minister o f budget issued an instruction inAugust 2005 reminding the MAD users
    to report the use of funds appropriately (a pre-negotiation condition).

                                                        9


untila modem systemo f managing financial, administrative, andhumanresources aspects o f civil service
(systhe integrk de gestionPnancidre et administrative or SIG) i s introduced. Meanwhile, the first group
o f retirees eligible for the retirement program has been identified, and the Government intends to start
paying the retirement package to those eligible in the last quarter o f 2005. The second group o f eligible
retirees i s being identified by the census. The Government intends to spread out the retirement o f the
second group to ensure that public service delivery will not be disrupted. Inparallel, the authorities, with
the help o f bilateral partners, are also strengthening the control system for personnel and wages o f the
military with mixed success.

Financial sector

31.     Key issues. The rehabilitation and development o f the financial sector with a view to reviving
financial intermediation i s an important part o f the economic reform program.           The three priority
components are: (i)    reform o f the legal and regulatory framework that regulates the banlung sector; (ii)
restructuring o f the central bank and improvement o f its management; and (iii)  reforming the commercial
banking sector.

32.     Reformstrategy. The Government plans to continue the restructuringo fthe centralbank, which is
already underway with the technical assistance o f the IMF. Most o f the commercial banks are now
solvent as a result o f the restructuring efforts inrecent years, and the Government will work on creating an
environment to enhance access to financial intermediation. Inaddition, the authorities intend to prepare
an appropriate legal fi-amework for regulatingmicrofinance institutions.

Private sector development

33.     Key issues.     Private sector-led development is critical to the country's long-term economic
development. In recent years, the Government has adopted new codes (labor and investment codes in
2002, customs code in 2004) or is preparing to adopt them (commercial code crafted after the OHADA
model). It must now turn to preparing and publishing application decrees and implementing them. The
Government also needs to clear arrears accumulated in the past and to avoid incurring new ones. Tax
reforms started with customs tariffs, while an overhaul o f other indirect taxes and corporate taxes still
remains to be done.

34.     Reformstrategy. Buildingon the accomplishments o f past few years, the Government intends to
continue rehabilitating the legal and judiciary framework and improving the investment climate. It also
plans to foster environment favorable to private sector development through creating mechanisms to allow
the financing of private sector activities (e.g., through credit lines) and to attract investors in a context
which remains difficult (e.g., by providing guarantees). To this end, preparatory work for adoption o f
OHADA legislation i s underway. To promote a revival o f economic activities, the Government has also
negotiated a settlement to clear the arrears with domestic commercial creditors, and intends to complete
the repayments by 2007. In addition, the Government i s working towards achieving an agreement with
the London Club members. The Government will prepare a global action plan for reforming direct and
indirect tax systems affecting firms, to be implemented over the coming years.

Public enterprisereform

35.     Key issues. Public enterprises inDRC had been managedpoorly for a long time, and are inneed of
reforms to ensure that public utilities and other services are provided in a sustainable manner, and to
reduce the quasi-fiscal costs.

                                                       10


36.   Reform strategy. Public enterprise reforms began in 2001, followed by the creation o f a public
enterprise reform commission (COPIREP) in 2002. The Commission delivered to the Government the
accounting and operational audits of certain enterprises (2003), formed sectoral working groups (2004),
and i s preparing action plans to reform key public enterprises (ongoing).           After a new judicial and
regulatory framework on public enterprises i s adopted by the Parliament, the Government will turn to
implementing it.

Naturalresources: Forestry

37.   Key issues. The DRC is home to the second largest rainforest in the world after Brazil. Forests
make a critical contribution to the livelihoods o f about 40 million people, who are among the poorest in
the world, with domestic energy, building materials, proteins, medicine, and as a source o f cash income.
The forestry industry has the potential to generate employment, support community development in
remote areas, and generate fiscal revenues. This important sector has been managed poorly in the past.
Prior to and during the conflict, the majority o f the country's forests with commercial potential were
allocated to rent seekers and interest groups: logging contracts were signed without transparency or local
consultation, and yielded little or no benefits to rural communities or to the country as a whole. With the
return o f peace and rehabilitation o f infrastructure, activities in the forestry industry are likely to resume
and intensify. The challenge for the country i s to ensure that these activities bring tangible benefits to the
population at large, and especially to the poor. To this end, new policies must be implemented to counter
the legacy o f past poor management (see Box 1for a brief forestry history and the reform strategy).

38.   Reform strategy.        Forestry sector reform agenda was initiated jointly by the Ministries o f
Environment, Finance, and Budget, with broad support from civil society, the President's Office and the
development partners. A new forestry code was adopted in 2002 (supported by ERC, Cr. 3660), which
stipulates the use o f participatory processes inplanning the land-use, the protection o f user rights for local
population, sustainable management o f all production forests including protection o f wildlife, and
community-based management of rural forests. Non-compliant, mostly speculative concessions were
cancelled in 2002, and a moratorium on new logging concessions was set up. In 2003, an economic
review o f the sector recommended to remove unjustified      para-fiscal charges, and to gradually increase the
area tax as a means to prevent further speculative grabbing of forests. These reforms were adopted in
March 2004, and should continue until 2007. However, this reform process experienced several setbacks
since 2003 under pressure from rent-seekers.          It is reported that more than 6 million hectares of
concessions were exchanged or re-adjusted and that some of the concessions cancelled in 2002 were
reinstated. InNovember 2004, the Minister o f Environment changed the rules for the legal review of
concessions (previously defined in the July 2004 decree) in a way that undermined the reform process.
After consultations with stakeholders, a ministerial decree which suspended the controversial aspects o f
the November 2004 decree was issued, followed by a new presidential decree dated October 24, 2005,
which sets forth the transparent procedures and criteria for the legal review and extends the moratorium.
This presidential decree represents the determinationof the coalition Government to strengthen the reform
program, as it takes away the ability o f any one minister to over-ride the covenants o f the reform program
by issuingnew ministerial decrees. The Government also cancelled in 2005 the concessions which had
not paid the new area tax due in 2003, and published the list of concessions which have not paid the tax
due in2004 with the compliance deadline.

39.   The Government intends to clean up the legacy of past mismanagement, to put in place a regime
which favors sustainable management of the forestry resources, and to ensure the sharing o f benefits with
the ruralpoor. Inthe near future, the Government's main actions will consist of:

  0   continued observance o fthe moratorium on allocatingnew forestry concessions;
  0   the legal review o f all existing concessions with the participation o f an independent legal advisor;

                                                      11



  0   publication of the results o f the legalreview;
  0   cancellation o f forestry concessions judged illegal by the legal review;
  0   recruitment o f technical assistance to help reinforce the capacity o f the Ministry o f Environment to
      enforce forestry laws on the ground;
  0   adoption o f key application decrees to implement the forestry code; and
  0   continued implementation o f the March 2004 fiscal reforms including the removal o f the para-fiscal
      charges collected by ONATRA and the cancellation o f concessions that did not comply with the
      area tax in2004 after the published deadline.

40.   Inthe medium term, the Government also plans to update the law on nature conservation, and to
strengthen capacities within the Ministry o f Environment, local governments, and civil society to
implement the forestry code.

Naturalresources: Mining

41.   Key issues. Mineral products are the country's leading exports: in2004, they were close to US$1.5
billion and are expected to double inthe next 3-5 years. Export receipts generated from the sector will be
instrumental to lift the country out o f poverty and to ensure its ability to finance its development needs
and to meet its debt service obligations. However, like the forestry sector, the past mismanagement i s
keeping the mining sector from contributing to its full potential towards economic recovery and
development, and to fiscal revenues.        The Government has begun to address this problem, first by
adopting a new state-of-the-art mining code (2003), and publicizing it nationwide (2004). It must now
turnto reviewingthe existing miningtitles, makingthe miningcadastre operationalinKinshasa as well as
inother parts ofthe country so that new titles are allocatedinatransparent manner, and generally ensuring
sustainable management o f the sector so that the entire country can share the benefits.

42.   Reform strategy. The Government's reform agenda consist o f
  0   adoption and implementation o f application decrees for miningcode;
  0   expansion o fthe miningcadastre operations to outside Kinshasa starting inLumumbashi;
  0   creation o f an independent validation commission (commission de validation des titres miniers)
      responsible for reviewing the legality o f the mining titles which were issued under the previous
      regime (the commission was established in September 2005);
  0   restructuring GECAMINES (public enterprise for mining): a diagnostic audit was completed in
      2003, presenting options for restructuring; a voluntary departures program for excess workers was
      completed in January 2004 (supported by ERC1); the examination o f existing agreements and
      preparation o f the statute o f a new company are ongoing; the restructuring strategy has been
      validated by the Council o f Ministers; a management contract was signed with an international firm
      selected through an international competitive biddinginSeptember 2005; and
  0   improving transparency and increasing revenue mobilization inthe sector by implementing reforms
      proposed by the Extractive IndustryTransparency Initiative (EITI).

Social sector: Education

43.   Key issues. The most important issues facing the education sector are the poor quality o f primary
education, and its low coverage and retention, particularly for girls. Major constraints contributing to
these issues include (i)  user fees collected from parents to finance operating costs o f schools, and to
complement teacher and administrator salaries, which are too low; (ii)         weak capacity o f teachers and
principals; and (iii)
                    low quality and inadequate inputs including pedagogical materials.

                                                      12


44.   Reformstrategy. The first (emergency) phase o f the rehabilitation of education infrastructure has
been completed with the help o f the Bank (emergency multisector rehabilitation project, H0100) and other
donors, and the second phase o frehabilitationi s expected to be complete by end-2005. With rehabilitation
well underway, the Government now turns to medium term goals: it intends to prepare the medium term
education sector strategy in the context o f PRSP. As an input to the medium term strategy, a country
status report was prepared and its findings disseminated broadly, and the final version was presented in
August 2004. The Government developed the actionplan for the "education for all" program inJanuary
2005, and presented it to the donor community inmid-2005. Also in 2005, the Government introduced a
direct block grant program designed to alleviate the severe resource constraints o f publicly administered
schools. The program i s intended as a first step towards addressing the demand-side problem, namely,
that the user fees are too high for poor parents to send their children to school. The first quarterly grant
was disbursed inAugust 2005, and the program was publicized through official announcements (an inter-
ministerial decree and official meetings) and through mass media. The Government plans to decrease
such fees progressively. With the help of development partners (among which are Belgium and IDA), the
Government intends to reinforce the capacity o f teachers and administrators as well as to improve
availability o f text books for primary schools.

Socialsector: Health

45.   Key issues. DRChas among the worst healthindicators inthe world, with over halfa million under-
five children dying every year due to easily preventable and treatable diseases. L o w coverage o f basic
health services can be attributed to: (i)   poor availability and quality o f health services; and (ii) low
government financial support, leading to high user fees collected from patients to cover the operational
costs and pay salaries o f health care providers and administrators.

46.   Reformstrategy.The Government's strategy for improvingthe health situation o f the population is
to combat priority diseases, particularly HIV/AIDS and malaria, and to develop the decentralized health
zone system, which integrates primary and first-referral services in catchment areas o f around 100,000
population. There are 519 health zones inthe country: although a majority receives external support from
humanitarian and development programs, usually implemented by NGOs, gaps in support remain.
Government's long-standing partnership with non-governmental service providers, particularly church
groups, has provided a basis for partnerships with NGOs for support to health zones. These are usually
contractual arrangements, and the Bank-supported EMRRP and recently-approved Health Sector
Rehabilitation Support Project (PO88751) use performance-based arrangements to provide integrated
support to about a quarter o f the health zones inthe country. The Government i s preparing a mediumterm
sectoral strategy in the context o f PRSP, which will guide efforts to reform the regulatory and budgetary
framework o f the sector. As an input to the strategy, the country health status report was completed in
early 2005. Also in 2005, the Government has formed an inter-ministerial working group, consisting o f
representatives of Ministries o f Health, Budget, and Finance, to improve the budget process so that the
allocation o f the State budget to the Ministry o f Health reflects the priorities o f the sector, that the
allocated funds reach the intended recipients, and that resources allocated are used appropriately. In2005,
the Government started to circulate the health sector budget allocation (presented by provinces for easy
reference) to provinces and to service providers for the purpose o f improving awareness o f available
resources at the local level, as well as to solicit feedback on the needs so that the types o f problems
discussed inparagraph 23 can be addressed.

Agriculture and rural development

47.   Key issues. The key objectives o f the Government are twofold: (i) improve availability o f food
                                                                             to
for the ruralpopulation, and (ii) achieve sustained growth inagricultural production and incomes.
                                   to

                                                       13


48.     Reform strategy. More needs to be done in this important sector. The Government intends to
develop a medium to long-term strategy for rural sector development within the framework of PRSP, and
expects to adopt it by 2006 (the adoption o f the strategy i s a HLPC completion point trigger). To this end,
the authorities will commission studies (supported by EMRRP) for revitalizing the agro-industrial sectors,
such as coffee, tea, palm oil, rubber, and cotton. Inthe meantime, the Government plans to continue the
programs o f increasing food production already underway: a seed program (began in2002); rehabilitation
of irrigated land (ongoing); support to traditional livestock raising and fishing activities (launched in
2004); improvement inaccess to local markets through rehabilitation o f 5000 kmo f rural tracks (started in
2004 and ongoing); and introducing an information system on market prices for agricultural products.

Infrastructure (roads, electricity, andwater)

49.     Key issues. After decades o f poor maintenance o f roads, much of the country i s now inaccessible,
or accessible only by air: the country needs badly to rehabilitate its road infrastructure to improve
connectivity. Similarly, past poor management and abuse o f electricity and water utilities have left the
infrastructure in dire need o f repair, and have deprived households and the private sector o f these
important services. The situation i s particularly unfortunate as the country i s rich in resources which
could allow them to provide adequate services for the entire country and more.

50.     Reform strategy. The Government's strategy in the immediate future is to: (i)          rehabilitate and
maintain existing infrastructure; and (ii)   reform legal and regulatory frameworks. An international firm,
selected in 2002 to manage the infrastructure components of the World Bank's EMRRP, launched
technical design studies in 2003. Road works are underway since 2004 and scheduled to last through
2006, following the selection and mobilization of contractors through international competitive bidding.
The Government intends to restructure the state-owned enterprises that operate along main corridors' and
bring in private operators and investors through public-private partnerships where feasible. In urban
infrastructure, the execution of two important works (Kasa-Vubu urban rehabilitation and Selembao
erosion works), begun in 2004, i s expected to end in late 2005. Other transportation infrastructure works
are about to start. In electricity, a study on the state o f the public electricity company (Socie'td nationale
d 'e'le'ctricite' or SNEL) installations was completed in July 2004, and urgent works on rehabilitating
production capacity at 600 megawatts are to be conducted between 2005-2007. Inwater, rehabilitation
works have started, and will continue through 2006. As the nonpayment for services by the Government
was a major problem for both electricity and water companies, the Government has launched a program to
prevent hture accumulation o f arrears, which intum will provide the electricity and water companies with
the necessary resources to rehabilitate the dilapidated infrastructure to serve the population better. The
two utilities companies, on their part, have begun their programs to improve the transparency and
reliability o f the billing systems, and intend to conduct studies to improve service delivery.

IV. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENTSTRATEGY

Linkto TSS

5 1. The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) i s fully consistent with the Government's program
of recovery and transition. The objective o f the TSS i s to support the recovery and transition process, that
is, to help consolidate the transition and restore the foundations for effective poverty alleviation efforts.
The TSS supports four strategic elements: (1) social stability and security with a focus on demobilization
and reintegration o f former combatants; (ii)    highand shared economic growthwith a focus on improving

'    The state-owned companies inquestion are an assortment oftransportation-related companies: SociktkNationale
     des Chemins de fer Congolais (SNCC), ONATRA, Rkgie des Voies Maritimes (RVM), and Rkgie des Voies
     Fluviales (RVF).

                                                          14


macroeconomic and public management, infrastructure reconstruction, private sector development, natural
resources management, and rural development; (iii)          governance and institutional strengthening with a
focus on reunification o f the country and decentralization o f institutions, targeted institutional
strengthening, judicial reform, and improved transparency; and (iv) social development with a focus on
HIV/AIDS, key social sectors, urban living conditions, and social protection. The proposed operation
contributes elements (ii), and
                            (iii), (iv)oftheTSSbysupportingtheGovernment's reformprogramsin
public finance management, in governance o f mining and forestry sectors, in resource transfers to
education and health sectors, and incivil service retirement.

Relationship to other Bank operations

52.   The proposed Grant will generally complement the IDA-financed emergency rehabilitation and
reconstruction projects by supporting Government's longer term reform programs and by enhancing
political and economic stability. Specifically, the Grant will:

      Complement the IDA-financed health sector rehabilitation support project (H182), approved by
      the Board o n September 1, 2005. The new project provides technical and financial support to
      selected health zones to reinforce the capacity o f selected health zones provide essential health
      services o f adequate quality to combat priority diseases. The proposed Grant would support a
      reform program which helps all health zones inthe country, which would be particularly helpful to
      the zones which are not recipients o f the selective support from IDA and other partners at this time.
      The reforms supported by the Grant will establish a reliable channel through which to transfer
      central government resources to the intended recipients. In particular, by indicating clearly the
      budget allocated to the provincial medical inspectors* (rnddecins inspecteurs provinciaux, or MIPs)
      and publicizing this information, the reform program aims to stop the practice o f allowing MIPs to
      collect para-fiscal levies from health service users so that health care will become affordable to the
      poor. Better information flow i s expected to bring feedback from health care providers to the
      central government, which intum would be reflected insubsequent budget exercises.
      Complement the IDA-financed Education Sector Project (P086294), currently under preparation.
      The new project has four main components: (i)          physical school rehabilitation, (ii)
                                                                                                production and
      delivery o f pedagogical materials, (iii)      capacity strengthening o f the Ministry o f Education to
      manage the education sector, and (iv) financial support to operating costs o f publicly administered
       schools. The Government's education block grant program, initiated in 2005 and supported by the
      proposed Grant, serves as a pilot program to the fourth component o f the new education project.
       Shifting the onus o f funding the operating costs o f schools back to the State i s one o f the urgent
      reforms in the education sector. The Government i s expected to take on the responsibility o f
      providing affordable primary education to all when the project reaches completion infive years.
      Build upon progress made in natural resource sectors under the first economic recovery credit,
      which supported the adoption o f the mining and the forest codes (see also paragraph 55).           The
      proposed Grant will ensure continued implementation o f previous reforms and help the government
      overcome inertia and pursue its agenda.
      Complement capacity building efforts that are ongoing in the mining sector through the IDA-
      financed Private Sector Development Project (Cr. 3815) and inthe forest sector through the IDA-
      financed Social and Economic Reunification Project (Cr. 3824 and H064).

Collaboration with the IMF and other donors

53.   The Bank and IMF teams work closely to support the Government's reform programs. The IMF
supports the preparation o f the full PRSP (delivery scheduled for end 2005), particularly in the area o f
*   Provincial medical inspectors are key civil servants inproviding health care services.

                                                    15


macroeconomic framework. Debt sustainability analysis was conducted jointly in 2003 at the time of
HIPC decisionpoint, and i s scheduledto be repeated inthe first half of 2006. Ongoing debt monitoring i s
performed by the Bank for multilateral institutions and by the IMF for bilateral lenders. Joint HIPC
assessment and action plan missions were conducted in 2002 and 2004, while technical assistance i s
provided continuously by both institutions to meet the HIPC completion point triggers, and more
generally, to improve public finance management. At the request of various branches of the Government,
boththe Bank and the IMFprovidedtechnical assistanceinthe area of decentralization.

54.    The Bank works to coordinate and harmonize the assistanceprograms of international development
partners, chairing the monthly international development partner meetings, and co-chairing with the
Government the annual Consultative Group meetings (with the Government leading).            The African
Development Bank (AfDB) and the World Bank work closely to support the government's economic
program, as summarized in the Government's policy matrix (Annex 2). The AfDB i s the only other
significant source o fbudget support to the Government besides IDA, providing approximately US$40min
2004, and pledging to make available a similar amount in 2005.          In addition, the AfDB supports
institutional capacity rehabilitation programs, and i s co-financing a debt management capacity
enhancement program with the Bank. Other international development partners work on various aspects
of the Government's program according to their comparative advantages, and coordination i s assuredby
the abovementioned monthly development partner meetings. For example, the United Kingdom and
UNDP act as focal points for PRSP, and coordinate technical assistanceand financing. Inthe area o f civil
service management reform, France, Belgium, and South Africa are active, and the Bank plays a key role
in coordinating their activities and sharing information. In forestry, the EU, Belgium, and France are
considering setting up a multi-donor trust fund to support the Government's reform agenda. Other areas
of collaboration include education (UK and UNICEF), public expenditure management (France), and
infrastructure (EU).

Lessons learned

55.    The First Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 3660) of US$450 million equivalent supported the
Government's economic program and in particular: (i) clearance; (ii)forestry sector reform; (iii)
                                                        arrears
mining sector reform and a voluntary departure program for 10,000 people from the main mining
company, GECAMINES; and (iv) a public expenditure program (US$42 million), financed by the
additional resources generated by the depreciation of the dollar relative to SDR. All tranches were
released in a timely manner. The arrears clearance operation was successful: the country's relationships
with the Bretton Woods institutions have normalized, and the country has made headway towards
stabilization and recovery. The departure program was properly executed, and the US$42 million public
expenditure programwas also implementedwell.

56.    The Second Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 3862) of US$200 million equivalent consisted of an
effectiveness tranche (US$85m) and three floating tranches supporting (i)   the reform of utilities billing
and payment (US$25m); (ii) Government's retirement program for civil servants who have already
                              the
passed the retirement age (US$47.5m); and (iii)   settlement of the Government's internal debt to private
creditors (US$42Sm). All tranches were disbursed without any waivers. It has emergedthat technical and
financial assistance the Government needed to meet the conditions of tranche releases, as well as to
implement the reforms that the Credit was designed to support, was not always readily available. The task
team was able to assist the Government by using funds obtained from trust funds in some cases and by
aslung other donors to step in. Delays in obtaining resources frequently led to delays in preparation and
implementation of reform programs.        In the proposed Grant, this problem will be alleviated by
synchronizingthe operations with the Government's budget cycle, so that the Government i s able to make
adequate provisions from its own resources to finance the (relatively small) needs for preparing and
implementingthe reform programs. Moreover, as a result o f the various capacity reinforcement programs

                                                      16


carried out over the last 3 years, the Government has improved its ability to implement the necessary
reforms.

57.    Inaddition, when a reformprogram supportedby a quick-disbursingoperation has a relatively long
implementation phase, as i s the case in the civil service retirement program, a multi-year operation with
enough flexibility to account for evolutions on the ground i s likely to be more suitable. Experience in
DRC since 2002 shows that, in a fragile political context, it is important for the Bank to stay engaged
through adequate instruments in support o f the reforms until they are completed: sustained commitment
by the Government for politically difficult reforms cannot be maintained through one-time interventions
by the Bank, butrequires continueddialogue through a series o f development policy operations combined
with institutional capacity building. As such, even though the proposed Grant i s a single-tranche quick-
disbursingoperation, it has a mediumterm timeframe, as the authorities and the Bank have discussed and
agreed to medium term objectives in addition to the pre-negotiation conditions and one-year progress
targets. These are summarized inthe operation matrix (Annex 3).

58,    Options considered and not adopted. A multi-tranche operation with effectiveness and thematic
floating tranches, similar to E R C l and PRERC, was considered. Both operations have worked well (all
tranches o f both operations were released without any cancellations or waivers) in the immediate post-
conflict environment.      However, a single-tranche operation with a medium-term framework was
considered to be more suitable for tackling more complex and time-consuming programs while the
country operates in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, a single-tranche operation based on
fulfilled prior actions was seen as more appropriate in the context o f PRSP formulation and national
elections, as it would give IDA the flexibility to decide on the future form and volume o f engagement with
the incoming government. The proposed operation builds on several pre-negotiation conditions ("prior
actions"), which are seen as crucial steps towards the development policy goals, and on indicators o f
reform progress, to be monitored and evaluated jointly in 12-15 months. Even though the country will
have a new (and duly-elected) government in one year's time, the task team expects to be able to resume
discussions with the new government along the lines of overall objectives agreed to with the current
government, given that the country's medium term strategy i s defined by the full PRSP, which reflects
priorities and preferences o f notjust the Government but the population at large.

Analytical underpinnings

59.    The first draft o f Country Financial Accountability Assessment became available in M a y 2005.
Itcommends the progress made by the DRC since the public finance management reforms beganin2002,
and identifies priorities inremaining reforms. The evaluations and recommendations o f the CFAA are in
line with the findings o f the public expenditure review (2002) and the HIPC AAP exercises (2002 and
2004), which also recommended that the normal four-step expenditure procedures be re-established,
standard budgetingexercise to be reintroduced, and reporting and monitoring mechanism to be restored.
The Government i s malung progress on implementingthese recommendations (see paragraph 26).

60.    Country Procurement Assessment Report (2004) recommended the overhaul of the country's
procurement system, starting with the introduction o f a new procurement code, and installing institutions
to direct the reforms. Payroll audit (2004) found the infrastructure dilapidated, and recommended the
procedures for personnel management to be re-established, payroll list computerized, secured, and be
reconciled with the civil service roster. The Government i s proceeding with the reforms based on these
recommendations (see paragraphs28 and 30).

61.    Institutional and GovernanceReview (IGR) on service delivery ineducation and health sectors as
well as local administration was conducted in 2004, and the first draft was delivered in June 2005. The
review found that public service delivery was inefficient and limited, as central government had long

                                                     17


ceased to provide adequate financing to deliver public services. As a result, the service providers have
resorted to collecting user fees, which often made services too expensive for the poor to access. The
Education Sector Country Status Report (2004) underscored the need for the Government to prioritize
the reforms in the immediate future, given the devastated state o f the sector and the limited financial
resources at its disposal. The report recommended that the steps leading towards meeting the millennium
development goals (i.e. universal primary education) be considered a priority.           The Health Sector
Country Status Report (2005) found that the burden o f disease fell disproportionately on children and
maternity patients, that accessibility and affordability o f health care services were major problems, and
that health service providers were poorly qualified and unmotivated. The new projects in health and
education sectors are designed to remove the bottlenecks identified inthe country status reports so that the
State can resume basic public service delivery, and the proposed Grant i s designed to complement the
activities financed by these projects. The findings o f the country status reports were confirmed by a
survey on perceptions o f poverty, conducted in2004. The preliminary results, reportedand analyzed inthe
Poverty Assessment (preliminary draft delivered in June 2005), indicate that improving service delivery
ineducation andhealth, andfightingcorruption arethe top concerns o fthepoor who were sampled.

62.   A stand-alone AAA-ESW forest sector review is being finalized, which underpins the
Government's forest reformwith recommendations on key-steps for the next five years.

V. THE PROPOSED OPERATION

Operation description
63.    The proposed Grant i s intended to support selected strategic targets o f the TSS, and aims to help the
Government in maintaining the peace and macroeconomic stability, consolidating past policy
achievements, and tackling the primary economic challenge it faces at this juncture. In particular, the
Grant will support reforms designed to deepen, broaden, and sustain the reforms underway in the areas o f
public administration and fiscal management, pro-poor spending, and natural resources management.
Improving transparency by sharing relevant information with stakeholders i s also an important policy
reform which this operation aims to support. Moreover, the proposed Grant helps the Government's
efforts inrevenue mobilization inthe mediumterm through better governance innatural resources sectors.

64.    To reach these objectives, in the short to medium term, the Government requested a financial
support that i s not linked to specific projects, but that can support its entire budget including recurrent
costs, as well as development projects that are viewed as priorities yet not fully financed.             The
Government's medium-term development strategy i s described in the letter o f development policy
(Annex 1) and summarized inSection III.

Indicators of progress

65.    Indicators to measure progress in the reform areas which are deemed important to attain the
development policy goals have been identified in collaboration with the authorities. Progress in these
areas i s deemed essential inorder for IDA to move forward with subsequent operations with the new duly
elected government. These indicators will be monitoredjointly by the authorities and IDA. They include,
in addition to maintainingmacroeconomic stability and implementing the government's reform programs
satisfactorily:

    a) regular production o f monthly budget executionreports within 30 days o f end-month;
    b) reception o f proper justifications o f MAD from the relevant line ministries before new funds are
         made available;
    c) implementation o f the double-entry accounting system;

                                                     18


        completion o f the civil service census and incorporation o f results to the payroll;
        effective implementation o f the new payment system (PTS);
        beginning o f the payment o f indemnities to the second group o f civil servants eligible to the
        retirement program;
        completion o f the legal review in accordance with procedures set forth in the presidential decree
        dated October 24, 2005 (mentioned in paragraph 38), including the cancellation o f invalid
        concessions and publication o fresults;
        continued compliance with the forest moratorium until(i)    new auction procedures are adopted; (ii)
        legal review o f existing titles i s completed; and (iii) 3-year plan for future concessions i s
                                                                  a
        adopted based on a participatoryprocess;
        recruitment o f an independent observer (technical assistance) to assist the Government in
        monitoring logging activities, and ensuring transparency and dissemination o f information.;
        enactment o f key implementationdecrees (details are listed inthe operation matrix, Annex 3);
        continued implementation o f the March 2004 fiscal reforms including the transfer o f 40% o f area
        tax to provinces and territories for socio-economic development purposes;
        completion o f the miningtitle review by the miningtitle validating commission;
    m) publication o f existing valid mining titles, including the litigated ones that are validated by the
        miningtitle validation commission;
    n) establishment of the permanent committee to carry out the reformprograms advocated by EITI,
        and publishingo f the revenue streams accordingly;
    0) an increase in the budget allocations to education and health sectors in the 2006 budget to     8.5%
        and 5.5%, respectively, and an increase inthe budget executionrate o f these two sectors to 60%;
    p) full disbursement of 2005 education block grants, reception o f all quarterly execution summary
        reports from the provinces, and production o f monitoring reports on the use o f block grant funds
        as determined by the inter-ministerial decree 017 dated June 14, 2005; and
    q) improving budget process in health sector, particularly in reporting, by (i)completing the
        diagnostic report on existing procedure and (ii)developing an action plan to improve the
        functioning and transparency o f the health budget process and to increase execution o f health
        ministrybudget.


VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACT

66.   The proposed Grant will have positive impacts on poverty reductionby allocating fiscal resources in
line with the Government's priorities. In particular, the Grant will help ensure that public spending i s
targeted progressively more effectively inthe areas o f health and basic education. The Ministryo f Health
insisted that the State budget be managed better so as to allow the health service providers to reduce the
user fees collected from patients, which are often prohibitively high for the poor. To this end, the
Government decided the first priority was to improve all stages o f the budget process so that (i)   budget
allocations reflect the priorities on the ground, (ii)
                                                     the allocated funds arrive at the intended destinations,
and (iii)adequate monitoring and evaluation i s provided jointly by the Ministries o f Health, Budget, and
Finance. Ineducation, the responsible ministryconsidered it the first priority to make financial resources
available to schools directly and immediately so that school fees collected from parents can be reduced to
make it easier for poor families to send their children to school. T o this effect, a new education block
grant program was designed, and i s expected to disburse 5.8 billion CGF in2005 to publicly administered
schools inquarterly installments.

                                                         19



67.    The proposed Grant i s also expected to have a positive poverty and social impact through its support
to the Government's longer term agenda o f overhauling the civil service with the aim o f providing better
public service to the population, and in particular, to the poor who depends on them disproportionately.
The civil service retirement program, supported by both PRERC (Cr. 3862) and this operation, provides a
modicum of social security to civil servants (many o f whom are poor themselves) who have already
reached the retirement age by end-2004. While the retirement package i s unlikely to be adequate as a sole
source o f income for retired life, it still constitutes a step in the right direction. Enthusiastic response o f
the beneficiaries duringthe identificationphase o f the program confirms these expectations. The program
i s also one o f the building blocks for improving the efficiency o f the civil service. By allowing eligible
civil servants to retire, it creates a leaner (to the extent that not all retiring civil servants are replaced) and
younger workforce. A part o f salary savings could potentially be used for training the active workers and
adjusting the civil service salary scale towards a more adequate level, which inturn would contribute to a
more motivated and competent workforce, capable o fproviding better public services.

68.    Governance improving reforms in mining and forestry sectors are aimed at bringing about a more
equitable sharing o f the country's natural resources. While the poverty and social impact of these reforms
i s not expected to be immediate, it i s likely to be the largest inthe medium to long run, given the vastness
o f the country's mineral and forestry endowment.

SUPERVISION

69.    Ministry of Finance will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation and
for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and agencies. The task
team will monitor the overall execution and specific elements o f the programjointly with the Ministry of
Finance and the line ministries concerned, as well as provide technical assistance as needed to achieve the
intendedprogress. Certainperformance indicators may have to be adjusted as the situation inthe country
evolves, for example, if the elections are delayed and the new government does not take office until later
than expected: possible adjustments are likely to be intime horizon rather than insubstance.

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

70.     Significant progress has been made over the last few years to reduce fiduciary risks.               Various
diagnostic studies have been carried out (CFAA (2005), HIPC AAP (2002 and 2005), and CPAR (2004))
and their recommendations are being carried out within the limits o f the capacity and financial constraints,
Both the Bank and the IMF are continuously helping the government to improve the public financial
management. The conditions and progress indicators inthe area o f public financial management included
in the proposed operation are consistent with the recommendations of the CFAA,. The monitoring of
progress will be ensured either directly by the task team in areas where IDA leads the assistance to
reforms (budget executionreports), and through coordinating with other development partners inthe areas
where they lead (use o f MAD and national chart o f accounts (IMF); civil service payroll reforms
(France)).   There has been no fiduciary problems associated with the execution o f two previous budget
support operations, ERC and PRERC. However, fiduciary risks do remain over the next few years during
which the Government strives to shed the country's past practice o f mismanagement and establish an
accountable, responsible, and transparent public financial management system. Such risks are deemed
unavoidable duringthe transitional phase, and are expected to decline inthe long runas the reforms being
implemented take hold.

                                                     20


71.   Funds flow arrangements:

 (i)    The IMF conducted a post-conflict initial re-engagement phase safeguards assessment o f the
        central bank on January 3,2003. The assessment concluded that substantial risks o f misreporting
        or misuse may exist due to vulnerabilities in the external audit mechanism, financial reporting
        framework, and internal control systems. The measures recommended by the IMF to strengthen
        the safeguards framework have been included ina detailed action plan, which the central bank has
        started to implement.
  (ii)  Funds flow arrangements: in view o f the existing weaknesses o f the central bank control
        environment identified above, the proceeds o f the proposed Grant would be deposited in a
        dedicated foreign currency account at the central bank. The central bank credits Congolese franc
        equivalent of the Grant proceeds to the Treasury's general account. The funds are available for
        withdrawal through the expenditure procedures (la chaine de la dkpense).

DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING

72.   Upon notification by IDA o f Grant effectiveness, and with the submission by the Recipient o f a
withdrawal application, the proceeds o f the Grant will be deposited by IDA into a designated foreign
currency account o f the Recipient at the Central Bank. Disbursements will not be linked to specific
purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed. However, the proceeds o f the Grant cannot
be used for ineligible expenditures, as per the negative list inthe grant agreement.

73.   The Development Grant Agreement will give IDA the right to require the Recipient to audit the
designated foreign currency account. Pursuant to this provision and considering the prevailing financial
management situation in DRC, IDA intends to request the Recipient to have the foreign currency account
audited by auditors acceptable to IDA.

ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

74.   The proposed Grant i s a budget and balance o f payments support operation, and as such, the link
between policy programs and the physical environment i s indirect. The reform agenda supported by the
operation are not likely to cause significant adverse environmental effects and should result in increased
sustainability in the management of the country's natural resources. The specific refoms supported by
the operation:

    (i)   extension o f the moratorium on issuingnew forestry concessions until(a) the legal review o f all
          existing concessions are complete, (b) new auction procedures are adopted, and (c) a three year
          strategy for allocating new concessions have been adopted ina transparent manner;
    (ii)  launching o f the legal review o f forestry concessions by (a) adopting a new presidential decree
          specifying credible and transparent procedures, (b) publishing the list o f existing concessions,
          and (c) recruiting an independent expert (legal advisor) to ensure transparency and objectivity in
          the review process;
    (iii)launchingofthelegalreviewofminingconcessionsbyestablishingthecommissionresponsible
          for the review, as determined by the Mining Code (2002), including independent observers to
          ensure transparency and objectivity inthe review process; and
    (iv)  signing o f a management contract for GECAMINES (public miningenterprise) with a company
          selected through due process to improve transparency and governance o f the miningcompany;

are designed to address the shortcomings that exist in the Recipient's system governing the forestry and
miningsectors.

 75.    The forestry sector measures will help the Government implement its reform agenda with an emphasis
 on sustainable management plans, protection of natural ecosystems and biodiversity, and prevention of illegal
 logging. By supporting the maintenance of the moratorium, the proposed Grant will prevent large forest areas
 of the Congo Basin from being open to industrial logging.By supporting the legal review of existing contracts
 and the rescinding of non-compliant ones, it will lead to returning large areas of forests to public
 management. Consistent with OP 8.60, staff determined that these measures are not likely to cause
 significant effects on the country's environment, forests, and other natural resources, nor on poor people and
 vulnerable groups (including indigenous people). This assessment is consistent with a series of analyses and
 consultations' held within the context of the preparation of a forest sector review in which a number of key
 stakeholders (including international NGOs, such as WWF and WCS) have played a key role. Indeed, these
 two measures combined make it possible for the Government to conduct a participatory forest planning taking
 into account the multiple-purpose dimensions of forest ecosystems. This participatory process is expected to
 lead progressively: to the creation of new protected areas in the Congo Basin's unique tropical forests; to the
 development of community-based management areas benefiting directly to local communities and indigenous
 people; and possibly to alternative non-extractive uses of Congo Basin forests. The proposed operation will
 also support the Government's requirement that concession holders develop and implement sustainable forest
 management plans. Without the proposed operation and the Government reform agenda it supports, the
 majority of Congolese forests will remain highly vulnerable to unsustainablelogging practices.

 76.    The policy agenda that the Grant is designed to support in the mining sector will improve governanceof
 the sector, and would generally have a positive effect on environment, albeit indirectly. As per OP8.60, staff
 determined that these measures are not likely to cause significant effects on the country's environmentor poor
 people: the management contract for GCcamines and DRC's joining of the Extractive Industry Transparency
 Initiative are indeed expected to mitigate the environmental damage and risks identified within the context of
 an environmental study of GCcamines' past operations, which was carried out under the IDA-financed
 Private Sector Development and CompetitivenessProject (PSCP, Cr. 3815). The legal review of existing
 contracts and the adherence to the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative would invite all stake-holders
 to participate in the decision-makingprocess, increase public information regarding the sector, and generally
 improve transparency in the way the sector is governed.

 RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

 77. As was the case for the Post Conflict Economic Recovery Credit,the potential benefits of support to the
 DRC in the form of the proposed Grant outweigh the high level of risk. The proposed Grant would support
 policies to continue to improve delivery of public servicesto the poor.

 78. In the light of DRC's relatively short track record in implementing reform programs and its fragile
 political situation, the proposed Grant is of high risk. The four main risks are: (i) renewed conflict; (ii)
 political risk; (iii) a shortfall in external financing for 2005; and (iv) the low implementation capacity of the
 Government.

 79. The risk of renewed conflict within the country and along its borders has diminished substantially since
 the establishment of a coalition government and the channeling of political conflict into the electoral process.
 Nevertheless, localized violence has not been eradicated in the east, near the Rwanda border, and may
 continue for several years to come. To address this, the United Nations Observation Mission in the Congo
 (MONUC) has been reinforced, and the danger of renewed nation-wide conflict has been reduced greatly.
 The risk of regional conflict is contained by a resolute continuation of the regional approach to conflict
 resolution and development, alreadybegun by the African Union, the UN, the EU, OECD, and others.

 80. Another risk associated with the proposed Grant is a scaling back, or reversal, of the reform package
 caused by political developments. Election year politics may test the Government's determination to restore
 budgetary orthodoxy, to implement measures necessary to fight inflation, to improve public service delivery
 to the poor, and to strengthen public institutions. Strongvested interests that are entrenched in


'Including an International Forest Forum held in Kinshasa in November 2004 and chaired by the former Prime
Minister of Senegal, H.E.Mr. Lamine Loum (in which NGOs such as the Rainforest Foundation participated).

                                                         22


natural resource sectors can generate behind-the-scene resistance to reforms. Increased pro-poor spending
may not reach the intended targets if the process i s corrupted. However, the Government's resolve in
talung steps to correct the slippages that had occurred in macroeconomic and forestry program
implementation (as discussed inparagraphs11and 38) mitigates this risk. Furthermore, to decrease the
risk ofpolicy reversal, the program is designed to emphasize consolidation andreinforcement of reforms
which are already underway. The Grant also endorses the Government's efforts in involving the civil
society and other development partners inmonitoring the execution o f the program so that the goals o f the
reforms are shared and supported by the populationat large.

81.   A thirdrisk i s a possible new arrears accumulation due to a shortfall inexternal financing for 2005.
Failure for development partners to maintain the current high levels o f assistance pledged to date could
hinder the Government's ability to reconstruct its administrative and economic infrastructure, rehabilitate
some o f its social facilities, and service its debt. As noted before, DRC's debt service expenditures
increased following the HIPC decision point, because the country was paying no service on its debt prior
to 2002. To mitigate this risk, IDA i s working with other development partners to assure a continued high
level o f external financing, and i s providing assistance for the measures, including the PRSP process, that
will make permanent the debt service reduction that followed the HIPC decision point. The Government
i s aware that mitigation o f this risk i s dependent on development partners' assessment o f progress made in
implementingreforms.

82.   The fourth risk i s that weak administrative and coordination capacity o f the Government could lead
to delays in implementing key measures. The single-tranche design o f the proposed Grant i s expected to
address this risk by avoiding rigidities o f floating tranches with legally binding conditions, and allowing
flexibility to adapt the future operations to unforeseen events and changing environments. Inaddition, the
capacity i s being reinforcedby this and other IDA-financed operations.

                                                       23




                           Box 1: Evolution of Forestry Sector Reforms, 2001-2005
    The Democratic Republic o f Congo's rainforest covers estimated 85 million hectares, the second largest in
the world, In2001, 45 million hectares were heldunder logging contracts allocated without local consultations
or considering possible alternatives such as conservation or community-based management. Such contracts
yielded little benefit to the rural communities or to the population at large. The price o f holding an average
200,000 hectare concession was extremely low (286 dollars per year), which created an incentive for large-scale
speculation. Although actual timber production was at a standstill due to war and poor infrastructure, numerous
requests for more logging contracts kept flowing to the Ministry o f Environment. The resulting distortion set the
stage for unsustainable logging.
    In2002, the new forestry code introduced the principles of sustainable management, community forests,
and local consultations. It also provided for an expansion o fprotected areas. At the same time, the Government
repossessedabout 25 million hectares o f contracts which didnot comply with the basic obligations, and issued a
moratorium on new contracts pending the adoption o f a transparent allocation system. All remaining contracts
(about 20 millions hectares) were to be converted into the new legal category called "concessions forestidres"
following a thorough legal review. In 2003, the Government also increased the annual area fee with the
intension o f discouraging speculative contractors. However, the reform strategy started to be undermined in
2003 by interest groups who tried to take advantage of the fragile equilibrium o f the coalition government.
Reportedly, 6 million hectares o f contracts were exchanged, and 2.4 million hectares cancelled in 2002 were
reinstated. The rules for the legal review were altered several times in successive ministerial decrees (July and
November 2004, and June 2005) and the review itselfdidnot start.
     The proposed operation supports the Government's reform strategy to protect forestry resources from rent-
seeking interests and discretionary decisions o f any one minister. A presidential decree published on October
24, 2005 sets the procedures and criteria for the legal review, as well as extends the moratorium on new
allocations until the legal review is completed and a 3-year rolling plan for future concessions i s adopted. The
legal review, conducted by an inter-ministerial committee including civil society and private sector, will assess
all contracts which were not cancelled in2002 plus all areas reportedly allocated, exchanged, or reinstated since
2003. Contracts found in compliance with their obligations and with the moratorium will be converted to the
abovementioned new legal category (concessions forestiires), and the rest will be cancelled. The revie&
process is to last 12 months, divided inthree steps: (i)   submission o f supporting documents by contract holders;
(ii)technical verifications; and (iii)   assessment by the inter-ministerial committee. Progress reports will be
disclosed at several stages, the first one three months after the process begins. The concessions found valid will
be requiredto provide social services agreed withthe local communities ("cahier des charges sociales") and tc
prepare a sustainable management plan. An independent expert (legal advisor) will provide technical and legal
assistance to the inter-ministerial committee.        She will report on the conformity o f the works with the
procedures, and her/his    report will be made public.         The completion o f the legal review, including the
cancellation o f invalid contracts, is a progress indicator o f the proposed Grant.
     The government has also committed to tackle the problem o f illegal logging. An independent observe1
(technical assistance) will be recruited to help the Government strengthen the capacity to enforce forestry law:
on the ground and to report on compliance with procedures. The observer will help clarify procedures, assist the
officials in using geo-positioning technologies, and set up a case tracking system.         She will also ensure
dissemination o f information on findings and penalties, and involve local civil society in monitoring thc
compliance to laws. The mandate o f the independentobserver should ideally be entrusted to a specialized NGC
working in partnership with local civil society.        Experience from other Congo Basin countries shows the
importance o f such an instrument to improve transparency to ensure that reforms adopted on paper are no
undermined by lack o f law enforcement capacity on the ground. This instrument also aims to provide gooc
investment climate for responsible companies.

                                                      24


                                                                                                  Annex 1
                                  LETTER DEVELOPMENT
                                            OF                   POLICY

                                 (Translatedfrom the French Original)




DemocraticRepublic of Congo



                                                                             Kinshasa, November 7,2005



Subject: EconomicRecoveryGrant

        Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy


I. INTRODUCTION

1.      The Democratic Republic o f Congo (DRC) i s endowed with rich human and natural resources.
However, poor political and economic management since independence in 1960 led to negative economic
growth and increasing poverty.      The accumulation o f multilateral and bilateral debt arrears caused
Congo's development partners and creditors to suspend support inthe early 1990s, with dire consequences
for the Congolese people.

2.      From 1997 to 2003, armed conflicts involving several rebel movements and armies from seven
African states resultedin further deterioration o f the economy and a breakup inthe national territory. The
economic, social, political, and environmental costs o f the conflict were very high: more than 3 million
people died, and basic social and economic infrastructures were destroyed. Furthermore, there i s a risk
that the conflict will spread to other countries in the sub-region. Despite its abundant resources, Congo
had become one o f the poorest countries inthe world at the end o f the millennium.

3.      Following the changes in the political leadership, a new Government was formed during the first
quarter o f 2001. Its immediate priorities were to restore peace, jump-start the economy, reduce poverty,
and renew the country's relationships with its external creditors.



To Mr.Paul Wolfowitz
        President o f the World Bank Group
        Washington, DC, 20433 U S A

                                                      25


4.       The new Government has enjoyed strong support from the international community, including the
World Bank (more precisely the InternationalDevelopment Association, IDA), the International Monetary
Fund, the African Development Bank, the European Union, and several bilateral partners. Bridge loans
were used to settle debt arrears owed to multilateral and bilateral creditors.

5.       On the political front, the Government's efforts to consolidate the peace process and the inter-
Congolese dialogue, which took place in Lusaka and Sun City, had a positive and encouraging impact.
An inclusive transitional government representing all factions took office on June 30, 2003. Political and
civil institutions for transitionwere established, and the country was reunified.

6.       Moreover, DRC's debt to the Paris Club creditors was reduced on Naples terms for the period
covering July 2003 to June 2005 under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. The
Government has requestedan extension o f the period covered to July 31,2006. The country also received
World Bank support, including a SDR 360.4 million economic recovery credit (budget support) in 2002,
and a SDR 358.8 million credit in support o f an Emergency Multi-Sector Rehabilitation and
ReconstructionProgram (EMRRP). The World Bank's active portfolio inDRC i s detailed inBox 1.

7.       To make its poverty reduction efforts more effective, the Government i s preparing a full Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that reflects its commitment to sustainable, balanced, and equitable
development ineach o f its 11provinces. The PRSP takes into account the millennium development goals.

8.       Achieving these objectives i s a major challenge, which requires several years of support
from the international community. In this context, the Government requests a grant of at least
US$90 million to assist the country's economic recovery. The grant will help finance economic and
structural reforms in the Government's economic program for 2005 and 2006. The program
focuses on reforms which will restore macro-economic stability, promote sustainable growth, and
help DRC achieve its HIPC completion point.

                                              26



              Box 1: Programs and Proiects Financed bv the World Bank

Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program (EMRRP):                        The
objective o f this US$1.7 billion program (of which U S 4 5 4 million financed by the World Bank),
i s to support DRC's poverty reduction efforts through: (i)       rebuilding and rehabilitating vital
infrastructures, (ii)
                    revitalizing agriculturalproduction and ensuring food security, (iii) developing
the capacity needed to formulate, implement, and manage long-term development programs, and
(iv) reestablishing essential social services and social cohesion among the localpopulation.
Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project (PSDC): The objective o f this
US120 million project is to strengthen the competitiveness o f enterprises in key sectors
(extractive industries, transportation, energy, telecommunications, and financial sectors) and to
increase their contribution to economic growth. The project finances financial, legal, andjudicial
reforms aimed at increasing private investment inthe productive sectors o f the economy.
Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project (EESRSP): This US$214
millions program, which took effect in November 2003, helps the Government implement its
economic and social reunification programs.         Specific objectives are: (i)to help people in
reunified provinces cope with social and economic crises, (ii) prepare for economic reforms in
                                                                  to
the northern and eastern provinces, and (iii) help reunified provinces benefit from the return o f
                                               to
peace. The program has five components: (i)       balance o f payments support, (ii)strengthening o f
institutional capacity, (iii) rehabilitation o f rural infrastructures, (iv) rehabilitation o f urban
services, and (v) support for community-level activities.
Southern Africa Power Market Project (SAPMP): This US191.62 million project aims at
building a sub-regional power network that includes Inga, the Southern Africa electricity pool
networks, the Luano post inZambia, and Kasumbalesa.
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (MDRP): The objective o f this US$200
million project (of which US$lOO financed by the World Bank) i s to assist in consolidating the
peace and creating political stability through national reconciliation, social and economic
reconstruction as well as disarmament, demobilization and reintegration o f former soldiers into
communities.
Multi-sector HIV/AIDS Program (MAP): The objective o f this US$102 million project i s to
mitigate the negative impact o f the HN/AIDS pandemics on DRC's development.                 Specific
objectives include: (i)reducing risks o f sexual, blood, and vertical transmission o f HIV, (ii)
improving the health and quality o f life o f people living with the virus, and (iii)  mitigating the
socio-economic impact o f the pandemics on vulnerable populations.
Emergency Social Action Project (ESAP): This US$60 million project helps improve access by
the poor to social services and community management o f development resources. The project
has four components: (i)    social infrastructures, (ii)strengthening the capacity to implement and
manage micro-projects, (iii)merit-based stipends for best students, and (iv) promoting
coordination o f national and provincial projects.
Emergency Standards of Living Improvement Project (ESLIP): The objectives o f this US$82
million project are:   (i)to support urbancenters byresumingandimproving accessto basic
services, (ii) to improve socio-economic conditions and to help economic recovery through
priority investments, (iii)to help re-connect isolated landlocked areas with the rest of the country,
and (iv) strengthening provincial institutions through basic training, acquisition o f material, and
minimumrehabilitationo foffices.
Health Sector Rehabilitation Project (PARSS): The objective o f this US$l50 million project i s
to improve accessibility and utilization o f basic health services, as well as to strengthen the
capacity o f the Ministryo f Health.

                                                    27


9.      This memorandum describes the Government's development policy as an integral part o f the
PRSP. Itcovers the following subjects:


    0   Macro-economic framework;
    0   Preparation of the poverty reduction strategy;
    0   Restoringpeace and improving governance; and
    0   Economic and structural reforms.

11.     Macroeconomic framework

11.1. Evolution of macroeconomic conditionsfrom2002 to 2004

10.     Accelerating growth and reducingpoverty are major challenges. Indeed, it would take 40 years to
return to the 1990 level of per capita GDP, at an annual GDP growth rate of 5.3% and population growth
of 3%; it would take 60 years to reach the 1960 level. In order to achieve this goal, it i s necessary to
maintain high growth rates over several decades, budget adapted to pro-poor needs, and courageous
economic and structural reforms.

11.     Against this background, the Government decided in 2001 to renew its partnership with the
international financial community to implement a reform program (Programme intdrimaire renforce`, or
PIR), which was succeeded by a 3-year (2002-2005) program called "the Government's economic
program (PEG)." The PEG was supported by the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility. This
program received support from the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Union, as
well as other bilateral andmultilateralpartners.

12.     The results of PIR and PEG were impressive: after GDP fell by 5.5% and inflation soared to
511% in 2000, the economy grew at 3.5% in 2002, 5.7% in 2003, and 6.8% in 2004. At the same time,
inflationfell to 135.1% in2001, 15.8% in2002,4.4% in2003, and 9.2% in2004.

13.     Fiscal revenues (excluding grants) rose from 7.9% o f GDP in 2002, to 9.6% of GDP in 2004.
Expenditures increased from 10.3% of GDP in 2002, to 15.4% o f GDP in 2004. The budget deficit
decreased to manageable levels: the primary balance (cash basis) remainedbelow -1% of GDP between
2002 and 2004. Gross investments increased from 9.0% o f GDP in2002 to 12.8% of GDP in2004.

14.     As for the external sector, the Paris Club provided 90% debt reduction in July 2003, when DRC
reached the HIPC decision point. Consequently, the debt service dropped from 29% of fiscal revenues in
2003 to 15% in2004. Officialreserves increased from 2.6 weeks o fnon aid-related exports in2002 to 4.8
weeks in 2004. By contrast, the current account deficit (including grants, before debt relief) deepened
from 0% o f GDP in2002 to 5.5% of GDP in2004.

11.2.   Macroeconomic objectives for 2005-2006

15.     Macroeconomic objectives for the 2005-2006 period are: (i)   accelerating economic growth inreal
terms from 6.6% in2005 and 7.0% in2006; (ii)    reducing inflationfrom 22.6% in2005 to 6% in2005; and
(iii)holdingthe current account deficit at 5.1% o f GDP in2005 and 7.9% in2006.

16.     The Government intends to achieve the macroeconomic objectives by implementing structural
reforms, reunifying the country, and benefiting from the peace dividend. These measures would allow a
reallocation of public expenditures to pro-poor spending. Revenues should reach 10.7% of GDP in 2005,
and 11.5% in 2006. Expenditures should increase from 15.4% of GDP in 2004 to 22.5% in 2005,
primarily due to exceptional spending for politicaltransition and economic restructuring, such as the DDR

                                                      28


program and the elections (4.6% of GDP) as well as public investment (6.9% o f GDP). Current and
capital expenditures are expected to increase slightly in 2006 due to an acceleration of investment
financed through HIPC resources and external financial support from various sources (World Bank,
AfDB, EU, etc.).

17.     With the return of peace, expenditures for poverty reduction are likely to increase considerably,
thanks to external assistance and the HIPC resources. Pro-poor expenditure should reach 7% of GDP in
2005, of which 1.7% would be financed through the national budget, 3.7% from external financing, and
1.6% from budgetary savings from the enhanced HIPC initiative. At the same time, expenditures for
military, security, and institutions will be brought under control.

111.     Poverty ReductionStrategy

18.      An interimpoverty reduction strategy paper (I-PRSP) was prepared and adopted inJune 2002. Its
satisfactory implementation enabled DRC to reach the HIPC decision point in July 2003.                   The
Government aims to finalize the preparation and adoption of a participatory full PRSP before the end of
2005. The four pillars of the strategy are: (i)   rebuilding the state by consolidating the peace, pursuing
democracy, and decentralizing the administrative and judicial structure; (ii)     improving governance to
maintain macroeconomic stability and sustain economic growth through decentralization, harmonization
of economic programs, sustained economic and structural reforms, and public-private sector partnership;
(iii)rebuildingkey sectors of the economy (agriculture, education, health, transportation, mining,forestry
and energy) and revitalizingthe private sector; and (iv) supporting the community activities and protection
o f vulnerable groups.

19.      In 2004, the Government launched the multi-sector HIV/AIDS program, with the support of
several technical and financial partners, including a US$102 million contribution from the World Bank.
The objective of this countrywide program is to combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic to foster DRC's
development.

1.       Progress achievedfrom 2002 to June 2005

20.      Key steps taken inthe PRSPpreparationsince 2002 are:

                 Creation of a statistical database based on the national poverty survey results, piloted in
                 2002;
                 Preparation of a time-bound action plan, adopted in June 2003 by the Government,
                 following discussions with all national and international stakeholders;
                 (i) Consutltations with sectoral and thematic groups inOctober 2004 and incorporation of
                 results in December 2004, and (ii)     consultations with grass-roots communities in 2004
                 and 2005. Incorporation of results from territories (territoires) in December 2004 and
                 those from provinces inMarch 2005;
                 Incorporationof comments from sectoral ministries inFebruary 2005;
                 Organization and execution o f 1-2-3 survey (household consumption, employment, and
                 informal sector survey) inprovinces inApril 2005;
                 Provincial poverty assessment following participatory consultations on the perception of
                 poverty in2005;
                 Incorporationo f the consultationresults to the national PRSP inJune 2005; and
                 Presentation o f the first draft of the full PRSP in July 2005, before integrating results of
                 the 1-2-3 survey andprovincial PRSPs.

                                                      29


2.      Actions to be takenfrom July to December 2005

21.     The PRSP will be submitted for approval to the external partners by the end o f 2005. The
following activities will take place before the end o f the year:

        a)       Analyzing the 1-2-3 survey results;
        b)       Preparing the 2006-2015 macroeconomic framework, with interim revisable 3-year
                 objectives;
        c)       Integratingprovincial PRSPs and sectoral strategies into the second draft o fthe PRSP;
        d)       Incorporatingthe 1-2-3 survey results into the second version o f the PRSP, to be finalized
                 inNovember 2005;
        e)       Distributingthe second draft to partners (civil society, NGOs, sector ministries, private
                 sector, and the academia) for comments, followed by the preparation o f the final PRSP in
                 November 2005;
        f)       Presenting the draft full PRSP to the Government inDecember 2005;
        g)       Adoption by the Government o f the full PRSP, and transmission o f the final PRSP to the
                 World Bank and the IMFinDecember 2005.

IV.     Economic andstructuralreforms

IV.l. Peaceand Governance

22.     Inthe interimPRSP, the Government stresses the importanceofmaintainingpeace andimproving
governance as prerequisites for restoring sustainable economic growth and reducing poverty. Inthe full
PRSP, the Government intends to consolidate peace and enhance economic and political governance in
order to sustain macroeconomic stability and growth.

IV.l.l. Promotingpeace

23.     Objective. The key objective is to consolidate peace through disarmament, demobilization, and
reintegration(DDR) o f former soldiers.

1.      Achievements

24.     The Government defined the institutional arrangement needed for DDR in consultation with its
development partners, and created the national disarmament, demobilization and reintegrationcommission
(Commission nationale de ddsarmement, demobilisation et re'insertion, the CONADER). It also prepared
a national disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration program (PNDDR), financed through an IDA
credit and a grant from the multi-country demobilization and reintegration program (MDW), which aims
to contribute to consolidation o f peace, national reconciliation, and socio-economic reconstruction o f the
country, as well as to political stability inthe region. The program has three components: (i)publicizing
the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration program to the former soldiers, who signed the
Lusaka agreement (estimated to be between 90,000 and 150,000 soldiers); (ii)         disarmament; and (iii)
demobilization o f ex-soldiers.

25.     Disarmament and reintegration o f ex-soldiers into communities began in September 2004 inIturi,
before expanding to the national level. Twenty orientation centers are currently being opened. At the end
of June 2005, 18,893 adult soldiers were demobilized, including 14,000 in Ituri. Nation-wide, 16,263
child soldiers were demobilized. Reintegrationhas started, and will last until 2007.

                                                          30


2.       Actions to be taken before the end of 2006

26.      Before the end of 2006, the Government should: (i) the demobilization phase for 150,000
                                                                   finalize
former soldiers; (ii)   strengthen coordination with the military; (iii)     enhance awareness with respect to
demobilization, integration, and other aspects of the MDRP; (iv) disseminate information to government
agencies and development partners; (v) reclassify 16 and 17 year old child soldiers to adult soldiers; and
(vi) pursuelabor intensiveprojects.

27.      The CONADER, on behalf of the DRC, signed an agreement with the German development
agency (KFW) for 14.43 million to finance a reintegration program under the MDRP. The program
helps not only ex-soldiers but also refugees and war-displaced people. Its three key components are labor-
intensive infrastructure rehabilitation, assistance to female victims o f violence, and revitalization of the
local economy. The programwill be implementedby national and internationalNGOs.

IV.1.2. Governance

28.      Objective. The Government is determinedto fight corruption, which takes aheavy toll on several
sectors of the economy. It will improve management of public finances at the central level, and finalize
institutional, civil service, judicial, and territorial (decentralization) reforms.

IV.1.2.1. Fightagainst corruption

1.       Achievements

29.      DRC adopted a new law inAugust 2004 to fight money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Moreover, an anti-corruption law, promulgated inMarch 2005, made major changes in the criminal code,
including:

         a)       Distinction between small-scale and large-scale corruption, with the latter covering: (i)
                  procurement of goods and services, allocation o f mining and forestry titles, privatization
                  or retrenchment of government from public enterprises; (ii)      corruption that aims to thwart
                  administration of justice; (iii)corruption committed in the framework of criminal
                  organization; and (iv) illegal enrichment o f public servants or any other person, and
                  accumulationof personal wealth disproportionate to their legitimate income, etc.;
         b)       Corruption charges cover civil servants as well as private individuals;
         c)       Confirmation of judiciary powers of the ethics and anti-corruption commission            in the
                  prevention, detection, and prosecutionof corruption and similar crimes;
         d)       Protecting whistle blowers (witnesses, experts, victims, and their families) from
                  retaliation and intimidation, and waving penal proceedings when proper judicial
                  procedures are followed;
         e)       Introducing measures in support o f internationaljudicial cooperation and extradition with
                  respect to investigations, forfeiture of property, andjudicial proceedings against criminal
                  organizations; and
         f )      Increasingfinancial penalties.

30.      Sanctions were imposed for embezzlement on ministers and enterprise executives, following
audits by the auditing agency of certain enterprises in 2004. With respect to procurement reform, a
procurement reform commission (Commission de rdforme des marches public, COREMAP) was
established by a presidentialdecree inOctober 2004, and became operational inthe first half of 2005.

                                                     31


31.      Following its adoption by the Government and the National Assembly in August 2004, a law
modifying and supplementing Book I1o f the Congolese Criminal Code was enactedby the head o f state in
August 2004.     The law integrates pertinent provisions from the United Nations convention against
corruption, and the Afi-icanUnion convention on preventing and combating corruption.

2.       Actions to be taken

32.      Before the end o f 2006, the Government intends to: (i) organize a public awareness campaign on
the anti-corruption law and the code o f ethics for the civil service; (ii)  continue auditing the public
enterprises and financial institutions in Kinshasa, and later, in other provinces, (iii)speed-up judicial
system reforms; (iv) ensure timely implementation o f procurement reforms; (v) establish a financial
investigation unit to fight money laundering; (vi) combat cross-border fraud using streamlined procedures
and tighter controls to discourage underreporting; and (vii) enhance transparency in the forestry and
miningsectors.

33.      International consulting firms are being recruited for: (i)
                                                                   drafting the new procurement code, and
(ii)assessingprofessional capacity ofthissector. Inthemeantime, existingprocurementruleswere
updated, and the threshold values which trigger international competitive biddingwere set.

IV.1.2.2. Publicfinance reforms

34.      Objective. The Government plans to: (i)    improve revenue mobilization capacity by modernizing
fiscal instruments and financial administration, (ii)  manage public finances better by strengthening the
expenditure circuit, and (iii)increase transparency and traceability o f transactions by introducing a
double-entry accounting system.

1.       Achievements

35.      To improve its revenue mobilization capacity, the following actions were taken: the customs
reform law was promulgated in July 2004; a customs code was adopted by parliament in June 2005; a
draft law to correct distortions inthe tariff law was submitted to the Parliament inApril 2005; the general
tax directorate was modernized through better tax collection procedures and opening the first small and
medium enterprise tax center. The law on non-tax revenue nomenclature was promulgated in July 2004,
and modified in March 2005 to integrate revenues collected previously by entities (budgets pour ordre)
that no longer exist. The Government has also reduced fiscal exemptions to strictly those allowed by the
various legal codes.

36.      On the expenditure side, the Government focused on improving budget management. To control
expendituresbetter, the Government continuedto strengthen the expenditure circuit: Electronic transfer
o f information between the Central Bank and Treasury became operational in April 2005. Payroll, public
debts, and expenditures using external resources have been integrated into the expenditure circuit since
April 2005. Following the adoption o f a bill regulating the opening o f and transaction on accounts
belonging to the State in commercial banks, such accounts that do not meet the Ministry o f Finance
criteria are being closed.     The instructions on how to use the advance funds mechanism (mise a
disposition) were issued to relevant public entities. Finally, measures were taken to ensure publication o f
budget execution reports (e'tat de suivi budge'taire), within 30 days after the end o f the month, by
administration, function and nature o f expenditure.     To date, the reports until June 2005 have been
produced.

37.      Since June 2005, the Ministry o f Budget has communicated to all line ministries the monthly
commitment plan for each budget line. Only expenditures approved by the Ministries o f Budget and

                                                         32


Finance are executed by the Central Bank o f Congo (BCC). At least 95 percent o f all expenditures are
processed through electronic payment orders (OPIs).           In addition, the BCC executes all transactions
undertaken on behalf o f the Government within 48 hours o f receiving the OPI, and all amounts debited
from, or credited to the treasury account at the BCC are reported to the Ministries o f Finance and Budget
within 48 hours o f transaction. Since July 2005, the BCC has reported the balances of government
accounts to the treasury at the end o f eachbusiness day.

38.     Work to introduce on a new chart o f accounts with a double-entry system started in 2004. The
simplified version o f double-entry accounting framework was adopted at the treasury directorate o f the
Ministry of Finance. Training took place in April-May 2005, on the double-entry accounting system
targeting the staff o f the directorates o f treasury, accounting, and book-keeping (Direction de la Reddition
des Comptes), as well as tax agencies andthe Central Bank.

39.     Accounting software supporting treasury operations i s being developed. The treasury directorate
i s being reorganized to reflect the creation o f a central accounting division at the treasury.       Public
accounting procedure manuals were prepared for expenditures, revenues and internal controls in the
treasury directorate and the tax agencies.

40.     With respect to centralized payments, the Government i s implementing an action plan to
streamline the system. The principle i s to decentralize completely the management o f utility expenditures.
In 2005, the ceiling for fuel expenditures was set at CGF 700 million per month. The list of entities
eligible for publicly financed water and electricity i s expected at the end o f the inventory exercise
underway. In addition, lump-sumpayments were negotiated with SNEL and REGIDESO for electricity
and water bills between January and June 2005, until the billing o f actual consumption i s made possible
bythe installationo fmeters inall ministries.

41.     The public debt management office (Ofice de gestion de la dette publique, OGEDEP) selected
DMFAS, developed by UNCTAD, as its external debt management software. The software (DMFAS)
was installed, and training i s underway in modules. Using the new system, OGEDEP will be able to
produce reliable public debt data, and analyze the debt sustainability on an ongoing basis. The World
Bank and the A h c a n Development Bank co-finance this debt management capacity reinforcement
program.

2.      Actions to be taken

42.     While waiting for a new integrated financial and administrative civil service management system
(SIG), the Government will implement by January 2006 a simplified transitional system (PTS) to
manage the civil servant roster and the payroll.

43.     The Government will also integrate all paymasters into the Treasury and ensure that payroll lists
provided to paymasters and to ministries of civil service and budget are properly checked.

44.     The Government launched in 2005 censuses o f civil service and o f military personnel to improve
control of the wage bills. The civil service retirement program will begin in the last quarter o f 2005,
which, in the first phase, would pay the unpaid allowances to already retired civil servants. The program
will be continued in2006, coveringthe eligible civil servants identified duringthe census.

45.     While the DDRprogram i s being completed and the armies are being integrated, the Government
intends to establish an independent monitoring commission with the support o f the external partners to
ensure that all military personnel, police forces, and civil servants receive their salaries and other benefits
regularly.

                                                      33



46.      Tax and customs administration reforms will continue in 2005 and 2006. T o facilitate and speed
up customs clearance, a presidential decree will designate the office o f customs and execise (Ofjce de
douanes et accises, OFIDA) as the sole agency responsible for the "one stop window" for customs
clearance and for valuation o f goods. OFIDA will collect all duties on behalf o f the Ofice congolais de
contr6le (OCC, Congo's legal metrology agency), the Ofice de gestion des f2ts maritimes (Maritime
freight administration - OGEFREM), and the Ofice national des transports (National transportation
Agency - ONATRA). A harmonized procedures manual will be applied starting October 2005. OCC's
role will be limited strictly to controlling the quality, quantity, and conformity o f goods in accordance
with the law (Law No. 74-013, datedJanuary 10, 1974).

47.      OFIDA will be converted to a general directorate under the Ministry o f Finance, following
adoption o f the public enterprise transformation law. To control cross-boarder fraud and corruption, the
Government i s considering using a private customs declaration company. Tax control will also improve
when a single tax number i s brought into general use.

48.      Budget execution and transparency in managing public finances will improve when measures
included inthe PEGare implemented. Monthly budget expectation reports will be produced 30 days after
the end o f the month. Recourse to the advance funds mechanism (MAD) will be limited to only the cases
allowed by law. N e w advance funds will be released only after the Ministry o f Budget has received the
documentsjustifying the use o f previous advances.

49.      The monitoring system for pro-poor spending will be fine-tuned, notably through participatory
monitoring and evaluationby a consultative committee.

50.      The Government intends to gradually extend to the rest o f the country all measures taken to
improve the expenditure sub-system, including rationalized procedures, the new nomenclature and
classifications, organizational regulations, computer support and training, etc. A double-entry public
accounting system will become operational in2006.

51,      With respect to modernizingpublic debt management, DMFAS will be made operational, and will
cover all aspects o f the public debt. The new system will enable: (a) monthly projections for debt service,
which take into account recent disbursements as well as debt service execution data, and (b) centralization
o f debt information into a single center.     Furthermore, the monthly debt service projections will be
published in advance on a quarterly basis. OGEDEP i s considering introducing internal public debt data
into the DMFAS system.

IV.1.2.3. Publicadministrationreform

52.      Objective. The Government is aware that a complete overhaul o f public administration is
necessary to improve its quality and capacity to provide quality basic services (health, education, etc.).
The Government's strategy i s to:   (1)redefine the mandates o f key ministries and service providers, and (ii)
improve the quality and the productivity o f personnel. Priority actions for the next two years will aim at:

    (i)      undertalung full diagnostic studies o f key ministries (mandate, operation, organization, etc.);
    (ii)     conducting studies o f service delivery systems, particularly at the local level in health,
             education andjustice;
    (iii)    conducting an exhaustive census o f all civil servants;
    (iv)     facilitating the retirement of civil servants meeting age and length o f service criteria using
             financial support received from the World Bank.

                                                        34


1.       Achievements

53.      An inter-ministerial steering committee for public administration reform (CITRAP) and a
technical committee for public administration reform (CTPRAP) were established in March 2003 to
manage the reforms and assist in the preparation and implementation o f activities.                International
development partners, including Belgium, France, South Africa, the European Union, UNDP, and the
World Bank support the civil service reforms.

54.      Diagnostic studies of key ministries. A consulting firm conducted institutional diagnostic studies
o f the Ministry o f Public Service in September 2002 as a pilot for the reforms, followed by studies o f the
Ministries o f Finance, Budget, Planning, and Agriculture, as well as o f tax agencies. The studies included
a review o f mandates, organization, and statutes o f the institutions. Diagnostic studies will be done o f
remaining public agencies in2005 and 2006.

55.      Census. After the collapse o f the administrative management information system, preparation o f
a full-fledged civil servant census began in 2002 to clean the payroll and civil service rosters. The
activities includedremoving fictitious civil servants from the payroll and personnel roster, determining the
exact number o f the civil servants as well as their postings and salaries. Priority i s given to collecting
reliable information needed for modem human resources management. Moreover, new procedures to
securitize the salary payment system were established, and software was developed to store and secure the
information collected through the census.

56.      The public administration reform technical committee (CTRAP) and the Ministry o f Public
Service adopted the terms o f reference for the census inJuly 2003. The census started in early 2005 with
support from the Republic o f South Africa. Its first phase was limitedto Kinshasa. The census i s currently
conducted intwo additional provinces, and will be extended to the rest o f the country in2006.

57.      The Ministry o f Public Service i s revising the active payroll file as census data become available.
The file will be used to pay the salaries o f all civil servants and others on the government payroll. Given
the importance o f establishing better control over the number o f civil servants, the Government i s
committed to mobilize the supplementary resources necessary to complete the civil service census
throughout the country, and to apply the results to the payroll as early as 2006 supplementary budget.

58.      Civil service retirement program. The program aims at: (i)           restoring and enforcing normal
public service management rules and regulations, (ii)     allowing eligible civil servants to retire, (iii)
                                                                                                         paying
retirees the benefits to which they are entitled, and (iv) revitalizing the public administration by
rejuvenatingthe civil service.

59.      The World Bank has been supporting the Ministry o f Public Administration since early 2003 to
identify a technically and financially viable retirement strategy, and to create the required database. A
retirement strategy and methodology was prepared in 2004 and adopted in 2005. It forms the basis o f
World Bank support for financing retirement of staff who reached the legal age by December 31, 2004.
The strategy envisages the retirement to take place in two groups. The exact number o f civil servants
eligible for the retirement program remains unknown. The current estimate i s about 100,000 for the whole
country, including those who have already retired but had not received their retirement benefits. The
identificationphase of the first group of retirees was completed, and 5,744 civil servants were found to be
eligible countrywide.

60.      Review of public service delivery. In the context o f the state reform, the Government, in
cooperation with the World Bank, analyzed service delivery at the local level in two key sectors:
education and health. Several surveys o f public and private service providers were conducted, inorder to

                                                        35


analyze their operations, financing, and constraints. To complete this information, user surveys o f service
accessibility and quality were carried out. Information was also collected on how the administrative
structures supervising the service providers (deconcentrated and decentralized administration) functioned.
The collected information will serve as the basis for public service reforms.

2.      Actions to be taken

61,     The census results will serve as the basis for comprehensive public administration reforms. The
civil servant roster will be purged o f any fictitious staff usingthe census results. The clean file will be
used for the paying the salaries o f civil servants. An integrated financial and administrative civil service
management system (SIG) will be introducedto (i)       maintain and update the census data, (ii)harmonize the
PTS database with the census data, and (iii)     improve civil service management. The census will also be
usedto establish a list o f active staff eligible for the retirement program (the second group). The second
group o f retirees will start to receive the indemnities (and depart) towards the end o f 2005.

IV.1.2.4. Decentralization

62.     Objective.      Decentralization represents hope for the Congolese, a complex operation for the
administration, and an act o f courage for the Government. DRC's decentralization process aims at: (i)
helping people participate in the formulation of development policies which concern them; (ii)      releasing
the central government from local administration so that it can focus on broad policy formulation; (iii)
bridgingthe gap betweenthe administrator and the administered; and (iv) introducing greater flexibility in
the administration and developing a participatory culture among populations to foster the development o f
local governments (EADs).

1.      Achievements

63.     The political, administrative, and legal commission o f the National Assembly organized a
workshop on decentralization in September 2004 in partnership with the World Bank. The objective o f
the workshop was to strengthen institutional and human capacity needed to implement decentralization,
and to discuss its implications for revenues, expenditures, and the inter-provincial equalization fund. A
final report containing recommendations from the workshop was issued.

2.      Actions to be taken

64.     The Government intends to take following steps to achieve these objectives:

              establish a national decentralization commission by a presidential decree under the Ministry
              o f the Interior;
              give the local government status to:
              0    cities and communes inKinshasa province;
              0    provinces, cities, towns inother provinces;
              extend the experience o f former Kivu to give districts the provincial status, and district
              capitals the city status;
              give the city status to all towns with 100,000 inhabitants or more;
              give the status o f local government to all towns with 15,000 inhabitants or more;
              formalize all horizontal and vertical coordination mechanisms and organize meetings o f local
              governments under the sponsorship o f a higher level government;
              ensure that the local governments receive appropriate resources, as intended by the law, to
              carry out the tasks transferred to them;
              ensure that the local governments are staffed appropriately to carry out their tasks;

                                                        36


             specialize taxes by type o f local government to make citizens aware o f the linkages between
             their contributions and services rendered;
             establish an equalization fund to reduce economic and social imbalances among different
             localities.

65.     A draft decentralization law preparedwith the support o f IMF and the WorldBank was submitted
to the National Assembly. For 2005, the Government opted to keep the current principle o f retrocession to
ensure fiscal balance in the provinces.         Needs for technical assistance and priorities to strengthen
administrative capacities at the provincial level will be identified during2005. Moreover, the transitional
government intends to strengthen the organization and administration o f the provinces to enhance their
contribution to stability and peace, and to improve provincial participation inpublic management and the
development o f public services.

66.     The objectives o f reforming territorial organization and administration are: (a) establishing
democracy in public management; (b) bridging the gap between decision-makers and the population,
service providers and service beneficiaries; (c) imposing greater accountability on public office holders,
whether elected or designated; and (d) enhancing transparency in public and private affairs. These basic
principles constitute the pillars o f government's decentralization strategy.

67.     As was proposedinJune 2003 by the inter-ministerialteam, Government intends, inter alia, to (a)
conduct a study on the administrative and financial situation o f local governments, (b) prepare economic
and financial reports on lower level governments, (c) launch detailed analysis o f the local government tax
base, (d) prepare written directives for local management, (e) formulate a training program for local civil
servants, and (0consult the public on the mandate and prerogatives o f local governments.

IV.1.2.5.Justice system

68.     Objective. Government intends to rehabilitate the justice system, first by publishing the final
version o f the action plan to rehabilitate justice system before December 2005.

1.      Achievements

69.     An organizational study o fthejudiciary system and thejustice framework inDRC was conducted
in 2004 with the support of the European Union, UNDP, MONUC, World Bank, Belgium, France, and
United Kingdom. A national workshop validated the study in November 2004. Also inNovember 2004,
a joint committee to monitor the justice framework was created and its terms o f reference were approved
in July 2005. The joint committee includes representatives from the Ministry o f Justice, and o f the
development partners.

2.      Actions to be taken

70.     Between now and December 2005, the Government intends to take the following actions: (i)
implement priority actions injustice andjudiciary sector; (ii)    establish commercial courts inKinshasa and
Lubumbashi; (iii)    sign the decree launching officially the joint committee to monitor justice framework,
and (iv) create the committee secretariat.

IV.2. Financial sector

71.     Objectives. The reform objective for this sector i s to revitalize financial intermediation. There
are three components: (a) reform the legal and regulatory framework of the banking sector, (b) restructure
the Central Bank and improve its management, and (c) restructure commercial banks.

                                                     37


1.       Achievements

72.       The legal and regulatory framework was overhauled in 2002 through the adoption o f new laws
governing the Central Bank, banking, and saving and loans cooperatives. Audits o f commercial banks
were completed in 2003 with World Bank support. Based on their results, three public banks (BCCE,
NBKandBCA), andtwo privatebanks (BDCandFirstBankingCorporation) were liquidatedin2003 and
2004. Banks which the audits found viable signed formal agreements with the Central Bank in 2004 on
restructuring timetables and performance indicators. Furthermore, the Government i s exploring the option
of paying a voluntary departure package to the employees o f the liquidatedbanks.

2.       Actions to be taken

73.       The supervision o f financial and micro-finance institutions will be strengthened to mitigate the
risks o f illiquidity and insolvency. The Central Bank will installnew bank supervision software before the
end of February 2006. The five banks which signed the agreement with the Central Bank will continue to
implement their restructuringplans. The taxation and regulatory framework for the banking sector will be
strengthened by new laws that the Government has submitted to the Parliament. The Central Bank o f
Congo will publish a directive abolishing corporate anonymity and proposing criteria for selecting bank
shareholders. Finally, the government i s preparing a legal framework for micro-finance institutions. A
new banking sector chart o f accounts will be prepared and made effective on January 1, 2006.
Independent liquidators were recruited for BCCE, BCA and NBK to proceed with the recovery o f claims
and settle the liabilities.

IV.3. Private sector development

74.       Objective. The objective i s to create a business-friendly environment to promote the growth o f
competitive enterprises capable o f generating employment. This will require: (i)          improvement in the
investment climate for national as well as foreign investors (legal and regulatory framework, business
taxation system); (ii)finalization o f the labor and trade codes; (iii)settlement o f internal debts to
enterprises; and (iv) reduction in commercial debt owed to the London Club members through a debt
buyback scheme. Furthermore, economic regulatory institutions and instruments need to be reinforced or
created.

1.       Achievements

75.       With respect to the legal framework, a major reform effort is underway, starting with the adoption
o f the new investment and labor codes in 2002. A new mining code and its application decrees were
published in 2002 and 2003, respectively.          A new forestry code was adopted in 2002, and its
implementation decrees were published between 2003 and 2004. As for telecommunications, the post,
telephones,     and telecommunications      regulatory agency       (ARPTC) was         created   and a new
telecommunications law was published in2003.

76.       As for judiciary framework, and particularly with respect to the two commercial courts that the
Government intends to establish, judges and court personnel were trained inRome inJanuary 2004. With
the support o f COPIREP, a second round o f training on OHADA law was held inKinshasa from January
to March 2005. Several categories o f staff were trained. Physical infrastructures are currently being
rehabilitated. To facilitate the resolution o f commercial litigation, a national arbitration center was created
by a ministerial decree in June 2003, and about 30 arbitrators registered in November 2004. Laws are
now published in a newly created official gazette. The Government also received inMarch 2005 a report
detailing the OHADA membership modalities.

                                                      38


77.      To facilitate administrative processing o f investments, an investment promotion agency (ANAPI)
was created in 2002.       To help improve the business environment, the Government and Parliament
approved DRC's membership to the African Trade Insurance Agency inFebruary 2005. The DRCpaid its
initial contribution to the agency's capital with the assistance of the World Bank.

78.      A review o fthe customand taxation systemwas undertakenwith assistance from the IMFand the
World Bank. A new customs tariff was published (with the objective o f correcting distortions due to
excessive domestic market protection). Major reforms on indirect taxation include allowing deductions to
the turnover tax to improve local industries' competitiveness in international markets, and preparing to
introduce a VAT in 2006. A turnover tax on exports was abolished in July 2004. A consultant i s being
recruitedto work on rationalizing direct and indirect business taxation.

79.      The Government's arrears to private creditors were audited in September 2003 by a consulting
firm recruited with the assistance o fthe World Bank. The audit coveredall claims through December 31,
2001. According to the audit, the total stock of debt i s US$1.27 billion, of which US$470 million i s
commercial debt. The Government recruited the Sterling Merchant Finance Bank Ltd. to negotiate the
settlement o f the commercial debt.          Creditors representing US$365 million participated in the
negotiations.   An average discount rate o f 75% was agreed, reducing the net present value o f the
commercial debt to US$96 million. A World Bank budgetary support amounting to US$42.5 million will
help pay the amount due in 2005. The reimbursement plans for 2006 and 2007 include amounts of
US$29.5 million, and US$24.7 million, respectively.

80.      With respect to labor regulations, the objective is to finalize the implementation decrees for the
labor code during 2005. However, attaining this objective will depend on when the tripartite (government,
trade unions, and employers) discussions on the content o f the decrees are concluded. The Government
will make every effort to ensure that the decrees do not hamper competitiveness andjob creation due to
excessive labor and employer protections. The national labor council reviewed some of the provisions
duringits April 2005 convention. Another session was organized to finalize the remainingprovisions.

81.      To support andrevitalize the private sector, the Government i s currently preparinga private sector
support project comprising: (1) technical assistance to private enterprises, (ii)
                                                                                improvement inthe business
environment, (iii)   access to financing, and (iv) dealing with social implications o f restructuring public
enterprises.

2.       Actions to be taken

82.      At the request o f the economic and financial commission, the Ministry o f Justice will provide an
opinion before the end o f December 2005 on the prerequisites for the Democratic Republic o f Congo to
adhere to OHADA, including: (i)agreement by the Council o f Ministers o f the DRC's OHADA
membership; (ii)a letter of intent notifying the OHADA secretariat of this agreement; and (iii)
consultation with the Supreme Court on potential conflict o f competencies between the Supreme Court
and the OHADA's arbitration and justice court regarding appeals for annulments against decisions by
Congolese courts and tribunals in matters covered by the OHADA law in accordance with the article 194
o f the Transitional Constitution.

83.      One-stop customs clearance window opened at the port o f Matadi in 2003 and Kasumbalesa in
2004. The one-stop window will be strengthened with the adoption, before the end o f 2005, of a decree
designating OFIDA as the sole agency responsible for computerized one-stop window and for customs
valuation o f goods.

                                                      39


IV.4. PUBLIC ENTERPRISES          REFORM

84.      Objective.    Aware of the need for public-private partnership for economic recovery, the
Government devised a reform strategy for public enterprises. The objectives o f the reform are: (a)
ensuring that public services are provided on a sustainable and commercial basis by using, as appropriate,
private firms invarious forms (partnership, concession, partial or total transfer o f shares), and (b) reducing
the quasi-fiscal costs arising from public enterprise mismanagement.

1.       Achievements

85.     Duringreformpreparation, the Government conducted audits inpublic enterprises. The President
then hosted a brainstorming workshop in 2001 on reforming the sector. In October 2002, a steering
committee on public enterprise reform (COPIREP)was set up to prepare and implement reforms, starting
with a diagnostic study finances and operations of all public enterprises. The committee will also issue
restructuringproposals.

86.      The results o f the functional and operational analyses and audits for some enterprises were
submitted to the Government in April 2004, and are now being used as working documents for sector
working groups led by COPIREP.

87.      As part o f restructuring the Congolese Posts and Telecommunications Authority (OCPT), staff
volunteering to resign received their departure benefits beginning in January 2005.            The process o f
liquidating NBK, BCCE and BCA, which was decided in March 2003, i s ongoing. The social cost o f
restructuring OCPT and liquidating three public banks i s funded by the private sector competitiveness and
development project o f the World Bank.

2.      Actions to be taken.

88.      The measures to be implementedare as follows:
    -    Establish the COPIREP technical committee, with the mandate o f designing, managing, and
         monitoring public enterprise reforms. The committee will be responsible for approving: (i)
         technical documents prepared by the executive secretariat o f COPIREP prior to submission to
    --   government, and (ii)   reform proposals prepared by the sectoral working groups;
         Make fully operational priority sector working and study groups;
         Prepare action plans for reforming key enterprises, including GECAMINES, RVA, SNCC, LAC,
    -    CITYTRAIN, OCPT, and SNEL.'
         Submit for the Parliament's adoption the revised legal and regulatory framework governing public
         enterprises.  The Government submitted four draft laws in February 2005 on (i)the State's
         disengagement from commercial activities, (ii)   the transformation o f public enterprises or public
         establishments, (iii)  the general provisions applicable to public enterprises, and (iv) the general
    -    provisions applicable to public establishments;
         Improve the institutional capacity for public enterprise management and supervision.

89.      PendingParliament's adoption and promulgation by the President o f the laws on modernization o f
the legal framework, a calendar o f actions was designed to prepare the reform strategies at sector and
enterprise levels. The Government will take measures to speed up Parliament's adoption o f the plans for
restructuring eight key public enterprises (RVA, OCC, GECAMINES, SNCC, LAC, CITYTRAIN,

    Preliminary environmental assessments of SNCC, CITYTRAIN, RVA, LAC, OCPT, and SNEL were
    conducted, whichfacilitatedpreliminarywork onrestructuring andreformingthese enterprises.

                                                     40


OCPT, and SNEL) by the end of 2005.            The restructuring plan for the oil distribution company
(COHYDRO) was finalized in July 2005 and its financial audit will be completed by end-2005. The
strategic audit of the Public Enterprises Council (Conseil Superieur du Portefeuille) was also completedin
July 2005.

90.     To improve the institutional capacity of public enterprise management and supervision, the
Government initiated an investigation of public enterprises. It published the conclusions of the
investigation and imposed sanctions on incriminated officials and some ministerial authorities inFebruary
2005, Furthermore, many public enterprise management committees were suspended.


IV.5. NATURAL       RESOURCES

91.     The overarching objective for the forestry and mining sectors are that these important sectors
contribute more to economic recovery, rural development, and poverty reduction, while preserving the
long-term sustainability o f the ecosystems and the environment. The specific reforms are gearedtowards:

  (i)     improving governance and transparency in managing forestry and mineral resources by
          adopting new legal and regulatory frameworks (miningand forestry codes) favorable to private
          investments inthese sectors and to equitable and sustainable economic growth;
  (ii)    making access to and benefits derived from forestry and mineral resources more equitable and
          transparent;
  (iii)    strengthening institutionalcapacity inthese two sectors to ensure compliance with the new legal
          and regulatory frameworks;
  (iv)    protecting the (land and other) rights of all stakeholders;
  (v)     rehabilitating rapidly the mineral production in an economically, environmentally, and socially
           sustainable way; and
  (vi)    reforming public miningcompanies and reducing the Stateparticipation inproduction.


IV.5.1. Forestry Sector

92.      Objective. The forestry sector reforms are part of its priority agenda to revive the sector in
accordance with the new forestry code. Its objectives are: (i) purge the heritage o f poor management
                                                                 to
and make the access to andbenefits derived from exploitation of forests more equitable, (ii)  to consolidate
the rights of forestry communities and improve their living conditions and (iii)   protect the environment.
The Government is aware that the forestry sector i s the key to poverty reduction, economic recovery,
consolidation of peace, and its international image and credibility. About 40 million Congolese, who are
among the poorest inthe country, depend on the forest for food, material, fuel, and medicine. Moreover,
Congo has the second largest tropical forest in the world, and therefore plays an important role in
preservingthe global environment. Revitalizing the forestry sector can improve the welfare o f the target
populationbut only ifreformpolicies are implementedjudiciously. Implementingthe priority agenda will
ensure that the forestry sector will contribute in a sustainable manner to equitable national economic
development through fiscal revenues andjob creation, to development o f disadvantaged rural areas, and to
environmentalprotection.

1.      Achievements

93.     In2002, the Democratic Republic of Congo adopted a new forestry code that replacedthe 1949
colonial forestry regulations.    The new code incorporates modern provisions advocating sustainable
forestry management, and civil society and local community participation. At the same time, it aims to
abolish the past practice of poor management o f the sector, which allowed discretionary allocation of

                                                      41


logging contracts (representing 45 million hectares out o f an area o f 60 million hectares) without local
consultations. These contracts brought few benefits to rural communities or to the State. Since 2002, the
Government cancelled 163 contracts that did not fulfill the basic contract obligations, resulting in the
return o f 25 million hectares o f land to the State. In 2002, the Government also issued a moratorium on
all new logging contracts, pending the adoption of new rules for allocating them in conformity with the
code.

94.     Inconformity with the new code, contractsnotterminated in2002 must undergo a legalreview to
verify their legality and compliance with the contract clauses with the aim o f converting them into a new
category known as "concessions".        A presidential decree was published on October 25, 2005 in the
Official Journal (Gazette) fixing the procedures and criteria o f the legal review. The decree creates an
inter-ministerial commission, which includes representatives from civil society and the private sector, and
which stipulates that the final decisions regardingcontracts must be validated by the Council o f Ministers.
It also stipulates that an independent internationallyknown observer (legal expert) mustparticipate inall
stages o f the review to check compliance with the procedures. It states clearly the criteria which would
trigger the cancellation of the old contracts and stipulates that the relevant information be available
publicly in various phases of the procedure. The converted "concessions" must prepare a sustainable
forestry development plan, including provision of social services in the area, to ensure its harmonious
coexistence with the local villages. On November 1, 2005, the official list o f existing titles was published
in a newspaper and was posted in all the governorates in order to initiate the legal review, and the
Ministries o f Environment and Finance instructed titleholders to submit applications for conversions
within three months. The Government has hired a legal expert in conformity with the abovementioned
decree, and will appoint the members o f the inter-ministerial commission shortly.

95.      The government also decided to extend and enforce the 2002 moratorium pending adoption of
regulations for tenders. The abovementioned presidential decree stipulates that the moratorium will not be
lifted until (1) the legal review of old contracts are completed and (2) a three-year geographical
distribution plan o f future concessions i s adopted. Old contracts which were reinstated, exchanged, or re-
located since M a y 2002, and are in violation o f the moratorium will be cancelled. Any appeals against
cancellations o f contracts in 2002 will be processed in a transparent manner as part o f the legal review.
Allocation of future concessions will be carried out in a participatory manner. The Government will
examine the real interest for the DRC in granting further concessions over the next three years, especially
considering infrastructure and institutional constraints.

96.      Government reviewed the logging sector in2003, and recommended simpler forestry taxes, lower
tax rates, and enhanced tax collection procedures. Proposed changes included reducing para-fiscal levies,
especially on transportation, while progressively increasing the area tax to discourage acquisition o f
contracts for speculative purposes. The proposed measures are included inthe inter-ministerial decree no.
010 (March 2004), issued by five ministries: environment, finance, transportation, industries, and
international trade. The decree i s already effective. The port transit fees charged by ONATRA have
fallen successively from US$16/ton in2003 to US$lO/ton in2004, to US$5/ton in2005, which i s a major
relief for enterprises contributing to economic recovery. The area tax i s being raised gradually from
US$0.06 per hectare in 2003 to US$O.lO in 2004, and US$0.20 in 2005. The rate will increase to US$
0.30 in2006 and US$0.50 in 2007. The area tax revenue collection status was published in July 2005 for
2003 and 2004: thirty-nine contracts were terminated for defaulting on their taxes. The lists o f contracts
that hadpaid the area tax, and contracts that were cancelled were publishedon October 7,2005.

2.      Actions to be taken

97.      The moratorium will remain in effect until the two above-mentioned conditions are met. Legal
review of existing contracts will be completed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the

                                                     42


Presidential Decree. Invalid concessions will be cancelled and valid concessions converted into
sustainable development concessions, and the results published.

98.      Government will recruit a reputed independent observer (technical assistance) to assist in
conducting field inspections to fight against illegal forestry exploitation, enhance transparency, and foster
civil society participation and public information on the monitoring criteria and noncompliance penalties.
To this end, one or more specialized non-governmental organizations will be invited to participate inpilot
missions to detect illegal forest exploitation, disseminate information to the public, and involve civil
society.

99.      To facilitate implementation o f the new forestry code, the Government will adopt the main
application decrees concerning: sustainable forestry development and inspection; the procedures for local
consultations; a model o f new concession contracts with social service obligations; the retrocession o f 40
% o f area tax revenues to local governments (EADs); and the rules for granting new forestry concessions.
Once the moratorium i s lifted, new concessions will be granted after local consultations and will be based
on the evaluation by an inter-ministerial commission with the participation o f an independent observer.
Exceptional allocation o f new concessions through direct contracts will be strictly limited to community-
owned forests and conservation forests under conditions defined by the same presidential decree. A draft
decree on the 40% retrocession o f the area tax to EADs i s in preparation.          An existing committee
representing all stakeholders will adopt these decrees after consultations with the provinces.           The
emphasis i s on formulating simple, clear, and easy-to-verify rules.

100.     The Government will continue to implement the March 2004 tax reforms, including the gradual
increase o f the area tax rate until 2007. The Ministries o f the Environment and Finance will jointly
reinforce the forestry tax mobilization. The tax revenues will be published regularly, and the defaulting
concessions will be cancelled according to their contracts.

101.     Lastly, the Government will facilitate the development of community forests by puttinginplace a
regulatory framework which i s simple and which offers incentives. It will also promote environmental
services and non-extractive use o f forests. Forests returned to the state when old contracts are terminated
will be subject to participatory zoning, and will be considered to be converted to conservation areas,
community managed forests, sustainable production schemes, or other alternative uses to logging. During
these consultations, particular considerations will be given to minority and vulnerable groups. Drafting a
nature conservation bill i s underway. The Government, with the support o f its partners, will ensure
rehabilitation and expansion o f the national parks system and other conserved areas. Institutional capacity
o f the Ministryo f Environment and the Congolese Institute o fNature Conservation will be strengthened.

102.     The Council o f Ministers, the Parliament, civil society, and the private sector will be kept abreast
o f the progress o f the reformprogram.

IV.5.2. MiningSector
103.      Objective. The ongoing reforms aim at: (i)improving governance in the mining sector by
revising the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework; and (ii)     increasing mining revenues for the
Treasury.

1.        Achievements

104.     The new miningcode was promulgated in July 2002 after Parliament adopted it, and new mining
regulations (Decree N" 038/2003) were approved in March 2003. The miningregister (Cadastre minier-
CAM4 took effect inJune 2003.

                                                      43



105.     Restructuring GECAMINES i s underway. It began with a voluntary departure program o f 10,654
workers with the support o f the World Bank. The program began in August 2003 and completed in early
2004, when all workers participating to the program received the departure package. In parallel, a
strategic audit was undertaken by IMC. The diagnosis was completed in March 2003 and approved by
government in June 2003. A consultant was commissioned to prepare proposals for restructuring the
company, and submitted his conclusions in September 2003. The proposed strategy has three pillars: (i)      a
new 100 % subsidiary o f GECAMINESwill be created and will receive the core assets o f GECAMINES.
Gecamines itself will devote its efforts to liquidate .its liabilities; (ii)
                                                                           past partnership contracts will be
reviewed and new ones in advanced stages o f negotiation will be concluded; and (iii)     a strengthened and
autonomous management team will be installed. For component (iii),       a specialized company, SOFRECO,
was selected in September 2005 through a competitive process to manage GECAMINES for an 18-month
transitional period.

106.     The economic and finance commission o f the Government (ECOFIN) asked COPIREP to recruit a
consultant whose terms o f reference include: (i)   reviewing the partnership contracts that were signed by
GECAMINESand (ii)       preparingto establish a new subsidiary company that will inherit the GECAMINES'
productive assets. COPIREP recruited the consultant, and the legal and financial review o f the existing
partnership agreements i s underway. The final strategy for restructuring GECAMINESwill be prepared
based on the review and o fthe outcome o f the stabilizationmeasures currently being taken.

107.     Inparallel, a Commission for the Validation of miningtitles was established in September 2005
by a presidential decree.     To help the commission's work, a consultant was hired, and i s currently
providing technical assistance to the miningcadastre (CAMI) and to review miningtitles. A list o f mining
titles subject to validation was transmitted to the World Bank.

2.       Actions to be taken

108.     Restructuring o f the mining cadastre will start once the organizational and financial reviews are
completed. A consultant i s being recruited to conduct training on the new miningcode. The Ministry of
Miningandthe tax agencies havenominatedspecialized staffto betrained. Furthermore, the Lubumbashi
office o f the miningcadastre will become operational.

109.     Reports on GECAMINESfinancial and legal review o f partnership contracts will be submitted to
COPIREPby the end o f 2005. Preparation and validation o f the final restructuring strategy will take place
after that.

110.     The commission for validation o f the mining concessions will ensure legal review o f the mining
concessions in dispute and will publishthe list o f all valid miningtitles, including those it validated.


111.     EITICommitteewill be established. The Governmentrevenues from the miningsector, as well as
taxes and duties paid by miningcompanies, will be publishedinaccordance with EITI's procedures.

IV.6. SOCIAL SECTORS

112.     The Government plans major reforms inthe social sector (health, education, and social protection)
by 2006. Current efforts include: (a) sector studies and strategies laying the ground to achieve the HIPC
completion point; and (b) infrastructure rehabilitation. These sectors receive technical and financial
assistance under the IDA-financed Multi-sector Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
(EMW).

                                                      44



IV.6.1. Health

113.  -  Objective. There are several reform objectives, including:
           create an environment favorable for developing a sound health system: (a) revitalizing the health
           zones; (b) reforming the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework; and (c) enhancing local
      -    community participation;
           ensure access to basic healthcare to the majority o f the population, particularly for the poor,
           women, and childrenby: (a) rehabilitatinghealth infrastructure and strengthening capacity o f the
           health care providers; (b) increasing the supply o f medicines; (c) eliminating financial barriers
           discouragingthe use o f health services; (d) strengthening priority disease control programs; and
           (e) targeting the most vulnerable groups.

1.       Achievements

114.     Since 2001, the Government's health policies and strategies have emphasized primary healthcare
and specialized programs, focusing on the development o f health zones. The new 2001 national health
policy reaffirms the Government's commitment to provide the basic health service through health zones.
The number o f health zones increased to provide a sound administrative framework for healthcare
delivery and to improve access to services. In2001, the zone-level operational modalities and the content
o f health care packages were defined. The new policy lays out the framework for a decentralized health
system, allowing a large degree o f autonomy to the health zone. It also backs government's commitment
to respond to human, financial, and material needs by allocating 15% o f the budget to the health sector.

115.     With the support o f foreign partners, churches, and NGOs, recent policies emphasize: (i)
development o f health zones and priority disease control and (ii) understanding o f the factors that
                                                                      better
discourage the public from using health services, notably financial constraints. The interim PRSP i s
consistent with the preceding policy guidelines, emphasizing the delivery o f basic health services at the
health zone level, and supporting specialized programs, particularly to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and
tuberculosis.

116.     The strategy demonstrates the Government's commitment to increase health spending to 15 % o f
the overall budget.    Similarly, the overall objective of the health component o f the 2004 Minimum
Partnership Program for Transition and Recovery (PMPTR) i s to revitalize healthcare delivery to ensure
progress towards MDGs. The specific goals are to develop the health zones and strengthen institutional
capacity.

117.     The EMRRP financed an institutional capacity strengthening program at national and provincial
levels, as well as supported provision o f basic healthcare delivery in67 healthzones covering a population
o f 10 million. Other partners including the European Union, USAID, the Belgian Co-operation, and the
African Development Bank supported health zones. The Minister o f Health completed the status o f health
report (RESP), which provided the analytical foundation for a dialogue on health issues inthe context of
preparing the PRSP. It was used to design the Health Sector Rehabilitation Support Project (PARSS), a
new IDA-financed project aimed at improving access to and effective use o f health services. The four-year
project targets 10 million people living in five provinces (Kinshasa, Equateur, Bandundu, Maniema and
Katanga) starting in2006.

118.     The execution o f 2004 budget o f the Ministry o f Health was extremely low. To address this
problem, the Government has launched a program to increase the awareness o f end service providers o f
the budget allocated to them: the expenditures for the health sector were broken down by provinces,
districts, and zones, and the information was transmitted to provinces to be circulated widely. At the same

                                                       45


time, to improve effectiveness of the budget allocation, the Government encouraged health service
providers to report their needs back to the central ministry via appropriate channels, so that they can be
incorporatedinto the next budget exercise.

119.    As a part of efforts to make healthcare more affordable to the poor, the Ministry o f Health
instructed its staff, notably the provincial and district health inspectors, to stop collecting para-fiscal levies
from health centers and hospitals to raise funds to cover operating costs of intermediate and central
structures o f the ministry, and to make sure that allocated budgeti s usedappropriately.

2.      Actions to be taken

120.    The 2006 budget shall also bebrokendown byprovinces, districts andhealthzones, andpresented
to provinces.

121.    Inorder to increasethe allocationfor basic service inthehealthzonesandto improvethe budget
procedure, notably the reporting mechanism, the Ministries of Health, Budget, and Finance will (i)        review
existing procedures and (ii) up an action plan for this purpose. Those activities are to be fundedby
                               draw
the World Bank's Health Sector Rehabilitation Support Project. Moreover, the Government has decided
to increase the budget allocation to this sector from 4.6% in 2005 to 5.5% in 2006. It will also strive to
increase the budget execution rate from 39% in2004 to 60% in2005,

IV.6.2. Education

122.    Objective. There are several goals for reforming this sector:
        -    To set up a sustainable development framework for the education sector;
        -    To launch an emergency program aimed at (a) rehabilitating the education structure, (b)
             settling the problem o f teachers' salaries; (c) improving the quality o f education and (d)
        --   increasingavailability of textbooks and other pedagogical materials;
             To adopt measures to achieve education-related MDGs;
             To formulate a global strategy for education sector by August 2006, based on the education
        -    sector status report (RESEN) (HPC completion point trigger);
             To reduce gradually the school fees paidbyparents.

1.      Achievements

 123.   The Government is presentlyrehabilitating 140 schools targeted by the social component of the
multi-sector emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction program. The RESEN describing and analyzing
its constraints was published in November 2004. The Government adopted a draft action plan for the
Education for All (EFA) program in2004. The RESENand the EFA program will provide the foundation
for the formulation of a global sector strategy, which is due for completion in August 2006. To reduce
gradually the school fees paid by parents, the Government has introduced an education block grant
program to be used to cover the operating costs o f primary and secondary public schools. The first
quarterly disbursementswere made inAugust 2005.

 124.   Moreover, the Government i s preparing, with the support of the World Bank, a new education
sector programthat will become effective inthe first quarter o f 2006.

                                                   46


2.      Actions to be taken

125.    The Government shall finalize the pro-poor education strategy inthe framework o f the PRSP. By
August 2006, it will draw up a global sector strategy with financial costing, and launch the education
recovery program with the support o f development partners.

126.    The government i s committed to disburse the entire education block grant allocated for 2005.
Parents, teachers, provincial and central SECOPE, the Ministries o f Primary, Secondary and Vocational
Education, Budget, and Finance will monitor and evaluate the program and the use of funds: in
accordance with the inter-ministerial decree n"017 of June 2005, the provincial ministry o f budget will
prepare quarterly summary reports on budget execution; the central Government will prepare an
evaluation report on the use o f funds. Moreover, the Government has decided to increase the budget
allocation to this sector from 7.6% in 2005 to 8.5% in 2006. It will also strive to increase the budget
execution rate from 24% in2004 to 60% in2005.

IV.6.3. Social Protection

127.    Objective. There are two main goals: develop a social protection strategy and draw up a social
protectionprogram with financial costing.

1.      Achievements

128.    A global program for the sector has been available since June 2004. The Government, with
World Bank support, i s preparing an Emergency Standard o f Living Improvement Project (PUACV). An
emergency social action project i s under implementation, mainly inunderprivileged rural areas

2.      Actions to be taken

129.    The global program must be submitted to the Government for adoption. Once adopted, the social
protection strategy will be publicized widely to ensure public awareness. A law will be enacted to this
effect.

IV.7. AGRICULTUREAND RURALDEVELOPMENT

130.    Rural development objectives are: (i)enhancing food security for rural dwellers and (ii)
formulating a medium- and long-term rural development strategy to foster sustained agricultural
production and income. The adoption o f this strategy i s a HIPC completionpoint trigger.

1.      Achievements

131,    To increase agricultural production capacity, the Government implemented a seeds program
(cassava, maize, leguminous plants) for the 2002-2003 crop year with the support from the emergency
multi-sector rehabilitation and reconstructionprogram (EMRRP).

132.    A 5,000 km farm roads rehabilitation program, launched in December 2004, has made the
agricultural produce marketingmore effective. Phase Io f this project covering 1,300 kmi s financed under
the EMRRP, and executed by the UNOPS, the implementing agency. For certain main corridors, the
UNOPS has received tenders. The methodological test for an information system for farm prices was
conducted in Bas-Congo, Bandundu, and Kinshasa, with a support from the FAO. However, the
information systemhas not been adopted owing to lack of funding.

                                                      47


133.     The Ministry o f Industry, Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises has conducted the small and
medium sized enterprise studies, but has not published their findings for lack o f funding. The terms o f
reference for a review o f agro-industry regulations and taxes, which will also be conducted by the same
ministry,are beingprepared.

2.       Actions to be taken

134.     The rural development strategy will focus on (i)  revitalizing key agro-industries (palm oil, cotton,
cocoa, robusta and Arabica coffees, and rubber), and (ii)  fostering the development o f small- and medium-
sized private enterprises. Terms o f reference have been drawn up and submitted to BCECO for recruiting
a consultant. The findings o f the studies and the experience gained in revitalizing production and
improving community infrastructure will be used for developing a rural sector strategy.

IV.8.    Infrastructure sector (roads, electric energy and water)

135.     Objective. This sector has two objectives: (a) rehabilitating and developing roads, power, and
water infrasb-ucture at the national level, and (b) overhauling the institutional framework o f the electricity
and water sectors.

1.       Achievements

136.     The infrastructure sector has benefitedfrom considerable World Bank financing (see Box 1). The
EMRRP has enabled the rebuilding and construction o f vital infrastructures, especially roads, transport,
electricity, water, and urban streets.
         a) Roads: All the studies were launched for rehabilitating some 3,000 kmo f roads, and work has
             already commenced. Seven road contracts were submitted to the Minister of Public Works
             for signature and pre-qualification o f companies i s inprogress.
         b) Transport: Studies were launched for the sectors (RVM, ONATRA,RVF, SNCC, CNPR,etc.)
             and works have already commenced. Two work contracts on the Matadi and Kinshasa ports
             were submitted to the Minister o f Transport for signature. Contracts are being prepared for
             railroad works.
         c) Electricity:    Work has started on making the power production capacity o f the Inga dam
             more reliable.      Reliability studies and tenders are underway, concerning inter alia the
             rehabilitation o f the SNEL transmission system, and many thermal power plants.
         d) Water: Based on studies covering Kinshasa, tenders were invited and bidders selected. The
             contracts are being executed and some projects have already commenced.
         e) Urban roads: The studies have been completed; two tenders were invited and contracts
             awarded.    Two important rehabilitation projects (Avenue Kasa - Vubu and the Selembao
             erosions) are underway.

2.       Actions to be taken

137.     Roads. Efforts will focus on relieving rural isolation by rehabilitating key primary roads as well
as feeder roads.

 138.    Electricity. The objective i s to (i)organize a round table to identify electricity issues and draw up
a power sector strategy; (ii) encourage the Parliament to adopt the new electricity code by the end o f 2005;
and (iii) rehabilitate power transmission in the southern part o f the country to pave the way for power
exports to Southern Africa (work could start before the end o f2005).

                                                    48


139.    Water. For developing this sector, the restructuring of the institutional framework and opening
the sector to private sector are prerequisite. The principal reforms to be undertaken are: (i)
                                                                                             preparation,
and adoption by the Parliament of the new water code; (ii)      preparation of a road map to achieve the
MDGs, and defining government's vision and the measures needed to implement it, and (iii)   extension of
water supply infrastructure rehabilitation programs to centers which are not covered by projects, such as
EMRRP, andto poor suburbanareas.

                                                                                Dr.AndrC-Philippe FUTA
                                                                                      Minister of Finance

                                                4 9




REPUBLIQUEDEMOCRATIQUECONGO                       DU

                                                                         Kinshasa, le 4 novernbre 2005




MONSIEUR       LEPRESIDENT,

OBJET : DONDERELANCEECONOMIQUE

           LETTREPOLITKQUEDEDEVELOPPEMENT
                     DE




I.INTRODUCTION

1.      L a Rdpublique Dtmocratique du Congo dispose d'immenses ressources humaines et
naturelles. Toutefois, la mauvaise gouvernance politique et dconomique, qui a suivi
l'inddpendance en 1960, s'est traduite par une croissance dconomique ntgative et une pauvrett
croissante de la population. L'accumulation des arridrds de la dette multilatdrale et bilatdrale a
amen6 les partenaires en dtveloppement et crdanciers A suspendre leur coopdration avec la
Rtpublique Dkmocratique du Congo au ddbut des anndes 1990, avec des effets ndfastes sur le
bien-btre des populations.

2.      Ces contre-performances ont dtt exacerbks entre 1997 et 2003 par des conflits armts sur
le sol congolais avec de plusieurs mouvements rebelles et les anndes de sept h t s afiicains. Ces
conflits ont conduit B la partition du tenitoire national. L e coot tconomique, social, politique et
environnemental de ces conflits a tt6 tr&s dlevd : plus de trois millions de morts, la destruction
des infrastructures socio-tconomiques de base et le risque d'embrasement de toute la sous-rdgion
de 1'Afkique centrale. Malgrd ses richesses, la RDC est devenue l'un des pays les pluspauvres du
monde, A la findudeuxibme milltnaire.

3.      Suite  ti d'importants changements intervenus au sommet de l'etat, un nouveau
gouvemement a dtd institub au premier trimestre de l'an 2001. I1s'est engag6 immddiatement A
restaurer lapaix, B relancer la croissance, A engager la lutte contre lapauvreti et A normaliser les
relationsavec les cr6anciers extdrieurs.


A MonsieurPaulWOLFOWITZ
   Prdsidentdu Groupede laBanqueMondiale
      Washinpton,D.C. 20433 USA

                                                     50


4.      L e Gouvernement regoit depuis 2002 un fort soutien de la communautt financikre internationale,
notamment l a Banque mondiale (plus exactement 1'Association internationale pour l e dCveloppement), le
Fonds monCtaire international, la Banque afkicaine de dkveloppement, 1'Union europkenne et de
nombreux partenaires bilatkraux. En effet, les arriCrCs de la dette extCrieure vis a vis de ces organismes
multilatCraux et de certains creanciers bilateraux ont CtC apurCs en 2002 grace a des credits relais.

5.       Sur le plan politique, les efforts du Gouvernement pour renforcer le processus de paix et le
dialogue inter-congolais, qui s'est tenu a Lusaka et      a Sun City, ont produit des rksultats positifs et
encourageants. Ungouvernement inclusif de transition, regroupant toutes les tendances, a CtC mis en place
le 30juin 2003. Toutes les institutionspolitiques et citoyennes de transition ont CtC constituCes et le pays a
CtC rCunifiC.

6.      En outre, la RDC a obtenu un allkgement, au titre de 1'Initiative Pays Pauvres Trks EndettCs (I-
PPTE), de sa dette vis a vis du Club de Paris selon les tennes de Naples pour la pCriodejuillet 2003-juin
2005. L e Gouvernement vient de solliciter la prorogation de cette CchCance jusqu'au 31 juillet 2006. I1
convient de relever Cgalement le soutien de la Banque mondiale qui a accorde en 2002 un Credit de
Relance Economique (appui budgktaire) de 360,4 millions de DTS et un credit de 358,8 millions de DTS
pour soutenir le Programme Multi-sectoriel d'Urgence de RChabilitation et de Reconstruction (PMURR).
L a Banque mondiale a financC d'autres projets qui sont encore actifs  a cejour (encadrC 1).

7.      Pour lutter efficacement contre la pauvretC en RDC, le Gouvernement est en train d'tlaborer un
Document de StratCgie de RCduction de la PauvretC (DSRP) complet qui traduit son ambition de crCer un
environnement propice au dCveloppement durable, CquilibrC et equitable dans chacune des 11 provinces
dupays. L avision de ce DSRP tient compte des objectifs dumillhaire pour le dkveloppement (OMD).

8.      La poursuite de ces objectifs dans le contexte de la RDC constitue un dBfi Bnorme qui
demande un appui continu de la communauti internationale pendant plusieurs annBes encore.
C'est dans ce cadre que le Gouvernement sollicite un soutien sous forme de don de relance
Bconomique d'au moins 90 millions de dollars US, en vue de financer les rCformes Cconomiques et
structurelles qui sous-tendront son programme Bconomique sur les annCes 2005 et 2006. L'accent
sera mis sur les rCformes qui visent iconsolider la stabilitk macrokconomique et iassurer une
croissance durable ainsi que la realisation des repbres du point d'achbvement de 1'1-PPTE.

                                                                    51

Encadre1:Programmeset projetsfinancespar laBanqueMondiale

      0 ProgrammeMulti-sectorield'Urgence deRehabilitationet de Reconstruction(PMURR) :Ceprogramme, qui
porte sur un financement de 1,7 milliards de dollars US, dont 454 millions accordks par l a Banque mondiale, a pour objectif
d'aider la RDC dans ses efforts de lutte contre la pauvretk a travers notamment (i)      la reconstruction et la rkhabilitation des
infrastructures vitales, (ii)le rktablissement de la production agricole et le renforcement de la skcuritk alimentaire (iii)     le
renforcement de l a capacitk a formuler, ex6cuter et gkrer les programmes de dkveloppement a long terme et (iv) le
rktablissement des services sociaux essentiels et de la cohksion au sein des populations locales.

      0 Projet Competitivite et Developpement du Secteur Prive (PCDSP): Ce projet, finance                      a  hauteur de 120
millions de dollars US, a pour objectif de rendre les entreprises de divers secteurs(industries extractives, transport, knergie,
tklkcommunication et finances) plus compktitives pour contribuer ila croissance Cconomique. A cet kgard le projet prkvoit
des transformations dans les domaines fiscaux, juridiques et judiciaires de manihre a augmenter les investissements privks
dans les secteurs productifs de l'kconomie.

      0 Programmed'Urgence de SoutienB laReunificationEconomiqueet Sociale(PUSPRES):ce programme( 214
millions de dollars US) mis en vigueur en novembre 2003, a pour but d'assister le gouvernement dans le processus de
rkunification kconomique et sociale.       Ceci permettra de (i)remkdier a la crise socio-kconomique des populations des
provinces rkunifikes, (ii) faciliter la poursuite et l'extension duprogramme de rkformes kconomques aux provinces du Nord
et de 1'Est et (iii)faire profiter aux provinces rkunifikes des dividendes de la paix. Ce programme comprend cinq
composantes, 9 savoir: (i)l'appui a la balance des paiements, (ii)        l e renforcement des capacitks institutionnelles, (iii)la
rkhabilitation des infrastructures routihres, (iv) la rkhabilitation des fonctions urbaines et (v) l'augmentation d'actions
communautaires.

      a Projetdu Marched'ElectricitCdeI'AfriqueAustrale(SAPMP):ceprojet, d'unmontant de 191,62 millions de
dollars US, vise le dkveloppement d'une structure sous-rkgional d'interconnexion entre le site d'INGA et les rkseaux des
pays du Poold'ClectricitC de 1'Afrique Australe par le poste de Luano en Zambie, et via Kasumbalesa.

      0 Projet d'Urgence de DBmobilisation et de Reinsertion (PNDDR): ce projet d'un financement total de 200
millions de US, dont 100 millions de la Banque mondiale vise ri contribuer 21 la consolidation de la paix, a la rkconciliation
nationale et la reconstruction socio-kconomique du pays ainsi qu'a la stabilisation politique de la rkgion par l e desarmement,
la dkmobilisation et la rkinsertion communautaire des demobilisks.

      0 ProgrammeNationalMultisectorielde Lutte contrele MWSIDA (PNMLS): Ce projet d'un financement de
 102 millions de $ US, a pour objectif principal d'attknuer l'impact nkgatif de l'kpidkmie VIH/SIDA sur l e dkveloppement de
la RDC. Ses objectifs spkcifiques sont : (i)    r6duire les risques de transmission sexuelle, sanguine et verticale du VIH ; (ii)
amkliorer l'ktat sanitaire et la qualitk de vie des personnes vivant avec le virus et (iii)attknuer l'impact socio-kconomique de
1'6pidkmie sur les personnes vulnkrables.

      0 Projetd'Urgence d'Action Sociale(PUAS): Ce projet porte sur unmontant de 60 millions de dollar US vise ii
faciliter l'acchs des pauvres aux services sociaux et 51 amkliorer la gestion des ressources consacrkes au dkveloppement aux
communautks. I1 comprend quatre parties : (i)       les infrastructures sociales, (ii) renforcement des capacitks
                                                                                     le                             a exkcuter  et
gkrer des micro-projets, (iii) l'octroi de bourses d'ktudes au meilleurs Clhves sur la base d'examens d'Etat, (iv) la promotion
des activitks de coordination et de gestion des projetsnationaux et provinciaux.

      0 Projetd'Urgence d'AppuiB I'Amelioration des ConditionsdeVie (PUAACV) : ce projet, d'un 82 millions de
dollars US, vise a : (i)appuyer les centres urbains par le rktablissement et l'acchs aux services de base, (ii)   appuyer les chef-
lieux de provinces par la stabilisation et le renforcement de la situation socio-kconomique et contribuer 21 la relance de
I'activite kconomique par la mise en ceuvre des investissements prioritaires, (iii)    dksenclaver les zones isolkes par la remise
en &at et (iv) appuyer les institutions provinciales par la formation de base, I'achat de matbriel et la rkhabilitation minimale
des bureaux.

      0 Projetd'Appui A laRehabilitationduSecteur dela Sante(PARSS) :ceprojetd'un montantde 150millions de
dollars US vise l'utilisation des services et l'acchs de santk essentiel et renforcer des capacitks du Ministhre de la SantC.

                                                        52


9.         L e present mCmorandum dCcrit la Politique de DCveloppement du Gouvernement en tant que
partie intkgrante de son DSRP et traite successivement des sujets suivants :

               0    Cadre macroCconomique;
               0    PrCparation de la strategie de rCduction de la pauvretC;
               0    Restauration de la paix et amklioration de la gouvemance;
               0    RCformes Cconomiques et structurelles.

11.Cadremacrokonomique
11.1.Evolution de lasituationmacroeconomique de 2002 A 2004.
10.        L e dCfi A relever en matibe de croissance et rCduction de la pauvretC est Cnorme. Pour atteindre le
niveau de revenu par t&te de 1990, ilfaudrait 40 ans si l'on suppose untaux annuel de croissance du PIB
r i e l de 5,3 pourcent et un taux de croissance de la population de 3 pourcent, et 60 ans pour atteindre le
niveau de 1960. Pour rCaliser cet objectif, ilfaudra des taux de croissance ClevCs pendant des dkcennies,
des budgets pro-pauvres adapt& ainsi que des rtformes tconomiques et structurelles courageuses.

11.        C'est dans cette perspective que le Gouvernement avait dtcidC en 2001 de renouer avec la
communautC financikre internationale            travers un programme de rCfCrence, dCnommC Programme
IntCrimaire RenforcC (PIR), qui a CtC relay6 par un premier programme triennal (2002-2005), soit le
Programme Economique du Gouvernement (PEG), soutenu par la FacilitC pour la RCduction de la
PauvretC et la Croissance du FMI. Ces programmes ont btnCficiC Cgalement du soutien de la Banque
mondiale, de la BAD, de 1'Union europCenne ainsi que d'autres partenaires bi et multilattraux.

12.        L e PIR et le PEG ont donnt lieua des rCsultats probants: aprks une baisse du PIB de      5,5 % par
an en moyenne et une inflation qui a atteint 511 % en 2000, l'tconomie a renouC avec l a croissance au
rythme de 3 3 % en 2002, 5,7% en 2003 et 63% en 2004; l'inflation a chutC A
en 2002,      4,4% en 2003 et a 9,2% en 2004.                                        135,1% en 2001, a 15,8 %


13.        Sur le plan des finances publiques, l'exkcution du programme a permis d'augmenter les recettes
publiques (hors dons) de 7,9% du PIB en 2002 a 9,6 % du PIB en 2004. Les dCpenses ont augmentt,
passant de 10,3% du PIB en 2002 A 15,4% du PIB en 2004. L e dtficit des finances publiques a t t C
maitrid: le solde primaire (base caisse) est demeurC infkrieur a -1% du PIB entre 2002 et 2004. Les
investissements bruts ont progress6 de 9,0% duPIB en 2002 a 12,8% duPIB en 2004.

14.        Sur le plan extkrieur, le Gouvernement a bCnCficiC d'un allegement de 90% de l a dette exterieure
des crkanciers membres du Club de Paris, aprks l'acces de l a RDC au point de dCcision de l'hitiative
PPTERenforcee enjuillet 2003. Encondquence, le service de la dette apres allegement a reprCsentC 29%
des recettes fiscales en 2003 et 15% en 2004. Les rCserves officielles brutes sont passCes de 2,6 semaines
d'exportations en 2002 a 4,8 semaines en 2004. Par contre, le dCficit du compte courant (dons inclus,
avant allegement de la dette) s'est creusC de 0% duPIB en 2002        a 5,5% duPIB en 2004.

11.2. Objectifs pour 2005-2006
15.        Les objectifs macroCconomiques pour l'annke en cours et l'annCe prochaine sont: (i) taux de
                                                                                                    un
croissance Cconomique de 6,6 % en 2005 et 7 % en 2006 en tennes reels; (ii)           une inflation devant stre
maitrisie de 22,6% en 2005 a 6% en 2006; et (iii)         undCficit extCrieur courant qui passerait de 5,1% du
PIB en 2005 a 7,9% en 2006.

16.        L e Gouvernement entend atteindre les objectifs macrotconomiques mentionnCs ci-dessus grhce
aux effets des rCformes structurelles, a la rkunification du pays et aux benefices de la paix. Ces facteurs
permettront de rCorienter la dkpense publique en faveur de la rCduction de la pauvrett. Les recettes
devraient atteindre 10,7 % du PIB en 2005 et 11,5% en 2006. Quant aux depenses, elles devraient se

                                                      53


situer a 22,5% du PIB en 2005 contre 15'4% du PIB en 2004 dues principalement A un accroissement des
dkpenses likes a la transition politique et la restructuration de l'tconomie tels que le programme DDR et
les elections, (4,6% du PIB) ainsi que des investissements publics (6.9% duPIB). Les dCpenses courantes
et en capital devraient 1Cgbrement augmenter en 2006 en raison d'une accClCration des investissements
financCs sur ressources dCgagCes de 1'1-PPTE et sur les appuis financiers extkrieurs de sources diverses
(BM,BAD,UE,etc.).

17.      Avec le retour de la paix, ily a lieu de s'attendre a une augmentation considCrable des dCpenses
de lutte contre la pauvretC, grhce aux aides extkrieures et aux ressources dCgagCes de 1'Initiative PPTE
RenforcCe. Les dCpenses pro-pauvres pourront atteindre 7% du PIB en 2005, dont 1,7% du PIB financC
sur le budget national, 3,7% du PII3 sur financement extkrieur et 1,6% du PIB sur l'tpargne budgktaire
dCgagCe   a partir de 1'1-PPTE RenforcCe. En mCme temps, les dCpenses militaires de sCcuritC et des
institutions seront maitrisCes.

111.Strathgie de Rkduction de la Pauvretk
18.      Objectif. I1 y a lieu de rappeler qu'un Document de StratCgie de RCduction de la PauvretC
IntCrimaire (DSRP-I) a CtC prepare, et adopte en juin 2002. Sa mise en ceuvre satisfaisante a permis
d'atteindre l e point de decision de 1'Initiative PPTE en juillet 2003. L e but poursuivi avant la fin de
1'annCe 2005 est de finaliser la formulation et l'adoption d'un DSRP complet prepare de manibre
participative. Ce demier repose sur quatre piliers ci-aprks: (i)  reconstruire l'Etat a travers la consolidation
de la paix, la poursuite du processus de dhmocratisation et la dkcentralisation administrative et judiciaire;
(ii)amCliorer la gouvemance en vue d'une stabilitk macroCconomique et d'une croissance Cconomique
durable,   en passant par la dkcentralisation, l'harmonisation des programmes Cconomiques du
Gouvernement, la poursuite des rCformes Cconomiques et structurelles, la promotion dupartenariat public-
privk; (iii)reconstruire les secteurs clCs (agriculture, Cducation, santC, transports, mines, for& et Cnergie)
et relancer le secteur privC; et (iv) appuyer la dynamique communautaire et les groupes vulnkrables.

 19.     Enoutre, le gouvemement a mis en ceuvre a partir de 2004, le ProgrammeMultisectoriel de Lutte

pour un montant de 102 millions de dollars US. Ce programme envisagt a 1'Cchelle nationale a pour
contre le V W S I D A appuyC par plusieurs partenaires techniques et financiers dont la Banque mondiale

objectif de lutter contre 1'CpidCmie V W S I D A pour favoriser le dkveloppement de la RDC.

1. Rbalisationsentre 2002 etjuin 2005

20.      Les Ctapes suivantes dans la formulation du DSRP ont CtC franchies depuis 2002

             L a mise en place d'une base de donnCes statistiques          a  partir des rCsultats de 1'enquCte
             nationale sur le seuil de la pauvretC dont l e test pilote est intervenu en novembre et dCcembre
             2002 ;
             L'Claboration d'un plan d'actions accompagnC d'un chronogramme, adopt6 en juin 2003 par
             le Gouvernement, aprks discussions avec toutes les parties prenantes nationales et
             intemationales ;
             (i) consultationssectoriellesetthkmatiquesenoctobre2004etlarestitutiondesrCsultats
                 les
             en dkcembre 2004 (ii)     les consultations auprbs des communautts de bases d'octobre 2004 a
             fin mars 2005. Restitution des resultats au niveau des territoires en dCcembre 2004 et des
             provinces en mars 2005;
             L aprise en compte des contributions des ministbres sectoriels et thCmatiques en fkvrier 2005;
             L'organisation et 1'exCcution de l'enquCte sur les budgets de consommation des mCnages,
             l'emploi et le secteur informel (EnquCte 1-2-3) au niveau des provinces en avril2005;
             L'tlaboration des profils de la pauvrett des provinces suite aux consultations participatives
             sur laperceptionde lapauvretCenjuin2005;

                                                     54


         g) L'exploitation et la globalisation des rksultats des consultations au niveau national en juin
             2005;
         h) Lapresentationde lapremiere version duDSRP complet enjuillet 2005 avant intkgrationdes
             resultats de l'enquCte 1-2-3 et des DSRP provinciaux.

2.      Actions a rdaliser dejuillet    dicembre 2005

21.      L e DSRP sera soumis a l'approbation des partenaires extkrieurs a la fin de l'annke 2005. Les
actions ci-apres seront entreprises d'ici fin 2005:

         a) Restitution des resultats de I'enquCte 1-2-3;
         b) Elaboration du cadre macrokconomique pour la pkriode 2006-2015, avec des objectifs
             intermediaires sur 3 ans rkvisables;
         c) Integration des DSRP provinciaux et des stratkgies sectorielles a deuxieme version du DSRP;
         d) Prise en compte des resultats de l'enquete 1-2-3 et finalisation de la deuxieme version du
             DSRP en novembre 2005;
         e) Restitution de la deuxieme version aux partenaires (societk civile, ONG, ministeres sectoriels,
             secteur privk et monde universitaire) pour commentaires et elaboration de la version definitive
             en novembre 2005;
         f ) Prksentation duprojet de DSRP complet au Gouvernement en decembre 2005;
         g) Adoption par le Gouvemement et transmission de la version finale du DSRP            ala Banque
             mondiale et au FMIen dkcembre 2005.

IV. Rkformeskconomiqueset structurelles
IV.1. Paix et Gouvernance
22.      Dans le DSRP-I, le Gouvernement a insist6 sur le maintien de la paix et l'amelioration de la
gouvernance c o m e conditions essentielles de la consolidation de la croissance Cconomique et de la
rkduction de la pauvretk. Dans le DSRP complet, le Gouvernement poursuivra ses efforts non seulement
de consolidation de la paix, mais aussi de bonne gouvernance kconomique et politique en vue de garantir
la stabilitk macrokconomique et une croissance durable.

IV.l.l.Promotionde laPaix
23.      Objectif. L'objectif principal est de consolider la paix           a  travers le dksarmement, la
dkmobilisation et la reinsertion (DDR) des ex-combattants.


1.       Rialisations

24.      L e Gouvemement a defini la structure institutionnelle necessaire au DDR en consultation avec les
partenaires en dtveloppement, en mettant en place la Commission nationale de dksarmement,
dkmobilisation et rkinsertion (CONADER). L e Gouvernement a Cgalement mis sur pied un Programme
national de dksarmement, dkmobilisation et rkinsertion (PNDDR) finance principalement par un credit
IDA et undon du Programme multi-pays de demobilisation et reinsertion (PMDR) et ayant pour objectif
gknkral de contribuer a la consolidation de la paix, la reconciliation nationale et  la reconstruction socio-
kconomique du pays, ainsi qu'a la stabilite politique de la region. L e Programme comprend trois
composantes: (i)  la sensibilisation aux opkrations de desarmement, dkmobilisation et de rkinsertion des ex-
combattants des groupes signataires des accords de Lusaka, estimes entre 90.000 et 150.000; (ii)           le
dksarmement ;et (iii)  la dkmobilisation des groupes susmentionnes.

25.      L e desarmement et la rkinsertion communautaire       des ex-combattants ont dkbbute en Ituri en
septembre 2004, avant leur extension sur l'ensemble du territoire national. L'ouverture de 20 centres

                                                        55


d'orientation est en cours. A la finjuin 2005, 18.893 combattants adultes ont ete dCmobilisCs, dont 14.000
en Ituri; 16.263 enfants soldats ont CtC dCmobilisCs sur l'ensemble duterritoire national. Les opirations de
rkinsertion ont commencC et s'kchelonneront jusqu'en 2007.

2.       Actions h rbaliser d'iciJin 2006

26.      L e Gouvernement devrait d'ici 6 la fin de 1'annCe 2006 (i)     finaliser la phase de dkmobilisation
pour 150.000 ex-combattants; (ii)     renforcer la coordination avec la structure militaire; (iii)
                                                                                                maximiser la
sensibilisation sur l a dkmobilisation, la rkinsertion et autres aspects du PNDDR; (iv) renforcer la
distribution de l'infonnation au niveau des autoritCs gouvemementales et des partenaires; (v) reclasser les
enfants de 16 ans et 17 ans assimilks aux adultes; et (vi) poursuivre l'approbation des projets a Haute
IntensitC de Main d'ceuvre (HMO).

27.      Par ailleurs, la RDC, reprCsentCe par la CONADER, a conch un accord avec la CoopCration
financiere allemande (KFW) pour unmontant de 14,43 millions d'euros en vue de financer unprogramme
qui s'inscrit dans le volet rCinsertion du PNDDR.Ce programme ne s'adresse pas exclusivement aux ex-
combattants mais aussi aux rCfugiCs et dCplacCs de guerre. I1 comprend trois volets               a savoir la
dhabilitation d'infrastructures a HMO, l'assistance             aux femmes victimes de violence et la
redynamisation de 1'Cconomie locale. I1sera exCcutC par des ONGnationales et internationales.

IV.1.2. Gouvernance
28.
de 1'Cconomie et est dCtenninC a intensifier la lutte contre ce flCau. I1 tient Cgalement a amCliorer la
         L e Gouvernement est prCoccupC par le niveau de corruption qui mine unbon nombre de secteurs

gestion des finances publiques A 1'Cchelon national, a finaliser la rtfonne des institutions, de l a fonction
publique, du systkmejudiciaire et de la territoriale (dkcentralisation).

IK1.2.1. Lutte contrela corruption
1.       Rbalisations

29.      L a loi portant sur la lutte contre le blanchiment des capitaux et le financement du terrorisme a CtC
promulguCe enjuillet 2004. L a loi anti-corruption a CtC promulguke en mars 2005. I1importe de souligner
que cette loi introduit les principales innovations par rapport aux dispositions en vigueur dans le Code
penal notamment:

       a) L a distinction entre la petite corruption et la grande corruption, cette dernibre visant
           principalement: (i)   les actes de corruption commis dans le cadre de l a passation des marchCs
           publics de travail, de fournitures et des services, de l'octroi des droits miniers, des carrikres et
           des concessions forestikres ou duprocessus de privatisation ou de dksengagement de 1'Etat dans
           les entreprises publiques; (ii)les actes de corruption ayant pour but l'entrave a l a bonne
           administration de lajustice; (iii)  les actes de corruption commis dans le cadre d'une organisation
           criminelle; (iv) l'enrichissement illicite des agents publics ou toute autre personne ayant
           accumulk des biens disproportionnellement A leur revenu lCgitime, etc.;
       b) Les actes de corruptionvisent aussi bienunagent public qu'unparticulier;
       c) L a rkaffinnation du r61e du pouvoir judiciaire, de la Commission de 1'Cthique et de l a lutte
           contre la corruption dans l a prCvention, la dktection et l a rCpression de l a corruption et des
           infractions similaires;
       d) L a protection des dknonciateurs des actes de corruption (tkmoins, experts et victimes et leurs
           familles) contre les actes de reprisailles ou d'intimidation et leur absolution de toute poursuite
           pCnale pour dknonciation faite de bonne foi devant I'autoritCjudiciaire compCtente agissant dans

                                                      56


           le cadre d'une procCdure judiciaire ou de la Commission de l'ethique et de lutte contre la
           corruption;
       e) L'introduction des mkcanismes d'entraide judiciaire et d'extradition en matikre d'enquetes, de
           confiscation et de poursuitesjudiciaires contre les actes de corruption commis hors du territoire
           national ou dans le cadre d'une organisation criminelle;
       f ) L a rCCvaluation des t a u d'amende devenus tres modique.

30.       Sur base des rCsultats des audits effectuks par la Cour des Comptes dans quelques entreprises en
2004, des sanctions ont CtC infligCes a l'endroit des Ministres et des Chefs d'entreprises impliquCs dans les
malversations financikres au cours de la m&me pCriode. En ce qui conceme l a rCforme des marchts
publics, une Commission de Reforme des Marchts Publics (COREMAP) a CtC crCCe par dCcret
prksidentiel en octobre 2004. L a mise en place effective de la COREMAP a CtC rCalisCe au cows du
premier semestre 2005.

31.       Aprks l'adoption respective par le Gouvernement et 1'AssemblCeNationale au cours de sa sCance
d'aoiit 2004, le Chef de l'Etat a promulguC la loi en mars 2005 modifiant et complktant le Livre I1du Code
pCnal congolais. Cette loi prend en compte les dispositions pertinentes de la Convention des Nations
Unies contre la Corruption et de la Convention de 1'Union africaine sur la prCvention et la lutte contre la
corruption.

2.        Actions a mener

32.       D'ici a la fin de l'annCe 2006, l'objectif poursuivi par le Gouvernement est notamment de (i)
mener une campagne de vulgarisation de la loi anti-corruption et du code de bonne conduite des agents de
l'Etat, (ii)poursuivre les audits amorcCs dans les entreprises publiques et les rCgies financikres a Kinshasa
et les Ctendre a d'autres provinces, (iii) accClCrer la reforme du systkme judiciaire, (iv) veiller au respect
du calendrier de la rCforme des march& publics, (v) crCer une cellule de renseignements financiers sur le
blanchiment des capitaux, (vi) combattre la fraude aux frontikres en simplifiant les prockdures et en
renforqant les contrales pour rCduire la sous diclaration et (vii) amCliorer la transparence dans les secteurs
forestier et minier.

33.       Des cabinets internationaux sont en cours de recrutement pour: (i)   la rCdaction du futur code des
marchts publics, (ii)  l'kvaluation des capacitCs professionnelles de ce secteur. En attendant, l'ancienne
rkglementationa CtC actualide et les seuils de recours aux adjudications ont CtC fixCs.

IK1.2.2. Rkforme desfinances publiques
34.       Objectif. L e Gouvemement vise (i)     l'amClioration des capacitCs de mobilisation des recettes a
travers la modemisation des instruments fiscaux ainsi que des administrations financikres, (ii)une
meilleure maitrise de la gestion des dCpensespubliques par la poursuite durenforcement de la chaine de la
dipense et (iii) une plus grande transparence et traqabilitk de ses opCrations grfice a l a mise en place d'un
systkme comptable de 1'Etat en partie double.

1.        Rkalisations

35.       En vue d'amkliorer les capacitks de mobilisation des recettes, les actions suivantes ont CtC
entreprises: la loi portant sur la rCforme du tarif douanier a CtC promulguke en juillet 2004; le Code des
douanes a CtC adopt6 par le Parlement en juin 2005; un projet de loi a CtC soumis au Parlement en avril

Direction GCnCrale des Imp& s'est poursuivi a travers 1'amClioration des procCdures de recouvrement et
2005 pour corriger les distorsions contenues dans la l o i tarifaire; le programme de modemisation de la

l'ouverture du premier centre d'imp6t pour les petites et moyennes entreprises. L a loi concernant la

                                                    57


nomenclature des recettes non fiscales a CtC promulguke en juillet 2004 et modifiCe en mars 2005 pour y
intCgrer les recettes auparavant pergues par des organismes relevant des budgets pour ordre supprimes. L e
Gouvemement a rCduit les exonCrations fiscales en les limitant strictement a celles prCvues par les
dispositions des diffkrents codes.

36.     Du cat6 des dipenses, le Gouvernement a continue        amettre l'accent sur le renforcement de la
gestion budgktaire. Pour une meilleuremaitrisedes dkpenses,le Gouvernement a continu6 de renforcer
la chahe de la dkpense: le transfert Clectronique des donnCes entre la BCC et le TrCsor est devenu
opkrationnel en avril 2005.     Les dCpenses de la paie, de la dette publique et celles sur ressources
extCrieures ont CtC intCgrCes dans la chaine de la dCpense a partir d'avril 2005. Suite a la circulaire
rkglementant l'ouverture et le fonctionnement des comptes de l'Etat dans les banques commerciales, le
processus de fermeture des comptes de l'Etat ne rCpondant pas aux criteres dCfinis par le Ministkre des
Finances est en cours. Les instructions rCglementant la prockdure de mise    a disposition de fonds (MAD)
ont CtC Claborees et distribuees aux entitCs publiques concernkes. Enfin, toutes les mesures ont kt6 prises
pour que les Ctats de suivi budgktaires retragant 1'exCcution du budget selon les classifications par
administration, par fonction et par nature soient produits et publics dans les 30 jours suivant la fin du
mois. A cejour, les ESBjusqu'a finjuin 2005 ont CtC produits.

37.     L e Ministkre du Budget communique depuis juin 2005 a tous les Ministeres le plan d'engagement
pour chaque mois et pour chaque ligne budgktaire. En outre, seules les dCpenses ayant r e p l e visa du
Ministhre du Budget et du Ministere des Finances sont effectukes par la BCC. D e plus, au moins 95 pour
cent des dCpenses s'effectuent par ordres de paiement informatisks (OPI). D'autre part, tous les paiements
que la BCC effectue pour le compte de 1'Etat sont exCcutCs dans les 48 heures apres rCception des OPI.
Les avis de dCbit et de credit sont renvoyks Clectroniquement au TrCsor dans les 48 heures apres tout
mouvement des comptes de l'Etat. Les soldes des comptes de l'Etat a l a BCC sont transmis        a   la fin de
chaque journCe ouvrable depuis finjuillet 2005.

38.      Les travaux de mise en place du plan comptable de 1'Etat en partie double ont commence en
2004, avec l'adoption du cadre comptable restreint applicable A            la Direction du TrCsor et de
1'Ordonnancement (DTO). L a formation et le recyclage sur la comptabilitC publique en partie double des
cadres et agents de la DTO, de la Direction de la Comptabilite, de la Direction de la Reddition des
Comptes, des rCgies financieres et de la BCC ont eu lieu en avril -mai 2005.

39.      Les travaux de dhveloppement du logiciel de traitement comptable des operations du Tresor sont
en cours ainsi que la reorganisation administrative de la DTO en prenant en compte la crkation de la
division de la centralisation comptable du Tresor. Des manuels des procCdures comptables pour les
dCpenses et pour les recettes du circuit comptable, du contrdle interne de la DTO et au sein des rCgies
financikres ont CtC produits.

40.      En ce qui concerne les paiements centralisks, le Gouvemement est rCsolu a les rationaliser A
travers un plan d'action qui est progressivement mis en ceuvre. L e principe retenu est de dkcentraliser
totalement la gestion des dCpenses communes. Pour 2005, les dCpenses de carburant ont C t t plafonnkes A
700 millions FC par mois. Un rapport sur la rationalisation du nombre d'ayant droits pour les
consommations d'eau et d'ClectricitC est attendu A la fin des travaux d'inventaire en cours. Par ailleurs, des
montants forfaitaires ont CtC negociks pour la periode allant de janvier a juin 2005, avec la SNEL et la
REGIDESO pour les dCpenses d'ClectricitC et d'eau en attendant l'installation prochaine des compteurs
dans tous les Ministkres.

41.      S'agissant de la gestion de la dette extkrieure, le logiciel de gestion de la dette choisi par
l'Office de gestion de la dette publique (OGEDEP), savoir le SYGADE dCveloppC par la CNUCED, a
CtC acquis et les formations y relatives des experts ont et6 dispenskes.        Sur la base de ce systkme

                                                       58


informatique, 1'OGEDEP devra &re en mesure de produire des donntes fiables relatives a la dette
publique en RDC et de mener une analyse soutenue de la viabilitk de la dette extkrieure. Ce projet de
renforcement des capacitks de gestion de la dette est financC par la Banque mondiale et la BAD.

2.       Actions a mener

42.      Enattendant la mise en place d'un systeme intkgrC de gestion financiere et administrative (SIG),
le Gouvernement mettra en ceuvre,      a partirde janvier 2006, une ProcBduretransitoire simplifibe (PTS)
pennettant de maitriser les effectifs civils et d'assainir le fichier de la paie.

43.      L e Gouvernement rattachera Cgalement les comptables payeurs au Trksor et s'assurera duretour et
de la verification des listes de paie kmargCes aux comptables et aux ministeres de la Fonction Publique et
duBudget.

44.      En vue de maitriser leurs effectifs, le Gouvernement conduit depuis le dCbut de 2005 un
recensement des effectifs civils.      Un exercice similaire est conduit pour les effectifs militaires. Le
programme de mise A la retraite interviendra    a partir du dernier
qui sont dCja partis a la retraite sans avoir bCnCficiC de leurs indemnitks de dkpart. Ce programme se
                                                                     trimestre de 2005 en commenqant par ceux

poursuivra en 2006 et concernera les fonctionnaires ayant CtC identifiCs lors du recensement comme
Cligibles au programme.

45.
s'engage a mettre en place une commission indkpendante de suivi, avec l'appui des partenaires extCrieurs,
         En attendant l'achevement du programme DDR et de l'inttgration de l'armCe, le Gouvernement

chargCe de s'assurer que tous les militaires, policiers et fonctionnaires regoivent d'une fagon rkguliere
leurs rkmunCrations et autres avantages.

46.      La rBforme de l'administration fiscale et douanihre sera poursuivie en 2005 et 2006. Pour
faciliter et accelCrer les opkrations de dkdouanement, un dkcret prCsidentiel designera l'Office de douane
et accise (OFIDA) comme seul opkrateur intervenant au niveau du guichet unique et dans l'kvaluation des
marchandises. A cet Cgard, 1'OFIDA effectuera tous les prClevements pour le compte de 1'Office
congolais de contr6le (OCC), de l'Office de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) et de l'Office
national des transports (ONATRA). Un manuel de prockdures harmoniskes sera en application A partir
d'octobre 2005. L e r61e de 1'OCC sera strictement limit6 au contr6le de qualitC, de quantitk et de
conformitk des marchandises, d'apres la loi (Ordonnance loi no74-013 du 10janvier 1974).

47.      L'OFIDA sera converti en une Direction gCnCrale rattachke au Ministere des Finances apres
l'adoption de la loi sur la transformation des entreprises publiques. Pour endiguer la fraude et la corruption
aux frontieres, le Gouvernement Ctudie la possibilitk d'utiliser les services d'une agence privke de
dkclaration. L e Gouvernement assurera une meilleure maitrise du tissu fiscal avec la gknkralisation du
numCro d'identifiant fiscal unique.

48.      L e Gouvernement amkliorera l'execution budgktaire et l a transparence dans la gestion des
finances publiques en mettant en csuvre les mesures convenues dans le cadre du PEG. I1 produira
rtgulihement les ESB mensuels dans les 30jours suivant la fin dumois. I1limitera le recours aux mises a
disposition de fonds (MAD) aux cas strictement necessaires ou prkvus. Ces mises a disposition ne
pourront &re renouvelkes que dans la mesure oh les bknkficiaires communiqueront au Ministere du
Budget lesjustificatifs sur l'utilisation des fonds dkja requs.

49.      Concernant les dipenses de lutte contre la pauvretk, le systkme de suivi sera perfectionnk et un
accent particulier sera mis sur l'approfondissement du suivi et de 1'Cvaluation participatifs a travers le
comitk consultatif de suivi de depenses de lutte contre l a pauvretk.

                                                        59



50.     L e Gouvernement envisage l'extension progressive de tous les elkments qui constituent la chaine
de la dkpense sur le reste dupays, notamment les prockdures rationaliskes, la nouvelle nomenclature et ses
trois classifications, les textes organisationnels, le support informatique, le plan de formation, etc. L a
comptabilitk publique en partie double sera opkrationnelle en 2006.

5 1.    L e processus de modernisation de la gestion de la dette publique se poursuivra avec l'installation
et le fonctionnement d'un systkme informatique SYGADE, couvrant toute la dette publique. Ce systkme
devra permettre de (a) produire des projections mensuelles du service de la dette, et prendre en compte les
dkcaissements rkcents ainsi que les donnkes sur l'exkcution du service de la dette, et (b) encourager la
centralisation des informations sur la dette dans un centre unique. Par ailleurs, les projections mensuelles
du service de la dette devront &trepublikes a l'avance suivant unebase trimestrielle. Enoutre, 1'OGEDEP
est en train de rkflkchir sur l'introduction dans le systkme SYGADE des donnkes relatives           a la dette
publique intkrieure.

IK1.2.3. Rbforme de l'administrationpublique

52.     Objectif. Le Gouvernement est conscient qu'une rkforme complkte de 1'Administration publique
s'impose, afin d'amkliorer sa qualitk et la capacitk des ministkres et agences publiques a fournir des
services de base de qualitk (santk, kducation, etc.). L a stratkgie du Gouvernement repose sur (i)        une
redefinition des missions des ministkres prioritaires et des agences de prestations des services et (ii)
l'augmentation de la qualitk et la productivitk du personnel. Dans l'optique de l a mise en place d'un
appareil rknovk et performant, les actions prioritaires      entreprendre pendant les deux prochaines annkes
viseront a:

    (i) Entreprendre un diagnostic complet des ministkres principaux (missions, modes de
              fonctionnement, cadres organiques, etc.) ;
    (ii) Effectuerunauditdessystkmesdeprestationsdesservices, surtoutauniveaulocal, dansles
              secteurs de la santk, de l'education et de lajustice;
    (iii) Entreprendreunrecensementexhaustifdesagentsde1'Etat;
    (iv)      Faciliter le dkparta la retraite des agents rkunissant les conditions d'8ge et d'anciennetk pour
              lequel unappui financier a ktk sollicitk auprks de la Banque mondiale.

1.      Rkalisations

53.      Une commission interministkrielle de Pilotage de la Rkforme de 1'Administration Publique
(CIPRAP) et un comitk technique de pilotage de la reforme de 1'Administration Publique (CTPRAP) ont
kte constituks en mars 2003 avec pour mission principale de diriger et d'orienter la rkforme et
d'accompagner la prkparation et l a mise en place des actions. L'ensemble de partenaires de
dkveloppement, notamment, la Belgique, la France, 1'Afiique du Sud, 1'Union europkenne, le PNUD et la
Banque mondiale soutient activement le processus de rkfonne de la fonction publique.

54.      Un diagnosticcomplet des minist6resprincipaux.Undiagnostic institutionnel a ktk effectuk par
un cabinet d'expertise en septembre 2002. La premikre phase a port6 sur le Ministkre de la Fonction
Publique qui a servi de pilote et de modkle pour l'ensemble de la rkforme, suivi des etudes similaires pour
les Ministkres des Finances, du Budget, du Plan, de 1'Agriculture et une des rkgies financikres. L'ktude
inclut la rkvision des missions, du cadre organique et du statut de ce ministkre. Deux phases subskquentes
prkvoient des ktudes similaires pour le reste de l'administration publique entre 2005 et 2006.

55.     Recensement.Le systkme d'information relatif A la gestion administrative du personnel et de sa
rkmunkration est tombk en dtconfiture totale. L a rkflexion sur la rkalisation d'un recensement gknkral des
agents de l'Etat a commenck en 2002; ils'agit de      ((faire le mknage n, en repkrant parmi tous ceux qui sont

rkgulikrement declares et payes, les agents fictifs ou absents du service, et de les faire disparaitre de la
paie et des fichiers de personnel, de determiner avec precision les effectifs des agents et fonctionnaires de
l'administration publique et leurs affectations ainsi que la masse salariale. L e Gouvernementcherche donc
a rCunir des informations fiables, pour une gestion moderne des ressources humaines de l'administration
publique. Par ailleurs, ila prCparC de nouvelles procidures pour la securisation du circuit de la paie et a
dCveloppC unlogiciel y relatif pour skcuriser les donnCes tirCes durecensement.

56.      Les termes de refkrence du recensement ont CtC ClaborCs et valid& en juillet 2003 par le ComitC
Technique de la RCforme de 1'Administration Publique (CTRAP) et par le Ministre de la Fonction
Publique. L e recensement des fonctionnaires civils a dCmarrC debut 2005 avec l'appui de la RCpublique
Sud-africaine et dont la premiere phase n'a concern6 que la ville de Kinshasa. I1 est en cours sur deux
autres provinces et continuera en 2006 sur le reste dupays.

57.      L e fichier du personnel actif est donc en cours de revision au fur et A mesure que le Ministkre de
la Fonction Publique reqoit les rCsultats du recensement. Ce fichier sera utilis6 pour l a paie des agents et
fonctionnaires de 1'Etat. Vu l'importance de maitriser l'effectif de la fonction publique, le Gouvernement
               a dkbloquer
et a intCgrer les rtsultats dans le cadre d'un collectif budgetaire en 2006.
s'est engage                des moyens supplkmentaires pour achever le recensement sur l'ensemble dupays


58.      Programme de mise A la retraite. L e programme de mise               a la retraite vise a: (i)restaurer
l'application effective des regles nonnales de gestion de l a fonction publique, (ii)  apurer l'effectif et radier
de la paie des agents quine devraient plus s'y trouver depuis de nombreuses annCes, (iii)      verser aux agents
retraitks, des leur mise a la retraite, le pCcule auquel i l s ont droit, (iv) redynamiser l'administration en
provoquant en son sein unmouvement dupersonnel, en rajeunissant l'effectif.

59.      Depuis le dCbut de 2003, la Banque mondiale a appuyC le Ministere de la Fonction Publique, pour
definir une strategie de mise a la retraite techniquement viable et financierement supportable et pour
Ctablir une base de donnCes. Un document de stratCgie et de mtthodologie de mise a la retraite a CtC
Clabort en 2004 et adopt6 en 2005. Sur cette base, le Gouvernement a obtenu un appui de la Banque
mondiale pour financer les departs A la retraite des personnes ayant atteint l'age de l a retraite au plus tard

mise a la retraite auront lieu en deux groupes. L e nombre exact des fonctionnaires Cligibles a la mise a la
le 31 dCcembre 2004. D'aprks cette strategie, les dtparts des fonctionnaires btnkficiant duprogramme de

retraite n'est pas encore connu avec certitude: les estimations les plusrCcentes le situent a environ 100,000
dans tout le pays, y compris les agents deja retraitCs mais qui n'ont pas r e p leurs indemnitks de dCpart.
L'opQation d'identification du premier groupe des Cligibles au programme est terminke, et a identifie
5.744 fonctionnaires Cligibles dans le pays entier.

60.      Audit des systltmes de prestations des services. Dans le cadre de la reforme de l'Etat, le
Gouvernement, en collaboration avec l a Banque mondiale, a analysC les mecanismes de prestations des
services au niveau local dans deux secteurs clCs: 1'Cducation et la santC. A cet effet, une serie d'enqdtes a
et6 conduite auprks des prestataires de services, qu'ils soient publics ou privCs, afin d'analyser leurs
modes de fonctionnement, leurs mCcanismes de financement et les contraintes auxquelles ils font face en
matiere de provision des services. A ces elements d'information, les enquetes ont apportC tgalement le
point de vue des usagers sur l'accessibilitt et la qualit6 des services, ainsi que des informations sur le
mode de fonctionnement des structures administratives en amont des prestataires de service
(administration dCconcentrCe et decentraliske).      L'ensemble de ces informations servira de base a des
rkformes.

2.       Actions h mener

61.      L e recensement sur toutes les provinces sera achevC mi-2006. L a base de donnees sur les
fonctionnaires et agents de l'Etat, obtenue grace a l'opkration de recensement, constituera un des

                                                       61


klkments-cles dans la prkparation d'une rkforme en profondeur de l'administration publique. Cette
opkration permettra l'assainissement des effectifs fictifs et par ailleurs, le fichier sortant du rksultat du
recensement servira de base A la paie des agents et fonctionnaires de l'Etat. L e systbme integrk de gestion
financibre et administrative (SIG) sera introduit pour (i)    skcuriser et mettre  jour les donnkes collectkes
par le recensement, (ii)   unifier la base des donnkes de la PTS avec les donnkes du recensement et (iii)
amkliorer la gestion de la fonction publique. L e recensement permettra kgalement l'ktablissement de la
liste du personnel actif kligible pour le programme de mise a la retraite (le deuxikme groupe).             L e
deuxikme groupe commencera        a &re indemnisk vers la fin 2005.

IK1.2.4. Dbcentralisation
62.      Objectif.L a dkcentralisation est un espoir pour les populations, une operation complexe pour les
administrations, un acte de courage pour un gouvernement. En RDC, les objectifs ci-aprks sont assignks
au processus de dkcentralisation: (i)   permettre aux populations de participer A la vie publique de 1'Etat et A
l'klaboration des politiques de dkveloppement dans les domaines qui les concernent; (ii)      dkcharger l'Etat
central des tiiches &execution pour se concentrer sur la dkfinition des grandes orientations; (iii)rapprocher
l'administration de l'administrk et (iv) assouplir l'administration et initier la population a la culture
participative en vue de gknkrer le dkveloppement des entitks administratives dkcentraliskes (EAD).

1.Rbalisations

63.      L a Commissionpolitique, administrative etjuridique de 1'Assemblke nationale en partenariat avec
la Banque mondiale a organisk en septembre 2004 un skminaire sur la dkcentralisation en RDC. I1 avait
pour but le renforcement des capacitks institutionnelles et humaines dans la mise en application des grands
principes en matibre de dkcentralisation, de ses conskquences en terme de recettes, de dkpenses et de
pkrkquation. Des recommandations ont ktk formulkes dans le rapport final de ce skminaire.

2. Actions ri mener

64.      Pour atteindre les objectifs, le gouvernement compte mener les actions suivantes :

     -   Crier une commission nationale de la dkcentralisation (par dkcret du Chef de 1'Etat) placke sous

     -   l'autoritk duMinistre de 1'Intkrieur;
         Donner le statut d'EAD
              0   a la ville et aux communes, au niveau de la ville de Kinshasa;

     -        0   a laprovince, A la ville et aux collectivitks, au niveaudes provinces;
         Etendre l'expkrience de l'ancien Kivu en klevant les districts au rang de provinces et leurs chefs-
         lieux A celui de villes.
     -
     --  Eriger en ville toute agglomkration de 100.000 habitants et plus;
         Eriger en EADtoute agglomkration de 15.000 habitants et plus;
         Formaliser les differents niveaux de coordination horizontale et verticale pour l'instauration, sous
         la conduite de l'autoritk de 1'EAD supkrieure, des confkrences rkunissant les exkcutifs des EAD
         infkrieures de son ressort, avec des compktences prkcises A l'kchelle de la province et du territoire
         ou de la ville selon le cas;
     -   Accompagner tout transfert de compktences aux EADavec du transfert des ressources nkcessaires

     --  a l'exercice normal de ces compktences dans les conditions prkvues par la loi;
         Accompagner tout transfert de compktence aux EADavec du transfert dupersonnel;
         Spkcialiser la fiscalitk par type d'EAD afin de sensibiliser les populations au lien entre

     -   contribution et service rendu;
         Instaurer la pkrkquationpour rkduire les dkskquilibres kconomiques et sociaux territoriaux.

                                                        62


65.      Enoutre, le projet de loi sur la dkcentralisation prkpark avec l'appui des services duFMIet de la
Banque mondiale a ktk transmis       1'Assemblke nationale. Pour l'annke 2005, le Gouvemement a maintenu
le principe actuel de rktrocession et s'assurera du maintien de l'kquilibre budgktaire des provinces. On
dkfinira au cours de l'annke 2005 des listes de besoins et prioritks en assistance technique pour renforcer
les capacitks administratives des provinces. Dans le m&meordre d'idkes, le Gouvernement de transition se
propose de renforcer le mode d'organisation et d'administration des provinces pour qu'elles contribuent ii
la stabilitk et iila paix, qu'elles fassent participer les populations B la gestion des affaires publiques ainsi
qu'elles favorisent l'accroissement des services d'utilitk publique.

66.      L a rkforme du mode d'organisation et d'administration du territoire sera conduite dans la
perspective de (a) instaurer la dkmocratisation des affaires publiques, (b) assurer une plus grande
proximitk entre les dkcideurs et leurs administrks, les prestataires et les btnkficiaires de services, (c)
introduire le principe de l a mise en responsabilitk des gestionnaires, qu'ils soient tlus ou dksignks, et (d)
garantir la transparence dans la gestion des affaires publiques et privkes. En fait, ils'agit la des principes
de base qui dkfinissent les grands axes de la stratkgie du gouvemement au sujet de l a dkcentralisation.

67.      Comme l'avait proposk enjuin 2003 l'kquipe interministkrielle, le gouvemement se propose, entre
autres choses, (a) de dresser un ktat des lieux aux plans administratif et financier des principales entitks
administratives dtcentraliskes, (b) de prkparer des monographies kconomiques et financikres des
principales subdivisions territoriales, (c) de commander des analyses dktaillkes et critiques de l'assiette
fiscale des gouvernements locaux, (d) de prkparer unguide de gestion locale, (e) d'klaborer unprogramme
de formation pour les cadres et les agents des gouvernements subsidiaires, et (0 de prockder A des
consultations populaires sur les attributions et les prkrogatives des gouvernements locaux.

IK1.2.5. Systzmejudiciaire
68.      Objectifs. Le Gouvernement vise B la rkhabilitation de lajustice notamment par la publication de
la version finale duplan d'action de lajustice pour renforcer son systkmejudiciaire d'ici dkcembre 2005.

1. Rbalisations

69.      Avec l'appui de 1'Union europkenne, du PNLJD, de la MONUC, de la Banque mondiale, de la
Belgique, de la France et du Royaume-Uni, un audit organisationnel du systkme judiciaire et programme
cadre de lajustice en RDC a ktk rkalist en 2004. Unatelier national de validation durapport a Ctk organisk
en novembre 2004. L e Comite mixte de suivi du programme cadre de la justice a CtC Cree en novembre
2004, et ses termes de rkfkrence ont ktk approuvks en juillet 2005. Ce comitk de suivi comprend les
reprksentants duMinistkre de la Justice et ceux des partenaires en dkveloppement

2. Actions h mener

70.      D'ici dkcembre 2005, le Gouvemement mettra en ceuvre les actions suivantes: (i)           prockder A la
mise en ceuvre d'une politique sectorielle de la justice et des actions prioritaires dans le domaine
judiciaire; (ii)poursuivre la mise en place des tribunaux de commerce a Kinshasa et 6 Lubumbashi ; (iii)
organiser la ckrkmonie officielle de signature de l'acte qui permet le lancement du comitk mixte de suivi
duprogramme cadre de lajustice et (iv) la mise enplace de son secrktariat.

IV.2. Secteur financier
71.      Objectifs. L a rkforme du secteur financier a pour but la relance de l'intermkdiation financikre.
Elle comporte trois composantes: (a) la rkforme du cadre legal et rkglementaire rkgissant le secteur
bancaire; (b) la restructuration de la Banque centrale et l'amelioration de sa gestion et (c) l a restructuration
des banques commerciales.

                                                      63


1.       Rkalisations

72.      L e cadre juridique et rkglementaire a CtC complktement rCvisC en 2002, A travers l'adoption de
nouvelles lois rCgissant la Banque centrale, les activitCs bancaires et les activitks des coopkratives
d'kpargne et de crCdit.     Une sCrie d'audits des banques commerciales a CtC finalisCe en 2003 avec
l'assistance financikre de la Banque mondiale. Sur la base des rksultats, trois banques publiques (BCCE,
NBK, et BCA) et deux banques prides (BCD et First Banlung Corporation) ont CtC 1iquidCes
respectivement en 2003 et en 2004. Pour les banques jugCes viables A travers les audits, un accord forme1
a CtC conclu en mars 2004 avec la BCC sur les plans de restructuration, avec un calendrier de mise en
application ainsi que des indicateurs de performance. En outre, le Gouvemement a lev6 l'option sur
l'hypothkse de calcul des indemnitks a payer aux partants volontaires des banques 1iquidCes.

2.      Actions a mener

73.      L a supervision des institutions financikres et de micro-finance sera renforcCe dans le souci de
prCvenir tout risque systkmique d'illiquiditk et d'insolvabilitC. En particulier, la Banque centrale rendra
opkrationnelle l'application informatique pour la supervision bancaire avant fin fCvrier 2006. L a
restructuration du systkme bancaire sera poursuivie avec les 5 banques qui mettent en Oeuvre des plans de
restructuration. L e cadre fiscal et rkglementaire pour les banques sera renforce a travers les textes de loi
que le Gouvemement a soumis au Parlement. L a Banque centrale du Congo publiera une instruction
abolissant l'actionnariat anonyme et Claborera les critkres pour la sklection des actionnaires bancaires.
Enfin,le Gouvernement est en train de prCparer uncadre legal pour les institutions de micro-finance non
mutuelles. Un nouveau plan comptable bancaire sera prCparC et entrera en vigueur A compter du ler
janvier 2006. En ce qui concerne la BCCE, la B C A et l a NBK, les liquidateurs indkpendants ont CtC
nommts par le recouvrement de la totalit6 des crCances en vue d'apurer le solde dupassif.

IV.3.DCveloppementdu secteur privC
74.      Objectif. L'objectif est d'instaurer unclimat des affaires susceptible de promouvoir la croissance
des entreprises compktitives, capables de crCer de nouveaux emplois. Cela passe par (i)      l'amklioration de
l'environnement des investissements tant pour les investisseurs nationaux qu'htrangers (cadre juridique et
rkglementaire, rCgime fiscal des entreprises); (ii)la finalisation du code du travail et du code de
commerce); (iii)  le rkglement de la dette intCrieure envers les entreprises et (iv) la rdduction de l a dette
commerciale      travers l'opiration de rachat de la dette par le club de Londres. Par ailleurs, il sera
nkcessaire de renforcer ou de crter les institutions et instruments nicessaires a la rCgulation Cconomique.

1. Rbalisations

75.      Au niveau du cadre juridique, une grande rCfonne a CtC entamCe avec l'approbation de
nouveaux codes des investissements et du travail en 2002. Au plan sectoriel, un nouveau code minier a
CtC public en 2002 et ses principaux dtcrets d'applications en 2003. Un nouveau code forestier a CtC
promulguk en 2002. Des arr8tCs portant mesures d'application ont CtC pris en 2003 et 2004. Dans le
domaine de la regulation des tClCcommunications, 1'Agence de RCgulation des Postes, TClCphones et
TClCcommunications (AFU'TC) a CtC crCCe et la nouvelle loi sur la tClCcommunication a CtC publike en
2003.

76.      Au niveau judiciaire, et particulikrement pour les deux tribunaux de commerce que le
Gouvernement compte mettre en place, lesjuges ainsi que le personnel de ces tribunaux ont CtC formes a
Rome en janvier 2004. L a seconde formation a CtC organisCe A Kinshasa entre janvier et mars 2005 avec
l'appui du COPIREP sur le droit de 1'OHADA au cours de laquelle plusieurs catkgories de personnes
furent formCes. Les infi-astructuresphysiques sont en voie de rkhabilitation. Pour faciliter la rCsolution des
diffkrends commerciaux, un centre national d'arbitrage a CtC crCC par arret6 ministeriel en juin 2003 et

                                                      64


environ 30 arbitres enregistrks en novembre 2004. Une gazette permettant de publier les lois a CtC creee.
Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement a requ en mars 2005, le rapport sur 1'Ctude des modalitks d'adhksion A
1'OHADA.

77.      En vue de faciliter les opCrations administratives relatives aux investissements, une agence de
promotion des investissements (ANAPI) a CtC crCCe en 2002. En vue de contribuer           a  l'amelioration du
climat des affaires, le Gouvernement et le Parlement ont approuvk 1'adhCsion du pays a 1'Agence pour
1'Assurance du Commerce en Afrique (ACA). L'Accord a CtC notifiC en fkvrier 2005. L a RDC a libCrC sa
contribution initiale au capital de 1'ACA avec l'aide de la Banque mondiale.

78.      Au niveau de la fiscalitb, des revues du systbme fiscal et douanier ont CtC entreprises avec
l'assistance du FMI et de la Banque mondiale. I1 en a rCsultC la publication d'un nouveau tarif douanier
(dont l'objectif est de rationaliser la structure de la protection douanibre du march6 intkrieur) et
d'importantes rCformes entreprises au niveau de la fiscalit6 indirecte, dont l'introduction de la
dCductibilitC au niveau de l'imp6t sur le chiffre d'affaire en vue d'amkliorer la compCtitivitC des industries
locales vis a vis du march6 international et de prCparer en m&me temps l'instauration de la TVA pour
2006.    L'ICA sur les exportations a CtC supprimCe en juillet 2004.         Un consultant est en voie de
recmtement pour travailler sur la rationalisation de la fiscalit6 directe et indirecte applicable aux
entreprises.

79.      Dette intbrieure.Un audit des arriCrCs de paiement de l'Etat envers le secteur privC, effectuC par

pour les crCances allant jusqu'au 3 1dCcembre 2001. L e stock total de la dette certifiCe a CtC arret6 a 1.270
une firme d'expertise financikre recrutCe avec l'appui de la Banque mondiale, a CtC ached en fkvrier 2004

millions USD, dont 470 millions U S D de dette commerciale. Les negotiations menCes par la Banque
Sterling Merchant Finance Ltd. (nkgociateur du Gouvemement recrutC a cet effet) n'ont porte que sur la
dette commerciale. Les crkanciers representant 365 millions USD ont pris part aux nCgociations qui ont
abouti  a une dCcote moyenne de 75% en valeur actualiske, ramenant ainsi le stock 2i 96 millions USD.
L'apport de la Banque mondiale de 42,5 millions U S D au titre d'appui budgktaire servira a payer la
premikre tranche de 2005. L e plan de remboursement pour les annCes 2006 et 2007 prCvoit le montant
respectif de 29'5 millions de U S D et 24'7 millions.

80.      Au niveau de la rbglementation du travail, l'objectif est de finaliser et adopter les principaux
dCcrets d'application du code de travail durant 1'annCe 2005. Cependant, le calendrier de realisation de cet
objectif est tributaire de la conclusion des discussions tripartites (gouvernement, syndicats et employeurs)
sur le contenu des dits dCcrets. Le Gouvernement est trks soucieux d'assurer que les dispositions de ces
dCcrets    n'handicapent ni la compCtitivitC, ni l a crCation de nouveaux emplois par une protection
dCmesurCe des intkrets des employCs existants. L e Conseil national du travail a examine quelques
dispositions au cours de sa convention du mois d'avril 2005, et une autre session a CtC convoquCe pour
finaliser l'examen de textes restants.

81.      Pour soutenir et redynamiser le secteur privC, le gouvernement est en train d'Claborer un projet
d'appui au secteur privC ax6 sur    (1)l'assistance technique aux entreprises privCes; (ii)1'amClioration du
climat des affaires; (iii) au financement et (iv) la poursuite du volet social de la restructurationdes
                          l'accks
entreprises publiques.

2. Actions a mener

82.      D'ici dCcembre 2005, A        la demande de la Commission Economique et Financikre du
Gouvernement, l e Ministre de la Justice transmettra des avis sur les prealables 6 la mise en (zuvre du
processus d'adhksion de la Republique DCmocratique du Congo a l'OHADA, notamment: (i) levCe            la
formelle de l'option par le Conseil des Ministres sur 1'adhCsion de la RDC; (ii)    l a notification de l'option

                                                      65


levCe au Secrttariat de 1'OHADA B travers la lettre d'intention du Gouvemement et (iii)     la consultation de
la Cour Supreme de Justice sur 1'Cventuel conflit de competence entre elle et la Cour de Justice et
d'Arbitrage de 1'OHADA en matikre de pourvoi en cassation, form6 contre les decisions rendues en demier
ressort par les cows et tribunaux congolais dans les matikres couvertes par le droit OHADA et ce,
conformCment a l'article 194 de la Constitutionde la Transition.

83.     L e guichet unique douanier a CtC lance au Port de Matadi en 2003 et B Kasumbalesa en 2004. Ces
guichets seront renforcks avec l'adoption avant fin 2005 d'un dCcret designant 1'OFIDA comme seul
opCrateur intervenant dans les bureaux infonnatisks du guichet unique et dans la dktermination de la
valeur en douane des marchandises.

IV.4.    RCformedes EntreprisesduPortefeuille
84.     Objectifs. Conscient de la nCcessitC d'un partenariat public-prid pour la relance de l'Cconomie,
le Gouvemement a ClaborC une stratCgie pour la rCfonne du secteur des entreprises publiques. Les
objectifs de cette rtforme sont de: (a) s'assurer que les services publics sont fournis de manibre durable et
sur une base commerciale, en faisant appel, en tant que de besoin, au concours du secteur privC sous
diverses formes (partenariat, concession, cession partiale ou totale d'actions) et (b) rCduire les coats quasi-
fiscaux rCsultant de la mauvaise gestion des entreprises publiques et de leur rkorganisation.

1. Rbalisations

85.     Les travaux prtparatifs de la rtforme ont permis au Gouvernement de mener des audits dans les
entreprises publiques. Ensuite, la PrCsidence de l a RCpublique a animC un atelier de rCflexion autour de
l'idCe de rCformer ce secteur en septembre 2001. En octobre 2002, un ComitC de Pilotage de la RCforme
des Entreprises Publiques (COPIREP) a CtC crCC avec l'objectif de prCparer et de mettre en place des
rCformes, notamment par un diagnostic de toutes les entreprises publiques effectuC          a travers d'audits
financiers et opkrationnel. L e ComitC devra Cgalement formuler des propositions de restructuration.

86.      Les rapports des audits comptable, fonctionnel et opkrationnel de certaines entreprises ont CtC
rendus au Gouvemement au mois d'avril 2004, et servent maintenant de base de travail pour les groupes
sectoriels de travail animCs par le COPIREP.


(OCPT), les partants volontaires et les personnes Cligibles B la retraite ont et6 indemises a partir de
87.      Dans l e cadre de la restructuration de l'Office congolais des Postes et TClCcommunications

janvier 2005. L e processus de liquidation de la NBK, la BCCE et la B C A dCcidC en mars 2003 se
poursuit. L e coQt social de la restructuration de 1'OCPT et de la liquidation des trois banques publiques est
financC B travers le Projet de CompCtitivitC et de DCveloppement du Secteur PrivC financC par la Banque
mondiale.

2.       Actions Ci mener

88.      Les actions B mener se prksentent comme suit :

         -  mettre en place le comitC technique du COPIREP, qui est l'organe de conception,
             d'orientation et de suivi duprocessus de la rtforme des entreprises publiques. Ce comitC sera
             chargC d'approuver: (i)     les dossiers techniques ClaborCs par le SecrCtariat ExCcutif du
             COPIREP avant leur soumission au Gouvernement et (ii)les propositions de rCfonne
         -  prCparCespar les groupes sectoriels de travail.
            rendre pleinement opCrationnels les groupes sectoriels de travail et d'Ctudes sur le processus
             de la reforme des entreprises publiques dans les secteurs jug& prioritaires.

                                                             66

         -    prkparer des plans d'actions pour les entreprises clks, dont la Gecamines, l a RVA, la SNCC,

         -    LAC, Citytrain, de 1'OCPT et la SNEL''.
              faire adopter par le Parlement la refonte du cadre juridique et rkglementaire rkgissant les
              entreprises publiques. A ce sujet, le Gouvernement a dtpod, pour adoption au parlement en
              fevrier 2005, 4 projets de lois concemant (i)le dksengagement de l'Etat des activitts
              commerciales, (ii)     la transformation des entreprises publiques ou Ctablissements publics, (iii)
              les dispositions gknkrales applicables aux entreprises publiques et (iv) les dispositions

         -    gknerales applicables aux Ctablissements publics.
              amkliorer les capacitCs institutionnelles de gestion et de surveillance des entreprises
              publiques.

89.      Enattendant l'adoptionpar leParlement et lapromulgationpar le Chef de l'Etatdes loisrelatives       a
la modernisation du cadre juridique, unchronogramme des actions a CtC conqu pour prkparer les stratkgies
de reforme au niveau sectoriel et aussi bien par entreprise. L e Gouvemement prendra des dispositions
pour accklkrer l'adoption par l e Parlement des plans de restructuration de huit entreprises publiques clks
avant fin 2005 (RVA, OCC, GECAMINES, SNCC, LAC, CITYTRAIN, OCPT, SNEL). L e plan de
restructurationpour la compagnie de distribution pktrolikre (COHYDRO) a et6 finalisk au mois de juillet
2005 et son audit financier sera achevk avant fin 2005. L'audit stratkgique du conseil supkrieur de
portefeuille a aussi Ctk achevk enjuillet 2005.

90.      En ce qui concerne 1'amClioration de la capacitk institutionnelle de gestion et surveillance des
entreprises publiques, le gouvernement a initiC un contrBle au niveau des entreprises publiques, dont les
conclusions ont Ctk rendues publiques et les sanctions infligCes aux mandataires incriminks et certaines
autoritks ministkrielles en fCvrier 2005.            Par ailleurs, plusieurs comitCs de gestion des entreprises
publiques ont ttk suspendus.

IV.5. Ressourcesnaturelles
91.      Objectifs. Dans les deux secteurs (forestier et minier), l'objectif global est que l'important
patrimoine public de la RDC contribue mieux A la relance kconomique, au dkveloppement rural et iila
rkduction de la pauvretC, tout en prCservant sur le long-terme l'intkgrite des kcosystkmes et
l'environnement. Les rkformes spkcifiques visent           a :

            amkliorer la gouvernance et la transparence dans l a gestion des ressources forestikres et
            minikres, par l'adoption de nouveaux cadres juridiques et rkglementaires (code minier, code
            forestier), qui sont propices a la participation de l'investissement prive dans les secteurs et
            contribuent iiune croissance kconomique equitable et soutenable sur le plan environnemental;
            rendre plus clair et plus equitable l'accks aux ressources forestikres et minibres, ainsi que

            renforcer la capacitk des institutions de ces deux secteurs a faire respecter les nouveaux cades
            l'accks aux bknkfices issus de leur exploitation;

           juridique et rkglementaire;
            mieux skcuriser les droits (fonciers et autres) de toutes les parties prenantes;
            rehabiliter rapidement la production minibre de maniere durable du point de vue Cconomique,
            environnemental et social ;
            rkformer des entreprises publiques minibres et la rkduire la participation de 1'Etat dans les
            activitCs de production.




lo  Desprd-audits environnementuux de la SNCC, CITITRAIN, RVA, LAC, OCPT, SNEL ont aussi CtC effectuks,
    facilitant ainsi le travail prkliminaire de restructuration ou de rtforme de ces entreprises.

                                                       67


IV.5.1. Secteur Forestier
92.      Objectifs. Les rCformes en cours dans le cadre de 1'Agenda prioritaire du Gouvernement pour la
relance du secteur forestier s'appuient sur la mise en ceuvre du nouveau Code forestier. Elles visent: (i)    a
assainir l'hkritage de mauvaise gestion dupass6 et rendre plus Cquitable l'acces aux ressources forestikres
et aux btntfices issus de leur exploitation; et (ii)    renforcer les droits des communautts forestikres et
amCliorer leurs conditions de vie; et (iii) protCger l'environnement. L e gouvernement est conscient que la
for& est un secteur clC pour sa strattgie de rkduction de la pauvretC, pour la relance de 1'Cconomie et la
consolidation de l a paix, et pour son image et sa crCdibilitC internationale. Environ 40 millions de
Congolais panni les plus pauvres dCpendent de la forst pour leurs aliments, matkriaux, Cnergie et
mtdicaments. Par ailleurs, la for& congolaise est aussi la deuxieme plus grande for& tropicale du monde
et joue un r6le primordial pour l'environnement mondial. Toutes ces fonctions de base doivent Ctre
prCservCes. Avec le retour de la paix, la relance du secteur peut aussi contribuer au bien-Ctre de la
population, mais ces bCntfices viendront uniquement dans la mesure oh des politiques appropriees seront
correctement appliqukes. Dans leur ensemble, les dispositions promues dans le cadre de cet agenda
prioritaire devraient assurer que les fonctions de base des for& sont prtservtes et renforckes, et que la
relance du secteur contribue de facon durable et equitable A 1'Cconomie nationale par des recettes et des
emplois, ainsi qu'au dtveloppement des zones rurales dCfavorisCes et a la protection de l'environnement.

1.       Rbalisations

93.      En2002, la RDC a adopt6 unnouveaucode forestier quiremplace la rkglementationcoloniale de
1949 et qui met en avant les principes modernes de gestion durable des for&            et de participation de la
socittC civile et des communautks locales. En m@metemps, ila placC la priorit6 sur l'assainissement de
l'hkritage de mauvaise gestion du secteur qui avait abouti A la distribution discrbtionnaire de l a majorit6 du
patrimoine forestier national (45 millions d'hectares sur environ 60 millions) sous forme de contrats de
((garanties d'approvisionnement     ))et  ((lettres d'intention)) sans consultations locales et avec peu de
btnefice pour les communautCs rurales et pour 1'Etat. Des 2002, le gouvernement a rCsiliC 163 contrats qui
ne respectaient les obligations contractuelles ClCmentaires; ce qui a permis le retour au domaine public de
25 millions d'hectares. En 2002, le gouvernement a Cgalement mis en place un moratoire sur toute
nouvelle acquisition de droit d'exploitation, en attendant l'adoption des nouvelles rbgles d'adjudication
prCvues par le code.

94.      ConfonnCment au nouveau code, les contrats qui n'ont pas CtC rCsiliCs en 2002 doivent dCsormais
faire l'objet d'une revue legale approfondie en vue de vCrifier leur lCgalitC et le respect des clauses
contractuelles, en vue de les convertir dans la nouvelle cattgorie appelCe ((concession)). A cet effet, un
dCcret presidentiel a CtC public le 25 octobre 2005 au Journal Officiel pour fixer les prockdures et les
critkres de cette revue legale. L e dCcret met en place une commission interministerielle Clargie A la sociCtC
civile et au secteur privC. I1prCvoit qu'un observateur indkpendant de rCputation internationaleparticipera
a toutes les phases du processus et vkrifiera la conformitt5 des travaux avec les prockdures. I1 Cnonce
clairement les criteres rbdhibitoires dont le non-respect entraine la rksiliation de l'ancien contrat, et prCvoit
plusieurs Ctapes d'information du public. Les concessions converties devront Ctre remises en cohCrence
avec les terroirs villageois, et seront soumises A l a prkparation d'un plan d'amknagement durable et d'un
cahier des charges sociales. En vue du dCmarrage de cette revue, le Ministere de 1'Environnement et celui
des Finances ont public conjointement le le`     novembre 2005 par voie de presse et par affichage dans tous
les gouvernorats la liste officielle complete des titres existants en indiquant que leurs dktenteurs sont priCs
de soumettre un dossier de conversion endCans les trois mois suivant l a promulgation du dCcret. Le
gouvernement a recrutC unexpert indkpendant de rCputation internationale. I1procedera incessamment A la
nomination des membres de la commission interministkrielle.

95.      L e gouvernement a aussi dtcidC d'Ctendre et de renforcer le moratoire mis en place en 2002
jusqu'8 l'adoption des rkgles d'adjudication. En effet, ilestime que ce moratoire ne peut pas Ctre leve

                                                       68


avant que l a revue legale des anciens contrats ne soit achevCe et qu'une programmation gkographique des
futures concessions ne soit adoptee. Dans ce sens, ilest indiquk dans le mCme dCcret prksidentiel prkcitk
que le moratoire instaurC en 2002 est maintenujusqu'h ce que les deux conditions soient remplies : (1)
achevement de la revue lCgale et (2) adoption d'une programmation gkographique des futures concessions
sur trois ans. Les rkhabilitations, Cchanges et relocalisations d'anciens titres d'exploitation qui seraient
intervenues apres mai 2002 ne sont pas conformes ce moratoire, et seront annulks. Tout recours Cventuel
contre les rksiliations dCcidCes par le gouvernement en 2002 se fera de faqon transparente dans le cadre de
la revue lkgale susmentionnCe. L a programmation des futures concessions se fera de faqon participative.
Au cours de cet exercice le gouvernement examinera l'intkret rCel pour la RDC d'attribuer encore de
nouvelles concessions dans les trois prochaines annkes, en sus de celles qui existent dkja, ceci en tenant
compte notamment des contraintes d'infiastructure et des contraintes institutionnelles.


recommandations visent a simplifier la structure de la fiscalit6 forestiere, a diminuer la pression totale et a
96.      En 2003, le Gouvernement a accompli une revue Cconomique de la filiere bois dont les

sCcuriser les prockdures de recouvrement. L e rCCquilibrage de la fiscalitk consiste principalement a rCduire
les charges parafiscales, surtout dans le domaine du transport, tout en relevant progressivement la taxe de
superficie   pour decourager l'immobilisation spkculative des forCts du patrimoine national. Ces
prkoccupations ont ktC consacrCes par la signature de 1'ArrCtC interministkriel
impliquant 5 ministbres a savoir, l'Environnement, les Finances, le Transport, 1'Industrie et le Commerce
                                                                                     n O O l Odu 17 mars 2004


1'ONATRA sont tombCs successivement de 16 $ U S /tonne en 2003 a 10 $ U S /tonne en 2004, puis a 5 $
extkrieur. Les dispositions de cet Arrete sont dCja d'application. Les fiais de transit par les ports de

U S /tonne en 2005, ce qui represente un soulagement important pour les entreprises prCtes        a contribuera
la relance de notre kconomie. L'accroissement de la taxe de superficie forestikre se fait de faqon plus
graduelle : celle-ci est passee de 0,06 $ US en 2003      0,lO $ US en 2004 puis A 0,20 $ U S par hectare en
2005. L'arrCtk indique que ce taux sera de 0,30 $ en 2006 et 0,50 $ U S en 2007. Les bilans de
recouvrement de l a taxe de superficie pour les annCes 2003 et 2004 ont ktC publicsenjuillet 2005. Trente
neuf contrats des concessionnaires non en regle avec le fisc ont CtC rCsiliCs. L a liste des contrats ayant
pay6 la taxe et celle des contrats rksilits ont ktk publikes le 7 octobre 2005.

2.       Actions h mener

97.      L e moratoire sur les nouvelles attributions de concessions forestieres se poursuivrajusqu'a ce que
les deux conditions susmentionnCes soient remplies. L a revue lCgale des titres existants sera achevke
conformCment aux prockdures fixCes dans le dCcret prksidentiel. Les concessions invalides seront
rksiliCes, les titres valides seront convertis en concession d'amknagement durable et les rCsultats seront
publiks.

98.      Afin de lutter contre l'exploitation illkgale des for&          et de renforcer la transparence, le
gouvernement recrutera un observateur tiers, de crkdibilitk internationale, qui sera mandate pour assister
l'administration dans ses missions de contr6le sur le terrain, et pour stimuler la participation de la sociktk
civile et l'information du public sur les contr6les et les sanctions. A cet effet, des missions pilotes seront
conduites en partenariat avec une ou des organisations non gouvernementales spCcialisCes dans la
dktection de l'exploitation illkgale, l'information au public et l'implication de la sociCte civile.

99.      Afin de permettre la mise en pratique des innovations du code forestier, le gouvernement fera
diligence pour adopter au moins les principaux textes d'application a savoir ceux concernant:
l'amknagement durable et le contr6le, les procCdures de consultations locales, le modele de contrat de
concession et les cahiers des charges ; les modalitCs de transfert et de suivi des 40% des recettes aux
entitCs administratives dCcentralisCes ;ainsi que les modalitCs d'attribution des forets. Sur ce dernier point,
ilest confirm6 qu'apres lalevCedumoratoire, toute attributionde concession seraprCckdCepar des
consultations locales, se fera dans le cadre d'une commission interministkrielle avec la participation d'un

                                                        69


observateur independant. I1 est aussi confirm6 que la procCdure exceptionnelle de grC-a-grC                sera
strictement limitCe aux for& des communautCs locales et aux fortits de conservation dans des conditions
qui sont dtfinies par le m&medCcret. Le projet d'arr&tC portant modalitks de rktrocession aux EADest en
cours de prkparation. Ces textes d'application seront adopt& dans le cadre du comite multi-acteurs dCja
en place et sur la base de consultations dans les provinces. Dans ces textes, la priorite sera donnee A mettre
en place des rbgles claires, simples et faciles a vkrifier.

100.     L e gouvernement continuera d'appliquer en permanence les rCformes fiscales adopttes en mars
2004, y compris l'evolution graduelle des taux jusque 2007. I1rendra opkrationnel unprogramme conjoint
entre le Ministbre de 1'Environnement et celui des Finances pour la skcurisation du recouvrement des
recettes forestibres. Les bilans de recouvrement seront dgulikrement publics et les concessions
dkfaillantesrCsiliCes conformCment aux clauses contractuelles.

101.     Enfin, le gouvernement facilitera le dCveloppement des for&         communautaires en mettant en
place un cadre rkglementaire simple et incitatif, et en intensifiant ses efforts de vulgarisation du nouveau
code. I1 promouvra aussi la valorisation des services environnementaux et l'tmergence d'usages non
extractifs des for&.  Les for& reverstes dans le domaine public suite a l'assainissement des anciennes
concessions pourront faire l'objet d'un zonage participatif en vue de leur affectation comme espace de
conservation, de gestion communautaire, de production sous amtnagement durable, ou d'autres usages
possibles. Dans ces consultations, des mesures particulibres seront prises              l'tgard des groupes
minoritaires ou vulnkrables. L'Claboration du projet de loi sur l a Conservation de l a Nature est en cours.
L e gouvernement veillera, avec l'appui de ses partenaires, a la rkhabilitation et l'extension du rCseau des
parcs nationaux et autres aires protCgCes. Les capacitCs du Ministbre de 1'Environnement et de 1'Institut
Congolais de Conservation de la Nature seront renforckes.

102.     L e Conseil des Ministres et le Parlement, ainsi que la sociCtC civile et le secteur privC, seront
rkgulibrement tenus inform& de l'avancement duprCsent programme de rCforme.

IV.5.2. Secteur Minier
103.     Objectifs. Les rCformes en cows visent A (1) amCliorer la gouvernance dans le secteur minier par
la refonte du cadre juridique, riglementaire et institutionnel et (ii)       augmenter les recettes minibres
revenant au TrCsor public.

1.       Rkalisations

104.     L e nouveau code minier a CtC promulguC enjuillet 2002, aprbs son adoption par le Parlement. L e
nouveau rbglement minier (DCcret No038/2003) a CtC approuvt en mars 2003. L e Cadastre minier
(CAMI) est devenu opkrationnel enjuin 2003.

105.     L a restructuration de la Gecamines est en cours: ila CtC d'abord procCdC a un programme de
dCparts volontaires, couvrant 10.654 personnes avec l'appui de l a Banque mondiale. Ce programme qui a
dCmarrC en aoat 2003, s'est acheve au dCbut de 1'annCe 2004 et toutes les personnes concernCes ont CtC
indemniskes. Enparallble, unaudit stratCgique par la socittC IMC a eu lieu. L e diagnostic a CtC achevC en
mars 2003 et approuvCe par le Gouvernement enjuin 2003. Unconsultant a CtC ensuite chargC de prtparer
des options en matibre de restructuration de la sociCtC et a prCsentC ses conclusions en septembre 2003. L a
stratCgie proposke est baste sur trois axes principaux: (i) l a creation d'une nouvelle sociCtC, filiale a 100%
de la Gecamines, qui recevrait les actifs clCs propres au metier de base de la Gecamines, l'actuelle
Gecamines devant se consacrer par la suite a l a liquidation ordonnCe de ses passifs; (ii)       l'examen des
accords de partenariat sIgnCs dans le pass&, permettrant de conclure rapidement ceux qui sont en phase
avancCe de nkgociation; et (iii)  la mise en place d'une Cquipe de gestion renforcee et autonome. Par

                                                        70


ailleurs, une entreprise, SOFRECO, a et6 recrutke en septembre 2005 pour assurer l a gestion de la
GECAMINES pendant une periode transitoire de 18 mois.

106.     L'ECOFIN a demand6 au COPIREP de procCder au recrutement de consultants techniques avec
uncahier de charges comportant (i) rCexamen des accords de partenariats signkspar laGecamines et (ii)
                                       le
la prkparation de l a crkation d'une      nouvelle sociCtk qui hkritera des actifs productifs de l'actuelle
Gecamines. Ce Consultant a ktk recmtk par le COPIREP et l'audit juridique et financier de partenariat sont
en cours. L a stratkgie definitive de restructuration de la Gecamines sera connue aprks ces kvaluations
juridiques et financikres des accords de partenariat et les rksultats des activitks de stabilisation.

 107.    Parallklement, la Commission de Validation des Titres Miniers a ktk mise en place en septembre
2005 par dkcret prksidentiel. Pour aider le travail de cette commission, un consultant a Ctk recmtk et est
deja opkrationnel; ilaide a l'implantation du CAM1et a l'assainissement des titres miniers. L e CAM1 a
transmis a la Banque mondiale, la liste des titres miniers devant faire l'objet d'arbitrage.

2.       Actions ti mener

 108.     L a restructuration du cadastre minier se fera a la fin des audits organisationnels et financiers en
cours. L e consultant devant assurer le programme de formation aux prockdures du nouveau code minier
est en cours de recrutement. L e Ministre des Mines et les rkgies financikres ont dkja dksignk leurs experts
pour cette formation. Par ailleurs, le bureau antenne du cadastre minier qui a CtC ouvert A Lubumbashi
devra Ctre optrationnalisk.

 109.     En ce qui concerne la restructuration de la Gecamines, les rapports sur les kvaluations
financikres et juridiques de partenariat seront transmis au COPIREP avant fin 2005.                  L a stratkgie
dkfinitive de restructuration ne sera connue et validke qu'a la fin de ces kvaluations.

 110.     L a Commission de validation des titres miniers mknera A bien la revue lCgale des titres miniers
litigieux Enoutre, elle publiera tous les titres miniers valides, y compris ceux qu'elle aura validks.

 111.     Pour sa part, le comitk de mise en place de 1'ITIE sera Ctabli. Dans ce mCme cadre, les recettes
prklevkes par l'Etat, ainsi que les imp6ts et taxes payks par les entreprises minikres seront publikes
conformkment aux procCdures de 1'ITIE.

IV.6.     Secteurs sociaux
 112.     L e programme du Gouvernement vise des rkformes importantes dans les secteurs sociaux (santk,
 Cducation et protection sociale) d'ici 2006. I1 y a lieu de noter en particulier (a) la rkalisation d'Ctudes
 sectorielles et la prtparation de stratkgies sectorielles chiffrkes qui constituent des repkres pour le point
 d'achkvement dans le contexte de 1'Initiative PPTE et (b) la rkhabilitation des infrastructures. A cet effet,
 ces secteurs bknkficient d'un appui technique et financier important de 1'IDA a travers le ((Programme
Multisectoriel d'Urgence de Reconstructionet de RChabilitation (PMURR))).

IV.6.1. SantC
 113.   - Objectifs :
            mettre en place un cadre propice au dkveloppement du systkme sanitaire a travers: (a) la
            revitalisationdes zones de santk (b) l a reforme du cadre lkgal, rkglementaire et institutionnel, (c)
            le renforcement de la participation des communautks locales ;
        -   rendre les soins de santk essentiels, accessibles a la majorit6 de la population en mettant un
            accent particulier sur les pauvres, surtout les femmes et les enfants par (a) la rkhabilitation des
            infrastructures sanitaires et le renforcement des ressources humaines, (b) l'amklioration de
            l'approvisionnement en mkdicaments, (c) l a rkduction des barrikres financikres a l'utilisation

                                                        71


           des services de soins, .(d) l e renforcement des programmes de lutte contre les maladies
           prioritaires et (e) le ciblage des groupes les plusvulnkrables.

1. R4alisations

114.     Depuis 2001, le Gouvernement s'est engagC de faqon considkrable dans 1'Claboration des lignes de
politique et de stratCgies dans le secteur, mettant l'accent sur les soins de santC primaire et les programmes
sptcialisCs. L a stratkgie du Gouvernement dans le secteur s'est essentiellement concentrke sur le
dkveloppement des zones de santC. L a nouvelle politique nationale de santC, adoptCe en 2001, rCaffirme la
stratCgie de fourniture d'un ensemble de services de santC essentiels a travers les zones de santC. L e
nombre de zones de santC a augment6 afin de fournir le cadre administratif necessaire          a l'exCcution du
reseau de soins et amCliorer l'accessibilite geographique des services. En 2002, les normes de
fonctionnalitC des zones de santC ainsi que le contenu des paquets d'activitks ont CtC dCfinis. L a politique
de 2001 affirme Cgalement la dCcentralisation du systkme, en particulier l'autonomie des zones de santC.
Cette nouvelle politique a vu Cgalement l'engagement du Gouvernement de s'occuper des questions
relatives aux ressources humaines, financihes et matkrielles. Plus prtcisCment, le document comporte
l'engagement du gouvernement d'allouer 15% dubudget total au secteur de la sante.

115.     Avec l'appui des partenaires internationaux et en partenariat avec les Cglises et les ONG, les
rCcentes orientations continuent de mettre l'accent sur deux objectifs majeurs,              a   savoir: (i)le
dkveloppement des zones de santC et l e contrale des maladies prioritaires et (ii)une meilleure
comprkhension des facteurs du c8tC de la demande qui affectent l'utilisation des services, notamment les
barrikres financikres. L e DSRP intkrimaire de 2002 est conforme aux preckdentes orientations politiques,
insistant sur le dkveloppement des services de santC de base      a traversles zones de santC et le soutien aux
programmes spCcialisCs, en particulier le V W S I D A , le paludisme et la tuberculose.

116.     Cette stratkgie comporte Cgalement un engagement du gouvernement en faveur d'une hausse du
budget du secteur    a 15% dubudget total. D e meme, le volet santC du Programme Minimumde Partenariat
pour la Transition et la Relance (PMPTR) de 2004 du Gouvernement a pour objectif gCnCral de revitaliser
le    systbme de soins afin       d'amCliorer l e progrks vers les OMD et pour objectifs sptcifiques le
dkveloppement des zones de santC et le renforcement des capacitCs institutionnelles itous les niveaux

117.     Dans le cadre du PMURR, des capacitCs institutionnelles au niveau provincial et national ont CtC
renforckes et 67 zones de santC reqoivent un appui important aux services de santC de base couvrant un
total de 10 millions d'habitants. D'autres partenaires, comme 1'Union europkenne, l'USAID, la
CoopCration belge et la Banque africaine de ddveloppement, apportent aussi un appui au dCveloppement
des zones de santC. L e Ministkre de la SantC a achevC le Rapport d'Etat SantC-PauvretC (RESP) qui a
permis d'ktablir le diagnostic du secteur et amorcer un dialogue sur les problkmes de santC dans le cadre
du DSRP. Ce diagnostic a conduit          l'tlaboration du projet d'appui a la rehabilitation du secteur de la
santC (PARSS) qui vise l'amelioration de la disponibilitk et l'utilisation effective des services par la
population dans les zones d'intervention. Ce projet va couvrir une population de 10 millions d'habitants
dans 5 provinces (Kinshasa, Equateur, Bandundu, Maniema et le Katanga) a partir de 2006 pendant 4 ans.

 118.    L e taux d'exCcution dubudget 2004 consacrC au Ministere de la SantC Ctait trks bas. Pour aborder
ce problkme, le Gouvernement a lancC une campagne de sensibilisation en preparant des tableaux de
budget pour le secteur santC ventilks par province, district, zone de santC et nature. Ces tableaux ont CtC
envoy& en provinces par canal du SecrCtariat GCnCral du Ministkre de l a SantC. En parallkle, les
prestataires de service de santC ont CtC invitCs a faire parvenir 1'Ctat de besoin en vue d'amkliorer
l'efficacitk de l'allocation budgCtaire de l'exercice prochain.

                                                     72


119.    Afin de rendre le service de santC plus accessible aux pauvres, le Ministere a instruit ses services,
notamment les mCdecins inspecteurs des provinces et des districts, pour mettre unterme au versement des
quotitCs par les centres de santk et hapitaux pour le fonctionnement des niveaux intermkdiaires et central
de l'administration, tout en veillant A ce que le budget de 1'Etat soutienne le fonctionnement des services
duMinistere de la SantC.

2. Actions 6 rialiser

120.    L a ventilation du budget et dkpenses par province, district et zone de santC sera faite Cgalement
pour l'exercice budgetaire 2006.

121.    Dans le but d'augmenter la part du budget de 1'Etat consacrCe aux services de santC de base au
niveau des zones de santC et d'ameliorer le processus budgktaire dans le secteur, notamment le mtcanisme
de reporting, les Ministeres de la SantC, du Budget et des Finances procbderont (i)  a 1'Claboration de l'ktat
de lieu des proctdures existantes et (ii)  a la formulation d'un plan d'action s'y rapportant. Ces actions
seront appuyCes par le projet Banque mondiale d'appui a la rdhabilitation du secteur de la santC (PARSS).
Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement a dCcidk d'augmenter l'allocation budgCtaire au secteur santC de 4'6% en
2005    5'5% en 2006, et le taux d'exicution budgktaire pour ce secteur de 39% en 2004 a 60% en 2005.

IV.6.2. Education
122.     Objectifs
      -
      -    mettre en place uncadre propice au dkveloppement durable du secteur de 1'Cducation ;
           entreprendre unprogramme d'urgence visant (a) l a rehabilitation des structures d'kducation, (b)
           le reglement des salaires des enseignants, (c) 1'amClioration de la qualitC de l'enseignement et

      -    (d)I'amClioration de la disponibilite des manuels scolaires et matiriels didactiques;
           mettre en place une sCrie de mesures afin d'atteindre les OMD dans le secteur de 1'Cducation;
      -    prCparer sur la base du Rapport de 1'Etat du Systeme Educatif National (RESEN) la stratCgie
           globale du secteur de 1'Education dont la fin des travaux est prkvue en aoQt 2006 (repere pour le
      -    point d'achevement dans le contexte de l'hitiative PPTErenforcC) ;
           RCduire graduellement les fiais scolaires pay& par les parents

1. Rialisations

123.     L e Gouvernement prockde actuellement a la rkhabilitation de 140 Ccoles qui ont CtC sklectionnees
dans le volet social du PMURR. L e RESEN, qui le dtcrit et analyse ses contraintes, a ttk finalis6 et public
en novembre 2004.       L e Gouvernement a adopt6 en 2004 l'avant projet du plan d'actions pour le
Programme Education pour Tous (EPT). L e RESEN et le Programme EPT constitueront ainsi la base
pour la prCparation de la stratCgie globale du secteur de l'kducation dont la fin des travaux est prCvue en
aoQt 2006. Afin d'atteindre l'objectif de rCduire graduellement les frais scolaires pay& par les parents, le
Gouvernement a commenck la mise en ceuvre du programme d'allocation trimestrielle des fonds pour les
frais de fonctionnement des Ccoles directe aux Ctablissements scolaires primaires et secondaires
publiquement administrkes. Les Ccoles ont requ le premier dkcaissement de cette allocation en aoQt 2005.

124.     Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement prepare, en collaboration avec l a Banque mondiale, un nouveau
programme de redressement du systkme Cducatif congolais dont la mise en ceuvre sera effective au
premier trimestre de 2006.

2. Actions a rialiser

125.    L e Gouvernement finalisera la stratCgie pro-pauvre de 1'Cducation telle que contenue dans le
DSRP. En outre, ilClaborera avant aoQt 2006 la stratkgie globale du secteur et le budget y relatif. I1

                                                      73


mettra kgalement en vigueur un nouveauprogramme de redressement du systkme educatif congolais avec
l'appui des partenaires au developpement.

126.     L e Gouvernement s'engage a dkcaisser toutes les tranches des fonds pour les frais de
fonctionnement des ecoles pour 1'annCe 2005. L a verification de l'utilisation des fonds, y compris le
suivi, l'evaluation et le reporting sera assurke par les parents, enseignants, le SECOPE provincial et
central ainsi que les ministkres de 1'Education Primaire, Secondaire et Professionnelle, du Budget et des
Finances. Conformtment       a 1'arrStC interministeriel 017 du 14 juin 2005, les divisions provinciales du
Budget produiront trimestriellement des rapports synthkse d'exkcution des subventions, tandis que le
Gouvernement produira des rapports de contrale sur l'utilisation effective des fonds. Par ailleurs, le
Gouvernement a d6cidC d'augmenter l'allocation budgktaire au secteur education de 7,8% en 2005 a 8,5%
en 2006, et le taux d'execution budgktaire pour ce secteur de 24% en 2004 a 60% en 2005.

IV.6.3. Protectionsociale
127.     Objectifs :
      --   dkvelopper une strattgie de protection sociale;
           mettre en place unprogramme de protection sociale accompagnk d'un budget de realisation.

1.Rbalisations

128.     Unprogramme globalpour laprotection sociale est disponible depuisjuin2004. Par ailleurs avec
le soutien de la Banque mondiale, le Gouvernement prepare un projet d'urgence d'amklioration des
conditions de vie (PUACV). I1conceme essentiellement les zones rurales dtfavoriskes.

2. Actions a mener

Gouvernement, la strategie nationale de protection sociale sera vulgarisee aUne
129.     L e programme global devra ensuite Stre soumis au Gouvernement.                 fois adopte par le
                                                                                    travers une campagne
nationale et sera traduite sous forme de loi.

IV.7. Agricultureet dkveloppementrural
130.     Objectifs. Le Gouvernement poursuit, dans le domaine du dkveloppement rural, les objectifs ci-
aprks: (i)l'amklioration de la skcurite alimentaire des populations rurales et (ii)l'elaboration d'une
strategie de dkveloppement rural a moyen et a long terne en vue d'une croissance soutenue de la
production et des revenus agricoles. L'adoption d'une strategie est unrepkre pour le point d'achkvement
dans le contexte de 1'1-PPTE.

1.       Rkalisations

131.     Pour augmenter la capacitk de production agricole, le Gouvernement a mis en ceuvre pour la
campagne 2002-2003 (avec l'appui du projet PMURR) un programme de multiplication de semences
(manioc, mais, lkgumineuses).

132.     L'amklioration de l'efficacite de la commercialisation des produits agricoles prockde d'un
programme de rehabilitation de prks de 5000 kmde pistes rurales, qui a commence en dkcembre 2004. Les
travaux de la premibre phase de ce programme, appuyks par le PMURR couvrent environ 1300kmet sont
executks par l'agence d'exkcution internationale recrutke (UNOPS). Pour certains axes routiers, I'UNOPS
a rCceptionnC les travaux. Les tests de mkthodologie d'un systkme d'information sur les prix des marchks
des produits agricoles conduits dans les provinces de Bas-Congo, Bandundu et Kinshasa s'est avkrk

                                                      74


concluant dans le cadre d'un projet financC par la FAO. L a mise en place de ce systbme n'a pas CtC
rCalisCe faute de financement.

133.     Les Ctudes y affkrentes ont CtC rCalisCes par le Ministkre des Industries Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises non encore publiees pour faute de financement, en meme temps qu'une Ctude sur
l'environnement rkglementaire et fiscal des agro-industries (les termes de rCfCrence sont en cours
d'Claboration).

2.       Actions h mener

134.     En ce qui concerne le dkveloppement d'une stratCgie rurale, les deux principaux axes sont (i)      la
relance des principales filibres agro-industrielle (palmier & huile, coton, cacao, cafC robusta et arabica,
hCvCa) et (ii) le d6veloppement des petites et moyennes entreprises privCes. Les termes de rtfkrence des
filibres agro-industrielle ont CtC Claborts. Les rtsultats de ces Ctudes ainsi que 1'expCrience de la mise en
euvre des activitCs likes la relance de la production et l'amtlioration des infkastructures communautaires
Ctabliront la base pour la formulation de la strattgie de dkveloppement rural.

IV.8.    Secteur des infrastructures (routes, energie ClCctrique et eau)
135.     Objectifs. Deux objectifs sont poursuivis dans le domaine des infrastructures: (a) l a rkhabilitation
et le dCveloppement des infkastructures (routes, Cnergie Clectrique et eau) A 1'Cchelon national et (b)
l'organisation ducadre institutionnel des secteurs de 1'Cnergie Clectrique et de l'eau.

1.Rbalisations

136.     L e secteur des infrastructures bCnCficie d'un important financement de la Banque Mondiale (voir
encadre 1). L e PMURR a permis la reconstruction et la rCalisation des infrastructures vitales notamment
dans les domaines des routes, transport, ClectricitC, eau et voirie urbaine.

     Routes : Toutes les Ctudes ont CtC lancCes pour approximativement 3000 Km de routes et les travaux
     ont dCjA dCmarrC. Sept contrats routiers ont CtC soumis a la signature duMinistre des TPI. Dans l'entre
     temps, les consultations pour la prC qualification des entreprises devant exCcutCes les travaux sont
     encours.
     Transport : Les Ctudes ont CtC lancCes pour l'ensemble des secteurs (RVM, ONATRA, RVF, SNCC,
     CNPR,...) et les travaux ont dCja dCmarrCs. Deux contrats sur les travaux de ports de Matadi et de
     Kinshasa ont CtC soumis a la signature du Ministre des Transports. S'agissant de chemin de fer, les
     contrats de fourniture sont encours de rialisation.
     ElectricitC : Les travaux de fiabilisation de la capacitC de production du barrage d'Inga ont dCjA
     dCmarrC. Les Ctudes de fiabilisation et des appels d'offre sont encours et concernent aussi les travaux
     de rkhabilitation de transport sur l'ensemble du rCseau SNEL ainsi que la rkhabilitation de plusieurs
     centrales et thermiques.
     Eau : Aprks avoir mene des Ctudes pour Kinshasa, les appels d'offre ont CtC lancCs et les
     soumissionnaires ont CtC s6lectionnCs. Les contrats sont encours d'exCcution Ctant donnC que certains
     travaux ont dCja commencC.
     Voirie urbaine : Les Ctudes ont CtC achevCes et deux appels d'offkes ont CtC lancCes et attribds. Ces
     deux importants marchCs de travaux de rkhabilitation (Avenue Kasa - Vubu et les Crosions de
      Selembao) sont en cours d'exCcution.

2.Actions a mener

137.     Secteur routier. Les actions consisteront         poursuivre le dksenclavement du pays par la
rehabilitation du rCseauroutier d'interst national ainsi que les routes de desserte agricole.

                                               7 5




138.     Secteur de l'gnergie Blectrique. Ilsera question (i)      d'organiser m e table ronde pour
faire l e diagnostic du secteur sur le problbme d'dlectriciti et ddfinir une stratdgie adaptde, (ii)
                                                                                                   de
faire adopter par le Parlement unnouveaucode l'dlectncitd (avant fin 2005)' et (iii) rdhabiliter
                                                                                        de
le rdseau dlectrique au Sud du pays pour augmenter la capaciti d'exportation du courant
tlectrique vers 1'Afrique Australe (les lravaux pourront ddbuter avant fin2005).

139.     Secteur de l'eau. Undes prialables pour le ddveloppement de ce secteur est la rkforme
du secteur incluant la restructuration du cadre institutionnel et l'ouverture du secteur a la
participation privt. Les principales actions A mener sont (i)       l'dlaboration, l'adoption par le
Parlement et la mise en application ducode de l'eau, (ii)    l'ilaboration de la feuille de route des
OMD dam laquelle sera difinie la vision du Gouvernement et les actions A mener pour leurs
rdalisations et (iii)
                    l e ddveloppement et la mise en applicationdes programmes de rdhabilitation et
de ddveloppement des infrastructures d'approvisionnement dam les centra non concemds par les
programmes actuels, notamment le PMURR,et dans lcs piri-urbains pauvres.




                                     Dr. Andre- hilippeFUTA
                                       Afii-
                                       MinistredesFinances

                                                        76


                                                                                                             Annex 2

                            LETTER DEVELOPMENT POLICY-POLICY MATRIX
                                       OF
                                      (Translated from the originalFrench)
    A. Poverty


                                                     ,
     Area of
   Intervention                  Activities             DueDate                         Comments

I-PRSP              PreDarationof I-PRSP.               Mid-2002      Comdetedon schedule.
Preparationof final Adoption of actionplan and
PRSP                chronomam.
                    Organizationofworkshop
                    launchingan information,
                    education, communication
                    camoaia.
Consultations       Holdparticipatoryconsultations.    January-May    Held October 2004 February2005.
                                                                                          -
                                                           2004
                    Editing anddelivery o f reports.  June-July2004   CompletedApril 2005.
Thematicgroups      Contributionsof thematic groups    October 2004   Completed. Sector statusreportsofkey sectors
                    and sector ministries.                            were producedby thematic and sectoral groups
                                                                      andapprovedby the ministries as well as
                                                                      developmentpartners inQ1 2005. The sectoral
                                                                      strategywas formulatedandreceivedcomments
                                                                      fromDartners.
Povertysurvey       Pilot test ofnationalpoverty        November-     CompletedApril 2003
                    survey.                           December2002
                    Launchpovertysurvey.                June 2004     The surveywas conductedinMarch2005 at the
                                                                      same sites as the community consultations. The
                                                                      draft report andthe profile ofpovertybecame
                                                                      availableinOctober 2005.
                    Launchthe 1-2-3 survey.            January2004    For Kinshasa,the surveyis completedandthe
                                                                      report is available.For the rest ofthe country,
                                                                      the survey startedinMarch 2005, anddata
                                                                      collectionwas completedby October 2005.
                                                                      Exploitationsofthese data are on going.
                    Finalizationof 1-2-3 survev.      December2004  IIDelaveduntil December 2005.
                    Finalizationof 1-2-3 survey        February2005   Delayeduntil December 2005. The results of
                    report                                            the surveys will be available inDecember2005.
                                                                      The analyses o f the datawill be availablein
                                                                      200641, Multisectoral workshopto validate
                                                                      sectoral strategies will be held inOctober 2005.
                    Distribution of the reportsto the    May2005      Will be done at the same time as the distribution
                    ministries, provinces,                            of the full PRSP inNovember 2005.
                    communities, andpartners.
Draft PRSP          First draft of PRSP comdeted.                     Done.
                    Seconddraft of PRSP completed.      April 2005    Done July 2005.
                    Third draft of PRSP comdeted         June 2005  IITo be circulatedinNovember2005.
                    Finalizationofdraft.               July-Aug 2005  Revisedtarget November2005
                    Distribution of draft PRSP to      August 2005    Revisedtarget November2005.
                    Governmentanddevelopment
                    partners.
                    AdODtion of PRSP (adODtionand
                                        . .            October 2005   Revisedtarget December 2005.
                    successfulimplementationfor
                    one year i s aHIPC Completion
                    Doint trigger).

                                                         77



   B. Maintainingpeace andimprovinggovernance

     Area of
   Intervention                  Activities              Due Date                        Comments

Sustain peace       Approval by the government, a        December    Done. The disarmament and reinsertion to the
                    national Disarmament,                  2003      :omunities o f the ex-soldiers started inIturiin
                    Demobilization and Reinsertion                   September 2004, before the program i s extended
                    program (PNDDR) insupport o f                    :o the rest of the country.
                    the restructuring o f the armed
                    forces.
                    Put inplace the institutional        December    3nDecember 18, 2003, the inter-ministerial
                    structure to steer and implement       2003      :ommission responsible for the formulation and
                    the national program, notably the                Direction o f DDRmatters was createdby decree
                    national DDR commission and                      No 031041. The national commission on
                    the executive secretariat. Appoint               iisarmament, demobilization andreinsertion
                    the general manager o f the                      [CONADER) was created by decree No. 03/042;
                    executive secretariat.                           the committee managing disarmament,
                                                                     fiemobilization and reinsertion funds (CGFDR)
                                                                     was createdby decree No. 031043, butwas
                                                                     dissolved inMay 2005 by a presidential decree.
                    Finalize the national DDR           January 2004 Done on October 15,2004 by a presidential
                    program after consultations and                  decree.
                    national dissemination.
                    Disarmament and demobilization      Beginning in Ongoing. Voluntary disarmament commenced
                    phase.                               April 2004  across the country mid 2004. InSeptember
                                                                     2004, demobilization activities began and are
                                                                     ongoing. By June 2005, approximately 19,000
                                                                     adult ex-combatants (of which 14,000 in Ituri)
                                                                     and 16,000 child soldiers were demobilized.
                    Reinsertion and reintegration       Beginning in Delayed. By September 2005, about 15,000 ex-
                    phase.                               November    combatants were registered for 6 reinsertion
                                                           2004      programs. A national strategy for the reinsertion
                                                                     o f ex-combatants has begun to be implemented,
                                                                     and activities for the social and economic
                                                                     reinsertionwill commence once the ex-
                                                                     combatants return to their communities.
 Fight against      Enactment o f decree on code of      November    Done by a decree No. 017/2002 promulgated on
 corruption         good conduct for civil servants        2002      October 3.2002.
                    Adoption o f anti-cormption law      Before end  Adopted by the Parliament inMarch 2005 (the
                                                         November    law modifies and complements the 1940 penal
                                                           2003      code).
                    Adoption o f law against money       December    Done. Passed July 2004.
                    laundering and financing o f           2003
                    terrorism
~
 Public expenditure Revisionand adoption o f a new       July 2002-  Done. Public expenditure classification was
 management         public expenditures nomenclature    January 2004 revised in2002, and revised in2003 and 2004.
                    (budgetary nomenclature)                         The new nomenclature includes economic,
                    conforming to the international                  administrative, and functional classification.
                    standards.
                    Modernization and streamlining      April 2002-  Done. The public expenditure procedure manual
                    o f the public expenditures          September   was published inJune `03, and revisions are
                    process, including restoration o f     2003      underway. The system i s operational since
                    the commitment phase and the                     September `03, and was improvedin `04. The
                    publication o f the manual o f                   new procedure has the standard 4 phases o f
                    uublic exuenditure urocedures.                   uublic exuenditure urocedures.
                    Implementation o f a new            August 2003  Done. The new budget execution system is
                    computerized public expenditure                  operational since 2004.
                    svstem (la chiine de la diuense)

                                                   78


     Area of
  Intervention               Activities            Due Date                       Comments                      I
                Implementationof an electronic     August 2003  Done. Operationalsince June 2005.
                informationexchange system(the
                computerizedlink)betweenthe
                treasury andthe centralbank.
                Budgetpreparationusingthe new       Starting    Done. The revised2003 budget adoptedin
                public expenditureclassification   November     Novemberwas presentedusingthe newbudget
                by nature, administrationand          2003      nomenclature. Since then, budgetsare presented
                function.                                       according to the new budget nomenclature.
                Establishmentofapro-poor           September    Done. CreatedinOctober 2003.
                expendituremonitoring                 2003
                committee.
                Productionof quarterlybudget       Beginningin  The quarterlybudget executionreports(ESB)
                executionreports usingeconomic,       2004      has beenproduced since beginning2004
                administrative,andfunctional                    althoughnot yet on aregularbasis, and still with
                classificationsincluding pro-poor               some mistakes.
                expendituresand for HIPC-
                financed expenditures(HIPC
                completionpoint trigger).
                Distribution of instructionson     July 2005.   Done.
                how to use the advance fund
                mechanism(MAD)to relevant
                uublic entities.
                Receptionofjustification of        Beginningin  Some ministries have startedto send the
                MAD use.                           October 2005 justifications.
                Audit of the payroll system         January-    Done.
                                                   April 2004
                Implementationof atransitory        July 2005   Revisedtarget January 2006.
                payroll system(PTS).
                Establishmentof a securitized       December    Delayed. Database will be establishedafter the
                civil servants centraldatabase        2004      census resultsbecomeavailable. Census in
                (integrated systemof                            KinshasastartedinFebruary2005 andcurrently
                administrativeandfinancial                      underwayin2 provinces. The rest of the country
                managementof civil service).                    will be coveredby mid-2006.
                 Implementationof double-entry      2004-2005   Ongoing.A simplified doubleentry public
                public accountingsystem(HIPC                    accountingsystemis introducedto the treasury.
                completionpoint trigger).                       Organizationalframework o fthe Treasury
                                                                Directoratewas approved inOctober 2005. The
                                                                simplified systemis not yet fully operational.
Procurement      Completionof acomplete audit of   Beforeend-   Done. A countryprocurementassessmentreport
systemreform     procurementsystem.                 April 2004  was publishedin2003 and the Government
                                                                adoptedits actionplan in September2004.
                 Preparationandimplementation       2004-2006   Commissionfor public procurementreforms
                 of anewprocurement code and                    (COREMAP)was establishedinOctober 2004
                 its principal applicationdecrees               andbecameoperationalin2005.
                 (HIPC completionpoint trigger).
Public Debt      Implementationof a                 2005-2006   Ongoing. DMFAS was installedandtraining is
Management       computerized debt management                   ongoinginmodules. The systemwill be fully
                 system(HIPC trigger).                          operationalby mid-2006.
Civil Service    Institutional studies on key       2004-2005    Studv done for ministries of civil service.
Reform           ministries                                     planning,budget, finance, and agriculture, as
                                                                well as for one tax agency.                      I
                 Generalcensus ofthe civil          2005-2006   Preliminaryresultsfor Kinshasabecame
                 servants                                        availableinJune 2005. Finalresultsfor the
                                                                 entirecountryare expectedby mid-2006.

                                                              79


      Area of
    Intervention                    Activities                DueDate                            Comments

                        Establishment of a central data         June-       To be set up after census resultsbecome
                        baseas the basisfor anew
                        integratedpersonnelandpayroll
                        managementsystem.
                       ~
                        Adoption of adetailedstrategy         2003-2005     Done. Adoptedby the GovernmentinFebruary
                        and actionplanfor acivil service                    2005. Terms ofreference for the operation for
                        retirementprogram.                                  the 1'' group of retireeswere prepared.
                        Paymentof the retirement               During       The first group o f retirees was identified
                        packageto the first group of         secondhalfof   accordingto the strategy. The payment of
                        retirees.                               2005        indemnitiesto this group will start by end-2005.
                        Departureof secondgroup of            2005-2006     Secondgroupof departureswill take placewhen
                        civil servants.                                     the census resultsbecome available.
~
 Service deliveryto     Reviewof service delivery            During2004     Draft report deliveredJune 2005 (except for the
 social sectors         systemfor health, education, and                    justice system).
                        justice andrural development
                        (HIPC completionpoint trigger).
 Decentralization       Presentation,discussion and           December      A draft law on territorial organizationwas
                        adoptionof alaw onthe territorial       2003        submitted to the Parliament,andawaiting
                        organizationof the country.                         discussions and adoption.A World Bank-
                                                                            sponsoredseminar to helpthe reviewby the
                                                                            parliamentarianstook placeinOctober 2004.
 Judicial system        Audit report onthejudicial            December      A review of the Congolesejudicial systemwas
                        system.                                  2003       completed, and abroaddiagnosticreportwas
                                                                            presentedinNovember2004. Outcomesofthe
                                                                            reviewwill serve as abase for the actionplan
                                                                             after the reoort is validated.
 Legal and              Revisionof thejudiciary and              2002        Done. Completedthrough adoptionof new laws
 regulatory             legalframework.                                      governingcentralbank, commercialbanks and
 framework of the                                                            savingsinstitutions.
 centralbank                                                              I
 Centralbank            Annual audits, undertakenby           2000-2002.     Completed, under IMF supervision.
 reforms                internationalauditors.
                        Implementan actionplanto             2001- present   Ongoing, under IMF supervision.
                        strengthenBCC as afinancial
                        institution per se, andinits role as
                        monetary authority.

     C. Financialsector

       Area of
    Intervention                     Activities                Due Date                           Comments

 Restructure            Decisionto liquidatebankrupt          March2003      Done. Basedon the audit results, it was decided
 commercialbanks        commercialbanks                                      that threepublicbanks (BCCE, NBK,andBCA)
                                                                             andtwo privatebanks (BCD andFirst Bank
                                                                             Corporation)would be liquidatedin2003 and
                                                                             2004, respectively.
                        Completionof audits and                  2003     II Done. Audits havebeen completed. For viable
                        preparationof restructuringplans                     banks, restructuringplanswere prepared
                        for other commercialbanks.                           complete with calendar andprogress indicators.
                                                                             Forbanksdeterminednon-viablefollowing
                                                                             audits. ooerating:licenses were cancelled.
                        Completionofpatrimonial audits
                        ofNBK, BCA and BCCE.
                        Establishment of formal
                        agreement with BCC on
                        restructuringplans.

                                                        80


      Area of
   Intervention                 Activities              DueDate                          Comments

                   Implementationof regular            During2004.   Done. Bankingsupervisionapplicationsoftware
                   supervisionofbanks.                               was installedinthe centralbank, to facilitate the
                                                                     regularsupervisionofbanks.
                   Reinforcementof proceduresof        During2004.   Ongoing. The fiscal andregulatoryframework
                   agreement andthe eligibility                      for bankswill bereinforcedthroughlegaltexts.
                   criteria for stockholders.                        The centralbank has prepared an instructionto
                                                                     abolishanonymous stock holders.
                   Preparationof anew chart of         January2005   Delayed. Revisedtarget January 2006. The
                   accountsfor banks.                                centralbank is preparingthenew chart.


    D. Private sector development
YI                                                   I              I
    Intervention                Activities              DueDate                          Comments

 Judicialreform    Reformof new investment and            2002       Done.
                   labor codes.
                   Creationof commercialtribunals.        2002       Done. The tribunal was establishedin2002, the
                                                                     judges and tribunal staff were trained in 2003.
                                                                     Physicalinfrastructureis beingrehabilitated.
                   Creation of a national arbitration   June 2003    Done.
                   center.
I                  CreationofANAPI.                       2002       Done.
                   Single customs window made           July 2003    Done.

r-                 operationalat port ofMatadi.
                   OHADA membership.                    December     The minister of Justice will advice the ECOFIN
                                                           2005      on the stepsneededto subscribe to OHADA.
 Taxation          Publicationof new customs tariff.    2002-2003    Done.
                   Finalizenew customscode.             June 2004    Done. Adopted inJune 2005.
                   Preparationof actionplanfor          June 2004     Ongoing. COPIREP is responsiblefor recruiting
                   reform of direct and indirect                      a consultant to developan actionplan.
1                  taxes.
 Labor regulations Finalizationandadoptionof main          2004       Ongoing. Some applicationdecreeswere
                   decrees concerningapplicationof                    adopted inAugust 2005.
                   labor code.
 Business-related  Comprehensiveaudit.                 First quarter  Donewith assistance from FIAS.
 administrative                                          o f 2004
 orocedures
 Internaldebt      Audit ofgovernment arrears to        September     DoneinFebruary2004. The auditresultswere
                   the privatesector between 1 July        2003       publishedinthe Official Journal on June 28,
                    1997and31December2001.                            2004.
                   Audit of claimsgeneratedbefore       December      Done. The results were also publishedinthe
                   30 June 1997.                           2003       Official Journal on June 28,2004.
                    Settle with the creditorsof the        2004       Done inApril 2005. Repaymentplancalls for
                   arrears generatedbefore                            $42.5m(supportedby IDA) in2005, $29.5min
                   December31,2001.                                   2006, and $24.7min2007.
                   Adoption o f an actionplanfor        December      Action plan adopted inNovember2004. The l i s t
                    controlling the Government's           2003       of public entities entitledto government-financed
                    consumption of petroleum,                         supply of water and electricity is beingcompiled
                   telephone, water and electricity.                  since April 2005. KPMG i s helpingthe
                                                                      Government to analyze the missionreports.
                   Regular paymentsofmonthly            By January    Done. Ministry ofBudgetnegotiatedwith
                   electricity andwater bills based        2004       REGIDESOand SNEL monthly flat rate
                   on the estimatedconsumption.       I               paymentswhile the counters to measurethe
                                                                      actualconsumptionare beinginstalled.             I

                                                       81

I     Area of
    Intervention                 Activities            DueDate                          Comments

                  Implementationof actionplansby         2004         Ongoing. The two companiespresentedthe
                  the electricitycompany (SNEL)                       plans. Onthis basis, an agreementwas reached
                  andthe water company                                betweenthe Government andthe companiesto
                  (REGIEDESO) to improvebilling                       controlconsumptionby the government. The
                  to government entities.                             actionplans are implementedwith the financial
                                                                      support of IDA.
                  Establishmentoftrust accounts by       2004         Done. The two companieshave establishedtrust
                   SNEL andREGIEDESO, for                             accountsto receivethe paymentsinJanuary
                  receivingthe flat-ratepayments                      2005.
                   for utilities.                                                                                       I


    E. Public enterprise reform

      Area of                                                     I
    Intervention                                                  I
                                 Activities             DueDate                          Comments

 Publicenterprise Creation of technicalcommittee         2004         Ongoing.
 reform           of COPIREP.
                  Diagnosticstudies on accounting      April 2003     Done.
                   andoperations of GECAMINES,
                   OCPT. COHYDRO.
                  Make fully operationalsectoral         2004         Done.
                  working groups onthe reform
                  process ofpublic enterprisesin
                  key sectors.
                  Preparationof actionplans for          2004         Revisedtarget end-2005. Consultants are
                   reform of public enterprises:                      working to summarizethe completedstudies and
                   GECAMINES, RVA, SNCC,                              to propose aglobal strategyas well as action
                   LAC, CITITRAIN, OCPT, and                          plans for eachcompany. Two consultants will
                   SNEL.                                              be recruitedfor implementingthe strategy.
                   Preparationand adoptionby              2004        Fourrelatedlawshave beensubmittedto the
                   Parliament of ajudicial and                        Parliament for adoption:they concern
                   regulatoryframework on public                      disengagementof the Government from
                   enterprises.                                       commercial activities, transformationo f public
                                                                      enterprisesto public establishments, general
                                                                      regulationsapplicableto public enterprises, and
                                                                      to public establishments.
                                                                      Strategic study on public enterpriseswas
                   managingandmonitoring the                          completedinJuly 2005.



     F. Naturalresources

       Area of
    Intervention                 Activities             Due Date                         Comments

 Forestrysector    Adoption of anew forestry code.     August 2002    Done.
                   Adoption of applicationdecrees         2004        Severaldecrees were signed. More are under
                   for the new forestry code.                         preparation, including adecree concerningthe
                                                                      conversion of the old forestrv titles to new ones.
                   Cancellationof contractsnot in       2002-2004     MinisterofEnvironmentcancelled18 contracts
                   linewith newforestry code and                      in`05. 15 other contractswere cancelledin `04.
                   moratoriumon new contracts.                        The moratorium,set up in `02, was reinforcedby
                                                                      the oresidentialdecree shed inOctober `05.
                   Completionof economicreview,       1   2003       1DoneinSeptember 2003.
                   andadoptionof fiscal reforms
                   basedon its recommendations.

                                                        82


     Area of
   Intervention                 Activities              Due Date                       Comments

                  Gradual increase o f area tax and     December    3ntrack. First step completedin2004 and
                  reduction o f ONATRA quasi-tax           2003     second step in January 2005. The areatax was
                  from 2004 to 2007.                                raised from lOcents/ ha in2004 to 20c in2005.
                                                                    ONATRA decreased the quasi-tax from W t o n to
                                                                    $5/ton.
                  Disclose 2003 and 2004 tax            March 2005  Done. Tax collection report for 2003 and 2004
                  collection reports, and cancel                    published by DGRADin August 2005, and
                  concessions defaulted in2003                      defaulting contracts were cancelled by Ministry
                  according to contractual clauses.                 of Environment. The deadline for 2004 tax
                  Publishthe deadline for 2004                      compliance was also published in2005.
                  payments.
                  Launch legal review converting           2004     InOctober 2005, a new Presidential decree
                  old contracts into sustainable                    determining the procedures and criteria was
                  management concessions and                        adopted, an independent expert (legal advisor)
                  canceling those non compliant                     was recruited, and the list o f existing concessions
                  with contractual obligations or                   was published. An inter-ministerial commission
                  with the moratorium.                              will be setUD.
                  Makeoperational the programfor           2004     Programi s being prepared by studying the
                    securing the forestry sector                    Cameroon model.
                    revenues
                    40% retrocession o f area tax to       2004     A draft decree is beingprepared.
                    EADs
                    Submission to Parliament o f new       2004     Delayed to 2005. The preparation o f the draft
                    law on Nature Conservation, and                 law is supported by World Bank.
                    rehabilitation o f national Darks
                    Continued application o f the       2005-2007   A presidentialdecree was published on October
                    moratorium until:the legal review               25,2005 to this effect.
                    i s completed; auction procedures
                    are adopted; and a 3-year plan for
                    future concessions is adopted
                    based on a uarticiuatorv urocess.
                    Adoption o f key-implementation        2006
                    decrees: on sustainable forest
                    management and controls, forest
                    contracts and social
                    responsibilities, local
                    consultations, and allocation
                    procedures, and transfer o f 40%
                    o f revenuesto EAD
                     Continuedimplementation o f the    Continued   Continued. Transfer o f 40% to begin during
                    March 2004 fiscal reform                        2005. Public disclosure o f amounts transferred.
                    Dackaee.                                        Monitoring o f the funds and bv local NGOs.
~
 Mining sector      Promulgation o fnew mining          11 July2002 Done.
                    code.
                    Approval o fnew mining laws.         26 March   Done.
                                                           2003
 Mining cadastre    Make operational the new mining     June 2003   Done. InstitutedinApril 2004 based on decree
                     cadastre.                                      No. 68/2003 on Aaril3.2003.
                    Legal review o f the miningtitles.               Ongoing. Consultant was recruited and is
                                                                     already operational.
                    ~
                    Making operational the                          Done inSeptember 2005.
                    Lumumbashi antenna office.
                    Publish all valid miningtitles       Mid2006
                    Establish an EITIcommittee          December
                                                           2005

                                                          83


      Area of
   Intervention                   Activities              DueDate                          Comments

                    Publish the revenues collected by     Starting in
                    the tax agencies andpaidby the          2006
                    miningcompanies, according to
                    the EITI.
                    Restructuring o f management o f     Before end-   Done in September 2005.
                    the Cadastre. Introductionof         March 2004
                    financial management tools to the
                    Cadastre. Auditing, monitoring,
                    and evaluation ofthe cadastral
                    performance.
                    Creation o fthe commission on         December     Done in September 2005.
                    validation o fmining titles.            2003
                    Legal review o f the mining titles.   June 2004    Delayed. Waiting for Commission on validation
                                                                       o f miningtitles to become operational.
 Restructuring o f  Completion o f diagnostic audit.     March 2003    [nternational consultants are recruited to carry
 GECAMINES                                                             out financial and legal evaluations o f
                                                                       Gecamines' partnership contracts. They are
                                                                       finalizing the implementation plans to restructure
                                                                       Gecamines.
                    Preparation and presentation o f      September    Delayed. Waiting for the financial and legal
                    options for restructuring.              2003       evaluation reDort.
                     Submission o f final report on       November     Done.
                    restructuring.                          2003
                     Signing o f a management contract    November     Done. A contract with SOFRECO was signed in
                    with a company selected through         2003       September 2005.
                    a due process
                    Completion o f voluntary             January 2004  Done.
                    departures program.
                    Examine agreements and prepare       January-June  The Government adopted the restructuring plan
                     statutes of new company.               2004       authorizing a contract with SOFRECO.
                                                                       COPIREP i s recruiting the Congolese members
                                                                       to iointhe new management team.
                    Definitive validation o f               July -     Delayed. Revisedtarget date June 2005.
                    restructuring strategy at             September
                     government level.                      2004
                     Presentation o frestructuring        December     Delayed.
                     strategy to the Parliament.            2004


    G. Socialsectors




I                  I M O D contracts. Attain visible
                    results in improvingbasic service
                     delivery to people through the
                     support o f the PMURR.
                    Final version o f country health     October 2004  Done May 2005.
                     status report made available
                    Reform o f the regulatory and         2004-2005    Started August 2005. A consultant will be hired
                    budgetary framework o f the                        through the IDA-financed health project
                    sector.                                            (PARSS) to help with the reform strategy.

                                                        84


    Area of
  Intervention                   Activities             DueDate                         Comments

                   Preparing healthbudget tables by    Beginningin   Done. Tables were sent to provinces through the
                   nature and by province, district       2005       Secretary General o f Ministryof Health.
                   and, health zones.
                   Preparation o f sectoral strategy      2006       Started August 2005.
                   (HIPC completionpoint trigger).
                   Improve the budget process for         2005       Work has already started. The ministries o f
                   health sector, especially the                     Health and Budget will work together to improve
                   monitoring, through (i)  preparing                the process.
                   a report on current procedures and
                   (ii) formulating an action plan
                   based on the reuort.
                   Increase the budget execution          2005       Ongoing.
                   results for 2005 to 60%
                   Increase the budget allocation to      2005       Done.
                   health sector in2006 exercise to
                   5.5%.
Education          Present the action plan for the     March 2004    Done. Action plan finalized in September 2004.
                   program education for all to  ))                  Presented to donors in August 2005.
                   thedonor community.
                   Rehabilitationo f infrastructure,   March 2004    140 schools were selected for rehabilitation
                   works must be inthe first phase                   under the social component o f PMURR. First
                   o f rehabilitation.                               phase completed inDecember 2004 with 71
                                                                     schools rehabilitated. Second phase ongoing, 69
                                                                     schools to be rehabilitated.
                   Completion o f the country          August 2004   Done. Final report became available inJanuary
                   education status reuort (RESEN).                  2005.
                   Preparation o f sectoral strategy   Before 2006   Ongoing. Dissemination o f RESEN took place in
                   (HIPC completion point trigger).                  Kinshasa, Katanga, Bandundu, and Kasai
                                                                     Oriental with the support o f the World Bank. It
                                                                     will also be disseminated inother provinces in
                                                                     November 2005. Sectoral strategy will be
                                                                     formulated based on RESEN and "education for
                                                                     all" uroeram.
                   Implementation o f the education    Starting 2005 Firsttwo quarterly tranches ofthe grant were
                   block grant program.                              disbursed. The third (last) tranche disbursement
                                                                     is under DreDaration.
                   Reception o f the summary reports    December     Some schools have already sent the reports on
                   from the provinces.                     2005      the use ofthe first tranche.
                   Monitoringreport produced, as        December     Inter-ministerial (Education, Budget, and
                   defined by the inter-ministerial        2005      Finance) mission will be conducted quarterly to
                   decree 017 dated June 14,2005.                    monitor the use o f funds. First such mission will
                                                                     take dace inNovember
                   Increase the budget execution           2005      Ongoing.
                   results for 2005 to 60%.
                   Increase the budget allocation to       2005      Done.
                   education sector in2006 exercise
                   to 8.5%.
Social protection  Completion o f qualitative risk and 2002-2003     Done in September 2005.
                   vulnerability study.
                   Development o f a global program     June 2004    Done. National program for social protection
                   for social protection based on the                was developed by the Government inJune 2004.
                   comdeted studies.

                                                             85
t  H. Agriculture andRuralDevelopment

     Area of                                                              I
  Intervention                     Activities                DueDate                            Comments

Increaselevel o f     Implementationofprogramof              2002-2003        Donein2003 with the support from PMURR.
agriculturaloutput    increasingseeds.
                      Rehabilitationof 850 haof irrigated     End2005         Ongoing.
                      land.
                      Studiesfor improvedaviculture          Beginning        Pilot programs startedinKinshasa, Bas-Congo,
                      program, improvementof small            o f 2004        andBandundu.
                      livestockraising, fish farms and
                      local fishing.
                      Improvementof sale of agricultural     June 2005        Ongoing.(70% complete with the support of
                      products(access to local markets)                       PMURR andUNOPS).
                      resultingfrom rehabilitationof 5000
                      kmofrural tracks.
                      Repairingbridges.                      June 2003 -      Done in2004 by the UNOPS.
                      Implementationof an information         June 2004       Ongoing. Methodologywas alreadytested.
                      systemon marketpricesfor                                Financingneededto installthe system.
                      agriculturalproducts.
                      It's adoptionis aHIPC completion        Strategy        Ongoing.
                      point trigger.                         due in2006

    I.Infrastructure(roads,electricity,andwater)

     Area of
  intervention I     I                                                                                                     I
                                                          I
  T ,       I.                      Activities               DueDate                             Comments
               ~  ~~




Rehabilitation       ISelection of internationalfirm in   I   November     IIIDone. BCMIwas selected in2002 and started
works                 chargeof works.                           2002          work inMay 2003.
                      Launchingof studies for the entire        2003          Done.
                      oromam.
Roads                 Works to begin, following selection      Starting       Donein2004.
                      of andmobilization ofentrepreneurs      July 2004
                      by internationalbidprocurement           through
                      notice.                                   2006
Transportation        Works inprogressonMETELSAT,               2004 -        Ongoing.
                      RVM, ONATRA, RVF, SNCC, and           1   2006        1
                      CNPR.
Electricity            Study on SNEL installations.           July 2004       Ongoing.
                      Urgentworks on production              First half of    Ongoing.
                      capacityat 600 megawattsto begin.         2004
                      Largerehabilitationworks on SNEL        2005-2007       Ongoing.
                      installationsandIngadam
                      rehabilitation.
Water                 Rehabilitationof REGIDESO's             April 2004      Ongoing.
                       infrastructure                          -2006
Urban                  Executiono f 2 importantworks          2004 -end       Ongoing.
                       (Kasa-Vubuurbanrehabilitationand     1   2005        1
                       Selembao erosionworks).
Legal and              Preparationo fnew legaland             2003-2005       In2004, sectoralworking groupwas formedfor
regulatoryreform      regulatoryframework for petroleum,                      thispurpose. A draftwater codewas prepared
                       energy andwater sectors.                               by the nationalcommissionfor energy. New
                                                                              codes for electricity andhydrocarbonare being
                                                                              prepared.
                                                         TECHNICAL            COMMITTEE FORREFORMMONITORING

8      L)
0      5
N      n
2p!    YP

8
Y

       3

n
3
3
u
a,
BE
808
a,




U
5
&
2E
4


       10
       0  n
       0  3
       N  3
          N
       `5
       3  c
       4  3
          -5

.I
X
cd
a
I
cd

   hi
   0
   0
   N
   %8o0
   Y
   -
   n
   a,




   4


   4
   3ti

a,       8
$ 2
gs      gs
Z       z




L
ea
a

e
8CI
cd
I
Q)
L
a
s
Q)
Y
5

4
Y
W
m
0
0
N


   c,
   3
   3
   N
   Ecd

    Y
   &s
   U

   3
   0




m  m
0         In
0 3       0
N 0N      0
3
s 5       N
  2       .+
          E
          h
          s

      10
      0     n        9
      0     3     B  3
      N     3
            N     0  3N
                  54
Y-                N
o\    Y     I           I
      a,
      3
      '3    25       B
            3        3
      h     N         N

      v,
      0
      0
      c;'
      m
      0
      0
      N




+
a,

P
a,
a
3

     fa
     4




     cd
     3




        v1
       3Q)




w

      cd
      3




L
.I
8



E
L
5
CI
V
m
8


ij

                        o
                        5




        m        m
       3    r,  3
       3   3
       9   3    0m
       s    N    Y
            d     e,
                3

        0   3    r;l
        N   -.)  h1




                            Y




'a,
.eLa
 L

 a,
 s
Yu
 %
P7

Y

 a,
 a
 E
 &
 *
3a,
'a,
n
d


tn



f
u

U
a,
B      B     4
       N
       0     3B
             (II


0 0
       '3
       c     38 %
2
U N
       h

       W
       s




8en
cd



       4

     9
     3
     3
     u



Y
W

r,
3
3
3
E
I
T




-0
1




J

N
0

I

    d
    0
A   0
3   hl
    3
3
u    v1

          P
          28




0
v,

3
     L
     I
     2

            u
            a,
            %
            m
            0
            0
            N




        t

n    3
3    0
3    N
N     c
     .C3

     h1

        I

      9:
      3
      3
      N
      50a
      g
      2

In
0
0
N
.9
c,
s

                   0
                   B
                   rn
                   W
                   n
                   5
                   5
                   rn
                   E
                   W




                   u
                   W
                   b
                   W
                   E
                   E
                   0
                   u
                   W

      4
      M            d


      B
      -3
      0
00    N
0     +
      a,


      h




            ..e
            .I
            2ce
            5

v)
M
L
w
K
c
0
I:
0
Y

B
2

CI
E




-      e   e



.I
80
Y
d
.I
Y
zt!
0



Y
0
.-E
v)



4
Y


L
0
2
.I

       e    e




       e

       m         h
                 3
                 +c




       e      e      e    e  e    e

.  e    e    e    e




.   .   . . . .        e

     0




      0




3
3
3

e       e




e   e

                                        113


                                                                              Annex 4

                                                                               EXTERNAL
                   Public Information Notice                                   RELATIONS
                                                                               DEPARTMENT




                                                          International Monetary Fund
                                                          700 lgthStreet, NW
                                                          Washington, D. C. 20431 USA


Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 0%-
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
081--105


 IMF Concludes 2005 Article IV Consultationwith the Democratic
                            Republic of the Congo


On August 29, 2005, the ExecutiveBoard of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
concluded the 2005 Article IV consultationwith the Democratic Republic of the
Congo."

Background

Since 2001, the DRC has experienceda significant turnaround. After the signing of a
power-sharing agreement (Accord global et inclusif) in December 2002, a transition
government of national unity was formed in June 2003, charged with holding
elections after two years. The transition period was extended by six months in
June 2005 to give the authorities more time to prepare for the first free and
transparent elections in over 30 years. The transition government has made
progress in reunifying the country and strengthening public institutions. A draft
constitution was adopted by parliament in May2005 and will be submitted to a
referendumin November 2005. In addition, an integrated army and a policeforce are


  Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral
discussions with members, usually every year. A staff team visits the country,
collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's
economic developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares
a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the
conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board,
summarizesthe views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the
country's authorities. This PIN summarizes the views of the Executive Board as
expressed during the August 29,2005 Executive Board discussion based on the
staff report.

                                            114


being created and the implementation of the Disarmament, Demobilization, and
Reintegration (DDR) program is making progress.

Economic activity started to recover in 2002, after declining for 13 years, inflation
declined from 511 percent at end-2000 to 4 percent at end-2003. However, by mid-
2004 macroeconomic performance started to weaken due mainly to an increase in
security-related government spending following rising tensions in the eastern
provinces and outlays by political institutions. Overall, real GDP grew by 6.8 percent
in 2004; 12-month inflation fell to less than 5 percent by mid-2004 before rising to
over 9 percent by December 2004 and further to 26 percent by end-May 2005.

The external current account deficit, including official transfers, widened by
4 percentage points of GDP in 2004. Favorableterms of trade (due to an increase in
the world market prices of commodities) and the return of private investors resulted
in large increases in exports of cobalt, timber, crude oil, and copper. At the same
time, imports of capital and consumer goods rose rapidly with the reconstruction of
the economy and with rising income. The overall balance of payments improved
when taking into account debt relief. International reserves more than doubled to
5.2 weeks of imports and are projected to rise further to 7.2 weeks in 2005. The
country has benefited from a sharp improvement in competitiveness,with the terms
of trade strengthening by more than 20 percent over the same period and the real
effective exchange rate depreciating by 19 percent during 2002-04.

Fiscal developments were mixed in 2004, with government revenue higher and
expenditure lower than programmed. Nevertheless, the composition of expenditure
remained a major issue, with spending on social and poverty-reducing projects
falling well short of projections when, at the same time, there was overspending for
security and political institutions. In addition, the implementation of the fiscal reform
agenda slowed down due to institutional rigidities, including the government's and
the NationalAssembly's slow decision-making process. So, in spite of relatively high
growth, progress toward reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has
been limited.

A higher-than-anticipatedexpansion in the monetary aggregates in 2004 led to the
depreciation of the Congo franc and a surge in inflation in the second half of the
year. To correct the slippages the Central Bank of the Congo (BCC) tightened
monetary policy and eventually monetary stability was restored leading to the
stabilization of consumer prices and the appreciation of the exchange rate by mid-
June 2005.

In the area of governance, the authorities increased transparency in government
spending and the tracking of poverty-related expenditure, which are key elements to
monitor the use of resources generated by debt relief under the highly indebted and
poor countries (HIPC) initiative, and progress was made toward the MDGs. In
addition a law to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism was
promulgated in 2005.

                                           115


Important structural reforms have been implemented since 2002, but progress
slowed in 2004 due to a large extent to rising insecurity and political tensions that
made it difficult for the government to reach a broad consensus on reforms.

The soundness of the banking system is still fragile, although it has improved over
the past year as its restructuring is ongoing. A plan to recapitalizethe BCC has been
elaborated which deals with the losses it incurred due to the revaluation of its foreign
exchange accounts, high operating costs, and low earnings. As regards commercial
banks, seven of them are being liquidated, the five remaining in operation are
implementing restructuring plans and a new bank has started operations. Banks'
profits are still low due to the narrow asset base and the volatility of earnings.

The DRC has made progress in obtaining debt relief. After reaching the decision
point under the HlPC Initiative,the authorities signed bilateral agreements with most
Paris Club creditors. The authorities have also continued their good faith efforts to
reach collaborative agreements with commercial creditors with which they have
signed 32 rescheduling agreements, and they intend to continue seeking
agreements with all remaining creditors by end-2005.

In 2005, economic growth is expected to reach 6.6 percent and end-of-period
inflation to rise to 22.6 percent. The authorities will seek to achieve an underlying
fiscal surplus (which excludes all foreign-financed expenditure) equivalent to
1.1 percent of GDP, compared with a deficit of 0.9 percent of GDP in 2004. At the
same time, spending for the political transition process and the restructuring of the
economy, which is largely foreign financed, would cause the overall fiscal deficit, on
a cash basis, to increase by 0.5 percentage points of GDP to 2.2 percent in 2005.
The overall fiscal deficit is to be covered by external financing, including debt relief
under the HlPC Initiative and budget support from the World Bank, the African
Development Bank, and bilateral donors. The BCC will implement a prudent
monetary policy in the context of the floating exchange rate regime, which has so far
been appropriatefor the country's circumstanceswith the restoration of price stability
as the main objective.

The main risks for the rest of 2005 relate to security and social tensions, which could
worsen in the case of further delays in the transition process. Bringing the political
transition process to a successful conclusion is key and will require coordinated
efforts to tackle simultaneouslypolitical, economic, and security challenges. Support
of the international community will remain crucial in reachingthe end of the transition
process.

Executive BoardAssessment

Executive Directors commended the authorities for the progress made in stabilizing
the economy and pursuing reforms in recent years, despite the difficult security and
political situation. GDP growth has been higher than anticipated, inflationary
pressures have eased, and the exchange rate remained broadly stable. In addition,
important reforms were introduced, and advances made toward national
reunification.

                                          116


Directors noted that economic performance was mixed during the second half of
2004 and the first quarter of 2005. They regretted the policy slippages, which
contributed to renewed inflationary pressures, a shift away from pro-poor spending,
and slow implementation of structural reforms during this period. They were
encouraged, however, by the tightening of fiscal and monetary policies early this
year, which has helped stabilize the macroeconomicsituation.

Directors noted that developments since mid-2004 underscored the fragility of the
economic situation and that confidence in government policy remained tenuous.
While recognizing the daunting challenges associated with the political and security
situation, Directors encouraged the authorities to accelerate the economic reform
process, including in the area of governance, which is essential for rebuilding the
economy, achieving high and sustainable growth, and reducing poverty. They also
emphasized the importanceof bringingthe political transition processto a successful
conclusion and of improving security by completing reforms of the army and the
police.

Directors concurred with the authorities' medium-term economic framework, which
they found ambitious for a country that is still at an early stage of post-conflict
recovery. They supported the fiscal strategy that aims at keepingthe deficit at a level
compatible with macroeconomic stability and debt sustainability. While noting the
steps taken to increase revenue, Directors recommended that this effort be
intensified in order to generate the resources required to develop the economy and
reduce poverty. To enhance tax collection, they noted that emphasis should be
placed on modernizing the tax administration, broadening the tax base, and fighting
smuggling, fraud, and corruption. Directors urged, in particular, that the government
take steps to ensure that the mining sector contributes an appropriate share of
government revenue.

Directors urged the authorities to contain overall government expenditure, since
money-financed outlays were the main cause of the recent surge in inflation. They
emphasized the importance of improving the composition of spending by ensuring
that resources for poverty reduction are effectively utilized in order to contribute to
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and that outlay for
security and political institutions are contained. Directors strongly supported the
strengthening of public expenditure management, which is essential for improving
transparency and enhancing the efficiency of fiscal spending. They also welcomed
the actions taken to enhance the efficiency of the civil service, and in particular, the
undertaking of the military and civilian personnel census, which is an essential step
toward improving control over the payroll, and creating room to increase wages.
Directors noted the provisions in the draft Constitution to decentralize fiscal
resources and key responsibilities to the provinces. To safeguard fiscal discipline,
they urged that the pace of decentralization take into account the institutional
capacity in the provinces, and saw a role for Fund technical assistance in this area,

Directors commended the authorities on their commifment to a prudent monetary
policy in the context of the floating exchange rate regime, with the restoration of
price stability as the main objective. They encouraged the authorities to implement
the Fund'stechnical assistance recommendationsregarding monetary management,

                                           117


including by developing the market for central bank paper as an efficient tool to
address excess liquidity. Effectiveliquidity management might also require sales of
foreign exchange. Directors were of the view that intervention in the foreign
exchange market should be limited to achieving the target for international reserves
and smoothing out short-termvolatility in the exchange rate.

Directors urged the BCC to accelerate the implementation of its action plan aimed at
strengthening its financial position, its institutional and management capacity, and
the transparency of its operations. Actions in this area should take into account the
recommendations of         the    safeguards assessment        report, and    Directors
recommended that increased independence of the central bank would also be
helpful in this regard. Directors welcomed the BCC's commitment to enhance
supervision of the commercial banks and to strengthen the soundness of the
banking system. They were of the view that commercial banks' restructuring was
essential to improvetheir financial situation and enhance financial intermediation.

Directors emphasized the crucial importance of further actions aimed at improving
governance and reducing corruption. Such actions are a key element of the strategy
for improving the business climate and investor confidence and for enhancing donor
support. In this context, Directors urged the authorities to take all necessary steps to
implement recently adopted legislation to intensify the fight against corruption,
money laundering, and the financing of terrorism. In addition, they looked forward to
the authorities' implementation of plans to establish a financial intelligence unit and
to participate in the Extractive IndustriesTransparency Initiative (EITI).

Directors encouraged the authorities to complete the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) through a broad participatory process. They welcomed the draft
PRSP that was circulated to civil society and development partners, and looked
forward to the final version in the fourth quarter of this year. They urged the
authorities to implement all actions necessary for the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC) to reach the completion point under the enhanced HlPC Initiative by
end-2006.

Directors noted progress made in finalizing negotiations on debt relief and
encouraged the authoritiesto reach agreementwith all remaining creditors. In light of
the downside risks to exports and the terms of trade, they emphasized the need to
continue to follow a prudent external debt management policy, and to secure highly
concessional foreign assistance, while strengthening the authorities' debt-
management capacity.

Directors agreed that macroeconomic statistics still need to be improved
significantly, especially in the areas of the national accounts, price and production
data, and the balance of payments. They urged the authorities to continue their
efforts to enhance the coverage and quality of key statistics in the context of the
General Data Dissemination System project.

                                              118




Public lnformation Notices (PINS)form part of the IMF's efforts to promote transparency of the IMF's
views and analysis of economic developments and policies.With the consent of the country
(or countries) concerned, PlNs are issued after Executive Boarddiscussions of Article IV consultations
with member countries, of its surveillance of developments at the regionallevel, of post-program
monitoring, and of ex post assessments of member countrieswith longer-termprogram engagements.
PlNs are also issued after Executive Board discussions of general policy matters, unless otherwise
decided by the Executive Board in a particular case.

                                                                         119


                                                                                                                                 Annex 5
                         Congo, Dern. Rep. at a glance                                                                             8/25/05


                                                                           Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Congo,       Saharan    Low-
                                                         Dem. Rep.        Africa  income     Developmentdlamond*

2004
Population,mid-year(millions)                                 54.8          719     2,338
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                               120         600       510                 Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                 6.6        432     1,184

Average annual growth, 1998-04                                                              I                     T
Population(%)                                                    2.3         2.2      I.8
Labor force (%)                                                  1.9         I.o      2.1     GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                              per                                  primav
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                         capita                            enrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                            32          37       31
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                   45          46       58
infant mortality(per 1.000live births)                           129         101       79
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                           31                   44          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)               46          58       75
Literacy(% of populationage 75t)                                  65          65       61
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)               50          95       94           7       Congo, Dern Rep
   Male                                                           52         102      101                   Low-incomegroup
   Female                                                         47          88       88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  IS84        IS94          2003     2004     Economic ratlor'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  7.9          5.8          5.7     6.6
Gross capital formation/GDP                        10.5          7.9        13.7      17.6
Exports of goods and ServicedGDP                   26.0       22.6                                              Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                         10.4         10.6
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                           6.3          -1.2       11.2      16.1                        T
Current account balance/GDP                         -1.8         -9.1         0.6     -3.4
Interest payments/GDP                                2.3          0.0         1.5
Total debffGDP                                     67.3      211.7         197.0
Total debt service/exports                         20.0           1.2         9.8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                   133.3
Presentvalue of debffexports                                               505.0
                                                                                             I        -      indebtedness
                                       lS84-94 1994-04        2003          2004  2004-08
(average annual growth)
GDP                                       -4.0      -1.6          5.6         6.3      7.0                    Congo, Dem. Rep
GDP per capita                            -6.9      -3.8          2.5         3.2      3.9                    Lowincome group
Exports of goodsand services              -9.1     10.1


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1984       1994          2003
 (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        31.4          57.0
 Industry                                          29.4          16.0
   Manufacturing                                    10.5
 Services                                          39.1          27.0

 Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure             83.1          85.0
 General gov't final consumptionexpenditure          6.6          4.4
 Importsof goods and services                      26.1          16.9


                                                198444 1994-04              2003     2004
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                      [Growth of exports and Imports (%)           1
 Agriculture                                         2.5         -1.4
 Industry                                          -10.7         -2.1
   Manufacturing                                    -9.7
 Services                                           -5.5         -6.8

 Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure              -2.4          0.0                    "      1
 General govY final consumptionexpenditure          -5.6      -12.9                          -25       99    00    01     02     03    04

 Gross capital formation                           -17.0          2.4                                -Exports           +Imports
 Imports of goods and services                     -10.1         21.4

                                         _      _        ~~~    ~    ~  ~


 Note:2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
 This table was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicsLDB database.
 * The diamondsshow four key Indicatorsinthe country(in bold) compared with its incomegroup average.if data are missing,the diamond will
   be incomplete.

                                               I     C'itt.



1834      t8$4    2003     2004        R {e#*)               f

       23 775 1     a n     8 0
E 8 6 26,7620      133      5 0



                   108
                    4 1
                    4 4


1384      1994    2005     20M

          i




           $53                                     .      -



1834      19%              2004   Currcnt ac




-216       490     -174    -228
  83          0     5111    1122
-14i                  si;
    8      514       -57    1'12
 I34        17        22    113



        1



          I394     la03    2008

5 290    9        11 '171
  mz
   44                  0
          1,284   1771

  415        16      i4#
   I 1        0        0
    4         0       21


           221    4,

  -2:         a1
             -2
              0        0


              tt
              1                                   I
     tf       0
   44
     7        u1       0
   57         1      1311

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 31546

 NIGERIA                    CHAD                                                                     10                                    15                                          20                                                            25                                                         30
                                                                                                                                                                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                                                      SUDAN            ETHIOPIA
                                    CENTRAL
                             AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUDAN
         CAMEROON                                                                             5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5

 EQ.
GUINEA                                                      UGANDA                                                                                                BANGUI
                                                                        KENYA                               CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  U e l e
                       CONGO                                                                                      YAOUNDE
            GABON                     DEMOCRATIC               Lake
                                                              Victoria                                                                                                          Libenge
                               Congo     REPUBLIC RWANDA
SAO TOME                               OF CONGO                               INDIAN                                                                                                                 Businga
& PRINCIPE                                         BURUNDI                                                                                                                               Gemena
                           KINSHASA                                                                                                                                                                                                           Buta
        Cabinda                                       Lake
      (ANGOLA)                                      Tanganyika  TANZANIA                                                                                                 Ubangi                                                                                                 Isiro

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lisala                                                 ORIENTALE
    SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
 ATLANTIC                                                                                     EQUATORIAL
                           ANGOLA                                                   OCEAN         GUINEA                                                                                EQUATEUR                                                                                                                             Alber
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bunia
   OCEAN                                                          MALAWI                                                                                                     Congo       Basankusu                                      Congo                                                                            Lake
                                                 ZAMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UGANDA

                                                                                                   LIBREVILLE                                                                                                                                              Kisangani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KAMPALA
                       NAMIBIA                     ZIMBABWE      MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wanie                                                                                    KENY
                                                                                              0                                                                            Mbandaka
                                                                                                                                                                             Ruki                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Boende
                                            5                                                                                                  CONGO                                                                                                                                                         L a k e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lualaba                                      E d w a r d
                                                                                                                 GABON                                                                                                                            Lomami                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORD-KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Goma                                      Victoria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RWANDA
                                                                                                                                                                           Inongo                                                                                                                  L a k e
                                                                                                                                                                     Lake                                                                                                                          K i v u             KIGALI
                                                                                                                                                                     Mai                                                                                                                 Kabare
                                                                                                                                                                 Ndombe                                                                                                                 Bukavu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kindu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                                   Bandundu                         Lukenie                                                MANIEMA                  SUD-KIVU                    BUJUMBURA
                                                                                                                                                                                Kasai                                                                                                         Uvira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KASAI ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                  BRAZZAVILLE
                                                                                                                                                  KINSHASA          BANDUNDU
                                                                                                                                                     KINSHASA

 5              DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                          Kenge                                                                                                                                      Lake
                                                                                                              Cabinda       Tshela              Madimba                                                                             Lusambo
                                                                                                                                                                                 Kikwit                                                                                                                                                                                 5

                                     OF CONGO                                                                                                                                                              Luebo
                                                                                                             (ANGOLA)     BAS-CONGO          Mbanza-Ngungu
                                                                                                                                                                                              KASAI OCCIDENTAL                                                                 Kongolo

                                                                                                                        Boma             Kimpese
                                                                                                                                  Matadi                                                                  Kananga                                                                                                                     TANZANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mbuji-Mayi                                            Kalmie

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kabinda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shilenge
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tshikapa                                                                                                  Tanganyika
                                               PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                                              Gandajika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mwene-
                                               SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                 Kwango                                                           Ditu


                                               SELECTED TOWNS

                                               REGION CAPITALS

                                               NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                     LUANDA                                                                                         Lulua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamina                                         Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KATANGA                               Mweru
                                               REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                               Kasai

                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake      10


                                                                                                                                                          ANGOLA                                                                                             Kolwezi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dilolo                                                                                                                                  Malawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Likasi                          Lake                                      MALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bangweulu

   This map was produced by the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kipushi    Lumbumbashi
   Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
   The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WI
   and any other information shown on
   this map do not imply, on the part of                      0        100               200      300     400   500

   The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kipushia
                                                                                          KILOMETERS
   on the legal status of any territory, or
   any endorsement or acceptance of
   such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZAMBIA
                                              5                                                       10                                   15                                          20                                                         25                                                         30                   LILONGWE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JULY 2001

