INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                       1818 H Street, N.W.     Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C.20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                           U.S.A.                  Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



     EdithBrownWeiss
     Chairperson

                                                                              IPNREQUESTRQ05/2

                                                                              December 1, 2005


         MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                  SUBJECT: Requestfor Inspection
          DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF CONGO:TransitionalSupport for Economic
     RecoveryCredit (Proposed)andEmergencyEconomicand SocialReunificationSupport
                Project(EESRSP)(CreditNo. 3824-DRCand Grant No. H064-DRC)

             Please be advised that on November 19, 2005, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel")
     received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-mentioned Project. The
     Panel registered the Request for Inspection in the Panel's Register on December 1, 2005, as
     provided in paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy o f the
     Request to the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17 of the IDA Resolution that
     established the Panel. Enclosed for your information are:

             (1) A copy o fthe Notice o f Registration; and
             (2) A copy of the transmittal Memorandumto the President.




     Enclosures


I




.. THE INSPECTIONPANEL
   INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT                   1818HStreet, NW               Phone: (202) 458-5200
   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                                 Washington, DC 20433, USA      Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                        Internet: httn://www.worldbank.ordinsnectiol7



            IPNREQUEST RQ05/2

                                                                                                     December 1,2005




                                             NOTICE OF REGISTRATION


                                               Re:Requestfor Inspection
               DemocraticRepublicof Congo: Transitional Support for EconomicRecovery Credit
            (Proposed) and EmergencyEconomicand SocialReunificationSupportProject(EESRSP)
                                  (CreditNo. 3824-DRC and GrantNo. H064-DRC)


      On November 19, 2005, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection, dated October
      30, 2005, (the "Request")        related to the above-referenced Projects. The Organisations
      Autochtones PygmCes et Accompagnant les Autochtones PygmCes en RCpubliqueDCmocratique
      du Congo submittedthe Request ontheir own behalfand on behalfof affected local communities
      living inthe Democratic Republic o f Congo. Representatives o f local communities o f Kisangani
      in the Orientale Province, of BCni and Butembo in the Nord-Kivu Province,                                      o f
      KinshasdMbandaka and Lokolama in the Equateur Province, o f Inongo in the Bandundu
      Province, of Kindu in the Maniema Province, and o f Bukavu in the Sud-Kivu Province, are
      signatories to the Request. The Request for Inspection includes 32 annexes.

      The Requesters claim that they have been harmed and will be harmed by the forestry sector
      reform activities supported by the Projects, which includes a plan for zoning the forests and, they
      fear, the implementation o f a new commercial forest concession system. They note that the
      Project includes the preparation o f "a forest zoning plan," for the forests of the Equateur and
      Orientale Provinces, where they have lived for centuries, even millennia. The Requesters claim
      that ifthe zoning o f the forests occurs without consulting the indigenous peoples and considering
      their interests and if new forest concessions are assigned, the International Development
      Association (the "Bank") will be violating indigenous peoples' rights and harmingtheir interests.
      They claim it will lead to violating their right to occupy their ancestral lands, to maintaining the
      integrity of their traditional lands, to accessing their traditional lands and existing resources, to
      managing their forests and resources according to traditional knowledge and practices, and to
      protecting their cultural and spiritual values. They claim this would then lead to the destruction
      or loss o f their natural living environment and their means o f subsistence, impose or force
      change intheir way o f life, and cause serious social conflict.

      The Requesters assert that their grievances result from omissions and failures o f the Bank
      regarding its policies and procedures.       They specifically claim, for example, that in the

Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project (EESRSP), the Bank ignored
OD 4.20 on IndigenousPeoples despitethe presenceof indigenous Pygmies people inthe Project
implementation area. Moreover, they contend that the Project was classified as Category B
under OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, but because of its potentially sensitive impacts, it
should have been classified as Category A. They also assert that the preparation o f the
environmental assessment was delayed more than twelve months after the Development
Financing Agreement for the Project became effective (December 5, 2003), and that the
environmental assessment i s still not available. The Requesters further state that Bank activities
pertaining to the forestry sector in DRC are not consistent with OP 4.36, and lack popular
legitimacy, as they are being implementedwithout adequate consultation and do not respond to
indigenous peoples' concerns or to the requirements for sustainable management o f the
Congolese forests and the development of their inhabitants.

The Requesters claim that OD 4.20 should apply to the EESRSP. They reject the Bank's claim
that the Project i s not expected to include activities in indigenous peoples' areas and claim this
does not correspond to the reality on the ground. They add that the Pygmies were the first
inhabitants o f the region and have lived and traveled in the forests o f the Equateur and the
Orientale Provinces for centuries, even millennia, and that their survival, cultural identity and
traditional knowledge are intimately linked to the forest. The Requesters further allege that the
Bank prepared terms o f reference for a Pilot Zoning Plan covering the axis Maringa-Lopori-
Wamba, which recognized the presence o f Pygmies indigenous people communities in these
forests, This means according to the Requesters that OD 4.20 must apply.

The Requesters state that under the EESRSP, the Bank plans to lay the ground for the
implementation o f a new forestry concession system. The Requesters fear that this will raise the
moratorium on granting forestry exploitations titles and will lead to assigning new forest
concessions even before the zoning plan i s finalized. They add that this concession system will
lead to the revival o f the logging industry without any mechanisms for effective control or for
ensuringtransparency. The Requesters note that no regulation related to the rights and interests
o f local communities or to environmental protection has been adopted. They claim that the
EESRSP "forest component's" performance indicators refer only to the number o f new
concessions granted, without considering risks from a failure to consult indigenous people or to
suspend the moratorium prematurely. The Requesters note that according to the Bank's own
estimates, the policies supported by the Bank will ensure 60 million hectares o f forests are
available for forest production, which constitutes three-quarters o f the 80 million hectares o f
tropical forests inthe DRC.

The Requesters refer to a Bank-financed structural adjustment credit, the Economic Recovery
Credit, approved in May, 2002 and to the DRC Forestry Code adopted in August 2002 as a
condition o f the Credit. According to the Requesters, the Forestry Code, which set the policy
framework for the country's forest management, was adopted without the participation o f civil
society or the involvement o f the indigenous population. They argue that the type o f lending
instrument used (an Emergency Recovery Loan) resulted in the Bank bypassing its safeguard
policies andprocedures related to environment, forestry, and indigenous peoples.

The Requesters note that the Bank's Board o f Executive Directors will be reviewing a new
Project, the Transitional Support for Economic Recovery Credit, which includes a component on

forestry sector governance. They state that although they have not been granted access to the
details o f this component, they fear that if the Project is approved in the same form as the
previous EESRSP project and the earlier Economic Recovery Credit, "it would allow the
application of the Bank's safeguard policies and procedures to be sidelined," would "risk
marginalizing indigenous people even more,'' and would build upon flawed and inadequate
forestry sector reforms already inplace. This would threaten their rights and their survival.

The Requesters state that they have tried several times to have the Bank clarify its real
motivations and to explain its failure to apply its own policies and procedures, but without
success. They also list several meetings and exchanges they had with the Bank and state that
these did not provide any substantial answers to the concerns and recommendations o f the
organizations o f the Pygmie indigenous people or of civil society generally. The Requesters sent
the Request to the Inspection Panel and ask that the Panel recommend to the Board of Executive
Directors an investigation into the Bank's actions and omissions. For the existing EESRSP, they
request that the Bank implement OP4.20 on indigenous people, reconsider the EESRSP
classification under OP 4.01, so that it i s classified as Category A rather than B; and disclose the
EESRSP's environmental assessments. They further request that their concerns and observations
be considered as part of the approval process for new projects having a forest component, such
as the Transitional Support for Economic Recovery Credit. This project i s scheduled to be
presentedto the Bank Board of Executive Directorsfor approval on December 8,2005.

The above claims may constitute non-compliance by the Bank with various provisions of the
following operational Policies and Procedures:

        OP/BP 4.01                          EnvironmentalAssessment
        OD 4.15                             Poverty Reduction
        OD 4.20                             Indigenous People
        OP/BP 4.36                          Forestry
        OP/BP 8.50                          Emergency Recovery Assistance
        OPN 11.03                           Cultural Property
        OP/BP 13.05                         Project Supervision
        BP 17.50                            Disclosure of Information

All communications with the Requesters in connection with this Request will be sent until
further notice to Messrs. Adrien Sinafasi Makelo, Willy Loyombo Esimola, Pierre Bonkono
Empita, and Ms. Adolphine Muley.

In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the "Operating
Procedures"), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on December 1, 2005, which i s also the date o f the
dispatch o f this notice, registered this Request inthe Inspection Panel Register.

In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Bank Resolution that established the Panel (the
"Resolution"), paragraphs 2 and 8 o f the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the
Inspection Panel" (the "1999 Clarifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating Procedures,
Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than January 2, 2006, with written evidence
that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures in

relation to the above-referenced Project. The subject matter that Management must deal with in
a responseto the Request i s set out inparagraphs 3 and4 o f the 1999 Clarifications.

After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999 Clarifications
and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the Request meets the
eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."

The Requesthas been assignedIPNRequestNumber RQ05/2.

                                         Yours sincerely,            &
                                       EdithBrownWeiss
                                           Chairperson



   TO:

   Adrien Sinafasi Makelo
   Pygmies Indigenous People Association Network (RAPY) -Bukavu
   President o f the Board

   Willy Loyombo Esimola
   Organization for the Settling, Literacy and Promotion o f the Pygmies (OSAPY) - Kisangani
   President

   Adolphine Muley
   Indigenous Woman's Emancipation Union (UEFA) -Bukavu
   Coordinator

   Pierre Bonkono Empita
   International Center for Defense of the Rights o f Forest People "Batwa" (CIBD) -Kinshasa /
   Mbandaka
   EnvironmentalRights Coordinator

   Mr.Paul Wolfowitz
   President
   International Development Association
   Room M C12-750

   cc:

   The ExecutiveDirectors and Alternates
   International Development Association

       -
 ` \

  INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
, INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
  THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                         1518 HStreet, K W      Te!ephone. (202) 458-5230
                                                              Washington,D.C 20433   Fax (202) 522-0916
                                                                                     Email ipanel@worldbank.org

  EdithBrownWeiss
  Chairperson




                                                                           IPNREQUEST RQ05/2

                                                                            December 1,2005


                        MEMORANDUMTO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
                   THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                       Requestfor Inspection
    DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO: Transitional Supportfor EconomicRecovery
         Credit (Proposed)and EmergencyEconomic and SocialReunificationSupport
              Project(EESRSP) (Credit No. 3824-DRC and GrantNo. I               064-DRC)


         Inaccordance with paragraph 17 of IDA Resolutionthat established the InspectionPanel
  (the "Resolution")    and paragraph 17 of the Inspection Panel's Operating Procedures (the
  "Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on November 19, 2005, the Inspection Panel
  (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-referenced
  Project.

         IhaveonDecember 1,2005, whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,
  registeredthe Request inthe Inspection Panel Register.Enclosed are:

          1. copy o f the Notice o f Registration; and
         2. copy ofthe Requestfor Inspection

         In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
  "Conclusions of the Board's SecondReview of the Inspection Panel" (the "1 999 Clarifications"),
  and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management is hereby notified that it
  must provide the Panel, no later than January 2, 2006, with written evidence that it has complied,
  or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-
  referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management must deal with in a response to the
  Request i s set out inparagraphs 3 and 4 ofthe 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."

        The Requesthas beenassignedIPNRequest NumberRQ05/2.




Enclosures:

 Request for Inspection
 Notice of Registration


TO:     Mr.PaulWolfowitz
        President
        InternationalDevelopment Association
        Room M C12-750

        [By hand against confirmation]

cc:     The Executive Directorsand Alternates
        InternationalDevelopment Association




                                              2

