Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1475 
Operation Name 
Economic Recovery Credit III 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P091990 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 18, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 13, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Country background.
The DRC is potentially one of Africa
’s richest economies, with extensive forest, 
mineral, and energy resources. Its regional importance, with its large labor force and potential market 
size, extensive navigable inland waterways and land links to nine states, makes the DRC a potential 
motor for regional growth as significant as Nigeria or South Africa.  However, the country is one of the 
poorest in the world, and is now in a process of recovering from decades of mismanagement and 
conflict. Since January 2001, the Congolese authorities have taken a number of important steps to 
implement the 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord and other agreements reached through the inter-Congolese 
dialogue, to liberalize political life and to address key development issues.  A transition government of 
national unity is progressively stabilizing the country with the help of the UN and the international 
community.  Just as the instability, conflict, and ungovernability of the DRC had regional implications, 
the stabilization of the DRC is a key to sustainable peace in the region. 
 
In this environment, the Government is implementing far-reaching economic reforms, but numerous 
challenges remain.  On the positive side, the Government has managed to break hyperinflation and 
restore macroeconomic stability through prudent fiscal and monetary policies.  It has also made strides 
in alleviating its debt burden vis-à-vis internal and external creditors accumulated by the preceding 
government, and reached the HIPC decision point in 2003.  The authorities have also taken steps to 
restore transportation and communications, and to begin to rehabilitate health and education 
infrastructure.  With regard to challenges, the civil service is demoralized and underpaid.  Public 
expenditure management is improving but still weak.  Large sections of the population do not have 
access to public services, especially outside of the capital.  Domestic resource mobilization is improving 
but still weak.  The Government’s challenge consists of reversing decades of mismanagement and 
beginning to deliver essential state functions throughout the country.  
 
Rationale for Bank involvement
.
The Government laid out its reform strategy in the Interim Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper in March 2002 and reaffirmed it in their Minimum Partnership Program for 
Transition and Recovery (PMPTR) in November 2004.  The PMPTR describes the country’s enormous 
need for reconstruction and rehabilitation, and its weak tax mobilization capacity. Under such 
circumstances, budget support is required to ensure that the Government is able to fund elections, 
military aspects of Demobilization, Disarmament, and Reinsertion program (DDR), reduce domestic 
payment arrears, and other key structural and institutional measures in a sustainable manner.  The Bank 
acknowledges this need, and has pledged budget support during the Consultative Group Meeting in 
Page  2
November 2004, when the PMPTR was presented.  Such support is in line with the Bank’s Transitional 
Support Strategy, approved by the Board in January 2004, which supports the Government’s reform 
program with a focus on four main areas: security and social stability; high and shared growth; 
governance and institutional strengthening; and social development.  In addition, the Credit is 
particularly important not only because the Bank is the principal provider of budget support, but also 
because it serves the important catalytic role of mobilizing other external resources. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The Credit is intended to support selected strategic targets of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy, 
and aims to help the Government in consolidating past policy achievements as well as in tackling the 
primary economic challenge it faces at this juncture, which is to reinforce the essential state functions 
especially for the benefit of the underprivileged.  The objectives of the Credit are to provide financing to 
the budget and balance of payments, to maintain macroeconomic stability, and to fund the underlying 
reform program.  The underlying reforms being supported are essential steps to improve public service 
to the poor by strengthening public expenditure and civil service management.  The Credit also supports 
measures to improve governance in key sectors, mining and forestry, in order to ensure the fiscal and 
environmental sustainability in the long run. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The Credit, provisionally in an amount of US$75 million equivalent, will support measures aimed at: (i) 
increasing pro-poor spending; (ii) strengthening public expenditure and civil service management; and 
(iii) improving governance in forestry and mining sectors, in addition to maintaining macroeconomic 
stability.  The Credit will support government’s efforts to increase pro-poor spending by providing 
technical assistance to its bloc grant program in education sector and by facilitating planned reforms in 
the health sector budget procedures.  In public finance management, the Credit will focus on the 
reporting and monitoring aspect, as it is the area that needs the most urgent improvement in DRC.  In 
civil service management, the Credit will help the government in executing its ongoing civil servant 
retirement program, as well as to provide assistance in improving the payroll procedures and human 
resources management.  In forestry and mining sectors, the Credit will support the Government’s resolve 
in pressing forward with reforms in improving governance, as the country moves from the initial stages 
of adopting modern forestry and mining codes to the much more difficult phase of implementing them.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The Credit supports a continuation of reforms in forestry sector.  It is expected to have positive 
environmental implications. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
75 
 Total 
75 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Keiko Kubota 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6836 
Fax: (202) 473- 8466 
Email: kkubota@worldbank.org 
Page  3
