                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000367




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-H1920)




                                    ON A

                                    GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 62.1 MILLION
                        (US$ 90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                   DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

                                    FOR A

     TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY OPERATION




                                  May 1, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (AFTP3)
Country Cluster 2 (AFCC2)
Africa Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   Exchange Rate Effective March 2007

                      Currency Unit = Franc Congolais
                             CDF 100 = US$ 0.19
                             US$ 1.00 = CDF 510

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                          [January 1 ­ December 31]

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB         African Development Bank
CAMI         Cadastre minier (Mining Cadastre)
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CDF          Congolese Franc
COPIREP      Commission de Pilotage de la Réforme des Entreprises Publiques (Public Enterprise
             Reform Commission)
COREMAP      Commission de la Réforme des Marchés Publics (Procurement Reform Commission)
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report
DDR          Demobilization, Disarmament, and Reinsertion
DGI          Direction Générale des Impôts (General Tax Directorate)
DGRAD        Direction Générale des Recettes Administratives, Judiciaires, Domaniales et de
             Participation (Tax authority for parafiscal revenues)
DPL          Development Policy Lending / Loan
DRC          Democratic Republic of the Congo
EC           European Commission
EESRSP       Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project
EITI         Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EMRRP        Emergency Multi Sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ESB          Etat de Suivi Budgétaire (budget execution report)
EU           European Union
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GECAMINES    Générale de Carrières et Mines (Public Enterprise for Mining)
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIPC AAP     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ­ Assessment Action Plan
ICCN         Institut Congolais de Conservation et de la Nature (Congolese Institute for
             Conservation and Nature)
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP       Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MAD          Mise à disposition de fonds (Advance Funds Mechanism)
MONUC        United Nations Observation Mission in the Congo
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
OECD         Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
OFIDA        Office des Douanes et Accises (Customs)
OHADA        Organisation pour l'Harmonization en Afrique du Droit des Affaires (the Organization
             of Business Law in Africa)
ONATRA       Office National des Transports (Public Enterprise for Transportation)
PARSS        Projet d'Appui à la Relance du Secteur de la Santé (Project of support to the
             rehabilitation of the health sector)

PD         Program Document
PEG        Programme économique du gouvernement (Government's economic program)
PMPTR      Minimum Program of Partnership for Transition and Recovery
PRERC      Post Reunification Economic Recovery Credit
PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTS        Procédure Transitoire Simplifiée (a transitional simplified payroll system)
ROC        Regional Operations Committee
SIG        Système Intégré de Gestion Financière et Administrative (Civil Service Management
           System)
TSERO      Transitional Support for Economic Recovery Operation
TSS        Transitional Support Strategy
UK         United Kingdom
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF     United Nations Children's Fund



                 Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili

               Country Director: Pedro Alba

                Sector Manager: Yvonne M. Tsikata

          Program Team Leader: Keiko Kubota
              ICR Team Leader Keiko Kubota
            ICR primary author Paul Geli

                                        Congo, Dem Rep
                  Transitional Support for Economic Recovery

                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 5
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 18
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 25
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 26
Annex 7. Indicators of Progress (2005-2006)............................................................... 27
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Transitional Support for
Country:               Congo, Dem Rep           Program Name:
                                                                       Economic Recovery
Program ID:            P091990                  L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H1920
ICR Date:              06/26/2007               ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    DPL                      Borrower:              GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                       XDR 62.1M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 62.1M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
DRC MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/30/2005    Effectiveness:          12/27/2005        12/27/2005
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/08/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                12/31/2006        12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Not Applicable
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:          Not Applicable

Overall Bank            Moderately SatisfactoryOverall  Borrower
Performance:                                    Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)               Rating:

Potential Problem
                                                Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                          None
                                                (QEA):
(Yes/No):



                                              i

Problem Program at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             40                40
Forestry                                                      15                15
General education sector                                      15                15
Health                                                        15                15
Mining and other extractive                                   15                15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                    Secondary        Secondary
Other environment and natural resources management          Primary           Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                            Primary           Primary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                       At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili      Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:         Pedro Alba                      Pedro Alba
Sector Manager:           Yvonne M. Tsikata               Hinh Truong Dinh
Program Team Leader:      Keiko Kubota                    Keiko Kubota
ICR Team Leader:          Keiko Kubota
ICR Primary Author:       Paul Geli



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Grant is intended to support selected strategic targets of the TSS (2004), and aims to
help the Government in maintaining the peace and macroeconomic stability,
consolidating past policy achievements, and tackling the primary economic challenge it
faces at this juncture. In particular, the Grant will support reforms designed to deepen,
broaden, and sustain the reforms underway in the areas of public administration and fiscal
management, pro-poor spending, and natural resources management.               Improving
transparency by sharing relevant information with stakeholders is also an important
policy reform which this operation aims to support. Moreover, the proposed Grant helps


                                             ii

the Government's efforts in revenue mobilization in the medium term through better
governance in natural resources sectors.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Increase the end-2005 budget execution result for the education sector to 60%.
Value
(quantitative or Execution result at end- 60%                                 Progress indicator

Qualitative)     2004 was 25%.                                                has been met.

Date achieved    01/02/2005               01/02/2006                          01/02/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The result was higher (83%) than the target value of 60%.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Increase the allocation to education sector in 2006 budget to 8.5% of the
                 budget.
Value
(quantitative or Allocation for 2005 was8.5%                                  Progress indicator

Qualitative)     8% of the budget.                                            has been met.

Date achieved    12/30/2004               12/30/2005                          12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The allocation to education sector in 2006 budget was 9.5% of the budget.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Increase the allocation to health sector in 2006 budget to 5.5% of the budget.
Value
(quantitative or Allocation for 2005 was5.5%                                  Progress indicator

Qualitative)     5% of the budget.                                            has been met.

Date achieved    12/30/2004               12/30/2005                          12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The allocation to health sector in 2006 budget was 5.7% of the budget.
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Beginning of the payment of retirement indemnities to the second group of



                                               iii

                 eligible civil servants.
Value            No one from the pool ofPay the first 1,000
(quantitative or eligible retirees had yet elibible retirees in              Progress indicator

Qualitative)     been paid.                the second group.                 has not been met.

Date achieved    12/10/2005                12/30/2006                        12/30/2006
Comments         Preparations have begun for the payment to the second group, but no payment
(incl. %         has been made yet. On the other hand, the 6,000 eligible civil service retirees
achievement)     of the first group have been paid their retirement indemnities.
Indicator 2 :    Independent validating commission completes the mining title review.
Value            The commission
(quantitative or members had just been    Mining title                       Progress indicator

Qualitative)     named.                   review completed.                  has not been met.

Date achieved    10/30/2005                12/30/2006                        12/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The work of the Validation Commission is still underway; it may be completed

achievement)     by the end of 2007.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                           IP             Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)

  1     06/29/2006            Moderately                  Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                  89.10

  2     10/05/2006            Satisfactory                Moderately
                                                        Unsatisfactory                  89.10



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

After many years of mismanagement, corruption and conflicts with successive episodes of
increasing violence, in 2001 the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) started to turn around.
A transition government of national unity comprised of all stakeholders, including domestic
parties to the conflict, was formed, and started to implement the 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord and
agreements reached through the inter-Congolese dialogue. This transitional coalition government
managed to maintain the tenuous peace and to improve security with the help of a United Nations
peacekeeping force. It had taken a number of important steps to liberalize political life, and was
preparing for general elections (which took place in 2006) and a referendum on a new
constitution.

The support to the transitional peace process by the international community was critical at the
time. IDA's role was particularly important as its presence lent credibility to the process, and
strengthened the hands of the reformers within the coalition government. IDA also acted as the
catalyst to galvanize support from other development partners for much needed technical and
financial assistance. The resources made available were to enable the transition government to
maintain political, social, and macroeconomic stability. The proposed operation was expected to
reinforce the Government's efforts to rebuild basic state functions so that the country's rich
resources could be shared by a larger group of people, and in particular, by the poor. Without
sufficient external financial support, many reform programs, including those aimed at fighting
poverty, were anticipated to be interrupted. The critical fear was that such interruptions could lead
to the country slipping back into a civil strife. The operation was high risk, but was well worth
undertaking when the potential returns and the costs of inaction were taken into account.

The Grant was the third operation to support the economic recovery of DRC, following the
economic recovery credit (Cr. 3660-DRC) in 2002 for US$450 million equivalent, and the post
reunification economic recovery credit (Cr. 3862-DRC) in 2004 for US$200 million equivalent.
As was the case with the previous two operations, it aimed to support the transition government's
economic program to fight poverty. The immediate objectives of the Grant were to help the
Government sustain macroeconomic stability, strengthen efficiency of public expenditure and
civil service management, improve governance in natural resource sectors, and resume delivery
of social services (paragraph 2 of the Program Document - PD).

Regarding the Government's economic program (programme économique du gouvernement or
PEG), overall performance had been satisfactory until the end of 2004. The economy grew at 6
percent in 2003 and 7 percent in 2004, reversing years of decline until 2001. Hyperinflation was
broken, and inflation was at less than 5 percent in 2003 and until the third quarter of 2004.
Towards the end of 2004, macroeconomic performance weakened, when money-financed
emergency spending for security purposes caused rapid depreciation of the currency and a
corresponding rise in inflation. However, the Government took strict measures to counter the
slippage in early 2005, and succeeded in restoring stability of the currency and domestic prices.
The Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit certainly helped the Government to maintain
macroeconomic stability during 2004 and most of 2005.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)




                                                  1

The Grant was intended to support selected strategic targets of the Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS 2004), and aimed to help the Government in maintaining peace and macroeconomic
stability, consolidating past policy achievements, and tackling the primary economic challenge it
faced at that juncture. In particular, the Grant would support reforms designed to deepen, broaden,
and sustain the reforms underway in the areas of public administration and fiscal management,
pro-poor spending, and natural resources management. Improving transparency by sharing
relevant information with stakeholders was also an important policy reform, which this operation
aimed to support. Moreover, the proposed Grant would help the Government's medium-term
revenue mobilization efforts through better governance in natural resources sectors.
Section 1.4 below lists the progress indicators for the future reforms that were deemed important
to attain the development policy goals.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The original Program Development Objectives (PDO) was not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

To reach the PDO, in the short to medium term, the Government had requested financial support
that was not linked to specific projects, but that could support its entire budget including recurrent
costs, as well as priority development projects that were not yet fully financed.                 The
Government's medium term development goals were expressed in the Interim ­ Poverty
reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), prepared in 2002, which were based on three pillars:
restoration and consolidation of peace; macroeconomic stabilization and stimulation of pro-poor
growth; and community dynamics.

The I-PRSP broke down the strategy into three time periods:
(1) In the first period (2000-2002), the Government focused on consolidating the peace.
(2) In the second period (2002-2005), the Government was to tackle three sets of priority actions:
(i) mitigation of the effects of the crisis and the war on the standard of living of the poorest
segments of the population and the victims of war; (ii) rehabilitation of economic and social
infrastructure and of human capital; and (iii) bolstering of capacity for good governance.
(3) In the third period (2005-2010), the Government would shift its attention to executing
strategies to bring about the recovery of the economy and set it on a path of sustainable and
equitable growth.

During the second period, the Government was implementing a far-reaching economic reform
program called a Program of Minimum Partnership for Transition and Recovery (PMPTR), which
was supported by the World Bank, the IMF, and international development partners. The program,
which was summarized in the Government's letter of development policy dated November 7,
2005, had 10 pillars: macroeconomic and budgetary framework, poverty, peace and governance,
financial sector, private sector development, public enterprise reform, natural resources, social
sectors, agriculture and rural development, and infrastructure.

Under the operation, the Government's objective was to maintain macroeconomic stability and to
continue to implement the reform program satisfactorily.           The progress towards a list of
objectives, defined in paragraph 65 of the program document (PD) and reproduced in Annex 7 of
this document, would measure implementation status of the most important reforms.




                                                   2

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

The policy areas supported by the Program were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

None.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

According to the Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the Grant was to be disbursed
in one tranche on the basis of: (i) the maintenance by the Government of a satisfactory
macroeconomic policy framework; and (ii) measures and actions taken by the Government to the
satisfaction of the Association. All of the measures and actions defined as pre-negotiation
conditions were achieved satisfactorily.

Those measures and actions, described in Schedule 2 of the Development Grant Agreement, were
the following:

1. The Government has produced the Budget Execution Report every month since January 2005
and has issued an instruction on the procedure to justify expenditures executed by Public Entities
using the Advance Funds Mechanism (MAD), in accordance with paragraph 36 of the Letter of
Development Policy.

2. The first group of civil service retirees defined in the strategy adopted by the Council of
Ministers has been identified, in accordance with paragraph 59 of the Letter of Development
Policy.

3. A presidential decree dated October 24, 2005, has been adopted and published in the Journal
Officiel defining criteria and transparent procedures to review all existing forestry titles, and
extending the moratorium on issuing new titles until the legal review is completed, new auction
procedures are adopted, and a 3-year plan for future concession is adopted; the list of existing
titles providing the basis for the legal review has been published jointly by the Ministry of
Environment and Ministry of Finance on November 1, 2005; and an independent expert has been
recruited to assist the legal review and assess compliance with the procedures, all in accordance
with paragraphs 94 and 95 of the Letter of Development Policy.

4. The Government has entered into a management contract for Gecamines with a competitively
selected company; the Mining Titles Validation Commission has been established in accordance
with Article 338 of the Mining Code, in accordance with paragraphs 105 and 107 of the Letter of
Development Policy.

5. The Government has disbursed the first quarterly Education Block Grants; an effective
publicizing of the Education Block Grant Program has been carried out, in accordance with
paragraph 123 of the Letter of Development Policy.

6. The Ministry of Health has presented the budget for 2005 for each Province, indicating clearly
the funds to be made available to Provincial Medical Inspectors; and each Province has been



                                                 3

informed of the approved allocation, in accordance with paragraph 118 of the Letter of
Development Policy.

The Development Grant Agreement (DGA) was signed on December 9, 2005 and became
effective on December 27, 2005. Since the above-mentioned actions and measures had been
taken, the single tranche of SDR 62.1 million (US$ 89.1 million equivalent) was disbursed on
December 30, 2005.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Since the single tranche was disbursed as a "reward" for actions already taken, this section will
deal with the major factors affecting the implementation of further reforms in order to attain some
important development policy goals identified in collaboration with the authorities; those further
reforms were reflected in the progress indicators listed in paragraph 65 of the program document
and in section 1.4 of this ICR.

The major factors that affected implementation were the presidential, parliamentary and
gubernatorial elections. The elections, which were ultimately held in July and October 2006,
slowed implementation considerably. While there is no reason to question the overall
commitment of the transition government, its attention waned from carrying out reforms as the
elections neared and became protracted. In particular, the government was not able to muster
enough focus and will to overcome the vested interests during the electoral period. Progress was
made in areas that were more of a technical nature, but less progress occurred in areas where
political will was necessary.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

On the government side, the implementation of the program is being monitored by the Comité
Technique de Suivi des Réformes (CTR) of the Ministry of Finance, under the overall supervision
of the Commission Interministérielle Chargée du Suivi des Programmes avec les Institutions
Financières Internationales (CISPI). Their work has been satisfactory.

The Bank worked with the IMF and other development partners (AfDB, Belgium, EU, France,
South Africa, UK, UNDP, UNICEF, etc.) to support and monitor the Government's reform
programs. The Bank coordinated the assistance programs of international development partners,
co-chairing with the EC the "Common Assistance Framework," chairing the monthly
development partner meetings, and organizing informal meetings and video conferences for
information sharing.     Ongoing debt monitoring is performed by the Bank for multilateral
institutions and by the IMF for bilateral lenders; technical assistance has been provided by both
institutions to improve public finance management. Because missions were banned for security
reasons for an extended period of time (from April to December 2006), supervision by the Bank
was carried out mainly by the Kinshasa Country Office.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The program document for the operation stated that progress on the performance indicators was
to be satisfactory before subsequent operations could be considered with the new duly elected
government. In the DRC, reforms to strengthen fiduciary control are particularly important.




                                                4

At the time of preparing for this operation, a follow-up operation was expected in the next year or
so. A single tranche operation which "rewards" prior actions taken, and proposes progress
indicators for future reforms makes little sense if it is not done programmatically. The discussion
on the achievement of program development objectives in Section 3.2 shows that progress on
reforms has been slow, but most of the indicators could be attained by late 2007 or early 2008,
with the successful completion of the elections and the formation of a new government.

There is no follow-up operation planned for FY08. The country team is assisting the government
to improve public financial management through analytical work (for example, PER, Governance
note) and other projects (e.g. Governance Project planned for FY08, ongoing education and
health projects). A new development policy operation will be possible when the government
makes substantial progress in addressing preponderant fiduciary concerns. Having a Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF will also be a precondition.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The operation was an integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) endorsed by
the Board on February 26, 2004. The Program Development Objectives are still very much in line
with the first full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) completed by the Government in July
2006. The PRSP includes, inter alia, the consolidation of the peace, the maintenance of
macroeconomic stability and sustained economic growth, and improved access to social services.

The new Government, which was elected in November 2006 and took office in February 2007,
has confirmed its commitment to the poverty fighting strategies outlined in the PRSP. The
implementation of the PRSP will depend, inter alia, on the political support that the new
government is able to muster, and on its ability to weather the challenges posed by the difficult
political environment. For example, the new government is a coalitional government, formed to
win the elections, consisting of some sixty ministers. The votes were divided between the east
and the west of the country, and the government was elected without winning the west, including
the capital city of Kinshasa. The new government will need to overcome the differences within
itself in order to forge a coherent strategy to implement its programs.

The TSERO design and its implementation were based on a proper diagnosis of development
priorities that remain relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The program development objectives of the TSERO have been achieved. The operation and grant
certainly helped the Government in maintaining peace and macroeconomic stability through the
provision of badly needed balance of payments and budget support. It also helped the
Government to consolidate past policy accomplishments by disbursing a single tranche for
achieving prior actions, all of which were completed without any need for waivers, and by setting
out clearly the main reform areas (progress indicators) that the Government should pursue as a
pre-requisite for the next operation.

The TSERO was very useful for all the sectors involved, including those that also benefited from
World Bank financing through other specific programs and projects, such as the Health Sector
Rehabilitation Project (PARSS). By providing a framework for a policy dialogue not only with



                                                  5

individual sector ministries but also with the Government as a whole (including other key
ministries such as the Ministry of Finance), the operation provided increased leverage for
improvements in a number of sectors, which might not have been achieved through specific
sectoral programs or projects. In the health sector, for example, because of the operation the
policy dialogue was not only with the Ministry of Health but was also with the Finance and
Budget ministries. This helped ensure that the money provided by donors for health projects was
being translated into reduced user fees so that health care facilities become more affordable.
Similarly, in the forestry sector, the operation helped ensure the continued implementation of
critical governance reforms, such as maintaining the moratorium on new logging and launching a
legal review of existing concessions. TSERO helped the reformers overcome opposition within
the government, and secure the intervention of the President.

The results were mixed in achieving the progress indicators, as shown in Annex 7. Most of the
indicators are not fully completed, although very few regressions occurred. This outcome is
understandable, as the government's attention waned during the elections. Now that the new
government has taken office, progress could resume. Many of the progress indicators could be
achieved by end of 2007. The following paragraphs review macroeconomic trends developments
in the main sectors targeted by the TSERO.

Maintenance of Macroeconomic Stability
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

According to the Letter of Development Policy dated November 7, 2005, the macroeconomic
objectives for the 2005-2006 period were: (i) accelerating economic growth in real terms from 6.6
percent in 2005 to 7.0 percent in 2006; (ii) reducing inflation from 22.6 percent in 2005 to 6
percent in 2006; and (iii) holding the current account deficit at 5.1 percent of GDP in 2005 and
7.9 percent in 2006. These objectives were very ambitious and unrealistic for an election period.
The table below on selected macroeconomic indicators shows some preliminary results for 2006.

In 2005, macroeconomic performance was mixed. The real growth rate of 6.5 percent was
respectable, but fell short of the ambitions of acceleration above the 2004 rate of 6.6 percent.
Inflation spiked in the first half of the year due partly to emergency security spending, but also
due to insufficient control on budget execution. Renewed fiscal discipline in the second half of
the year stabilized the prices and started to bring down inflation, which finished the year at 21.3
percent. The exchange rate followed closely the movements in inflation, depreciating sharply in
the first half of the year, and stabilizing in the second half, ending the year at 432 Congolese
francs to a dollar in 2005, slightly below the 444 Congolese francs to a dollar at the end of 2004.
Overspending was offset somewhat by a strong revenue performance, owing to high petroleum-
related receipts. Uncertainties induced by the postponement of elections caused foreign-financed
outlays to fall short of projections.

In 2006, economic activities slowed as the Government became distracted in the run-up to the
elections, which took place in July and October 2006. Real growth slowed to 5 percent
(preliminary), which is still solid, but below projections. Inflation was slightly lower than in 2005,
hovering around 14 percent on average, and finishing the year at 18 percent. As usual, exchange
rate moved in tandem with inflation. The current account deficit diminished compared to the
previous year, because imports declined more than exports, reflecting partly the shortfalls in
foreign-financed investments. The overall fiscal balance (cash basis, including grants) turned to a
small surplus (0.2 percent), from an 8 percent deficit in 2005; government revenues increased
while expenditure growth was contained. However, the improved fiscal balance is not entirely
good news. The expenditures were lower than expected not because of fiscal tightening, but for


                                                  6

other reasons such as shortfalls in foreign-financed outlays. Indeed, weakening fiscal discipline
caused the IMF's PRGF program to expire in March 2006 without a completion of the final
review. The Government also ran sizable arrears in 2006 (estimated to be around US$80 million
at the beginning of 2007) to providers of goods and services. In addition, the Government tapped
into the official reserves to make some domestic payments in dollars. On the other hand, the 2006
budget was never fully-financed from the outset, partly because the government held out hope for
budget support operations, which did not materialize, and partly because it was politically
difficult to rein in expenditures in an election year, especially for a country emerging from a
protracted armed conflict and organizing the first elections in four decades. The Government did
not put in an exemplary macroeconomic performance in 2006, but perhaps should still be
commended for not allowing deterioration in a very difficult context. The maintenance of
macroeconomic stability is, therefore, rated "moderately unsatisfactory".

Table: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators

                                            2001-2        2003     2004      2005       2006
                                            Average                                   Preliminary
Real GDP Growth (annual )                         0.7        5.7       6.6       6.5          5.1
Consumer Prices (end-of-period)                  75.4        4.4       9.2      21.3         18.2
Overall Consolidated Fiscal Balance (cash        -1.2       -2.1      -2.2      -8.4          0.2
basis, incl.
grants) (% of GDP)
Current Account Balance, incl. transfers         -3.8       -1.5      -3.3     -10.0         -7.5
(% of GDP)
Gross Official Reserves (in US$ million)         49.5       97.8    236.2     131.2        149.3
Gross Official Reserves (in weeks of non-         1.8        2.4       5.4       2.7          2.8
aid imports)
Source: IMF


Management of Public Finance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The Ministry of the Budget has made progress in the regular production of the monthly budget
execution reports (Etat de suivi budgétaire or ESB), but the time required for their production is
always more than 30 days (on average, it is 2 to 3 months, down from 3 to 4 months) and they are
sometimes incomplete. Delays are caused in part by the fact that the treasury operation reports
are not yet fully computerized, due to the lack of an adequate accounting system, and by
inaccuracies in classifying expenditures, a major source of which is misreporting by line
ministries and other public entities on the use of the Advance Funds Mechanism (mise à
disposition or MAD).

The Government is introducing a simplified double-entry accounting system at the Treasury
Directorate, as a first step towards adopting the full-fledged double-entry accounting system. Out
of the three tax agencies, direct and indirect tax agency (DGI) and customs and excise agency
(OFIDA) are now computerized, while the parafiscal tax agency (DGRAD) is still manually
processing information due to delays in equipping the offices and training the personnel.
The Government issued instructions on how to use the mise à disposition - MAD and there have
been some improvements in 2006 in the justification and traceability. However, the instructions
are not yet fully complied with: supporting documents arrive irregularly and the percentage of
administrations that have justified the use of funds, at 25 percent, is still small, although it
represents an improvement from zero percent. Since mid-2006, there has been a slow down in the



                                                 7

payments through MAD, to try to instill some discipline in the administration regarding the use of
funds under this procedure.

Civil Service Reform
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The critical issue is to establish better control over the number of civil servants, their roles and
responsibilities, their salaries, and their eventual retirement. To this end, activities were planned
in three areas: census, payroll, and retirement.

Census. A civil service census was launched with the technical and financial assistance of South
Africa. The results were expected by mid-2006 and were to be applied to the payment of wages.
The census was completed in Kinshasa with the exception of the teaching personnel and Ministry
of Defense, and the results will be applied to the salary payments beginning mid-2007. Kinshasa
accounts for the bulk of the civil servants. For the remainder of the country, the data-gathering
and data-inputting are completed. However, the authorities are unable to complete the next two
phases, the conformity check and the biometric securing of the data, due to insufficient financing.
The census has taken much longer than anticipated. The delay appears to be mostly due to
insufficient knowledge of the country by the census operators, who underestimated the logistical
challenges and corresponding costs. The financial and technical problems were compounded by
lack of leadership by the government. It is not clear whether the government has not pursued the
census more forcefully because cleaning up the civil service payroll was contrary to vested
interests, tackling the problem of irregular workers was not politically expedient, or because it
was simply distracted by more immediate election-related concerns.

Payroll. The payroll system was audited in 2004 and priority reforms were recommended. The
Government intended to introduce by January 2006 a transitional simplified payroll system
(procédure transitoire simplifiée or PTS) to secure and manage better the civil service payroll.
The PTS was originally designed to be a transitory solution until a modern system of managing
financial, administrative, and human resource aspects of civil service (système integré de gestion
financière et administrative or SIG) is introduced. It is now expected to be a permanent system,
and has been modified accordingly. It is scheduled to become operational mid-2007. The delay
was caused by logistical challenges of procuring the equipment correctly, slowing down of
technical assistance during the electoral period, and by unavailability of census results to be
inputted to the system (see above).

Retirement program. A working group consisting of representatives from the Ministries of Civil
Service, Finance, Budget, and Interior developed a detailed strategy and an action plan in 2004
(supported by PRERC (Cr. 3862)), which were adopted by the Council of Ministers and were
deemed satisfactory to IDA. The first group of retirees eligible for the retirement program was
identified accordingly. The payment of the first group of eligible retirees was completed in 2006:
approximately 6,000 people and a total amount of US$2.7 million were paid. The second group
of eligible retirees was to be identified by the census; in Kinshasa, approximately 27,000 eligible
retirees were identified; the results are not yet in for the rest of the country. The amount to be paid
to retirees in Kinshasa is estimated at about US$13 million. The delay in starting to pay the
second group of retirees is caused by the census, and is not internal to the retirement program.
Indeed, the payment to the second group of retirees in Kinshasa is expected to be completed by
end 2007.

Forestry Sector
Rating: Satisfactory


                                                    8

According to the letter of development policy, the forestry sector reforms were part of the
Government's priority agenda to improve the sector governance in accordance with the new
forestry code of 2002. The objectives are: (i) to purge the heritage of poor management and make
the access to and benefits derived from exploitation of forests more equitable; (ii) to consolidate
the rights of forestry communities and improve their living conditions; and (iii) to protect the
environment. Since 2002, the Government has cancelled 163 contracts that did not fulfill the
basic contract obligations, resulting in the return of 25 million hectares of land to the State (out of
an area of 60 millions hectares). In 2002, the Government also issued a moratorium on all new
logging contracts, pending the adoption of new rules for allocating them in conformity with the
code. Between 2002 and 2005, this moratorium has been largely respected, although some
violations are reported. In conformity with the new code, contracts not terminated in 2002 must
undergo a legal review to verify their legality and compliance with the contract clauses with the
aim of converting them into a new category known as "concessions." A presidential decree of
October 25, 2005 supported by TSERO fixed the procedures and criteria of the legal review. The
decree creates an inter-ministerial commission, which includes representatives from civil society
and the private sector. It stipulates that an independent, internationally recruited observer (legal
expert) must participate in all stages of the review to monitor compliance with the procedures. It
states clearly the criteria that would trigger the cancellation of the old contracts and stipulates that
the relevant information be available publicly in various phases of the procedure. The converted
"concessions" must prepare a sustainable forestry development plan, including provision of social
services in the area, to ensure its harmonious coexistence with the local villages. On November 1,
2005, the official list of existing titles was published in a newspaper and was posted in all the
governorates in order to initiate the legal review, and the Ministries of Environment and Finance
instructed titleholders to submit applications for conversions within three months. The
Government has hired a legal expert in conformity with the abovementioned decree, and the
members of the inter-ministerial commission have been appointed in November 2006. With the
assistance of the independent observer (legal expert), the technical verifications (desk/ field) have
been completed. The Commission will convene after the NGOs financed under the Emergency
Economic and Social Reunification Support Project (EESRSP) have gone to the field to help the
local communities to designate their representatives on the Commission. The legal review is
expected to be completed in the last quarter of 2007.

In addition to the legal review, the Government also committed to enforce the moratorium on new
logging contracts until: (i) the legal review is completed;(ii) auction procedures are adopted; and
(iii) a 3-year plan for future concessions is adopted based on a participatory process. The
moratorium has been largely maintained; the Congolese authorities have given assurances that no
exploitation contract has been awarded, exchanged, or relocated since the signature of the
October 2005 decree. However, the independent observer that would assist in, inter alia,
conducting field inspection has not yet been recruited.

The implementation of fiscal reforms included in the inter-ministerial decree No. 010 of March
2004 has continued. ONATRA quasi-tax (port transit fee) and the area tax prescribed by the inter-
ministerial decree of March 17, 2004 were applied. The tariff/rates are as follows: a maximum of
US$5 per ton of wood starting in 2005, and 30 US cents per hectare in 2006 and 50 US cents per
hectare in 2007.

A steering committee has been created and has begun working on the main decrees for the
implementation of the forestry code on: sustainable forest management and controls; concession
contracts and cahier des charges; local consultations; allocation procedures; and transfer of
revenues to local authorities. It is expected that the decrees will be enacted by July 2007.


                                                    9

In November 2005, the Inspection Panel received a request related to the TSERO and EESRSP
from representatives of pygmy organizations who claimed that they might be harmed by the
forestry sector reform activities supported by the projects. The main complaint pertaining to
TSERO was that not enough information on the forestry reforms was available prior to the Board
approval; the Project Information Document posted on the official website contained a brief
summary of the policies that the operation was expected to support. The Inspection Panel has
determined that the request met the eligibility criteria and that the matter should be investigated.
However, investigations have been delayed by the security situation. The report of the Inspection
Panel was not available as of the end of May 2007. It should be noted that many international
NGOs and civil society (local NGOs) concerned about the well-being of indigenous people have
since endorsed the reforms supported by the TSERO enthusiastically.

Mining Sector
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The ongoing reforms aim at: (i) improving governance in the mining sector by revising the legal,
regulatory, and institutional framework; and (ii) increasing mining revenues for the Treasury.


 A new mining code was promulgated in July 2002 and new mining regulations were approved in
 March 2003. The mining cadastre (Cadastre minier or CAMI) took effect in June 2003. The
 restructuring of GECAMINES is continuing. A management company, SOFRECO, was
 selected in September 2005 through a competitive process to manage GECAMINES for an 18-
 month transitional period. Prior to signing the management contract, the Government
 authorized GECAMINES to enter a number of joint-venture arrangements, which
 removed approximately 70 percent of the reserve and productive base of GECAMINES.
 At the time the contracts were authorized the Bank was funding a legal and
 economic/financial evaluation of the contracts since several deficiencies had been noted.
 The Bank suggested to the Government that GECAMINES follow up on the
 recommendations of these reviews and reinforce the legal capacity at GECAMINES to
 monitor and evaluate the work undertaken by virtue of the contracts. For this purpose,
 funding was made available through the Bank's private sector development and
 competitiveness project.

TSERO proved to be a good dialogue instrument to stay engaged with the Government,
especially to convince the Government to make a decision on the management contract, at a time
when its commitment to this type of politically difficult reforms was fledging. In addition, a
consultant was recruited to carry out financial and legal reviews of past partnership contracts.
The reports were submitted to the government. The preparation of the final restructuring strategy,
based on the reviews and the outcome of the stabilization measures being taken is underway and
may be completed by August 2007.

In parallel, a Commission for the validation of mining titles was established in September 2005
by a presidential decree pursuant to dispositions to this effect in the Mining Law. After a delay
caused by logistical challenges, Commission members started in 2006 to review the 200 mining
titles (out of approximately 5,000 mining titles in force) which are under contention. The work
may be completed by the end of 2007. The list of all valid mining titles is published and
available at the offices of the CAMI in Kinshasa. The final dispositions of the Commission de
Validation will be published upon completion of the work of the commission.


                                                10

The mining cadastre (CAMI) has been successful in part to establish a computer based mineral
rights management system. However, challenges to render the CAMI truly functional remain.
The mining title management system, developed by the international consultant in 2004/2005,
was very complex and difficult for the staff of the CAMI to master. In addition, the consultant
left the country before completing the work. The government has been in negotiations with the
consultant to complete the assignment. Also, CAMI may wish to modify certain portions of the
system with newer software. CAMI's antenna office in Lubumbashi is not yet operational due to
technical problems and the fact that the consultant is not in-country to assist with the set-up.
These delays appear to be due to inertia during the period of political uncertainty, rather than a
deliberate tactic in order to avoid introducing the technology necessary to manage the mining
titles.

The Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) Committee has been established by
ministerial decree in May 2006, and was making good progress. The progress slowed towards
the end of the year, as political uncertainties and the security situation distracted the attention of
the members. The EITI Committee is planning to publish, probably in the first half of 2008, a
first provisional assessment of government revenue from the mining sector, as well as the taxes
and duties paid by the mining companies, in accordance with the EITI procedures.

Health
Rating: Satisfactory

Since 2001, the Government's health policies and strategies have emphasized primary healthcare
and specialized programs, focusing on the development of health zones. With the support of
foreign partners, churches, and NGOs, policies have emphasized: (i) development of health zones
and priority disease control and (ii) better understanding of the factors that discourage the public
from using health services, notably financial constraints.

The final version of the country health status report was issued in May 2005 (DRC ­ Health,
Nutrition and Population Country Status Report dated May 2005 ­ Report No. 35626-ZR). The
report had a significant impact for the preparation of the health sector strategy, which has been
completed, and of the health section of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of July
2006, particularly regarding the issue of financial barriers to the utilization of health facilities. It
was used to design the Health Sector Rehabilitation Support Project (PARSS), a new IDA-
financed project aimed at improving access to and effective use of health services. The four-year
project targets 10 million people living in five provinces (Kinshasa, Equateur, Bandundu,
Maniema and Katanga) starting in 2006.

The execution rate of the 2004 budget of the Ministry of Health was extremely low. To address
this problem, the Government launched a program to increase the awareness of end service
providers of the budget allocated to them. Health budget tables by nature and by province, district
and health zones were prepared and were sent to provinces through the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Health. In order to increase the allocation for basic services in the health zones and to
improve the budget procedure, notably the reporting mechanism, the letter of development policy
indicated that the Ministries of Health, Budget, and Finance would (i) review existing procedures
and (ii) draw up an action plan for this purpose; also, the budget allocation to the sector and the
budget execution rate would be increased. Within the context of the IDA-financed project of
support to the rehabilitation of the health sector (PARSS), a public finance consultant is being
recruited to work on the reform of the regulatory and budgetary framework of the health sector.



                                                 11

Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of the Ministry of the Budget, has begun
working on the improvement of the budget process.

The State budget execution rate for the health sector increased from 39 percent in 2004 to 58
percent in 2005, falling just a little short of the target of 60 percent for 2005. The budget
allocation to the health sector was increased from 4.6 percent in 2005 to 5.7 percent of the total
budget in 2006 (the target was 5.5 percent).

Education
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The education sector status report describing and analyzing its constraints was published in
November 2004; also in 2004, the Government adopted a draft action plan for the Education for
All (EFA) program. The sector status report and the EFA program provided the foundation for the
formulation, within the framework of the PRSP, of a pro-poor education strategy, which was
completed in 2006. To reduce gradually the school fees paid by parents, the Government
introduced an education block grant program to be used to cover the operating costs of primary
and secondary public schools. The first quarterly disbursements were made in August 2005.

The letter of development policy indicated that the Government was committed to disburse the
entire education block grant allocated for 2005 and would increase the 2006 budget allocation to
the sector and the budget execution rate for 2005.

The first two tranches of the education block grant allocated for 2005 disbursed completely, while
the third and the last tranche disbursed in 2006, and in Kinshasa and Bas-Congo only. The
number of schools benefiting from the block grant was about 21,000. Funds are allocated
according to the size of the school with a minimum amount of CDF 136.000 per school. For 2006,
only a third of the block grant has been released, which reflects the extreme budget constraint of
the government. The quarterly execution summary reports from the provinces and the monitoring
reports on the use of funds have not been produced despite the requirement spelled out in the
inter-ministerial decree.

The State budget allocation to the education sector was 9.5 percent of the budget in 2006 (the
target was 8.5 percent), and the execution rate of the budget was 83 percent in 2005 (the target
was 60 percent).

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is "moderately satisfactory" for the following reasons:

    a) The TSERO was very relevant to current country and global priorities and to the Bank
        assistance strategy.
    b) The program development objectives of the operation have been achieved. The operation
        helped the Government in maintaining peace and macroeconomic stability through the
        provision of badly needed balance of payments and budget support. It also helped the
        Government to consolidate past policy achievements.
    c) Some progress has been made in all the components or parts of the program, with the
        most important progress made in the health, education, mining and forestry sectors and
        the less satisfactory progress in macroeconomic performance, management of public


                                                12

         finance and civil service reform. The ratings show six pre-negotiation conditions
         satisfactorily completed, four progress indicators in the satisfactory range and three
         progress indicators in the unsatisfactory range.
    d) The TSERO helped to maintain and develop a policy dialogue on many sectors critical
         for the DRC's development.
    e) The TSERO gave valuable support to the reform-minded members of the Government.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Grant had some positive impacts on poverty reduction by promoting fiscal resource
allocations in line with the Government's pro-poor priorities. In particular, the Grant helped
ensure that public spending was more effectively targeted in the areas of health and basic
education, with a reduction in user fees collected from patients and school fees collected from
parents.

The Grant had also a positive poverty and social impact through its support to the Government's
longer-term agenda of overhauling the civil service with the aim of providing better public
service to the population, and in particular, to the poor who depends on them disproportionately.
The civil service retirement program, supported by both PRERC (Cr. 3862) and this operation,
provided a modicum of social security to civil servants (many of whom are poor themselves) who
have already reached the retirement age by end-2004. While the retirement package is unlikely to
be adequate as a sole source of income for retired life, it still constitutes a step in the right
direction.

Governance-improving reforms in mining and forestry sectors are aimed at bringing about a more
equitable sharing of the country's natural resources. While the poverty and social impact of these
reforms is not expected to be immediate, it is likely to be the largest in the medium to long run,
given the vastness of the country's mineral and forestry endowment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Overall, the institutional development impact of the TSERO was modest because of the nature of
the budget support operation. However, the operation did strengthen a number of Congolese
institutions and began to introduce a number of changes in processes, so that the country can
better use its human, physical, and financial resources.

In particular, the civil service retirement program was carried out by a government entity (without
the use of project implementation unit), and funded by the State budget, with periodic
interventions of an international expert and intense supervision of World Bank Country Office
staff. This result is a significant and commendable achievement.

Public financial management at the Ministries of Finance and Budget has improved dramatically
in the last 5 years, and this operation was instrumental in keeping the momentum for reforms
going.

In the forestry and mining sectors, policy dialogue in the context of this operation brought into
existence entities reviewing existing titles, increasing transparency, and managing the resources
better. These entities were often supported financially by other Bank-financed projects.



                                                  13

In the education and health sectors also, policy dialogue in the context of this operation have
informed various ministries of the need for better financial management, and the government
entities responsible for it are expected to be supported through Bank projects in health (PARSS)
and education (Board approval in June 2007).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: High

The risk that the development outcomes or expected outcomes of the TSERO will not be
maintained or realized is "significant".

Although few components of the program have been implemented completely, progress has been
made in many areas. The components that have been relatively more successful are the
interventions in the forestry, education, and health sectors.      The rather strong government
commitment and the implementation of Bank-financed projects (already approved or in
preparation) in those sectors will contribute to sustaining the benefits and reforms that have been
achieved for those components.

More generally, with the successful completion of the elections and the formation of a duly-
elected and more coherent government, there are signs that the reform process is regaining some
momentum. However, the challenges faced by the government are such that the momentum may
not be sustained without additional budget support. In the absence of a follow-up operation, the
risk to development outcome is assessed as "significant."

The consequences of not following up with another development policy operation are likely to be
halting or even reversing of certain reforms that were supported by this operation. However,
some of the achievements of this operation, such as the successful execution of election while
macroeconomic slippages were relatively contained, will not be lost. In addition, the assistance
provided through other Bank projects (for e.g., mining, health, and education projects) and the
ongoing analytical and advisory work (such as the governance note and the PER), as well as
incentives to achieve the HIPC completion point would help the government's efforts to move
forward with the reforms.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

   Rating: Moderately satisfactory




                                                 14

Bank support was used to consolidate a reform process that had already been agreed upon
between the Government and the Bank under previous budget support operations, rather than to
introduce new reforms. The Grant was to provide balance of payments and budget support to the
Government as it was re-establishing public services across the country and was preparing for
elections. The Grant generally complemented the IDA-financed emergency rehabilitation and
reconstruction projects by supporting Government longer-term reform programs and by
enhancing political and economic stability. The operation intervened at a difficult time: the
elections were looming to replace the incumbent transitional government; time was short;
progress had to be made in a difficult context; and the nature of the reforms often required a
longer-term view. The operation was indispensable to ensure that the 2005 budget was fully
financed. The IMF had underscored the importance of this budget support in order to maintain an
adequate macroeconomic framework and referred to the experience of slippage that occurred in
late 2004 and early 2005 which took months to correct.

The original intention was to have a credit with three tranches: a first tranche to be released upon
effectiveness dependent on continued maintenance of macroeconomic stability, and two floating
tranches related to public expenditures management and pro-poor spending. The credit was
subsequently transformed to a single tranche operation, which was endorsed by the July 7 and
September 19, 2005 meetings of the Regional Operations Committee (ROC). The decision was
based on the calculation that in a situation with many uncertainties surrounding the elections, the
disbursement of subsequent tranches might be problematic.

It should be noted, however, that some progress indicators were very ambitious and unrealistic,
particularly with respect to macroeconomic performance. As an example, the assumption that the
rate of inflation could be reduced from about 22 percent in 2005 to 6 percent in 2006, although
technically feasible, was a heroic one in an election year. The experience of other countries
suggests the existence of an inflationary political business cycle in which fiscal policy tends to be
expansionary during election years for political economy reasons. In retrospect, it was not
appropriate for the Bank to agree to such a target that was in effect suggested by the IMF. In post-
conflict countries, it is important to strike a right balance between insisting on solid, immediate
reforms and not jeopardizing the fragile peace.

The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated "moderately satisfactory," for the
astute understanding of the fragile post-conflict state, but moderated for not having intervened to
set more reasonable macroeconomic performance targets.

(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

Because missions were banned for security reasons for about nine months in 2006, supervision by
the Bank was carried out mostly by the Kinshasa Country Office with virtual support from the
Washington-based staff.      The Kinshasa-based staff provided the best implementation and
monitoring under the circumstances. Although more intensive implementation assistance by the
Bank's relevant specialists could have helped to move the reform agenda faster, the quality of
supervision by the Bank is rated "satisfactory," given the circumstances.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The TSERO was an integral part of the Bank's transitional support strategy (TSS) and was
consistent with the Government's first full poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) completed in


                                                  15

July 2006. The Grant came at a critical stage of the political transition in the country. In addition,
the Grant was particularly important not only because the Bank was the principal provider of
budget support, but also because it served the important catalytic role of mobilizing other external
resources. Given the circumstances, the Bank's performance was the best it could be. Overall,
the Bank's performance is rated "moderately satisfactory".

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
     Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Government ownership of the Grant and Program was evidenced by the quality and enthusiasm of
the government counterpart team (composed of senior staff at the level of Conseiller or Director)
from various ministries that worked with the Bank staff on the program design and
implementation. A full-time technical team at the Ministry of Finance provided the input for the
initial framework for the program and for the design of the measures required of the government
at all stages.

In a difficult environment, the Government was implementing far-reaching economic reforms,
and had taken steps to rehabilitate health and education infrastructure. However, numerous
challenges remained; a demoralized and underpaid civil service, weak public expenditure
management and domestic resource mobilization, and the fact that large sections of the
population did not have access to public services, especially outside of the capital.

The government was committed to the overall reform program but became distracted because of
the elections. This is the main reason why the continued implementation in 2006 of many of the
reforms to be monitored through the agreed list of progress indicators has been rather slow; in
particular, there has been limited progress in reforms to strengthen fiduciary control. At the time
of this ICR, few components of the program have been implemented completely. Under the
circumstances, this is a moderate shortcoming. The Government performance is rated
"moderately satisfactory".

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
     N/A

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
     Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The benefits of the TSERO are not immediate and will take time to materialize. It is difficult to
assess the impact of reforms that are still in progress or only partially achieved. The government
is commended for making the difficult decision at the outset of the program, of countering the
powerful vested interests in the form of forestry decree and GECAMINES management contract,
as discussed in section 2.1. Technicians within the government continued the reform programs
which benefited the poor, such as the civil service retirement and education block grant programs.
On the other hand, as the elections became protracted, the top echelons did not follow through
with implementing reforms that required political will, such as census, EITI, and exercising fiscal
discipline. When the difficult political environment is taken into account, however, the borrower
performance is rated "moderately satisfactory" for its initial commitment and the efforts by rank
and file officials throughout the period.




                                                 16

6. Lessons Learned
(Both operation-specific and of wide general application)

The first two "lessons learned" from this have general applicability for similar operations in other
countries, while the third item is specific to post-conflict countries.

(1) By providing a framework for a policy dialogue not only with individual sector ministries but
also with the Government as a whole (including key ministries such as the Ministry of Finance), a
DPL operation provides increased leverage for a number of improvements in each sector which
may not have been achieved through specific sectoral programs or projects.

(2) A DPL operation with a single tranche disbursement for prior actions and progress indicators
for future reforms is sensible only if there is a follow-up operation when the progress indicators
are being achieved. The progress indicators of the operation then become the prior actions of the
follow-up operation.

(3) In post conflict countries, it is important to strike the right balance between insisting on solid,
immediate reforms and not jeopardizing the fragile peace. The indicators selected to measure
progress in the most important reform areas of an operation should be realistic, taking into
account the political environment and other identified risks. In particular, the team should resist
the temptation to include all "desirable" reforms as progress indicators. It is also important for
the World Bank to have clearer views on the macroeconomic framework, based on its own
assessment of the situation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                   17

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members



        Names                 Title               Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Keiko Kubota         Senior Economist        AFTP3        TTL
Craig B. Andrews      Lead Mining Specialist COCPO        Mining
Laurent Debroux      Sr Forestry Spec.       AFTS3        Forestry
Kankonde Mukadi      Consultant              AFTS3        Forestry
Eva Jarawan           Lead Health Spec.      AFTH3        Health
Patrick M. Mullen    Health Specialist       AFTH3        Health
Emilie Ayaza
Mushobekwa           Economist               AFTP3        Economics

Susan Opper          Sr Education Spec.      AFTH3        Education
Helena Maria Grandao                                      Public Finance and Civil
Ramos                Consultant              AFTP3       service reform

Ivan Rossignol       Sr Private Sector
                     Development             AFTPS        Private sector

Josiane Luchmun      Program assistant       AFTP3        Program assistant



Supervision/ICR
Keiko Kubota         Senior Economist        AFTP3        TTL
Craig B. Andrews      Lead Mining Specialist COCPO        Mining
Laurent Debroux      Sr Forestry Spec.       AFTS3        Forestry
Paul Geli             Consultant             AFTP3        ICR main author
Kankonde Mukadi      Consultant              AFTS3        Forestry
Jean-Pierre Manshande Sr Health Spec.        AFTH3        Health
Patrick M. Mullen    Health Specialist       AFTH3        Health
Emilie Ayaza
Mushobekwa           Economist               AFTP3        Economics

Susan Opper          Sr Education Spec.      AFTH3        Education
Helena Maria Grandao                                      Public Finance and Civil
Ramos                Consultant              AFTP3       service reform

Ivan Rossignol       Sr Private Sector
                     Development             AFTPS        Private sector

Mariama Daifour Ba    Program Assistant      AFTP3        Program Assistant




                                            18

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                               No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY05                                       19                 93.61
                    FY06                                       39                205.15
                    FY07                                                            0.00
                                      Total:                   58                298.76
Supervision/ICR
                    FY05                                                            0.00
                    FY06                                                            0.00
                    FY07                                         6                30.46
                                      Total:                     6                30.46

Some of the expenditures attributed to supervision in FY06 were posted incorrectly under
"lending." Roughly US$50,000 is estimated to be "supervision" costs in FY06.




                                           19

Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
          (if any)

Not applicable.




                                    20

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
         (if any)

Not applicable.




                                  21

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                             Democratic Republic of Congo
                                    Ministry of Finance
                   Technical Committee on the Monitoring of Reforms
                                            CTR


    I.      Introduction

1.     As part of the Government Economic Program (Programme Economique du
Gouvernement PEG), the DRC received, for purposes of budget support, a grant in the
amount of US$90 million entitled: Transitional Support for Economic Recovery
Operation (TSERO). This budget grant was intended to fund economic and structural
reforms, to replenish retirement funds (some of which was used to make payments owed
to IDA in 2006 and the first four months of 2007), support activities having an immediate
and visible impact as well as allocations to the decentralized administrative entities
(EADs), and establish safe conditions for elections.

    II.     General Assessment of the Performance of the Operation

2.     Overall, the performance of the TSERO is considered satisfactory. The final
outcomes were achieved and the project proved to be viable.

3.     The performance of the World Bank in the area of the quality of its support was
very satisfactory. The Government prepared the project in collaboration with the World
Bank. Its implementation was very satisfactory.

            II.    Assessment of Development Objectives and Design of the
                   Operation

4.     Budget support from the World Bank was disbursed at end-December 2005.
However, this assistance was not recorded until January 2006. As a result of this
accounting lag, the Government's overall financial transactions balance did not improve
in 2005; it closed with a deficit of 8.1 percent of GDP. Consequently, the beneficial
effect of this budget grant was reflected only during the first quarter of 2006.

5.     The budget grant provided by the World Bank made it possible to reduce the
budgetary shortfall and address the priorities outlined in point 1, thereby shrinking the
2006 budget deficit while accomplishing project objectives.

6.     As indicated above, World Bank assistance amounting to US$90 million was used
to finance:

                       Economic and structural reforms (US$15 million);



                                             22

                        Replenishment of retirement funds (US$22 million);

                        Activities having an immediate and visible impact (US$10
                         million); and

                        Allocations to the EADs and the establishment of safe conditions
                         for the electoral process (US$43 million).

    III.     Achievement of Objectives and Expected Outcome

7.      Budgetary assistance had a positive effect on government finances as of end-
March 2006. Government resources, the Government's net position, and international
reserves all improved.

8.      Assessment of macroeconomic indicators for the 2005-2006 period points to: (i)
an economic growth rate of 6.5 percent in 2005 and 5.1 percent in 2006; (ii) an inflation
rate of 22.3 percent in 2005 and 18.2 percent in 2006; and (iii) a current account deficit
that fell from 10 percent of GDP in 2005 to 7.5 percent in 2006.

9.      Revenue, excluding grants, amounted to 13.2 percent of GDP in 2006 against 11.6
percent of GDP in 2005, while total expenditure stood at 21.8 percent of GDP in 2006
against 19.9 percent in 2005.

    IV.      Major Factors that Affected Implementation of the Operation

10.     Project implementation was delayed owing to problems linked to meeting the
conditionality involving pre-negotiation measures taken from the Letter of Development
Policy; specifically:

      Preparation on a consistent basis of monthly budget monitoring statements (ESBs)
      within 30 days;

      Identification of the first group of civil service retirees;

      Signing of the presidential decree establishing transparent criteria and procedures
      for the legal review of all current forest titles and extending the moratorium on the
      granting of new titles until the completion of this review;

       Conclusion a contract with the SOFRECO company, selected on a competitive
        basis, to manage GECAMINES;

      Creation of a commission to validate mining titles;

      Disbursement of initial funding earmarked for schools, along with an awareness-
        building campaign on this activity; and




                                              23

      Presentation by the Ministry of Health of the credits allocated to each province and
       placed at the disposal of Provincial Medical Inspectors [Médecins Inspecteurs de
       Province MIPs].

11.     Despite all these factors which hindered project implementation, the Government
did seek to overcome the problems encountered and to achieve an overall improvement in
the expected outcomes.

    V.     Project Viability

12.    The objectives identified in the project context were achievable, as evidenced by
the outcomes described above.

    VI.    World Bank and Borrower Performance

13.    Overall, the performance of the World Bank was satisfactory, in view of the fact
that the Bank maintained frequent contact with the Congolese authorities in order to
move forward with the process for meeting prerequisites and maintaining this contact
until they were met, expedited the negotiation process, and ensured the rapid
disbursement of funds.

    VII.   Lessons learned

14.    It is difficult to assess separately the outcomes of budgetary assistance when
disbursement was recorded in a fiscal year other than the one for which this assistance
was intended. It would be helpful to make provisions for an effectiveness tranche
that is not pre-allocated or subject to any conditions whatsoever, and can be
disbursed quickly.

15.    Apart from the effectiveness tranche and in view of the results-based management
approach, the formula for pre-allocation of the other budget tranches (credit or grant)
should be reinstated.

                     -----------------------------------------------------------




                                                24

Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    25

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

  a) Program Information Document (PID) ­ Appraisal Stage, dated March 18, 2005
  b) Minutes of the March 30, 2005 PCN Review Meeting, dated April 4, 2005
  c) DRC - Health, Nutrition and Population Country Status Report ­ Report No. 35626-ZR,
     dated May 2005
  d) Aide-Mémoire de la Mission de Pré-évaluation (du 9 au 26 mai 2005) du CRE3, en date
     du 26 mai 2005
  e) Minutes of the July 7, 2005 ROC Review Meeting, dated July 12, 2005
  f) Aide-Mémoire de la Mission d'évaluation (du 11 au 19 juillet et du 30 juillet au 13 août
     2005) du CRE3, en date du 19 août 2005
  g) Minutes of the September 19, 2005 ROC Review Meeting, dated September 30, 2005
  h) Minutes of Technical Discussions, dated September 27, 2005
  i) Minutes of Negotiations, dated November 3, 2005
  j) Program Document ­ Report No. 33785-ZR, dated November 8, 2005
  k) Development Grant Agreement ­ Grant Number H 192 DRC, dated December 9, 2005
  l) Inspection Panel Notice of Registration, dated December 1, 2005
  m) Aide-Mémoire ­ Mission Economique de la Banque Mondiale (31 janvier ­ 14 février
     2006)
  n) Implementation Status Results and Report (ISR), dated June 29, 2006
  o) Implementation Status Results and Report (ISR), dated October 5, 2006




                                            26

Annex 7. Indicators of Progress (2005-2006)

Area of Intervention: MAINTENANCE OF MACRO-ECONOMIC STABILITY
   Indicators of progress                               Implementation / achievements
          2005-2006
Maintenance of macro stability,   Partially achieved.
including substantial progress in After recording turbulences in the first half of 2006, the macroeconomic
revenue mobilization.             situation stabilized since the third week of November 2006. Inflation
                                  decelerated, and exchange rate stopped depreciating, then appreciated slightly
                                  in November 2006. However, both inflation and exchange rate
                                  underperformed the targets set out in the Staff Monitored Program for April
                                  to December 2006, which assumed a rate of inflation of 15% on an annual
                                  basis and a rate of exchange of 526 CDF/1.00 USD as of the end of
                                  December 2006. The Government needs to continue strengthening monetary
                                  and fiscal discipline.
                                  On the revenue mobilization front, the Government managed to increase
                                  revenues (excluding grants) steadily from 9.5% in 2004 to 11.6% in 2005 and
                                  to 13.2% in 2006. While the progress made is praiseworthy, the performance
                                  could and should be improved further: the revenues covered only about 60%
                                  of total expenditure in 2005-6; the potential for revenue mobilization is much
                                  larger than the current results when the country's wealth in natural resources
                                  is taken into consideration.
Satisfactory execution of the     Not achieved.
Government Economic Program       After the IMF's PRGF program expired at the end of March 2006 without
­ Programme Economique du         completing the final review, the Government negotiated a Staff Monitored
Gouvernement (PEG).               Program, which is currently under implementation. A recent evaluation of
                                  this program shows that most of its quantitative indicators and performance
                                  criteria are not met.




                                                    27

Area of Intervention: PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
   Indicators of progress                              Implementation / achievements
           2005-2006
Regular production of monthly    Not achieved.
budget execution reports (ESB)   The Ministry of the Budget has made progress in the regular production of the
within 30 days of the end of the monthly budget execution reports (ESB), but the time required for their
month.                           production is always more than 30 days (on average, it is 2 to 3 months, and
                                 they are sometimes incomplete). The ESB for January - December 2006 has
                                 been finalized. The one for January - March 2007 has been produced, and is
                                 being finalized. Since mid-2006, the ESB are published on the website of the
                                 Ministry of Budget.
Reception of proper              Not achieved.
justifications of MAD (mise à    In 2006, there have been some improvements in the instructions of use, the
disposition de fonds) from the   justification and traceability of the MAD, but the instructions are not yet fully
relevant line ministries before  complied with: supporting documents arrive irregularly and the number of
new funds are made available.    administrations that have justified the use of funds has been very small. Since
                                 mid-2006, there has been a slow down in the payments through MAD, to try
                                 to instill some discipline in the administrations regarding the use of funds
                                 under MAD.
Implementation of the double-    In progress.
entry accounting system.         Since 2005, a legal framework has been adopted and a Division of the
                                 Centralization of the Treasury Accounting (DCCT) has been established
                                 within the Treasury Directorate (DTO). The December 2005 balance was
                                 produced in June 2006, and balances produced for the months of January to
                                 August 2006 are being revised. The recordings for the period September to
                                 December 2006 continue. Two Régies Financières (DGI and OFIDA) have
                                 started the exercise: the integration of the auxiliary accounts of the Régies
                                 Financières will make it possible to have a better follow up of receivables on
                                 public revenue.




                                                  28

Area of Intervention: CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
    Indicators of progress                                Implementation / achievements
           2005-2006
 Completion of the civil service   Not achieved.
 census and incorporation of       Census is completed in Kinshasa, except for the teaching personnel and
 results to the payroll.           Ministry of Defense. The confirmed results of Kinshasa census will be
                                   applied to salary payments starting mid-2007 using the new payroll procedure
                                   (PTS, see below). For the remainder of the country, the data-gathering and
                                   data-inputting are complete; the next two phases are the conformity check and
                                   biometric securing of the data. However, the census is stalled because there is
                                   no financing available to continue the next two phases in the provinces.
Effective implementation of the    In progress.
new payment system (procédure      The PTS is expected to become operational mid 2007. The test run for the
transitoire simplifiée - PTS).     new payroll procedure will be conducted in March/April, and the actual
                                   payments should begin in May/June 2007.
 Beginning of the payment of       In progress.
 indemnities to the second group   The payment operation of the first group of eligible retirees was completed
 of civil servants eligible to the (approximately 6,000 people and a total amount of US$2.7 million). The
 retirement program.               preparations for the payment of the second group of retirees have started: (i)
                                   the census identified approximately 27,000 eligible retirees in Kinshasa; (ii)
                                   the amount to be paid to this group is estimated to be about US$13 million;
                                   (iii) the Central Bank has been contacted for printing the checks; (iv)
                                   instructions to transfer to the Banque Congolaise the funds necessary to pay
                                   the second batch of Kinshasa retirees have been given by the Ministry of
                                   Finances to the Central Bank. The payment of the retirement package to the
                                   second group of eligible retirees is expected to be completed by July 2007.


Area of Intervention: MINING SECTOR
    Indicators of progress                                Implementation / achievements
           2005-2006
Completion of the mining title     In progress.
review by the mining title         The Commission of validation of the mining titles functions since mid-
validating commission.             October 2006 and meets bi-weekly. It is based in the SOFIDE building. Its
                                   budget was mainly financed by the Public Enterprise Reform Commission
                                   (COPIREP), in particular for the purchase of the equipment and the payment
                                   of the experts. The Commission work is still underway; it may be completed
                                   by the end of 2007.
Publication of existing valid      Not achieved.
mining titles, including the       In May 2006, the Mining Land Register produced a list of the valid mining
litigated ones that are validated  titles, as well as a list of litigious titles to be submitted to the Commission of
by the mining title validation     validation. Currently, there are close to 5,000 mining titles in force. The up-
commission.                        to-date list of the valid mining titles will be published upon completion of the
                                   work of the validation Commission.
Establishment of the permanent     Partially achieved.
committee to carry out the         The EITI Technical Committee (implementing committee of the EITI, as per
reform programs advocated by       the decree of November 2005 creating the EITI national Committee) was
the Extractive Industry            established in May 2006 by ministerial decree. It works normally. The Bank
Transparency Initiative (EITI)     is providing support through grant trust funds in the amount of US$ 400,000.
and publishing of the revenue      The technical committee envisages publishing a first provisional assessment,
streams accordingly.               probably during the first half of 2008.




                                                      29

Area of Intervention: FORESTRY SECTOR
    Indicators of progress                                 Implementation / achievements
            2005-2006
                                     In progress.
Completion of the legal review       The Presidential Decree appointing the members of the Inter-Ministerial
of forestry concessions              Commission for legal review was signed in November 2006. With the
(concessions forestières) in         assistance of an independent observer, the technical verifications (desk/ field)
accordance with procedures set       have been completed. The Commission will convene when the NGOs
forth in the presidential decree     financed under the Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support
dated October 24, 2005,              Project (EESRSP) will have gone in the field to help the local communities to
including the cancellation of        designate their representatives on the Commission.
invalid concessions and              The legal review is expected to be completed in the last quarter of 2007.
publication of results.
Continued compliance with the        Complied with.
forest moratorium until: (i) new     The Congolese authorities gave assurances that no exploitation contract has
auction procedures are adopted;      been awarded, exchanged, or relocated since the signature of the October
(ii) legal review of existing titles 2005 decree.
is completed; and (iii) a 3-year
plan for future concessions is
adopted based on a participatory
process.
Recruitment of an independent        In progress.
observer (technical assistance) to   An international NGO (Global Witness) has signed a memorandum of
assist the Government in             understanding with the Ministry of Environment to carry out a three-month
monitoring logging activities,       pilot phase financed by the Bank-managed trust fund for forestry governance.
and ensuring transparency and        The pilot phase would prepare the ground for the recruitment of an NGO for a
dissemination of information.        longer period.
                                     It is expected that this recruitment will be done by September 2007.
Enactment of key                     In progress.
implementation decrees on            The Steering Committee entrusted with this work has been created and is
sustainable forest management        operational. It is multi-actors, including NGOs and the private sector. Draft
and controls, concession             decrees have been reviewed by the World Bank lawyer (Environment).
contracts and "cahier des            It is expected that the decrees will be enacted by July 2007.
charges", local consultations,
allocation procedures, and
transfer of revenues to local
entities.
Continued implementation of the      Partially complied with.
March 2004 fiscal reforms            ONATRA quasi-tax (port transit fee) and the area tax prescribed by the inter-
including the transfer of 40% of     ministerial decree of March 17, 2004 were applied. The tariff/rates are as
area tax to provinces and            follows: maximum of 5 US dollars per ton of wood starting in 2005, and 30
territories for socio-economic       US cents per hectare in 2006 and 50 cents per hectare in 2007.
development purposes.                Others reforms envisaged by the decree of March 2004, such as the use of the
                                     EXW value instead of the FOB value, are not yet implemented.




                                                       30

Area of Intervention: HEALTH
   Indicators of progress                              Implementation / achievements
           2005-2006
Increase the budget allocation to  Achieved. The allocation to the health sector was 5.7% of the budget in 2006.
the health sector to 5.5% of the
total budget in 2006.
Increase the execution rate of the Not achieved, but results were close.
health budget to 60%.              The execution of the health budget was 58% in 2005.
Improving budget process in        Not achieved.
health sector, particularly in     A consultant had been selected under the World Bank Project of Support to
reporting, by (i) completing the   the Rehabilitation of the Health Sector (PARSS) to work on the reform of the
diagnostic report on existing      regulatory and budgetary framework, but he withdrew his candidacy at the
procedure and (ii) developing an   last minute because of the security problems in Kinshasa. A new recruitment
action plan to improve the         process has been started. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health, with the
functioning and transparency of    assistance of the Ministry of the Budget, has begun working on the
the health budget process and to   improvement of the budget process.
increase execution of health
ministry budget.


Area of Intervention: EDUCATION
   Indicators of progress                              Implementation / achievements
           2005-2006
Increase the budget allocation to  Achieved. The allocation to the education sector was 9.5% of the budget in
the education sector to 8.5% of    2006.
the total budget in 2006.
Increase the execution rate of the Achieved.
education budget to 60%.           In 2005: the provisional execution of the education budget was 83%.
                                   In 2006: as of the end of September, the provisional execution of the
                                   education budget was 63% (without the execution of external resources).
Full disbursement of 2005          Partially complied with.
education block grants, reception  The entire education block grant allocated for 2005 has been disbursed.
of all quarterly execution         But, no quarterly execution summary reports and no monitoring reports have
summary reports from the           been received.
provinces, and production of
monitoring reports on the use of
block grant funds as determined
by the inter-ministerial decree
017 dated June 14, 2005.




                                                    31

