Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 24605
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
ECUADOR
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF TF 028700-EC)
July 24, 2002
Operations Evaluation Department
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
This document has been prepared for the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Ecuadorian Sucres (ECS)
Exchange rate at appraisal (1993)                US$ 1.00= ECS 2.000
Average Exchange rate for 1998                   US$ 1.00 = ECS 5,413.86
Exchange rate from January 1 through, June 16, 1999  US$ 1.00 = ECS 8.947.97
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPU           Central Project Unif
DNAPVS        Direcci6n Nacional de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre
(National Directorate of Protected Areas and Wildlife)
ES            Evaluation Summary
GEF           Global Environmental Trust Fund
GOE           Government of Ecuador
INEFAN        Instituto Ecuatoriano Forestal y de Areas Naturales
(Ecuadorian Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas and Wildlife)
MMA           Ministerio del Medio Ambiente
(Ministry of the Environment)
NGO           Nongovernmental organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR          Project Performance Assessment Report
RCC           Regional Coordination Committee
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SNAP          Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas
(National System of Protected Areas)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
Fiscal Year
Government:          January 1- December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department          Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     : Mr. Andres Liebenthal



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25
percent of the Bank's lending operations. Assessments are conducted one to seven years after a project has
closed. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex;
those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank
management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects,
topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate the project ratings and examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http:/lworldbank.orcloedleta-mainoaae.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institubonal arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






iz         ..........................................Sal.4A"$3V ;U;aW1SaAUI -3 XOUU'V
61                                                   sasuadxa put saIAipu I-aaoda [g xauuv
Li .......... aqS eq s * xauuv
El ......." ...................................................... patileaql suossal
Zl                                 ......... auvmuojjad lamolIofl
it                                                  ....,,,,,.  ...'  '*.... ' '' .''' ................ a3uv llj a   3jnD
11 -------- -----.................................................. uam dolaAa(l Ieuo! nlqsul
6Fe(u 'v '                                                                       4qele'n
9 .....I....I....         ............................................  aJV a JoalO d   ul slua lsaAu[
................... .    .................................................. 2ul a.y avsu   Ivuol n;!;Nu,-
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....................-                      -  ----------- lav:).ga
. ......................... .......... uozloa;odd ftsljaAitpotxg -iofs;uaw8a2uvuV Ivuoi nll'
....................   ........................................... 2xa0 oo  doP2aas  pUD  dijuno,
I - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~.--............---- ------------ puno.13java pueg uo4anpoijuI
slualuoj






v
Principal Ratings
PPAR
Outcome                                                                           Moderately Unsatsfactory
Sustainability                                                                           Unlikely
Institubonal                                                                             Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance                                                                      Unsabsfactory
Borrower Performance                                                                   Unsatisfactory






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Ecuador Biodiversity Protection
Project, for which the World Bank provided a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant for
US$7.2 million that was approved May 9, 1994. The grant was made effective July 24, 1995. It
was scheduled to close on June 30, 2000, but closed three months early on March 31, 2000.
This report was prepared by an Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission that visited
Ecuador in November 2001 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with government
officials and the project's various implementing agencies and to visit three of the protected areas
that benefited from the project. The cooperation and assistance of government officials at the
Ministry of the Environment is gratefully acknowledged.
This PPAR contains a detailed evaluation of citizen participation and biodiversity monitoring.
Because it is now two years after project disbursements have concluded, this report has also
devoted special attention to assessing factors that may contribute to sustainability.
Following standard OED procedures, a draft of this PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments, but no comments were received.






ix
Executive Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Ecuador Biodiversity
Protection Project for which the Global Environment Facility (GEF) approved a grant of US$7.2
million on May 9, 1994. The grant was made effective July 24, 1995 and closed on March 31,
2000.
The main objective of the project was to support the restructuring and strengthening of
institutional capacities and of the overall policy and legal framework to ensure adequate
management of the National System of Protected Areas. The project components included
institution strengthening, reform of the legal framework, outreach activities, and investments in
protected areas.
The relevance of the project is rated substantial. The project addressed policy, legal, and
institutional issues, including the need to build system and local capacities, civil society
participation, and investments for biodiversity protection. Efficacy is rated modest because, while
the project delivered most of its outputs, it did not achieve the restructuring and strengthening of
the institutional capacities, and of the overall policy and legal framework for the management of
protected areas, that were the objective of the project. Efficiency is rated modest because
centralized decision-making resulted in inaction, lost opportunities for capacity building, and
purchases that where not always appropriate for local conditions in protected areas, needlessly
increasing operation cost. The outcome of the project is rated moderately unsatisfactory
because although its objectives were relevant and fit well with the environmental priorities of the
country, the project had only modest success in changing the most important institutional, legal,
and social impediments to sound biodiversity management in Ecuador.
Sustainability is rated unlikely because the project largely failed to build the institutional
support, stakeholder ownership, and social support necessary to ensure sustainability of project
accomplishments. Also, planned financial instruments were not put in place to ensure cost
recovery. Institutional development impact is rated modest because few of the capacity-building
objectives were achieved. Bank and borrower performance are both rated unsatisfactory. The
project design was complex and attempted to accomplish too much. Having no benchmarks or
indicators to assess the extent to which the project was on track, implementation emphasized the
completion of activities rather than meeting the project's strategic objectives. Also, lack of
implementing agency ownership and support for the project and its proposals was a major
impediment in the accomplishment of the project's strategic objectives.
This PPAR highlights and confirms a number of OED lessons.
The promotion of biodiversity protection needs to take the political dimension into
account and plan and provide for building alliances in support of the necessary reforms
of the system. Lacking internal and external support, many of the studies,
recommendations, and proposals produced by the project did not result in action by the
implementing agency. Thus, the impact of the project on policies, regulations, and
institutional reforms was indirect and small. To generate the necessary support, the
follow-up project needs to incorporate a strategy to build alliances that support the policy
and institutional reforms needed to sustain the achievements of the project. The project
should insure ownership by the implementing agency, build linkages with environmental
offices of sectoral ministries, and provide for the active participation of NGOs and local
communities in project planning, execution, and monitoring.



x
* Realistic objectives, clear benchmarks, and sound monitoring are crucial to ensure that
project activities contribute to strategic goals. The project's objective was too broad.
Lack of information regarding biodiversity and project impacts made it difficult to assess
the utility of the project's approach during implementation. Lack of benchmarks or
specific guidelines contributed to poor supervision. The follow-up project should define
clear objectives, benchmarks, and impact monitoring indicators. Supervision should focus
on the extent to which activities are contributing to the strategic objectives of the project
and not just on implementation of activities.
* The protection of biodiversity is a complex process. To make it manageable, projects
should address a few crucial factors and seek to gradually build capacity. Excessive
complexity was one of the project's major flaws. The project sought to address too many
factors simultaneously, some of which required careful coordination. Another flaw was
the emphasis on products (largely reports and studies), to the detriment of the support of
capacity-building processes, and insufficient attention to building upon existing
institutions and social organizations. Had the project focused on fewer activities and
given more attention to linking with existing initiatives, and working with other
institutions and organizations, the project could have been more successful. The follow
up project should concentrate on a few crucial aspects affecting biodiversity protection
and should make special efforts to build upon existing local capacities and ongoing
processes.



INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.    The main objective of the Biodiversity Protection Project was to support the restructuring
and strengthening of institutional capacities and of the overall policy and legal framework to
ensure adequate management of the National System of Protected Areas. The project components
consisted of institutional strengthening, reform of the legal framework, outreach activities, and
investments in protected areas. A total of 35 activities were planned, only 24 of which were
completed or-partially completed. The remaining 11, mainly related to the Galapagos protected
area, were only partially undertaken, largely because of problems with government
disbursements.'
2.     While the project was relevant, overall project accomplishments were modest. The main
factors affecting project implementation were poor project design, a lack of project ownership by
the implementing agency, and centralized decision-making in the Central Project Unit (CPU).
The most successful project activities were related to investments in protected areas and field
staff training. These two activities together accounted for most of the improvements in park
protection that were achieved. The development of protected area management plans (PAMP)
was another important activity that established precedents for local participation in protected
areas. Nevertheless, most successes were confined to specific protected areas and did not have an
impact across the National System of Protected Areas (SNAP). Moreover, the project did not
bring about any significant change in the legal and regulatory framework governing protected
areas, and made few contributions to strengthening park management institutions. The main
problem with the project is that, while it produced a set of proposals for legal and regulatory
reforms, it did not built the necessary alliances within INEFAN and among NGOs, local
communities, and other stakeholders in support of the proposed reforms.
Country and Sector Context
3.     Ecuador is endowed with a wide diversity of habitats ranging from arid lands to high
mountains and tropical forests. It also has one of the highest concentrations of biodiversity per
unit area in the world (9.2 species per 1,000 square kilometers, excluding fish). At the time of
appraisal, the government had established a National System of Protected Areas (SNAP). This
system included 15 conservation units of global importance for their endemism, high levels of
biodiversity, and multiplicity of life zones. Fourteen of these sites are located on the mainland
and one, the Galapagos National Park, is located in the Galapagos Archipelago.
4.     Strong pressures from economic activities such as petroleum, gas, mining, and wood
extraction and shrimp production threaten protected areas in Ecuador. Wood exports, for
example, more than doubled from just under 5 million cubic meters at the time of appraisal in
1993 to more than 10 million cubic meters in 2000. New petroleum and gas development projects
continue to threaten some of Ecuador's most valuable protected areas. Some of the major
problems stem from the lack of a national policy on protected areas, inadequate institutional
frameworks, lack of compliance with existing laws and regulations, and insufficient budgetary
allocations. Also, many protected areas and their buffer zones are home to indigenous groups and
non-indigenous poor farmers who used these lands and resources. However, until the early 1990s,
there were no government policies to involve local communities in the management of
conservation units, which often led to conflicts between indigenous peoples and the park
administrator. Multiple and sometimes contradictory laws and regulations, and property rights
superimposed over resources, make natural resource management particularly complicated. In the
1. The GOE committed to US$1.5 rnillion in counterpart funds, but provided only US$370,000.



2
absence of an encompassing environmental law, each sector considers its legal instruments to
prevail over others. Highly centralized and weak government institutions, cumbersome
bureaucratic structures, and insufficient budgetary allocations exacerbate these problems.
5.     To address some of these constraints, in 1992 the government created the Ecuadorian
Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas, and Wildlife (INEFAN), which assumed responsibility for
forestry matters and the management of the National System of Protected Areas (SNAP). An
important feature of INEFAN was its financial autonomy; it was allowed to establish and retain
revenues generated from park fees, tariffs on logging operations, and fines for misuse of
resources, and to use them for the management of the SNAP. In 1992 the Ecuadorian Congress,
with the participation of NGOs, passed a law that established a set of broad principles for
environmental protection and natural resource management that would eliminate the
contradictions and duplications in existing sectoral laws.
Institutional Arrangements for Biodiversity Protection
6      INEFAN was responsible for overall project implementation, including coordination with
other government agencies, NGOs, local communities, and the private sector. In 1993, INEFAN
signed a service agreement with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for
procurement of goods and hiring of technical assistance. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was
established under the INEFAN's Executive Director's Office in charge of project implementation.
Within 1NEFAN, the National Directorate of Protected Areas (DNAPVS) was given a key role in
providing technical assistance in preparing terms of reference for studies and in preparing and
reviewing PAMP for protected areas. With the change of administration in 1998 and the
disappearance of INEFAN, DNPAVS and much of the responsibility for the project were
transferred to the newly created Ministry of the Environment.
RELEVANCE
The objectives of this project were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy. They were
based on a reasonable assessment of the challenges affecting protected areas and parks in
Ecuador. The project addresses policy, legal, and institutional issues including the need to build
system and local capacities, civil society participation, and investments for biodiversity
protection. Project relevance is rated substantial.
7.     The project addressed important obstacles to biodiversity conservation specific to
Ecuador and was consistent with the Bank's overall country and sector strategy in as far as it
sought to strengthen the institutional framework for the environment in Ecuador. In accordance
with the Bank's 1991 Forestry Strategy, the project appraisal gave considerable attention to the
need for strengthening citizen participation in the formulation of policies and regulations, and on
the need to set aside land rich in biodiversity for protection. It stressed the need to build human
capacities, improve planning, and direct investments in protected areas. The project also reflected
the Bank's policy on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) by adopting an approach to biodiversity
protection that included the participation of indigenous communities and institutions.2 The
appraisal report also proposed to ensure the financial sustainability of the SNAP by putting in
place a revenue system to finance the management cost of the system. The project met GEF's
"incremental funding" requirements by obtaining the commitment of other donors and the
Government of Ecuador to the project. The main objective of the project was to support the
2. The project did not involve any relocation of population, and therefore did not trigger the Bank's policy on
involuntary resettlement (OP 4.12).



3
restructuring and strengthening of the institutional capacity and overall policy and legal
framework for adequate management of the SNAP. The appraisal report gave significant attention
to the need to strengthen citizen participation in the formulation of policies and regulations and to
the need to improve the management of protected areas, and it stressed the need for building
human capacity, improving planning, and directing investments in protected areas. The appraisal
report also proposed to ensure the financial sustainability of the SNAP through the establishment
of an efficient system of fees and tariffs. The project had four components that were divided in 35
activities, the components were (See Annex B for a list of the project activities):
1) Institutional strengthening (US$3.6 million): improvement of INEFAN's
management systems, decentralization, staff training, preparation of PAMPs for
protected areas, the design of a revenue-generating system, and design and
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system.
2) Improvement of the legal and regulatoryframework (US$0.54 million): legal
studies and recommendations to regularize land tenure, extractive activities,
tourism, and civil society participation in protected areas. Particularly important
was the drafting and promulgation of new/updated regulations for granting
operating permits to official and private users of the SNAP and for limiting
extraction activities within reserve areas.
3) Outreach(US$ 1.9 million): conflict resolution in protected areas and raising
public awareness, including the creation of Regional Coordinating Committees to
oversee park management and assist park administrators in conflict resolution and
the development of public education strategy.
4) Investments(US$ 2.93 million): civil works and infrastructure (demarcation, trails,
and visitor centers) in eight critical reserve areas, and equipment and logistical
support for INEFAN field staff.
EFFICACY
While the project delivered most of its outputs, it did not achieve the restructuring and
strengthening of the institutional capacities, and of the overallpolicy and legalframeworkfor the
management ofprotected areas, that were its objectives. Thus, the efficacy of the project is rated
modest.
Institutional Strengthening
8.     Accomplishments in institutional strengthening were modest overall. However, the
PPAR mission identified two specific project activities that resulted in significantly strengthened
institutions. In both cases attention to process and alliance-building were key to success. One was
the training and education system for the protection of natural resources. This system was
custom-made for the needs of INEFAN staff, and included distance education at all levels
(primary, secondary, and professional). The program had a national scope and reached 24
protected areas and more than 40 surrounding communities. By the end of the project more than
1,000 students were enrolled in the program. This training program was carried out in
collaboration with the Ministry of Education, the National Training Service, and the Private
Technical University at Loja. This aspect of the project was so successful that the Dutch funded
its continuation. In September 2000, the Distance Education Program was formalized in an
agreement between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Environment. This program
has now been spun off and has become an institution on its own right with its independent
sources of funding, staff and management structure.



4
9.     The other project activity that helped build local capacities was the development of
protected area management plans. Acknowledging that there was no capacity in Ecuador for the
elaboration of such management plans, the CPU formed a group that provided technical support
and training to collaborating NGOs and universities to assess resource management, biodiversity,
social development, cartography, and nature tourism. The project supported the development of
such management plans in Machalilla, Sangay, Yasuni, and Cayapas-Mataje and components of
plans for Cayambe-Coca, Antisana, and the Galapagos Marine Reserve. Based on a previously
successful experience in Podocarpus, the project supported the formation of consultative groups
formed by local communities and other resource users to discuss problems, options, and strategies
for park management. While the process was slow (up to two years) and often resulted in plans
that were too descriptive and ambitious for the resources available, some universities and NGOs
in Ecuador began developing know-how for the formulation of protected area management plans.
Also, while most consultative groups seem to have disappeared and have not played a role in
monitoring, this experience was important because it was a first attempt to systematically
incorporate stakeholder participation in park management. In Machalilla, the elaboration of the
park's management plan had a longer lasting impact: it established an important precedent of
citizen participation that has been emulated by all subsequent regional planning initiatives.
10.    Most other institution-building activities carried out within the program were not
successful or only partially successful. While most reports and studies were completed, they
often did not translate in action, and had only a modest impact on reforms or improvements of the
SNAP and other institutions. Examples of key project products that were not adopted by INEFAN
include the SNAP's strategic plan, the methodology for environmental and economic valuation,
the information and evaluation system and the proposal to organize the SNAP in regions'. Also,
most studies and proposals were done without significant participation of other mninistries
affecting protected areas; in consequence these studies did not foster sufficient collaborative work
to build the inter-sectoral alliances needed to support the SNAP.
11.    Several key impediments to institutional strengthening were rooted in the administrative
procedures used by the CPU and UNDP during implementation. The project administrators
adopted a "short list" approach for contracting out studies and project activities. This approach
qualified specific institutions to bid for contracts on the basis of their technical capacities to
deliver products. Many NGOs with strong field capacities were excluded from the project and
complained of a lack of transparency in the process. Even NGOs that won bids felt frustrated with
UNDP's complicated administrative processes, the lack of clarity of who was in charge (the CPU
or UNDP), and INEFAN's lack of action once products were submitted. Moreover, participating
NGOs felt they were treated like contractors hired to implement decisions made by the CPU with
little or no input from them. The CPU lost an opportunity to build capacity among NGOs and
grassroots groups and to construct the alliances needed to support the legal and institutional
reforms intended by the project. On the other hand, the decision to handle all procurement
through the UNDP ensured that fiduciary responsibilities were met in a satisfactory manner.
12.    The project also failed to build the intemal alliances necessary to support its proposals.
For example, at the core of the project strategy for institutional strengthening was the
development of a series of management systems and staff training for these systems. Operational
manuals covering technical, financial, and administrative systems were developed, and more than
3. Parts of the Strategic Plan supported by the project were used as inputs for the restructuring of the MMA. Also,
some of the aspects of the Plan are now being adopted by the MMA. The MMA long term vision seeks a SNAP that is
self-sustained, transparent, decentralized and managed through partnerships with local communities governments at
various levels, NGOs and the private sector. This is a step in the right direction but falls far short of the objectives of
the project, which went much further than developing a vision for the SNAP.



5
200 staff were trained to use them. Owing to a lack of consensus among lNEFAN's management,
however, these systems were not put into effect. At the root the failure to adopt the systems and
training appeared to be irreconcilable differences within 1NEFAN over the balance between the
roles it should be playing in two essentially different aspects of natural resource management -
biodiversity protection and minimal use versus forestry resource development. From its position
as a project unit, the CPU was unable to integrate itself into INEFAN's mainstream operations so
that its proposals were largely unsupported.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
13.    The impact of the project in the legal arena is rated modest. While most of the project's
legal and regulatory studies were completed, few were endorsed by lNEFAN's management.
Later, when the Ministry of the Environment was created, some of the studies were used as inputs
for the new laws, policies, and regulations promoted by the ministry.
14.    The project did make several contributions to the legal and regulatory framework. The
first is the design of a plan to decentralize the SNAP, which was incorporated into the master plan
of the SNAP and later became part of the draft Biodiversity Law that is currently under review by
the president of Ecuador. The second contribution is the Special Law 278, of March 8, 1998. This
law established the groundwork for follow-up activities in sound urban development in the
Galapagos Reserve. The third is the approval by INEFAN's board of regulations that includes
processes to update delimitation of protected areas and rules for wildlife research, collection and
exploitation. Other accomplishments include regulations for community participation in protected
areas and new regulations for granting operating permits to official and private users of the NSPA
and for limiting extraction activities within reserve areas.
15.    These accomplishments, except for the Special Law 278, have contributed little to the
improvement of the management of protected areas. The SNAP master plan was never approved
by lNEFAN's management and 1NEFAN did little to promote participation beyond that which
took place within the context of the formulation of management plans in four protected areas.
Regulations regarding extractive activities in protected areas are likely to achieve little if they are
not harmonized with and supported by laws and regulations of other ministries, such as energy,
mining and agriculture. Creating alliances with these ministers should have been a priority of the
project considering that the appraisal report had anticipated that the reform of the regulatory
framework might not be acted upon on account of its political complexity.
Outreach and Citizen Participation
16.    Accomplishments in the area of outreach and citizen participation were modest.
Achievements that did take place were localized in a few protected areas and, except as possible
models to replicate, had little impact on the system as a whole.
17.   At the national level, the appraisal report called for the creation of a Consultative
Committee that would assist the project with the policy and regulatory reform components. But
tensions developed in the first meeting between the CPU and NGOs, and INEFAN stopped
convening the Consultative Committee. NGOs for their part failed to find a vehicle to properly
articulate and promote a collective strategy.
18.    At the regional level, accomplishments with citizen participation were few and confined
to specific parks or protected areas. As mentioned, the project did make important contributions
to citizen participation in protected area planning by incorporating local communities in the



6
formulation of PAMPs in Machalilla, Sangay, Yasuni, and Cayapas-Mataje. In these protected
areas, support groups were formed to assist in the formulation of the management plans;
nonetheless, only in Machalilla did the support group develop into a permanent consultative
body. In Yasuni, a consultative group was formed but was not convened until recently by the
Ministry of the Environment. Participatory methodologies were also applied in a case study for a
land tenure conflict with communities along the Guamote Macas highway in the Sangay National
Park. Negotiations and border marking took place with the participation of the people themselves.
Relationships have markedly improved and right now Fundacion Natura is carrying out the
Sangay Project, doing community project implementation as designed in the Sangay Management
Plan.
19.    According to the appraisal report, Regional Consultation Committees (RCCs) were to
assist in the elaboration and implementation of the protected areas management plans and in
conflict resolution (World Bank 1994:6). RCCs were to be composed of representatives of local
communities, NGOs, and INEFAN's Regional District staff. But the regionalization of the SNAP
did not take place, so RCCs were not created (Baracatt et al. 1999: 14-15). Six areas, out of the
eight included in the project, were under the management of RCC, that operated in effect as
NGOs because they did not enjoy legal standing. Nevertheless, the PPAR mission did not find
any supporting evidence regarding the establishment of RCCs. In general it appears that neither
INEFAN's management, nor the CPU were supportive of participation whether at the local level
or in policymaking processes. As a result, those cases in which participation took place were
quite limited. When opportunities arose, the NGOs were not always able to agree on a common
agenda (Box 1).
Box 1. Participation Experience of NGOs in Cotacachi-Cayapas
The project financed an NGO consortium to develop a participatory planning process in the buffer zone of
the lowlands of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve, an area known for its conflicts over natural
resources. The objective was to develop a strategy to reduce pressures on the protected area while
improving the economic situation of the local population. The process included participatory diagnosis of
the biological and socioeconomic situation, land use, and local organizations. The result was a preliminary
strategy for the sustainable management of the buffer zone, sub-community PAMPs, assessment of non-
forestry resources, training strategy for communities, and a set of pilot subprojects for natural resource
management. Unfortunately, this activity was only begun toward the end of the project and few resources
were left to carry out actions outlined in the plans. Subsequently, disagreements on roles among members
of the consortium resulted in its disintegration. This process tested a valuable approach for conflict
resolution potentially useful in other parts of the country. Nevertheless, poor programming and weak
coordination capacities among NGOs rendered this exercise of little impact to local communities and
environmental management.
20.    Other outreach activities of the project included public campaigns, production of books,
maps, and guides to national parks and policies and regulations. It is difficult to evaluate the
efficacy of these activities because the project did not include any means of assessing their
impact. Nevertheless, according to the evaluation commissioned by the project, these activities
were satisfactory (Baracatt et al. 1999:19-20). In the opinion of this mission, outreach activities
most likely had an impact at the time they were carried out. Nonetheless, it is likely that much of
that impact has diminished over time for lack of reinforcing messages.
Investments in Protected Areas
21.    Investments in protected areas substantially achieved their targets. They actually
exceeded targets at appraisal and they significantly increased the ability of local staff to patrol



7
protected areas and reach out to local communities. Investments included design, construction
and interpretation of trails, construction of guard posts, basic park infrastructure, automobiles,
and equipment of central office and parks (See Annex C for a complete list of project
investments). 4
22.     The project also financed the construction of first-rate visitor centers and other
infrastructures in Machalilla, Cotacachi-Cayapas, Cayapas-Matajes, and Boliche, all areas with
high visitor flows. Protected areas across the system were equipped with vehicles, motorcycles,
desks, computers, altimeters, camping gear, televisions, and audio-visual and other equipment.
These contributions improved protection. Most staff in the protected areas considered this aspect
of the project one of the most valuable for their work. Staffing and equipping protected areas
resulted in more and expanded patrols and more environmental education talks to communities.
As a result, between 1992 and 1998, the number of patrols increased nearly 20-fold in Yasuni and
fourfold in Cotacachi-Cayapas. Community talks for the same period nearly tripled in both
parks.5 In Cotacachi-Cayapas, patrolling and community education have helped enlist local
communities in conservation, evidently resulting in the recovery of some endangered species
(Box 2).
Box 2. Investing in Park Protection
During the mission, the Chief of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Reserve reported that staff training and equipment
provided by the project helped expand patrol coverage from 40 percent to 75 percent of the reserve. Before
the project in 1992, guards made an average of 20 patrols a year: now they make from 45 to 50. Regular
patrolling has been a strong deterrent to poachers, allowed guards to monitor agricultural and grazing
activities more closely, led to better relations with communities in and around the reserve, and provided
more opportunities to build awareness among local people on their duties and the benefits of conservation.
Closer and better relations with local people paid off. In November 1996 more than 1,000 people from
communities adjacent to the protected area, aware of the importance of the reserve to their water supply,
labored for days to extinguishing a forest fire (El Comercio 11/22.1996). Subsequently, the community
found and punished the perpetrator. Guards are also in a better situation to monitor the condition of
wildlife. Sightings of wildlife are on the rise. Mountain lions, for example, were sited sporadically five
years ago; in the past year guards have sighted lions six times. Other endangered species that are now
commonly sighted and were rarely seen in the reserve five years ago include Andean bears, wild goats, and
wolves.
EFFICIENCY
The result of managing this project through centralized decision-making was inaction, lost
opportunities for capacity building, and purchases that were not always appropriate for local
conditions in protected areas, needlessly increasing operation cost. Efficiency is rated modest.
23.     As mentioned earlier, despite the large quantity of reports and studies produced by the
project, lack of action by INEFAN's management led to much waste of effort and resources.
Activities that INEFAN took under its direct charge, which were activities requiring INEFAN's
approval such as the Development of Information Systems, the Fiduciary Fund, the
Administrative Restructure, and Protected Areas Policies were not satisfactorily concluded. Also,
4. These investments were small, did not have a significant environmental impact, and did not require the preparation
of environmental assessments.
5. According to records in the archives of local offices, the number of patrols in Yasuni increased from 16 in 1992 to
325 in 1995, and in Cotacachi-Cayapas from 116 in 1992 to 442 in 1998. Community talks increased in Yasuni from 14
in 1992 to 42 in 1998, and in Cotacachi-Cayapas from 93 in 1992 to 263 in 1998.



8
as indicated in relation to the contractual instruments used to involve NGOs in project activities,
excessive concern with product (specifically reports) over process resulted in many lost
opportunities to build capacity that could have ensured a positive long-term impact for project
activities.
24.     Another source of project inefficiency was heavily centralized decision-making.6 On
several occasions, local staff in protected areas complained to the PPAR mission about the
process by which equipment was procured. Decisions on models, designs, quantity, and kinds of
equipment purchased were made in the central office without sufficient input from the local staff
in protected areas. As a result, much of the acquired equipment was inadequate or too expensive
to operate'.
*. In Cotacachi-Cayapas, the project distributed 19" TV sets as tools for the community
education activities. But these TV sets were too large and difficult to transport on the
bumpy roads of the reserve and buffer zone. As a result, park staff were reluctant to use
them. In their view, more and smaller sets, easier to transport, would have been a much
better alternative at a similar or lower cost.
* In Yasuni, the project purchased an imported speedboat. While these boats were faster
than locally designed boats, they are unstable and dangerous for the local rivers, and too
expensive to operate. In consequence, these boats sit idle while staff hire cheaper and
safer local boats.
* In Machalilla and Cotacachi-Cayapas, the project distributed several four-wheeled
motorcycles. These were quite effective and quick in off-road terrain, but they were
expensive to operate. Tires, which must be replaced once a year, cost US$2,000,
equivalent to one-fifth of the annual budget for the Cotacachi-Cayapas reserve.
* Budget overruns were another problem during implementation. Four of the 35 activities
exceeded the budget by more that 50%: Strengthening of IEFAN (85%), Protected
Area Management Plans (261%), Staff Training (165%) and Public Outreach(64%). At
the same time 23 activities spent under 50% of the budgeted amounts. Eleven of these
were activities in the Galapagos National Park to be financed by the Government in
Ecuador (see Annex B).
OVERALL OUTCOME
While the project's relevance was substantial, the project achieved only afew changes to the
most important institutional, legal, and social impediments to sound biodiversity management in
6. Another way to assess project eficiency is by comparing project outcomes with those of other similar projects. The
Bolivia Biodiversity Conservation project also had the objective to strengthen the SNAP in Bolivia and was
designedand implemented around the same time within a similar social, cultural and institutional context. Even though
the Bolivian project was for only 4.5 US$ million, (as compared to 7.2 US$ million for the Ecuador project), its
impacts on the strengthening of the SNAP were significantly greater and were achieved at a lower cost.
7. Officials from DNAPVS reported to the mission that field staff were consulted on equipment purchases made.
However, field staff interviewed by the PPAR mission indicated that the equipment they received from the project was
not always what they had requested and that some was of limited use. For future acquisitions, better communication
between DNAPVS and field offices will be required to insure equipment purchases address local staff needs and are
appropriate for local conditions.



9
Ecuador. Also, efficiency ofproject activities was modest. On this basis the project outcome is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.
25.    The Bank is preparing a follow-up GEF project for Ecuador that has incorporated some
of the lessons learned in the first project. Some of these lessons refer to more effective
mechanisms for citizen participation, biodiversity monitoring, and cost recovery. While it is too
early to say anything about the impacts of the lessons learned from the first GEF project, it is safe
to say that the follow-up GEF project is likely to do better, insofar as it will be implemented by
the MMA, an institution much friendlier to biodiversity conservation and citizen participation
than INEFAN.
26.    While project relevance was substantial, and the lessons generated by this project are
valuable, the project's achievements were few, project efficacy and efficiency were modest, as
most project activities had limited impact and investments and purchases were made that derived
modest benefits. Thus, this review rates the overall project outcome moderately unsatisfactory.
SUSTAINABILITY
While the project made some important contributions to staff training and new visitors centers, it
largely failed to build institutional support, stakeholder ownership, and the social support
required to ensure the sustainability ofproject accomplishments. In addition, cost recovery
instruments to ensure financial sustainability were not put in place. On this basis, sustainability
is rated unlikely.
27.    Technical resilience is rated modest. While staff training activities largely improved the
professional levels of staff (largely protected area managers and guards), low salaries resulted in
high staff turnover and in the loss of many of the trained personnel. Salaries of protected area
managers and guards are considerably below other equivalent civil servant positions in Ecuador.
Until this situation is corrected, it is unlikely that the DNAPVS will be unable to retain trained
staff.
28.    Financial resilience is rated negligible. While Ecuador has a strong potential for a
financially independent SNAP, this appears to be a low priority for the government. Protected
areas and parks in Ecuador draw enough foreign and national visitors to raise the funds needed to
finance the costs of managing the SNAP solely on the basis of park entrance fees. In the opinion
of some DNAP field staff, entrance fees from the Galapagos National Park and Machalilla alone
could generate sufficient revenue to pay for the management of the entire SNAP. Nevertheless,
park entrance fees are captured by the Ministry of Finance, which returns only a small fraction of
these revenues to protected areas. The appraisal report promised the development of a revenue
system to finance the SNAP and a study for a National Fund to finance the costs for managing the
SNAP. While studies were carried out, the proposals lacked the support of INEFAN's
management and were not implemented. However, some of this information is now being used in
the formulation of the Fondo del Medio Ambiente (National Environmental Fund). Officers in the
Ministry of Finance argued that Ecuador's social needs were of higher priority. However, modest
investments in protected areas could help maintain infrastructure and services financed by the
project and attract more visitors and revenue. Meanwhile, without adequate funding support, the
investments carried out by the project are deteriorating (trails, signals, park service facilities),
making the parks less attractive to visitors. Because of small budgets, park improvements,
vehicles, and other equipment provided by the project have deteriorated and sometimes other
project accomplishments have also been lost (Box 3).



10
Box 3. An Example of Unsustainable Success
The project established a Biodiversity Information Center (BIC) to provide updated information decision-
making. To set up the BIC, INEFAN signed agreements with several academic and research institutions in
Ecuador. This activity resulted in a database on species and a new vegetation classification system. Soon
the BIC became an important source of information on biodiversity in Ecuador and was frequently
consulted by other agencies. When the project ended, however, the staff were let go owing to lack of
funding, and the reference collection was incorporated into the Library of the Ministry of the Environment.
The MMA continues to maintain some of the databases of the information system, but the MMlviA has not
drafted an operations manual for the system and information is no longer available outside the MMA. The
BIC's unique strength, an information resource specialized on biodiversity, has yet to yield ongoing
benefits.
29.    Government ownership is rated modest. Unless the GOE is willing to establish a reliable
source of revenue for the SNAP, the project investments will continue to deteriorate. Given the
record to date, and the economic and political outlook in Ecuador, this is not likely to happen any
time soon. During project execution, INEFAN management's lack of support of project products
and proposals was an important impediment for the project. The CPU, while effective at
delivering products, was perceived within INEFAN as an enclave doing much of its work in
isolation. The National Directorate of Natural Areas and Wildlife (DANVS), which was supposed
to take an active role in drafting terms of references for studies and consultants, was understaffed
and unable or unwilling to provide guidance or work with the CPU. As a result, the DANVS did
not develop much of a sense of ownership of the studies or processes undertaken by the project.
Later, the Ministry of the Environment (MMA) was a much more supportive implementing
agency for the project. Still, many of the studies and proposals developed under INEFAN became
irrelevant in the new institutional context. Even though the new minister was supportive of
several aspects of the project, such as citizen participation and decentralization, the project was
about to end and had little funding left. The current Minister of the Environment proposed a fund
to support some of the protected areas as part of a larger eco-tourism project that has been
presented to several donors. This is now under consideration as a component of a follow-up GEF
grant. The current administration, however, is about to end. Frequent changes in the MMA in the
past few years have yielded shifts in vision and discontinuity. There is no indication that this time
will be any different.
30.    Overall stakeholder ownership and social support is rated modest. Development
pressures on protected areas are one of the most critical issues affecting conservation in Ecuador.
While the formulation of PAMPs involved the participation of local people, most of the activities
identified during appraisal that addressed development pressures in protected areas were not
carried out or were only partially executed, such as the review of property rights in protected
areas, community use of natural resources, tourist development, and formation of RCCs. The lack
of attention to process and alliance-building resulted in losing the opportunity to develop a shared
vision of the SNAP among stakeholders and between administrations. The preparation of the GEF
follow-up grant has begun to address these issues by seeking the participation of all stakeholders
in project preparation, endorsing the concept of "parks with people" and incorporating issues such
as property rights, land tenure, and co-administration of protected areas with indigenous peoples.
31.    In summary, this review concluded that project sustainability is unlikely. Overall, the
project has generally not produced a sustainable institutional or financial result and a follow-up
project or program would be required to do this.



INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The project contributed little to improving the institutional capacity in Ecuador to manage
biodiversity. Institutional development is rated modest.
32.    As indicated earlier, the project failed to build a central capacity for managing the SNAP,
had little impact in the legal framework affecting biodiversity conservation, and accomplished
little in its work with local communities. The exceptions were the protected areas where buildings
were constructed (Machalilla, Cotacachi-Cayapas, and Boliche) and in some cases, where PAMP
had been carried out. In Cotacachi-Cayapas, for example, the building of the visitor center had an
interesting catalytic effect. Built by Lake Huicocha, a favorite tourist site in the region, the center
has been perceived as a valuable income source by the municipality, a regional organization of
rural communities (UNORCAC), and the DNAPVS. Although during the PPAR mission there
seemed to be an impasse between UNORCAC and the Municipality of Cotacachi, the high stakes
involved will most likely result in a dialogue that might engender a coalition for long-term
management of the protected area.
33.    By failing to promote citizen participation in the management of protected areas and
more fully incorporate DNAPVS staff in its execution, the project lost the opportunity to build on
the social and institutional capital that already existed in Ecuador. For instance, the project could
have drawn more on local traditional institutions to involve local communities in monitoring and
protection, and it could have built on the existing community institutions to ensure compliance.
The project also could have provided support to universities and research institutions currently
conducting biodiversity research in protected areas for biodiversity monitoring. For example,
Catholic University of Quito and San Francisco University of Quito have fully staffed research
stations in Yasuni National Park but coordinate little between each other and the park authorities.
34.    Two years after the project ended, there was little evidence at the national office of
DANVS that the project had taken place. The reports it produced, the most important output of
the project, had already been packed in boxes and sent to storage. In some protected areas where
the project worked, such as Yasuni, apart from vehicles, outdated computers, and boats that were
rarely used, there was little left to remind anybody that the project had taken place.
BANK PERFORMANCE
The project attempted to accomplish too much. It included 35 activities that were not always
clearly related. Having no benchmarks or indicators to assess the extent to which the project was
on track, implementation emphasized the completion of activities rather than meeting the
project's strategic objectives. Bank performance is ranked unsatisfactory during both design and
supervision.
Quality at Entry
35.    While the objective of the project was highly relevant, there were three critical design
flaws from the start. First, the project had too many activities that were not clearly linked-35
activities addressed a wide variety of issues (See Annex B). Moreover, the project did not hold
itself accountable for reaching its strategic objective for biodiversity protection. Instead of
focusing on reaching specific targets, the appraisal report promised to establish the necessary
conditions for protection, without defining what those conditions might be. The agency selected
to execute the project had no previous experience in biodiversity and was not committed to
biodiversity conservation or incorporating civil society into its activities. Bank staff did not



12
appear to have appreciated that INEFAN was not adequately prepared to assume the role of NGO
coordinator during implementation. The project did not elevate the possibility of establishing
more cooperation and collaboration among NGOs and bilateral agencies to the level of a basic
objective. There was no analysis of INEFAN's cash flow to test the assumption that its revenue
was reliable and adequate to finance the operation of the SNAP. This omission is particularly
important given that one of the risks the Bank identified during preparation was the potential
national budget constraints limiting the funding during project implementation. On this basis
quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
Box 4. Low Priority Given to Monitoring
According to the appraisal report, biological monitoring would be a crucial part of the project. It was to be
carried out at the level of the project areas and field information was to be comnbined with remote sensing
material. The identification of specific biological elements to monitor was to be done as part of the
preparation/update of protected area management plans. Aspects to monitor included results of project
activities as well as distribution of fauna and flora, fragile ecosystems, hydrological cycles and climatic
parameters. But the monitoring and information systems set in place were much narrower in scope: The
monitoring and evaluation system appears to have been designed so as to focus on the completion of the
activities, with much less attention paid to the effectiveness of the models being developed. Moreover,
given that the appraisal failed to identify specific performance goals, the emphasis of the monitoring
system was simply on tracking project actions. Tracking impacts or results was not important from the
perspective of the project managers. Thus, the project spent only 21 percent of the funds budgeted for this
purpose. On the other hand, expenses related to the organization of INEFAN exceeded the original budget
by 185 percent (Baracatt et aL 1999:59). When the project was completed, the monitoring system had
served its purpose and it was dismantled. What seemed to have been an administrative decision resulted in
the elimination of a critical part of the project.
Supervision
36.    During supervision Bank staff was very responsive to the implementation process,
procurement, auditing of disbursements, and other financial issues. Moreover, the task manger
included the director of the CPU in supervision missions of similar projects to foster exchange
and leaming. Issues raised during missions addressed most problems facing the project.
Nevertheless, the supervision efforts did not act effectively to maintain focus on achieving the
project's intended strategic objectives. Keeping the project on course was difficult given the lack
of indicators against which to measure progress and outcomes. Similarly, for the Galapagos, low
levels of financial commitments by the GOE were noted but not rated as implementation
problems. Supervision missions consistently rated the project satisfactory, even for such
important components as the Galapagos National Park investments and the legal reforms that
were increasingly delayed or difficult to achieve. In spite of the repeated evidence that the
INEFAN was not developing as intended, no activity was dropped or modified, and no new
activity was introduced that might have improved project efficacy. On this basis supervision is
rated unsatisfactory.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Lack of ownership and support by the implementing agency for the project and its proposals was
a major impediment in the accomplishment of the project's strategic objectives. Borrower
performance is rated unsatisfactory.
37.    The appraisal report indicates, "the strong leadership demonstrated by INEFAN officials
combined with the extensive consultation process that took place during preparation of the project



13
provide a reasonable assurance of adequate involvement and commitment of the
Government"(World Bank 1994:8). But a critical factor affecting the project was that LNEFAN
did not share several important goals of the project. INEFAN staff held two different outlooks
toward forest resources, one outlook sought to restrict their use and the other sought to promote
their use. Govenmment ownership of the project throughout the project was low. This was partly
due to the concentration of decision-making in the CPU and a growing perception of the CPU as
an enclave within INEFAN. Lack of project ownership within the DNAPVS, the most likely
institutional ally of the project, led to the rejection or lack of support of the project's studies and
recommendations. Not only was there a low commitment to biodiversity protection in INEFAN,
but the organization resisted the notion that NGOs had a role to play in policymaking. This
became a major obstacle to civil society participation in project activities and led to an
inoperative Consultative Committee. During the life of the project there were four acting directors
of INEFAN and four different govemments. The consequent changes in vision created
considerable institutional instability during implementation. Further instability came when the
government failed to provide INEFAN with the financial support to meet its obligations to the
project. This had a particularly large impact on the activities programmed for the Galapagos
National Park.
LESSONS LEARNED
38.    This PPAR drew several valuable lessons:
* The promotion of biodiversity protection needs to take the political dimension into
account and plan and provide for building alliances in support of the necessary
reforms of the system. INEFAN was divided among those advocating biodiversity
conservation and those advocating forest development. This created a hostile
environment for the strategic purposes of the project. The CPU did not help this situation
by failing to enlist the support of the DNAPVS, the most likely ally of the conservation
cause. The mechanisms to incorporate NGOs and community groups in policymaking
were never consolidated. Without internal and external support, many of the studies,
recommendations, and proposals produced by the project were not acted upon by the
implementing agency. Thus, the project's impact on policies, regulations, and
institutional reforms were at best indirect and minor.
* Realistic objectives, clear benchmarks, and sound monitoring are crucial to ensure that
project activities contribute to strategic goals. The project's objectives were too broad.
Also, lack of information regarding biodiversity and project impact made it particularly
difficult to assess the utility of the project's approach during implementation. For
example, insufficient information on the overall condition of biodiversity resources in the
country made it difficult to assess the value of focusing on specific protected areas, and
the failure to put in place an impact monitoring system precluded any possibility of
tracking the extent to which project activities actually had an impact on protected areas.
Lack of benchmarks or specific directional guidelines contributed to poor supervision.
Thus, even though problems with the adoption of studies and recommendations were
apparent since the mid-term review, having no benchmark against which to measure
accomplishments, the project continued to implement activities while failing to take
action on the most crucial factors affecting the project's impact: the inaction of the
implementing agency and the insularity of the central project unit.
* The protection of biodiversity is a complex process; to make it manageable, projects
should address afew crucialfactors and seek to gradually build capacity. Excessive



14
complexity was a major flaw in the project-it sought to address too many factors
simultaneously, some of which required careful coordination. Another flaw was the
emphasis on products (largely reports and studies), to the detriment of support for
capacity-building processes, and insufficient attention to building upon existing
institutional and social institutions. Had the project focused on fewer activities and given
more attention to linking with existing initiatives and working with other institutions and
organizations it might have been more successful.
39.    Three recommendations emerge from this analysis for the follow-up project currently
under preparation:
*  The project should incorporate a strategy to build alliances that support the reforms and
institutional changes proposed. Project design and implementation should ensure
ownership by the implementing agency, build alliances with environmental offices of
sectoral ministries, and ensure the active participation of NGOs and local communities in
project planning, execution, and monitoring.
*  The project should clearly define objectives, benchmarks, and impact-monitoring
indicators. Also, supervision should focus on the extent to which activities are
contributing to the project's strategic objectives and not just on execution of activities.
*  The project should concentrate on a few crucial aspects of biodiversity protection, and
should make special efforts to build upon local capacities and ongoing processes.



15
References
Baracatt, Gabriel et al. 1999. "Informe de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto GEF / NEFAN en
Ecuador. Informe Final." Ministerio de Medio Ambiente / World Bank / PND, Quito;
Ecuador.
Ministerio del Ambiente. 1999. "Proyecto Plan Maestro Protecci6n de la Biodiversidad del
Fondo Fiduciario para el Medio Ambiente Mundial GEF TF 028700 EC, Informne Final."
Ministerio del Ambiente, Ecuador.
World Bank. 1994. "Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director LAC Country
Department IV of the IBRD to the Regional Vice President on a proposed Grant from the
Global Enviromnental Facility for an amount Equivalent for SDR 5.2 million to the republic
of Ecuador for a Biodiversity Protection Project."






17                                         Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Ecuador: Biodiversity Protection Project (GEF TF 028700-EC)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs
Loan amount                                  5.2             5.2                   100%
Cofinancing                                  1.5             370,000               24.6%
Cancellation                                 NA              NA                    NA
Date physical components completed           NI              NI
Economic rate of retum                       NA              NA                    NA
Institutional performnance
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY95              FY96             FY97              FY98             FY99
Appraisal estimate       1                1.5               2.               1.5               1.2
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)            .5               1.2              2.2               1.5.              1.3
Actual as % of          50%              80%              110%              100%             108%
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: 12-2-99
Project Dates
Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                      NA                               NA
Negotiations                               NA                               NA
Letters of Development Policy              NA                               NA
Board approval                             N/A                             NIA
Signing                                    5-19-94                          5-19-94
Effectiveness                              8-17-94                          7-25-94
Closing date                               6-30-2000                        3-31-00






19                               Annex B
Annex B. Project activities and expenses
Activity                                   Budget     Expended   %
1. Strengthening of INEFAN                 1552,436   2,867 ,726  185
2. Policies formulation                    72.000     48, 781    68
3. SNAP strategy                           517,000    217,423    42
4. Conflict resolution method (land holding)  84,000  1, 952     2
5. Regulatory reforms                      32,000                0
6. PA Management plans                     348,000    1, 254,921  361
7. Management of protected areas (investments)  1,939,000  1,215,287  63
8. Monitoring                              777,000    163,000    21
9. Regional development                    32,000                0
10. Regional committees                    528,000    115,011    22
11. Economic value of Biodiversity         144,000    75         0
12. Eco-tourism study                      95,000     40,928     43
13. Regulation of activities in PA (concessions)  15,000         0
14. Financial System                       45,000     18,064     40
15. Community use of resources             93,000                0
16. Biod. Info. System / Pub. Natural History  220,000  279,627  127
17. Staff training                         189,000    499,948    265
18. Staff training on legal system         45,000     18,054     40
19. Public Outreach on SNAP                154,000    30,730     20
20. Biodiversity protection strategy       109,000    179,237    164
21/24. Public education campaigns          30,159     355,159    109
25. Strategic plan for Galapagos           98,000                0
26. Strategic plan for marine reserve      34,000                0
27. Quarantine Galapagos                   249,000    275        0
28. Tourist system Galapagos               44,000                0
29. Tourist monitoring Galapagos           138,000               0
30. Urban planning Galapagos               249,000    54,367     22
31. Land use planning                      151,000    13,740     9
32. PA equipment and patrolling system     308,283    160,717    34
33. Staff training                         64,000     24,381     38
34. Educational system of Galapagos        121,000    9,835      8
35. Chachi community development           350,000    366,128    105
Source: Baracatt et al (1999): Anexo VIII: Monitoreo Presupuestario por Actividad






21                                Annex C
Annex C. Investment Activities
1.     Furnishings and Equipment
TMpe of Equipment                 US dollars
Field Equipment                   237,354
Computers and software            814,411
Office furnishings                 97,808
Audio - visual equipment           95,788
Weapons, ammunitions, riding       36,278
outfits, mules
Vehicles, motorcycles, canoes     594,086
Other Furnishings                  62.090
TOTAL                           1'937,815
2.     Construction and Furnishing of Visitors Centers
The visitors centers built are:
(a)    "Ecuador's Pioneer Areas in Conservation" and "The National Protected
Areas System" located at Recreational Area "El Boliche".
(b)    "A Reserve from the Snow to the Jungle" at Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological
Reserve.
(c)    "3,000 years of History in the Tropical Forest" located at "La Chiquita", in
Cayapas Mataje Ecological Reserve.
(d)    "The Mangrove" Interpretation Center in San Lorenzo, designed but not built.
All Interpretation Centers rely on the project's contracts for the designing and construction of
furnishings and exhibitions. The Interpretation Center located at San Crist6bal, Galapagos
National Park, was assisted in its design by the project with US$ 20,000.
3. Other construction executed by the project
(a) Classroom and office at INEFAN's station in Borb6n, Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological
Reserve;
(b) 50 kilometers of trail and daytime office for Podocarpus National Park;
(c) Recreational Area El Boliche Tourist complex made of:
2 interpretation centers, 1 administrative center; 10 log-cabins,
1 restaurant; Camping lots; tables and BBQ place; 2 sanitary batteries & complete
external lighting; parking lots; water; gardening; basic furniture and domestic equipment
(d) Photovoltaic Energy Study in Isla Floreana, Galapagos.
(e) Guard posts at Galapagos National Park.
(f) Office, Housing and Services Design at Isla San Crist6bal, Galapagos National Park.
(g) Trail Design under the Interpretative Diagnostic Study of 8 Protected Areas.
(h) Environmental Impact and Economic Feasibility Studies were prepared for Boliche and
also for Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve Interpretation Centers.
Source: Baracatt et all (1999)









IMAGING
Report No.:         24605
Type:      PPAR



