Dokenxt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 12363-EC
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
LAC COUNTRY DEPARTKENT IV
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
MAY 9, 1994
Agriculture Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This documet has a restricted dixtribuim ad may be and by redpieats only In the performaae of
dtir offical duties. Its contesn may not otberwis be dicknd widhot World Bank autorization.



CURENCY ROUIVALIENIS
(As of December 1993)
Currency Unit - Sucre (S/-)
US$1.00 - 2,000 Sucres
FISCAL YER
Jamuary 1 - December 31
UNIT OF WEIGHIS AND MEASURIES
The metric system is used througout this document.
DANP          Nata Are  Division of SUFOREN
GEF           Global Enviromnet Faiity
GET           Global Enviroment Trust Fund
GP            Global Plan
JERAC         Ecuadorea Instite of Agrarian Reform
INEFAN         cadra  Insiute of Foresy, Natra Areas and Wildlife
INGALA        Galos Nationd Instituto
NEAP          Naonal E ironm    Acon Plan
MAO      ^      Mi y of Agrilt
NGO           Non-Govenmental Orgniation
NSPA          National System of Protcted Arm
PCU           Project Coor din  Unit
PPA           Projeat Preparton Advance
SUFOREN    Sub-Secetarit of Forestry and Natura1 Resources
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United Stae Agency for International Development
Tu report i boud on do Adi of a Du& appnaul miot vida Eador in July 17 to Aqu 7, 1993.
Mimsomem  un MsaaJM=. Cta A. Pla  (Irk ,M . LATIlN), Olg Coan , Mdum Hoso
an Mury Liabh Gomulez (Coauknt). Ms. Sman Shbe (ASRN) ua do lBank Tora  Advia fr te prijont.
Mesr. AMao Umal and Aljno Cuval wt te Etna Rnviwes. Mr. Mario S_ana urs to UNDP
RIvbwrn  Mesu. Pha-Chong Lob an Muak Wiaa we Depatment Dircor (LA4DR) ad Diviion Chiof
OA4A  ren_dwl.
- -   -   - -         e    - -   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTlON PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Source of Grant:            Global Environment Facility
Grant Recipient:            Republic of Ecuador
Benefkciary:                Ecuadorean Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas and Wildlife
(INEFAN)
Amount:                     SDR 5.2 million (US$7.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Govermment will pass on funds to INEFAN on a grant basis
Financing Plan:             (US$ million)
Local                Forein        2IQI
Republic of Ecuador                1.5                  -             1.5
GEF                                                     7.2           7.2
TOTAL                              1.5                  7.2           8.7
Economic Rate of
Return:                     Not applicable
Map:                        IBRD 25125
ESTIMATED GRANT DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
FY95         FY96          FY97       FY98    FY99
Annual              1.0           1.5          2.0        1.5      1.2
Cumulative            1.0           2.5          4.5        6.0      7.2
nis document has a resictd distrbution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LAC COUNTRY DEPARTMENT IV
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant to the Republic of Ecuador in an amount
equivalent to SDR 5.2 million (US$7.2 million), to help finance a project to protect biodiversity
through strengthening the National System of Protected Areas. The Ecuadorean Institute of
Forestry, Natural Areas and Wildlife will be responsible for implementing the project.
2.           Cout/Sector Backgrun. Ecuador is endowed with a great variety of habitats
ranging from and islands to high altitude peaks to tropical lowland rainforest. Within its
relatively small land area, it possesses one of the highest concentrations of species per unit area
in South America. A two square kilometer tract of lowland rainforest can harbor over 1,200
species of plants from 136 families. The variety of habitats and ecosystems and the high levels
of endemism form the basis of unparalleled levels of biodiversity, with considerable global
significance.
3.           While key public policy makers in the country have been preoccupied with
achievement of economic recovery following severe economic setbacks, scant attention has been
paid to the wide range of critical resource management and environmental protection issues.
Inadequate management of agricultural lands and forests, problems of water pollution and waste
disposal, environmental damage caused from oil and gas contamination during exploration and
the negative impact of development activities on indigenous peoples, all pose significant
challenges.
4.           The realization that sustained economic growth and social development will
inevitably require improved management of Ecuador's natural resources, combined with
increasing pressure from national and international conservation organizations have led the
Ecuadorean Government to initiate measures aimed at improving environmental management in
the country.
5.           To protect its vast biological heritage the Government has established a National
System of Protected Areas (NSPA) which includes 15 conservation units of global importance due
to their extremely high levels of biodiversity, multiplicity of life zones, and their importance as
centers of endemism. Fourteen are located on the continental territory of Ecuador, while
Galapagos National Park is in the Galapagos Archipelago situated about 1,000 km off the coast.
6.           The protected areas vary in designation from National Parks to Ecological
Reserves to Wildlife Management and National Recreation Areas, and vary in size from 1,000
to 655,000 ha. World recognition has already been accorded to the biodiversity value of some
of the national parks by being designated as World Heritage Sites (Galtpagos and Sangay) and
as Biosphere Reserves (Galapagos and Yasuni). The Cotacachi-Cayapas Reserve is one of the
ten most diverse 'hot spots at the world level, with an estimated 40-60 percent of its plant
species and 25 percent of its tree species being endemic. Yasuni National Park contains a major
area of the Amazon basin Pleistocene refuge and is a key center for endemism. It holds a record
number of fish species in its watershed and harbors over 500 species of birds. The Galapagos
National Park is the largest protected area in Ecuador at 727,000 ha. and covers almost 97
percent of the archipelago's land area. The inner seas of the Galapagos are the second largest
marine reserve in the world at 70,000 square km. The isolation of the Galapagos has resulted



-2-
in evolutionary processes and habitats being preserved in unaltered condition. Ihe strong
sdection pressure exerted under the conditions prevalent in the Galapagos resulted in an
accelerated pace of evolution, which in itself holds vital importance for world biodiversity
conservation. Approximately 42 percent of the native flora is endemic, as are 80 percent of the
breeding species of land birds, 90 percent of the native mammals, 95 percent of the reptiles, 66
percent of the beetles, and almost 30 percent of marine species of all types.
7.           Ihe major constraints towards effective protection and appropriate and sustainable
use and manaement of biodiversity, have been lack of definition of national policy on protected
areas, an inadequate institutional framework, lack of compliance with existing laws and
regulations and insufficient budgetary allocation. Additionally, the consevation units of the
NSPA are being threatened by rapid economic development and subjected to increasingly severe
pressures from: State-run economic enterprises such as petroleum exploration and exploitation,
mining, and expansion of the road and highways system; private sector activities such as
agricultural production, forestry, mining, and shrimp farming; and population growth.
Particularly notable are the impacts (which are often intimately related) of petroleum extraction,
mining, and road construction followed by spontmneous colonization, deforestation, and soil
erosion.
8.             Management of the protected areas has also been affected by weakness in the
policy and regulatory framework regarding the establishment and management of the surrounding
regions of influence and buffer zones. Virtually all of the protected areas are surrounded by
populations of rural poor, in most cases with settlements inside and/or on their immediate
borders. These populations are a source of major pressure on the areas' resources. In many
cases the protected are  and their regions of influence (buffer zones) are the traditional home
of indigenou groups who had communal rights to those lands and resources for hundreds of
years. However, until recently there had been no clear government policies to guide interaction
with those groups with varying needs and expectations. Nor has there been any articulation
between these communities and the management plans for the conservation units. This has often
led to conflictive situations in many of the protected areas.
9.           The policy and legai framework relating to biodiversity and renewable natural
resource protection is principally contained in the 'Forestry, Conservation of Protected Natural
Areas and Wildlife Law" (August 1981) and its regulations. In addition to this law, there are
some 90 sectoral legal instruments relating to natural resource use and management. Some prior
sectoral laws have ignored and/or contradicted the regulations dealing with protected areas.
Moreover, in the absence of an encompassing environmental law, each sector considers its legal
instruments to prevail over others. The inadequacy of this disparate set of policies and laws has
been a major problem. In general, the legislative and policy framework has been rigid,
contradictory, and inoperable in terms of ownership and use of natural resources in protected
areas. Consequently, it has left protected areas vulnerable to inappropriate interventions.
10.          The institutional and administrative organization for managing biodiversity is
extremely weak. An effective system of checks and balances among key actors such as those
in the public and private sectors, NGOs and local communities has not evolved sufficiendy.
Planning and decision ma}ing is centralized and does not consider the views of all actors in the
public and private sectors. Mechanisms to promote and facilitate collaboration through dynamic
planning, conflict resolution and consensus building have been non-existent.
11.          Until reeny, the management of reserve areas had been the responsibility of
the Natural Areas Division (DANP) within the Sub-Secretariat of Forestry and Natural Resources
(SUFOREN) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG). DANP was accorded little importance



-3-
within MAG, and had virtually no power to interact and negotiate with other Government
agencies or involved parties. Its weak institutional position was exacerbated by MAG's
cumbersome internal administrative and financial management structure. This centralized and
highly bureaucratic institutional structure did not allow for any degree of NGO, community or
private sector participation in the planning and decision-making process. Moreover, the
institutions involved did not have the capacity to deal with multi-sectoral issues affecting protected
areas, such as oil extraction, mining, tourism and colonization. The lack of input from those
directly affected has led to considerable conflict over the management of protected areas. At
present, conservation units are managed according to annual operational plans prepared by each
unit's Director and staff, with little or no consultation with local communities, private resource
exploitation interests or other public and private agencies. These rigid, long-term management
plans have usually been developed in a top-down' manner. The repercussion of this approach
has been that none of the plans has ever been truly applied, and all are now obsolete and/or
impractical.
12.          In addition to policy, legal and institutional factors, budgetary and human
resource constraints have also contributed to biodiversity loss. With no defined financial strategy
for support of the NSPA, funding sources consist of allocations from the National Budget and
revenues collected from park entrance fees and donations. However, the only park generating
any significant revenues from entrance fees is the Galapagos National Park. Nature tourism in
other areas is still incipient, and thus the amount of revenues generated is marginal. For this
reason, some of the Galapagos National Park's revenues are used for the protection of other
NSPA units. Until last year these funds were also used to cover the overall operational costs of
the former SUFOREN, instead of being reinvested entirely in the protection and maintenance of
reserve areas. In the case of the Galapagos National Park, only about 20 percent of the revenues
it generates are returned to it for its operation and maintenance. Activities within protected areas
(e.g. mining, petroleum extraction) have not been subject to user-fees despite their negative
impacts. The current legal system does not provide an effective means by which compensation
could be obtained for mitigating measures for these activities. Inefficient fee-collection and
record-keeping systems, combined with significant undervaluation of the resource, have seriously
limited the revenues generated.
13.          Financial constraints restrict staffing levels and training programs, which in turn
are critical in constraining effective management of the reserve areas system. This is further
aggravated by the Government's hiring freeze and non-replacement policy which has resulted in
drastic staffing reductions. In addition, it is very difficult to retain qualified staff due to low
salaries and poor benefits. In the case of the Galapagos National Park, potential local recruits
do not have access to training in nature tourism activities since these aspects are not covered in
the school system curriculum.
14.          The Government has initiated actions to clarify its policies and promote efforts
to enforce improved management practices. As a first step it established in June 1990 a
Presidential Commission to prepare a 'Global Plan for Tourism Management and Ecological
Conservation of the Galapagos National Park'. The plan was completed in June 1991, and is the
first stage of a continuous process already begun of Strategic Situational Planning which relies
on dialogue and consensus-building among relevant interest groups to work out viable means for
implementing the plan. As part of the Plan a number of actions are proposed which seek to
ensure a model of selective development which defines the protection of the Galapagos National
Park's unique biodiversity as its primary objective. Those actions include: strengthening the
management capacity of the park, redesigning and strengthening the current nature tourism
system, designing a new system for collection and redistribution of revenues, formulating



-4-
improved policies for nature tourism promotion and marketing, and establishing a system of
inspection and quarantine to control influx of exotic plants and animals.
15.          As a further demonstration of its commitment, the Government in September
1992, created the Ecuadorean Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas and Wildlife (Instituto
Ecuatoriano Forestal y de Areas Naturales y de Vida Silvestre, INEFAN) which assumed the
responsibilities of the former SUFOREN. In May 1993, the Government approved INEFAN's
organizational structure comprising two distinct line directorates with specific functions for
forestry matters and NSPA management. INEFAN's creation is a move in the right direction for
biodiversity protection and for development of forestry resources. An important feature of
INEFAN is its fnancial autonomy. For budgetary purposes it will be allowed to establish and
retain revenues generated from park fees, tariffs on logging operations and fines for misuse of
resources, and use them for the operation and maintenance of the NSPA.
16.          In addition, the draft of a proposed new environmental law prepared with the
active participation of NGOs and pertinent institutions of the public sector, is currently under
consideration by the Environmental Commission of the Congress. The main purpose of the
proposed law is to establish broad principles for all sectors regarding environmental protection
and natural resource management. It requires that all existing legislation be revised to conform
to its general principles. This will eliminate contradictions and duplication found in existing
sectoral laws and regulations. The draft also prescribes the creation of a central agency that will
coordinate and regulate all aspects of environmental protection. The proposed law will be
complemented by the new mining law drafted with Bank support and containing stringent
environmental regulations which will be instrumental in limiting mining activities in reserve
areas. Moreover, the Government recendy established an Environmental Advisory Commission
(Comisidn Asesora Ambiental) under the auspices of the President's office. The Commission's
initial mandate is to prepare a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) which will be
integrated in the Government's overall development strategy.  The NEAP is expected to be
completed in early 1995.
17.          The Government wishes to implement the actions proposed in the Global Plan for
the Galapagos National Park and apply in the continental protected areas the lessons of strategic
situational planning learned so far. However, it lacks the full expertise and the seed funding to
initiate implementation of required actions to improve the institutional and regulatory frameworks,
and to strengthen sustainable biodiversity protection measures.
I 8.          Non-Government Actions.    There are  various national and bilateral
organizations providing support to specific reserve areas or to particular activities within a
conservation unit. Fundacidn Natura, a leading local NGO, finances with (debt for nature swap
funds), studies of development policies and their impact on conservation. It also finances
environmental education initiatives, in-service training for protected areas staff and logistic
support. The Nature Conservancy will be providing funds for a two-year project for the
promotion of community development, construction of park facilities and provision of equipment
through its 'Parks in Peril' program. USAID is supporting a Sustainable Use of Biological
Resources (SUBIR) project. This is a ten-year effort to identify with the local communities of
three conservation units, alternatives for ecologically and socially sustainable forms of land and
resource use. Wildlife Conservation International is conducting studies and monitoring wildlife
populations and their use in three national parks. The Charles Darwin Foundation is the main
force behind all research efforts in the Galapagos National Park. Its scientists lend technical
assistance to the park service in conservation and management practices. These various NGO
initiatives are well designed and will contribute to improvements in specific areas. However, as



-5-
they lack overall coordination and system-wide focus, their impact is not likely to be effective
in reversing the major negative trends noted above.
19.          Role of NGOs in Proposed Project. Representatives of the leading local NGOs
have been involved in the preparation of the proposed project from the beginning. The design
and scope of the activities proposed are the result of numerous discussions, consultations, joint
review and agreement on proposals, and of close cooperative efforts between Government
authorities and NGOs' representatives. To continue this cooperation during project execution,
INEFAN will seek the services of local and international NGOs to implement project activities.
20.           Role of Local Communities in NSPA's Management. Most protected areas are
surrounded by communities of rural poor. They constitute a major pressure on the protected
areas' resources. Similarly, they can have a significant role in the protection of such resources
since the subsistence of these communities is closely linked with conservation issues. However,
until now their role has not been acknowledge by government authorities, and therefore no
mechanisms have been developed to formally and effectively incorporate the views of local
communities in the conservation process.  Under the proposed project INEFAN will seek the
active participation of local communities, in the decision-making process of managing reserve
areas. In the case of the Galapagos National Park, it will seek the views and the cooperation of
the urban population in the conservation efforts of the park's biodiversity and in the protection
of the islands' environment. It will also initiate a pilot effort to provide assistance in forest
management and biodiversity protection to indigenous communities settled in buffer zones of
protected areas, beginning with the Chachi communities living around the Cotacachi-Cayapas
ecological reserve (Annex 5).
21.            vriect Ob_ctiv. The main objective will be to support the restructuring and
strengthening of the institutional capacity and overall policy and legal framework for adequate
management of the National System of Protected Areas (NSPA). Special emphasis will be made
in ensuring financial sustainabiity of the NSPA through the establishment of an efficient fees and
tariffs system. While most of the project activities will benefit the entire system, proposed
investments will be made in the Galapagos National Park (GNP) and seven of the most
biologically rich conservation units on continental Ecuador selected for their contribution to
protection of globally important biodiversity (Machalilla, Podocarpus, Sangay, and Yasuni
National Parks, and Cotacachi-Cayapas, Cayambe-Coca and Antisana Ecological Reserves).
Proposed actions are designed to complement on-going Government and NGO activities on the
NSPA. The project will seek to develop further and strengthen an innovative model for strategic
planning and management of biodiversity, as initiated in the Galapagos National Park.
22.           Project Description. To support these objectives the project will focus on
activities grouped in the following four components:
a) Institutional Strengthening (US$3.60 million). This component will support
strengthening of INEFAN's capacity to manage the NSPA and execute the project by
financing: (i) training for INEFAN's staff and other public officials on technical issues
related to park management and on the implementation of proposed new laws and
regulations; (ii) preparation/updating of existing management plans for protected areas
with the participation of local communities and NGOs; (iii) studies to determine economic
values for goods and services generated through resource use in the protected areas; (iv)
analysis of the relationship between local populations and the protected areas, focusing
on their use of resources and ways to maximize the benefits accruing to communities; (v)
design of a new system for the collection and allocation of revenues from resource use
activities; (vi) review of the role and responsibilities of tour operators in promoting
conservation while allowing for sustainable revenue generation; (vii) design and



-6-
establishment of a quarantine system in the GNP to control the influx of non-native
species; and (viii) the eesign and establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system to
follow up on the impl ientation of activities proposed under the project;
b) Leg  and Regulatory Framework (US$0.54 million). The following activities will
be financed: (i) a comparative review of current legislation affecting reserve areas; (ii)
identification and recommendation of legal reforms needed for the protection and
management of biodiversity and natural resources; (iii) drafting and promulgation of
new/updated regulations for granting operating permits to official and private users of the
NSPA and for limiting extraction activities within reserve areas; (iv) development and
establishment of regulations that encompass both public and private property within a
reserve area, and allow private property owners to participate in the management of the
area. These regulations will allow for the creation of privately protected areas; (v)
development of regulations and a strategy to allow community participation in the
administation of the protected areas and their buffer zones; and (vi) analysis of the
institudonal, legal and social problems related to landholding within protected areas,
which undermine the successful implementation of strategies related to protection of
biodiversity so as to determine and recommend effective legislation to solve these
problems;
c) Outreach Activities (US$1.19 million). Outreach activities will focus on conflict
resolution through a process of consultation and public awareness raising. Specific
activities will include: (i) conflict resolution amongst key target groups through a
national forum to promote project activities and to obtain the support of all interest
groups; Cii) creation of Regional Coordinating Committees to oversee the implementation
of the Management Plans and Conflict Resolution Process; (iii)) a study for the solution
of problems of tenancy and resource use within the protected areas; (iv) public
awareness campaigns at the national and regional levels to promote biodiversity
conservation and the new legal system concerning protected areas; (v) development of
a strategy at the national and regional levels to educate the public on the NSPA; and (vi)
technical assistance and pilot studies for nadve communities( such as the Chachi indians)
located in buffer zones to assist them in developing sustainable plans and options for
natural resource use in areas surrounding conservation units; and
d) Investment Activities (US$2.93 million). This component will provide financing for
civil works and infrastructure as identified in the management plans of the eight critical
reserve areas selected. This will include border delimitation, establishment of trails for
visitors, and the construction of visitor information centers. In addition, the project will
finance logistic support for INEFAN's field staff in the units of the NSPA, such as
motorcycles, horses, mobile communication systems, survival equipment and first-aid
kits.
23.           Project Cost and Financing. The total cost amounts to approximately US$8.70
million (including US$440,000 for contingencies) which represent all incremental expenditures
required for project execution (including operating costs of the PCU) and excludes recurrent costs
associated with INEFAN's permanent personnel, maintenance of facilities, and operating expenses
of managing the network of protected areas. Core financing for the activities of this project will
come from the Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund (GET) (US$7.2 million equivalent) and
US$1.5 million as counterpart funding from the Government
24.           Proect Impementatign. The Government assigned INEFAN the responsibility
for overal project implementation including coordinadon with other Government entities, NGOs,



-7-
local communities and the private sector. For this purpose, a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
will be established in the office of the Executive Director. For project monitoring and
evaluation, the PCU will enlist the assistance of the Planning Directorate which will be
strengthened with a computerized information system and staff training. INEFAN will contract
experienced NGOs or consultants to carry out studies included under the project. Members of
local communities will be consulted during the preparation of terms of reference and review of
final reports. Regional Coordinating Committees (RCC) will be established by INEFAN to assist
in the conflict resolution process and to oversee implementation of reserve areas'management
plans. RCCs will be composed of representatives of local communities, NGOs and INEFAN's
Regional District staff.
25.           To assure timely start up of project implementation, INEFAN, presented at
negotiations for Bank review draft terms of reference (Annex 7) for the activities scheduled to
be initiated in the first year of implementation (to be incorporated in the MOD as an annex after
negotiations). A Project Preparation Advance (PPA), additional to the proposed grant, is
financing consultants for INEFAN to establish an effective and modem management information
system (MIS). It is also financing technical assistance to help INEFAN select and recruit
qualified staff for the Planning, Financial, and Protected Areas Directorates. While staff selection
and recruitment will be completed before grant effectiveness, implementation of the MIS will be
already under way. For the procurement of project goods and services INEFAN will sign a
procurement contract with UNDP. Although INEFAN is strengthening its administrative services
capacity to handle these matters, procurement procedures in Ecuador are very cumbersome and
time consuming. However, under a bilateral agreement with the Government, UNDP is exempt
from local procedures and is allow to use its own procurement guidelines as well as the Bank's.
The proposed contract will assure efficient and timely acquisition of project goods and services.
INEFAN already has a similar contract with UNDP for the implementation of the PPA, the
proposed arrangement calls for an extension of the existing contract.
26.           Project Sustainability. To ensure project sustainability, financial autonomy of the
NSPA is a core objective of project design. Such financial autonomy will be achieved by
allowing INEFAN to retain revenues generated from park fees, fines and tariffs and use them for
the operation and maintenance of the NSPA. Moreover, since the project does not include
financing for staff salaries and for operating expenditures, completion of the project will not
affect the level of these expenditures afterwards. Furthermore, since long term viability of the
protection program requires staff with the appropriate skills, the project will support a
comprehensive staff training program. The sustainability of the project will be further enhanced
by the planning process, which allows for the early resolution of conflicts, and incorporates the
perspectives of all interest groups. Moreover, the proposed project will address the issue of
providing an institutional and regulatory framework for environmental protection and natural
resources management. It will promote protection and seek to prevent further deterioration of
seven critical conservation units. The institutional and regulatory framework developed will
benefit the entire system of protected areas.
27.           Rationale for GEF Funding. The Govermnent of Ecuador wishes to enhance
biodiversity protection in its reserve system areas. It is clear that solutions to the constraints to
biodiversity conservation are not to be found entirely by increased budgets, provision of more
equipment and vehicles, enhanced training, or even improvements to the administration and
management of the reserve areas system. The real crux of the matter lies in effective actions to
establish clear policies, enforceable legislation, and a sound institutional structure and
organization that will allow efficient use of scarce resources to protect biodiversity effectively.
To this end, the Government wishes to expedite the process of policy formulation and
establishment of an institutional framework to manage biodiversity protection. However, it lacks



-8-
the expertise and the funding to map out and implement a protection and development strategy
with a holistic approach. The project will provide the government with urgently needed support
to protect its reserve area system.
28.          In addition, the project will be at the forefront of the experimental development
of models for conserving and effectively managing protected areas and their biodiversity while
allowing major economic benefits through nature-tourism and appropriate use of other resources.
It will provide a major impetus for institutionalization and strengthening of the unique process
already initiated by Government in GNP to correct previous negative trends and break out of the
circle of non-sustainable use and undervaluation of resources.
29.          Lessons Learned From Similar rojects. This will be the first GEF biodiversity
protection operation in Ecuador; thus, there are no lessons from previous efforts. Nevertheless,
a number of GEF biodiversity projects elsewhere in the region have been initiated or are at
advanced stages of preparation. Although it will be premature to draw lessons from the
experience of these projects, there are a number of recurring issues:
i)    These projects are pioneering innovative means of involving local communities
and NGO's in project design and implementation;
ii)   Involvement of communities surrounding conservation units in the preparation
and implementation of management plans is an indispensable ingredient for
project success and sustainability;
iii)    Government officials, park managers, and local communities need technical
assistance to enable them to understand biodiversity protection needs and to
develop sustainable natural resource development alternatives compatible with
biodiversity conservation; and
iv)    Because of the above these projects are complex and demanding in terms of time
and staff intensity required for preparation and supervision.
30.          Lessons Learned from Technical Assistance Proiects in Ecuador.  Technical
assistance projects in Ecuador have demonstrated the need for: a) careful identification of the
issues during preparation; b) focus on a limited number of implementing agencies and
components; c) specific attention to limiting the long-term burden on the Government's recurrent
budget to promote project sustainability; d) much greater attention to ensuring transfer of
technology from consultants (preferably integrated teams of short-term specialists and long-term
technical assistants) to staff in participating institutions, through well planned training programs
especially for the more technological sophisticated sub projects; and e) pre-arranged mechanisms
for contracting consultants, which can avoid the prolonged delays inherent in the over-regulated
and obsolete Ecuadorean procurement system. These factors and pertinent recommendations
identified in recent Bank evaluations of TA projects,'/ have been taken into consideration in the
preparation of the proposed project.
31.          The strong leadership demonstrated by INEFAN officials combined with the
extensive consultation process that took place during the preparation of the project, provide
reasonable assurance of adequate involvement and commitment of the Government. Moreover,
proposed activities and outputs consistent with the objectives of the project were clearly defined
I/ World Bank Handbook of Technical Assistance, Operations Policy Department, Mach 1993.



-9-
during project preparation. Potential implementation capacity difficulties resulting from the
many activities to be carried out under the project will be minimized by the establishment of a
project coordinating unit, by active NCO participation and by intensive supervision.
32.           Actions Taken/Agreed.  During appraisal the following aspects were reviewed
and agreements reached: i) counterpart funding of US$1.5 million offered by INEFAN and
mechanisms to ensure its allocation in INEFAN's annual budgets. These funds will come from
revenues INEFAN collects from entrance fees and tourist tariffs to the Gapagos National Park.
INEFAN will deposit on a quarterly basis an amount equal to one fourth of the approved annual
budget in a special account with UNDP; ii) staffing arrangements and financial plans for the
Natural Areas and Wildlife Management Directorate of INEFAN. With PPA funding INEFAN
has recruited a consulting firm to assist it in selecting the staff for Planning, Financial, and
Protected Areas Directorates and for each of the conservation units; iii) anual operiationla
budge  for the Wildlife Directorate and for the conservation units. It was agreed that annual
work plans and budgets will be completed and agreed each October for the following fiscal year;
iv) source of financing for project activities. It has been agreed that INEFAN resources will
finance project activities in the Galapagos National Park, while GEF funding will finance
remaining project activities; v) terms of reference for studies to be initiated during the first year
of project execution will be submitted to the Bank prior to negotiations. INEFAN has already
initiated this activity with the assistance of a local NGO financed by the PPA; vi) key indicators
for the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. and annual review arrangements. Indicators
for M&E have been prepared already. Project progress reviews will take place in May and
October of each year; and vii) training plan for staff of the NSPA. This will be formulated
during the first year of project implementation using the results of the skills analysis done during
the process of staff recruitment.
33.           Agreements Reached. The major agreements reached were:
i)   Prior to Negotiations.
a)     Receipt by the Bank of a letter from the Government
authorizing INEFAN's Executive Director to negotiate
the grant agreement;
b)    Receipt by the Bank of the draft terms of reference for
the studies to be carried out during the first year of
project execution; and
c)    Receipt by the Bank of a letter from INEFAN that staff
responsible for project implementation has been
designated in the PCU and within INEFAN's Financial
Planning, and Reserve Areas Directorates;
ii)   During Negotiations:
a)    Understanding on draft service agreement to be signed
with UNDP and terms of fee payment;
b)    procurement, disbursement and audit requirements;



-10-
c)    agreement to carry out recommendations of completed
studies approved jointly with the Bank, and dates of
execution;
d)    agreement on mechanisms for annual allocation of
counterpart funding for execution of proposed activities
in the Galapagos National Park; and
e)    execution of project according to mutualy agreed annual
work program.
iii)   Conditions for Grant Effectiveness:
a)    that the PCU  has been established and is fully
operational;
b)    that INEFAN has begun to implement the accounting
system developed through the PPA; and
c)    that the procurement contract with UNDP has been
signed.
iv)   Conditions of Disbursements*
Investments for civil workLs in reserve areas selected will be
approved when pertinent management plans have been completed
and ratified by INEFAN and when the staffing recommended by
the plan has been designated and is in place.
34.          Environmentd AsRec.  The project has a 'B' classification.  Proposed
management plans to be developed for each conservation unit will include an impact assessment
to ensure the protection of the area's biodiversity and environment as a whole.  Moreover,
environmental assessment will be required for any activity to be permitted in the buffer zones of
the protected area.  Negative environmental impacts are not expected.  No involuntary
resettlement of people will result as a consequence of the project.
35.            fit. The main benefit of the project will be the protection of biodiversity
in areas of global ecological importance. The project will provide an innovative model for
strategic situational planning, illustrating methods for consensus building through conflict
resolution during the planning process. A significant benefit will be the demonstration of a
sustainable model for reconciling conservation and economic needs. The project will strengthen
the institutional and financial capacity of the Government for protecting areas of ecological
significance.
36.          RLUl. The main risks envisaged are: (i) budget constraints which might impede
project salnabiity. This risk is mitigated by INEFAN's financial autonomy which allows it
to retain revenues generated from park fees, fines and tariffs and to use them for operation and
maintenance of the NSPA. To assure adequate allocation of funds, operational budgets will be
agred during anul project progress reviews. In addition, several project sub-components fous
on strengthening the system for the management of protected areas, while allowing economic
benefts; (ii) delays to reform of legal regulatory framework to support biodiversity conservation.
The project design takes into account that the more complex legal reforms will be drafted and



-11-
discussed but may not be implemented during the life of the project. The Govermnent has
opened a dialog with the Bank on possible assistance to improve policy and incentive framework
affecting sustainable use of forests, and the results of GEF supported activities will contribute to
such an initiative; (iii) inadequate administrative and managerial capability to implement the
project. The risks of inadequate managerial capacity will be mitigated by specific actions to
strengthen INEFAN's staffing, managerial and technical decision making, and administrative
procedures; iv) multiplicity of project activities may strain INEFAN's implementation capacity.
INEFAN's project implementation capacity will be enhanced by the establishment of a PCU
which will be supported by technical specialists to be recruited as consultants. In addition, the
service agreement INEFAN will sign with UNDP will assure that procurement of goods and
services will be carried out in an efficient and timely manner; and v) incompatible government
investments in or near protected areas. While the project's design does not aim to deal with
issues of a broad policy nature, INEFAN will be strengthened to enforce existing legislation
covering these issues.
37.          Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed grant will comply with the
provisions of the Resolution No. IBRD 91-5 of the Executive Directors relating to the
establishment of the Global Environment Facility, and recommend that the Regional Vice
President, LAC Region, approve it.
Ping-Cheung Loh
Director
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Washington D.C.
May 9, 1994.



-12-
Schedule A
Ecuador
Biodiversity Protection Project
Cost Estimates
Component                Local        Foreign     Total
(US$ million)
I Institutional Strengthening   1.62        1.98         3.60
II Legal Regulatory Framework  0.24         0.30         0.54
Im Outreach Activities          1.05        0.14         1.19
IV Investments                 2.17         0.76         2.93
Total Baseline Costs             Qla                     L2§
Price Contingency        0.13         0.06        0.19
Physical Contingency     0.09         0.16         0.25
Total Project Cost              LD Lf
Proiect Financing Plan:
USS million
GET                         7.2             83
Govermnent of Ecuador       1.5             17
Total                       8.7             100



-13-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
Ecuador
Biodiversity Protection Project
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousand)
Iwm                                   Q~b~x n~LXE o/            IQa
Civil Worls                 800          275          -             1075
(800)        (275)                     (1075)
Goods & Equipment          1100          765 _/       438           2303
(1100)        (765)                     (1865)
Technical Assistance                     3410         573           3983
(3410)                     (3410)
Training                                  560         127            687
(560)                      (560)
Operating Expenditures
of PCU                                   290         362            652
(290)                      (290)
Total                       1900         5300         1500          8700
(1900)       (5300)                     (7200)
Nab A_   i pu_&sm dias GECM  _cig
I Iaadw 0 cii web o be uw;d by dwuc auft,
i4 d.wiypb fbm hat  Wms pae popoe for od  _.quma
md io mv io=m   hd crdieLie.fo kwa Us of CaamMe by We'
Bmk Bo VWm.
kI Not 6--d by DBL The minm wil be f XBd by _N q.
gI JA=i.3US$000o bI pmd w 



-14-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Ecuador
Biodiversity Protection Project
Initial Allocation of Grant Proceeds
(US$ Million)
Percentage to be financed and Project Component and Activity by Disbursement Category
Disbursenent Category    Project Component   Conresponding   Allocation   Flnancig
No. in the           Project          of           s
Estimated Cost Table    Activity No.   Proceeds
USS
Milion
I1 Civil Works                   IV                  7            0.86          100
2 Goods& Equipment                I               1,10,16                    100% of
in                21-24          1.64     foreigo
IV                 7,8                    expeodituf;
100% Of
loca
expeaditures
(ex factory
cogu); 90%
of local
expenditures
for other
itemks
procured
locally.
3 Technical Assistance            1            1-3,6,9-11,16,
17
II           4,5,12-14,19        3.41         100
. m           15,18,19,21,35
IV                 7,8
4 Training                        1              3,10,11,17
ll           4,5,12,13,20       0.56          100
m            15,18,19,21,35
IV                  7
5 PCU Operation                   I                1,9,16
II                 12            0.29         100
IV                  8
6 Unallocated                                                      0.44
Total for All Categories                                           7.20
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
.~~~~~ . _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....  _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _
FY95          FY96           FY97       FY98    FY9
Annual               1.0           1.5            2.0      K.5         1.2
Cumulative             1.0           2.5           4.5        6.0       7.2



-15-
ECUADOR
BIODIVERSllY PROTECTION PROlEC
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                       24 months
Prepared by:                                 Government of Ecuador (thrugh
INEFAN) with Bank and UNDP aistance
and with the participation of local NOOs.
First IBRD Mission:                          February 1991
First Technical Review                       September 1991
Second Technical Review                      January 1992
Appmoval by the GEF Scientific
and Technical Advisory Panel                 Febnuary 1992
Prented to and Endord by the GEF
Participants as part of the Third
Tranche of the GEF                           May 1992
Pre-Appaisal                                 March 1993
Appraial Mission Departure2                  July 1993
Negotiations                                 March 1994
Aproved                                      May, 1994
Signing of Grant Agreement                   May, 1994
Planned Date of Effectiveness (est)          July 1994
2. Cqap of oovmo. in Agu 1992 and ctuioua of DWEPAN in Spmber deyed poet appwrami.



-16-
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
ECUADOR
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TECHBNCAL AMNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
Annex  1. Project Implementation Plan ..............................                                                        17
THE PROJECT .......................................    17
Project Objectives ....................................   17
Project Summary Description ........................ ......   17
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .........................  18
Cost Estimates ......................................    18
Financing Plan ......................................   18
Operating Costs .....................................    18
Project Preparation Advance ..............................   19
Procurement ........................................   19
Disbursement .......................................   20
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................  21
Project Coordinating Unit ...............................   21
Auditing ..........................................   22
Reporting .........................................   22
Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................   22
Annual Review ......................................   22
Project Supervision ...................................   23
INEFAN's Organizational Structure .........................   24
INEFAN's Organizational Chart ................... ........   29
INEFAN's Inter Institutional Relationships Chart .................   30
Annex 2. Project Implementation Timetable ...........................  31
Annex 3. Monitoring and Evaluation System ..........................   32
Annex 4. Social Assessment . ...................................   69
Annex 5. Community ParticiDation ................................   78
Annex 6. Description of Selected Protected Areas .......................   81
Annex 7. Draft Terms of Reference for Activities To Be Executed During the First Year.92



-17-
Annex I
Ecuador
Biodiversity Protection Project
Project Implementation Plan
The Proect
1.           P       Objective. The main objective will be to support the restructuring and
strengthening of the institutional capacity and overall policy and legal framework for adequate
management of the National System of Protected Areas (NSPA). While most of the project
activities will benefit the entire system, proposed investments will be made in the Galapagos
National Park and seven of the most biologically rich conservation units on continental Ecuador
sdected for their contribution to protection of globally important biodiversity (Machalilla,
Podocarpus, Sangay, Yasuni, Cocatachi-Cayapas, Cayambe-Coca, and Antisana). Proposed
actions are designed to complement on-going Government and NGO activities on the NSPA. The
costs of these actions represent incremental operational expenditures to INEFAN. The project
will seek to develop further and strengthen an innovative model for strategic planning and
management of biodiversity, as initiated in the GNP.
2.           Proiect Sum y Description.  To reach the proposed objectives the project
comprises 35 activities (detailed discussion of each activity is included in Annex 3 dealing with
project monitoring and evaluation). These activities are grouped into the following four main
elements summarized below: institutional strengthening; legal and regulatory framework; outreach
activities; and investments.
(i) bstitutional Strengthening (USS 3.60 million). Ihis component will support
strengthening of INEFAN's capacity to manage the NSPA and execute the project by
financing: (i) training for INEFAN's staff and other public officials on technical issues
related to park management and on the implementation of proposed new laws and
regulations; (ii) review/updating of existing management plans for protected areas with
the participation of local communities and NGOs; (iii) studies to determine economic
values for goods and services generated through resource use in the protected areas; (iv)
analysis of the relationship between local populations and the protected areas, focusing
on their use of resources and ways to maximize the benefits accruing to communities; (v)
design of a new system for the collection and allocation of revenues from resource use
activities; (vi) review of the role and responsibilities of tour operators in promoting
conservation while allowing for sustainable revenue generation; (vii) design and
establishment of a quarantine system in the GNP to control the influx of non-native
species; and (viii) the design and establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system to
follow up on the implementation of activities proposed under the project.
Cii) Legal Regulatory Framework (US$0.54 million). The following activities will be
financed: (i) a comparative review of current legislation affecting reserve areas; Cii)
identification and establishment of legal reforms needed for the protection and
management of biodiversity and natural resources; (iii) drafting and promulSion of new
regulations for graning operating permits to official and private users of the NSPA and
for limiting actraction activities within reserve areas; (Iv) development and establishment
of regulations that encompass both public and private property within a management
regime, and allow private property owners to participate in the management of the area.
These regulations will allow for the creation of privately protected areas; (v) development



-18-
of regulations and a strategy to allow community participation in the administration of
the protected areas and their buffer zones; and (vi) analysis of the institutional, legal and
social problems related to landholding within protected areas, which undermine the
successful implementation of strategies related to protection of biodiversity so as to
determine effective legislation to solve these problems.
(iii) Outreach Activities (US$1.19 million). Outreach activities will focus on conflict
resolution through a process of consultation and public awareness raising. Specifically
activities will include: (i) conflict resolution amongst key target groLps through a
national forum to promote project activities and to obtain the support of all interest
groups; (ii) creation of Regional Coordination Committees to overlook the
implementation of the Management Plans and Conflict Resolution Process; (iii)) a study
for the solution of problems of tenancy and resource use within the protected areas; (iv)
public awareness campaigns at the national and regional levels to promote biodiversity
conservation and the new legal system concerning protected areas; (v) development of
a strategy at the national and regional levels to educate the public on the NSPA; and (iv)
technical assistance and pilot studies for Chachi and other native communities located in
buffer zones and surrounding areas of conservation units; and
(iv) Investment Activities (US$2.93 million). This component will provide financing
for civil works and infrastructure as identified in the management plans of the eight
critical reserve areas selected. This will include border delimitation, establishment of
trails for visitors, and the construction of visitor information centers. In addition the
project will finance logistic support for INEFAN's field staff in the units of the NSPA,
such as motorcycles, mobile communication systems, survival equipment and first-aid
kits.
Prolect Costs and Financng
3.           Cost Estimates.  These amount to approximately US$8.70 million (including
USS440,000 for contingencies) which represent all incremental expenditures required for project
execution (including operating costs of the PCU) and excludes recurrent costs associated with
INEFAN's permanent personnel, maintenance of facilities, and operating expenses of managing
the network of protected areas.
4.            Base costs were estimated at December 1993 prices using the prevailing rate of
exchange of Sl.2,000 to 1 US dollar estimated by the Central Bank for commercial operations.
Physical contingencies (10 per cent of base costs) were allowed on investment costs except for
long-term technical assistance. Price contingencies based on Bank projections for international
price increases (3.5 per cent) were applied to base costs over the estimated implementation period
of five years (1994-1999). Price contingencies on local costs were based on GOE estimates of
15 per cent per annum over the next five years.
5.            Einancing, Core financing for the activities of this project will come from the
Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund (GET) (US$7.2 million equivalent) and US$1.5 million
as counterpart funding from the Government.
6.             Mating Costs, During project implementation GET funding will finance the
following incremental operating costs associated exclusively with the PCU: travel, per diem,
communications, maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and office supplies. Recurrent cost
such as salaries of permanent staff, and operational costs of other organizational units of INEFAN



-19-
will be financed by its budget. Recurrent costs financed by INEFAN's budget have not been
considered in the calculation of project costs.
7.           Project PreRaration Advance (PPA  A PPA of SDR 227,000 (US$326,025) was
granted to assist INEFAN finance expenditures related to the preparation and start-up phase of
the project. Specifically, the following activities are being financed: i) preparation of software
and operating manuals for INEFAN's accounting, administration and management information
system; ii) acquisition and use of computers and office equipment in support of the above
systems; iii) training of INEFAN staff, with the assistance of consultants, in project procedures
and implementation; iv) contracting a procurement agent; and v) assistance to INEFAN's
management in selecting and hiring technical staff.
P'rocuremnent
8.           During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that the
procurement of works, goods and services will be carried out in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines (May 1992) and the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (August 1981). Also at the time of negotiations, agreement was be reached on
standard local competitive bidding (LCB) documents, acceptable to the Bank. For the actual
procurement of goods and services, INEFAN will enter into a service agreement with UNDP,
which will act as procurement agent. The service agreement will need to be satisfactory to the
Bank and will require that UNDP follow all procurement and auditing arrangements contained
in the Grant .
9.            Civil wrks to be constructed under the project consist of small buildings,
fencing and trails scattered in the seven priority conservation units of the project. No individual
contracts are expected to be higher than US$250,000. Because of the remoteness of most units
it will not be possible to obtain competitive proposals, some works costing less than US$25,000
and up to an aggregated amount of US$275,000 will be awarded through direct contracting when
price competition is not feasible. Civil works costing more than US$25,000 but less than
US$250,000 will be carried out on the basis of LCB.
10.          Vehicles. Goods and Eguipment. This category includes technical and scientific
equipment of various types, computer office equipment, communications equipment, furniture
and vehicles. Computers, communications equipment and vehicles expected to cost US$400,000
will be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents. Furniture and office equipment will be procured through LCB. Technical and
scientific equipment and minor purchases will be procured through shopping. No single contract
for the supply of equipment is expected to be higher than US$250,000. Goods and equipment,
if any, estimated to cost above this amount will be procured thorough ICB and contracts will
require prior review by the Bank. All goods and equipment costing over US$50,000 but less
than US$250,000 will be procured through local competitive bidding. Contracts for less than
US$50,000, up to an aggregated amount of US$365,000, will be awarded on the basis of
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank obtaining price quotations from at least three different
suppliers.
11.          Consultancy Services and Training. Consultants will be recruited for INEFAN
by UNDP following Bank guidelines on the use of consultants and on the basis of terms of
reference and short lists of qualified firms or individuals. Technical assistance for training
activities will be procured following the same procedures as for consultants. For contracts with
consulting firms or NGOs costing less than US$50,000 and contracts with individuals consultants
below USS25,000 will require prior review by the Bank only of the terms of reference. For



-20-
amounts over US$50,000 for firms and over US$25,000 for individuals contracts will be subject
to prior review.
12.          Prior review by the Bank will apply to LIB, and to the first LCB procurement
of each kind, independently of value. This will cover about 45 per cent of GET financed items,
which is acceptable in view of the nature of the project. The following table shows proposed
procurement arrangements:
Procurenent Arrangements
(US$ Ihousand)
Civil Works                  800           275          -             1075
(800)        (275)                       (1075)
Goods & Equipment           1100           765 rl      438            2303
(1100)        (765)                      (1865)
Technical Assistance                      3410          573           3983
(3410)                     (3410)
Training                                   560          127            687
(560)                      (560)
Operating Expenditures
of PCU                                    290          362            652
290)                        (290)
Total                        1900         5300          1500           8700
(1900)       (5300)                      (7200)
Now: Am  i puabm. biads GET b_mcEihg
3/IVIacdw I) di o-i w be axwudby dbesioam&wdg rpphg..
it Ao""h frm at Is" &Ms pripm qb hcr Soos sod .quim,
md iiD mv p_oc rd u_dt OuM0Ihm Xa Use of Comiaba by Wodi
fink Bemo
kl NO hwui bY dw D. rism maum WA be ismood by 1NPAN.
g1 lnhds UZS40.0.OOa be pmnmiW misw LID
13.           GET funds will be disbursed according to two procedures: i) as prescribed in the
Service Agreement to be signed with UNDP, INEFAN will request the Bank toDdeposit in
UNDP's account in New York an advance for estimated six months of expenditures. All
categories of exPenditures (listed in the table below) will be eligible for disbursement from this
account. For each payment made UNDP will furnish the Bank, through INFfAN, documetatio
showing tha such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditure as stipulated in the
Service Agreement; and Hi) tD INEFAN's project Special Account to be established in the Central



-21-
Bank where an initial deposit of US$100,000 will be made by the Bank. These funds will be
used for operating expenditures of the PCU not covered under the service contract with UNDP,
and only in respect of a program already agreed with the Bank. In either case INEFAN will
furnish the Bank statement of expenditures for: i) goods and civil works less than US$250,000,
except for computers, communications equipment, and vehicles; and b) contracts for consulting
firms and individuals for less than US$50,000 and US$25,000 respectively. Full documentation
will be required for all other expenditures. INEFAN will be required to submit withdrawal
applications for replenishment of the special account.
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
Disbursement Category    Amount of Grant Allocated        % Financing
(US$ ndllion)
1. Civil Worls                      0.86                      100
2. Goods & Equipment                1.64              100 S of fiwWn
*xpanditures;l0O%oflocal
xpnitures (ex factory coal);
90% of local expondimtus for
other items procued cally.
3. Technical Assistance             3.41                       100
4. Training                         0.56                       100
5. PCU Operation                    0.29                       100
6. Unallocated                      0.44
Total for All Categories            7.20
Project Implementation
14.           The Government has assigned INEFAN the responsibility for implementing the
proposed project (Attachment I describes the organizational structure and legal status of
INEFAN).   INEFAN will be responsible for overall project implementation including
coordination with other Government entities, NGOs, local communities and the private sector.
INEFAN will sign a service agreement with UNDP for procurement of goods and hiring of
technical assistance. A number of additional local/external organizations will be sub-contracted
to carry out specific activities under the supervision of the pertinent unit within INEFAN.
15.          Implementation will take place over a five-year period starting in 1994. The
Project Implementation Timetable (Annex 2) shows the list of activities to be carried out, and the
year and semester execution when each activity is expected to begin. Within INEFAN, the
following units will have specific implementation responsibilities:
i) Project Coordinating Unit (PCUT). This unit will be established under the umbrella
of the Executive Director's Office prior to Grant effectiveness. A full time Project
Coordinator and an Assistant Coordinator acceptable to the Bank will be recruited by
INEFAN for the duration of the project. They will have overall responsibility for project



-22-
implementation. In addition, support staff will be recruited for the duration of the
project. To provide appropriate salary benefits, the Coordinator and his Assistant will
be selected and recruited under the service agreement with UNDP. Two part-time
scientific advisers will be recruited to assist the PCU staff in the review of proposed
studies and their recommendations, and to provide technical assistance in matters dealing
with biodiversity protection and park management. The operating costs of the PCU will
be supported by the Grant during the project's execution period;
ii) The Planning Directorate (PD) of INEFAN will be strengthened with computerized
management information system and staff training to establish and carry out monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) of the project. It is foreseen that PD, in close liaison with the
PCU, will contract with local NGOs the carrying out of surveys and analysis of social
assessments. In addition, PD will provide input during the preparation of annual work
programs;
iii) The Directorate of Wildlife and Protected Areas (I)WPA) of INEFAN will play a
key role in providing technical assistance in the preparation of terms of reference for
proposed studies and in the preparation/update and review of management plans for
protected areas; and
iv) Specific Protected Areas. Managers and technical staff of the eight protected areas
to be supported under the project will be responsible for carrying out specific project
activities designed for each area.
v) The Directorate of Training and Research of INEFAN will be responsible for the
design and implementation of staff training activities and for the design and execution of
public information campaigns.
16.          Regional Coordinating Committees (RCCs) will be organized by INEFAN to
assist in the process of conflict resolution and oversee the implementation of reserve areas'
management plans. RCCs will be composed of representatives of local communities, NGOs, and
INEFAN's Regional Districts staff.
17.          Auditing.    Project accounts will be audited annually in accordance with
internationally accepted auditing standards by a qualified independent audit firm acceptable to the
Bank. Audited accounts and the audit report (the Special Report on the use of the GET grant)
will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to
this effect were re-confirmed at negotiations.
18.          Rer Tnir. The project's coordinator will be responsible for monitoring and
reporting progress according to the agreed implementation timetable (Annex 2) and key indicators
of the M&E system (Annex 3). Semi annual reports will be submitted to the Bank showing
progress assessment of all activities against agreed annual work programs and targets and will
include a review of procurement activities. These reports will serve as a basis for Bank
supervision missions and for preparation of the next year's work program and budget. The
proposed implementation schedule was re-confirmed at negotiations.
19.          Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project Coordinatng Unit in cooperation with
the Planning Directorate will have primary responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of the
project. Annex 3 discusses in detail the monitoring and evaluation system and lists the key
indicators for each project activity. Monthly status reports to be prepared by the PCU will serve
as basis for preparing semi annual reports for the Bank.



-23-
20.           Annual Review. An annual review will be carried out by the Bank and INEFAN
in October of each year to coincide with INEFAN's preparation of the next year's wolk program
and budget. The review's main objective will be to evaluate progress during the prior year and
to confirm or adjust the scope and content of proposed project activities in light of project
achievements.  It will review  progress in the implementation of policy, regulatory and
institutional changes or improvements; financial viability of the protected areas system; the status
of preparation/execution of management plans and other activities in the protected areas; the
degree of integration and participation of local communities into the management of reserve areas
and other activities in the surrounding areas;  proposals of alternative activities for local
populations; construction of facilities and acquisition of goods and equipment; and overall project
performance including provision of counterpart funding and performance of consultants.
21.           Project Supervision.    Given the number of innovative activities to be
implemented under this project a more intensive supervision schedule is proposed than is
normally applied in Bank lending operations. Moreover, the proposed schedule takes into
account the fact that INEFAN is a newly created institution and that project activities differ
somewhat from the normal concerns prescribed in its functions.
22.           During the first two years of project implementation a supervision frequency of
three times per year is proposed to coincide and respond to project milestones. Thereafter,
supervision will be carried out twice a year. In addition, supervision will be more scientifically
oriented with the staffing skills mix selected to reflect the project's multi disciplinary content.
'he core supervision mission team will onsist of the task manager, a parks management
specialist, and social scientist. As required, the core team will be supplemented by other
specialists such as a forest ecologist and an environmental lawyer/institutional specialist. When
possible, local professionals will be recruited as short term consultants to assist the Bank in its
supervision efforts. Estimated mission duration will be two weeks in the field with one week
of report writing. The first supervision is proposed for June 1994 (assuming grant effectiveness
in April 1994), the second supervision will be in October 1994 when activities for the first year
are expected to be underway and the work plan and budget for the following year must be
prepared.
23.           Project ComDletion Report.  The project is expected to be completed by end
December 31, 1999, after which INEFAN will prepare a Project Completion Report to be
submitted to the Bank within six months thereafter.



-24-
Attachment1
Organizational Structure and Legal Status of the
Ecuadorean Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas and Wild Life (INEFAN)
1.           INEFAN is a recently created institution (August 17, 1992) for the management
of forests, wildlife and protected areas of Ecuador. Previous to INEFAN's creation, a
department inside the former Forestry Secretariat (SUFOREN) of the Ministry of Agriculture was
in charge of the protection and management of the protected areas system. The creation of
INEFAN reflects an evolution in the country's commitment for biodiversity protection and for
sustainable management of the country's forest resources.
2.           INEFAN is an autonomous institution linked to the Ministry of Agriculture. Its
sources of funding are the national treasury and revenues it receives from park entrance fees,
tariffs from tourism operators, and fines for illegal logging and hunting.    The law that
established INEFAN allows it to keep these revenues and to use them in the operation and
management of reserve areas system. INEFAN's use of its revenues is not affected by the more
recent budgetary regulation that prohibit earmarking of funds. As an autonomous entity,
INEFAN has the faculty to sign contracts with other entities and/or individuals to carry out its
mandate.
3.           INEFAN's staffing was largely inherited from former SUFOREN, however, in
line with the GOE's effort to reduce the size of government, about 450 positions dealing mostly
with forestry activities, have been eliminated. The current staffing is about 642. INEFAN is in
the process of reviewing the skills mix of its staff to establish a recruitment program based on
the institutional needs. Approximately 77 % of the current staff is located in regional offices and
protected areas, while the remaining 23 % are located in the headquarters in Quito.
Organizational units at headquarters include: i) the Executive Directorate; ii) three line
directorates: Forestry, Wildlife and Protected Areas, and Training and Research; iii) three
fLunctional directorates: Planning, Legal, and Budget and Management; and iv) administrative
support units. Chart 1 shows INEFAN's organizational structure. The following paragraphs
describe the units within INEFAN that deal with the Protected Area System. It does not include
discussion of internal units that deal with forestry activities specifically.
Board of Directors
4.           The Board of Directors is composed of four ministers (Agriculture, Energy and
Mines, Tourism, and Defense) and two private sector representatives (from wood industry and
NGOs). An Advisory Board to the Board of Directors is made up of representatives from
indigenous communities, small industries, and national biology and forestry associations. These
boards are coordinating mechanisms for institutions whose actions impact protected areas. Chart
2 shows the inter institutional links INEFAN has established with other entities for managing
protected areas.
National Directorate of Wildlife and Protected Areas (NDWPA)
S.           At the national level the NDWPA is responsible for providing technical assistance
to the protected areas system. Its Director and four support staff members are responsible for
determining the priority of research studies, controlling wildlife trade, setting standards for



-25-
development of ecotourism, and establishing mechanisms for implementing of international
treaties.
6.           The NDWPA has two departments: Protected Areas and Wildlife.  The
Department of Wildlife regulates wildlife and endangered species collection, production and trade.
This department also determines hunting zones, seasons and fees outside protected areas, and
identifies territories in which wildlife should be protected.
7.           The Department of Protected Areas coordinates the design and implementation
of management plans for protected areas, develops and implements monitoring systems,
determines standards for using resources in protected areas and oversees the collection of entrance
and users fees in those areas.
8.           There are six land management categories under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Protected Areas: National Parks, ecological reserves, biological reserves,
geobotanic reserves, fauna production reserves and recreational areas. The Ecuadorian law', as
well as international conventions to which Ecuador has subscribed, define these categories as
follows:
a) NgjgnALEgj Comprise protected areas of land or water of at least 10,000 hectares
hat maintain natural processes in a highly undisturbed state, and that have ecologically
representative samples of natural environment available for scientific study, environmental
monitoring, education, and maintenance of genetic resources in a dynamic and evolutionary state.
Although the leg  definition requires the government to own the land of national parks, there are
stll some private properties within these areas. Furthermore, oil exploration and exploitation
concessions have been granted within these areas;
b) ESological Reserves sThee are also areas of land or water of at least 10,000 hectares
established to protect significant species, or group of species, allowing sustainable management
of wildlife by local communities and citizens;
c) Biological Reserva These are preserved areas of land or water big enough to assure
natural conditions necessary to protect scientifically significant species or group of species, for
research and education;
d) Geobotanic Reserves are created with similar goals than biological reserves These
reserves, however, have significant geological and botanic relevance;
e) Fauna Production Reserves These are partially altered areas big enough to allow
sustainable use of wild fauna. Local communities have priority in using resources of these
reserves; and
f)  Recreational Areas   The objective of these areas is to maintain landscape
representative of the harmonious interaction between humans and nature, while providing
opportunities for public enjoyment through recreation and tourism.
3. Based on the 'atesia para e1 Snema Nacional de Area Protegidas deI Ecuador, Il Fae (1989)-
by the Department of Naual Arou and Wildlife and Natura Foundation, and the Ley Forestal de
Conserwcddn de Areas Nanuales y Vida Silw.r (1981).



-26-
National Directorate for Training and Research
9.             With its own infrastructure and facilities, this Directorate formulates and
implements training courses for INEFAN's officials and the public. This Directorate also
promotes and coordinates national campaigns and training programs with private and public
entities, designs, produces and provides training materials for regional educators, and supports
research programs. There are 20 officials in this directorate, including four researchers, two
biologists, five chiefs of research and support staff. Three research stations under this directorate
currently work on forestry projects.
Regional Districts
10.            Regional districts are decentralized units allowed to make every day decisions.
Each district coordinates the management of forestry activities and of protected areas within its
jurisdiction. It also oversees, identifies and implements conservation, development and
recuperation programs for natural resources within its boundaries (particularly for watersheds and
wildlife). Districts also provide technical assistance to local communities, collect monitoring data
for projects within its jurisdiction and periodically report to INEFAN's Executive Director.
11.            Seven districts, reporting directly with to the Executive Director, provide
administrative and technical support to the protected areas at the regional level. Each district may
include two or more provinces and protected areas. The following table shows the distribution
of provinces and protected areas within INEFAN's district system.
TABLE 1
Regional Districts
for the Management of Protected Areas
District          Provnces Iuded                Proteced Areas4
I         Carchi, Imbabum, Esmerlda    CocWhi-Cayapss ER
El Angel ER
2         Pichincha, Napo, Sucumbios    Pululh GB, Cayanbe Coca
ER, Linioncocha BR, Cotopai
NP, Cuyabeno PP, Antija  BR
3         Cotopax, Tungumhus,           Yavun NP, Caju RA
Chimbonzo, Bolfvar, Pastaza
4         Azuay. Cafar, Moron&          Sangay NP, Chimbonzo FP,
Boliche RA
5         Loja, Zamom, El Om            Podocarpus NP
6         Manabi                        Machalilla NP
7         Guay., Los Rios               Mangaula  Chumte ER
t         Archipclago of GaLpago.       Oiakpagos NP
4. ER-Ecological Reserve, BR-Biological Reserve, NP-National Park,
OB-Geobotanic Reserve, FP-Fauna Production Reserve, RA-Recreational Areas



-27-
12.          The organizational structure of each district includes: a district chief, an advisory
board, a technical coordination board, a projects' technical unit, and a legal and administrative
support unit. The district chief approves hunting and logging permits, decides and enforces
sanctions for misuse of natural resources, evaluates management plans, and promotes and
coordinates participation in managing natural resources. The advisory board is a coordination
unit which includes representatives from provinces' governors, indigenous communities, army,
education directorates, agriculture centers and wood industry.
13.          The district technical coordination board oversees the implementation of
management plans and use permits, while the projects' technical unit designs and implements land
use plans, training programs and community participation mechanisms for all the projects of the
area.
14.          The number and technical specialty of the staff for each district vares according
to its needs, which in turn depend on the size and fragility of territory destined for protection or
for forestry management. At the national level, of the 404 officials assigned to regional offices
(excluding Galapagos National Park) 28% (114) are park rangers, 33% (135) are forestry experts
and the remaining 38% (155) are administrative and support staff (including eleven lawyers and
five biologists).
15.          The Galapagos National Park has a different skills mix of expertise in its staff.
Of the 92 officials 45% (41) are park rangers, 13% (12) are coast-guards, 7% (6) are forestry
experts, and the remaining 48% (45) are administrative and support staff (including three
biologists and two legal experts).
Protected Areas
16.          The typical structure of a protected area includes a park chief, park rangers and
two or three support staff.  Traditionally protected areas have faced lack of training,
infrastructure and equipment, insufficient staff and budget, and operational problems. The GEF
project will taclde these problems.
17.          Under the GEF project, selected areas will receive investment funds for
infrastructure and equipment. The GEF project will also fund a training program for INEFAN
officials, and updating of management plans for areas that need it.
18.          The new budget system established by INEFAN allows chiefs of protected areas
to prepare their budget and submit it for approval, as opposed to the former Forestry Secretariat,
which prepared the budgets without any input from field officials.
19.          The current austerity policy of Ecuadorian government includes a hiring freeze
and an action plan to dismiss redundant staff. Because of this policy INEFAN faces difficulties
in recruiting additional needed park rangers for protected areas. To overcome this problem
INEFAN is working in two proposals. Under the first proposal, INEFAN will delegate
administration of a protected area to an NGO with which it will share operational expenses. The
mandate of this delegation will be in accordance with the requirements specified in the
management plan for each protected area, and will necessarily include participation of local
communities.
20.           The second proposal will be financed by the GEF project, and will consist in
utilizing an institutionalized volunteer program for maintenance and protection of the natral areas
system. Little operational expenditures will be required since each volunteer will provide his or
her own equipment and clothing. INEFAN's responsibility will be to provide housing and meals



-28-
and, with support of an NGO, set up basic training for volunteers and rangers. The NGO will
provide administrative and logistical support to the program. This program will be aimed at
Ecuadorean youth, and eventually international volunteer groups. The support that a well
structured volunteer program can provide is considered extremely valuable, especially during
seasons of high visitation, spawning of endangered species, or for collection of information for
monitoring activities.



-29-
Annex I
Chart I
INEFAN'S ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Twhirw 2org   dgg
MP and MMWMTmg anCD ruw
I~~  ~~ PrdaDns Ie
PFI    _
D A M             D vin                 d  h         |   '  Trtnandns
.   7              |                 -_~~~~~~~~~~GaM
tit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N Pwk 1



-30-
Chart 2
INEFAS INTER INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONSEIPS
r    _  d                                             N W d
v  __II.I
SIm WId INEFAN a  cap
LFEt, CCEW                     C.
!                    ~~~~~~~INEFAN
R D _voT                APMtIrEL          D@pO 
UC W         COMMSIM                 _ti dkmm



-31-
Project Implaneation Tmuetable                                                                       Annex 2
AYvig  I)ma Y_a              inm*******¶~,~***      """""'Y~'rm-*Yw"199i4 Yaw 19  Yaw    _             197        Y_   1991                    Atdviy
lb.        _____________________                       (Tm I)             (T- 2)               (T- w)                (Y- 4)                (Tw5S)              FM 1amqw
I_         Orginu NEFAN                           X
2          Fininmobdop   _pe  pomb            _                                                                                                                    I X_X___t
3          prqrepada.Of fuaq.c P6mg                             I    I              -T-_____
4          pu _imd ha  W.inbn ayo&                                              X                             __X _2
5          Drhig Ynwkm                                                               X    X               1    1                                                  4-15
___r__ _       _    d     _vqsuUiin.fMain i                                          X Y  X       X          Y                                                    3-4
7          coaaudim OfC. Woet; buy eq*-                                              I    X                    X                Y                                 54
aF          _biAm  d MAE r)*               X               X 
9          P,qaami m df gia.a DeV. Ph.                                               I    X             X_                                                         -6
to          Ehu         df Six Rgimu comm                        I    Y                                                                                            1- 
II         PM. d ddy fat V _i ofbiodivnIY                                            X    X               X
12         Deuig    uw smu    _ u                                                       X                 X                                                        2-S
13         D          h_                                                                x      - -        X-_-_---                                                2-3-6
14         Des4a mve~ coibK                                                           X           X           X                                                    2
D 5  -P;;Pmm- at   .  of PA                               x                                         i                X X  X5X
bi laws" _ff p_6*  ml~                                    x               X    X               X                                                      2 -20
to  Lubift b_ume pwlx p.blie oSCWBx    1                                                                             X                                 2-5
19      il_le     -                                                      X                                          X  X  X   X                2-5-20
20         P        _qmwu  for Uodifit pnAm                        X                  X 
21         stut owimma pw&                                                                                 X                                                      2-20
IT2        Stan eilsai PX. fX XM                                                                                                                                 2-20-21
23         Swat _ompairs Wm* hmal I"Uktiom                                                                                            A               A  X       2-5-20
24         S_    "ba  for af6a & Icel                                                                      X    X                                                 2-S-20
25          E^ubl 56-i P _mm tfo Gammas                            X                  X                                                                            2
26        E71.bluaki Fin forX sm  Rom" g                                              X   X                                                                       22-
ri         F_b" -r__spo fr. Gom                              _        XX
29        RImproRaaSwioscbN                    __                                     X   X                X                                                      2-25-
so         pkil W"_ _r for, GNP wb_ P_0ia                            Xr               X    X                                                                       3X
31         U_em  P_m erotu           Re"                              X               X                                                                             :
12         1-NV Rmg la    rot GNP                                     X               X                                                                           25 26
JS         San_"S muuein mif6"fl OGNP  Xt                                             X    X               X    K                                              11.12-13-14-25
Rfo4a d G    o .dwzml awrim                                                    X                  X                                                  25 3051
55         Degn es     TA to Cbi comm                                                 X    X        X           X                X    X 



-32-
Annex 3
Ecuador
Biodiversity Protection Project
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Objective of the Monitoring and Evaluation System
1.            M & E activities will be an integral part of the project's implementation process.
The pilot and innovative nature of some project activities, including those dealing with legal and
institutional strengthening, requires effective M & E capability to guarantee reliable and timely
measurement of expected project impact. For the same reason implementation of some activities
will require successful completion of previous actions (see Annex 2).
2.            The main purpose of the system is to provide INEFAN with information to
measure progress of the project and to assess if it is achieving its objectives of protecting
biodiversity. This will be accomplished through three different levels of intervention: i)
biological monitoring; ii) social assessment; and iii) monitoring of project activities. Because of
the importance of financial sustainability for the protection and management of the NSPA, close
monitoring, through Activities 13 and 14, will be carried out of the progress in establishing a
sound concessionaire system and a system to collect revenues from ecological services.
3.            M&E will be the responsibility of the PCU staff with the assistance of the
Planning Directorate. Certain tasks, such as surveys, will be contracted to experienced local
NGOs or individuals. The project will provide about ten staff months of specialized short term
consultants to assist in the planning and implementation of proposed M&E activities. In addition
the project will finance one vehicle at the central level and operating expenditures of the system
during the implementation period.
4.            BioloRical Monitoring.  Given the pilot nature of the biodiversity protection
activities, biological monitoring through remote sensing will be an essential element of the
system. This will be carried out at the level of the protected area system with the support of
specialized public sector agencies such as CLIRSEN (Centro de Levantamientos Integrados de
Recursos Naturales Por Sensores Remotos), or experienced NGOs. On ground monitoring will
be combined with remote sensing activities. The identification of specific biological elements
to monitor will be determined as part of the preparation /updating of management plans of
protected areas and based on a national strategy which will take into consideration aspects such
as: sustainability of the program, technical capacity of the institution to maintain monitoring after
project completion, and cost. Key aspects to monitor to track progress will include: assessment
of status and distribution of target flora and fauna, identification of fragile ecosystems,
preparation/completion of fauna and flora inventory, and measurement of hydrological cycles and
climatic parameters as these relate to ecological stability of each site.
5.            Social Assessment.   One important objective of the M&E system will be to
assess changes taking place inside and outside the protected areas as a result of project initiatives.
For this purpose household surveys of local commrunities living in buffer zones and around areas
of conservation units wi1l be carried out. Such surveys will be necessary to establish baseline
data on the population number, land tenure, economic and production activities, and standard of
living against which project impacts could be measured. Initially, and on a pilot basis, these
assessments will be prepared as part of the preparation/updating of management plans for



-33-
Cuyabeno, Machalila and Cotacachi-Cayapas.  The lessons learned in the preparation of
assessment for these units will be applied in the preparation of plans of the rest of the reserve
area system. Annex 4 includes a sample of the terms of reference that will be used as a guide,
categories of key indicators and examples of participatory data gathering and analysis techniques.
6.           C.  Establishment and development of the proposed M & E system will cost
about USS 776,500 over the five-year implementation period. The following table shows the cost
breakdown.
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Cost Estimate (US$)
Year
1        2        3         4        5      Total
Staff (2)       14,530    14,530    14,530    14,530    14,530    72,650
Coautat a/
Fewn             6,000    6,000     6,000    6,000     6,000    30,000
Pea diem         3,500    3,500     3,500    3,500     3,500    17,500
Administratve
Expum            270        270      270       270      270      1,350
Trqnpoaon        2,000    2,000     2,000    2,000     2,000    10,000
Subtotal    11,770    11,770    11,770    11,770    11,770    58,850
Surveys and     25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000    25,000    125,000
Social Asmt.    70,000    140,000                               210,000
Equit.uet       10,000                                           10,000
Ranote Sesing
Servics      60,000    60,000   60,000    60,000    60,000   300,000
TOTAL           191,300   251,300   111,300   111,300   111,300  776,500
W Two waff-amouh per yw cakulas at US3,000 per iff =or&.
7.           Pro  Activie  Key indicators and performance criteria for each activity have
been identified and will be refined during the first six months of project execution. The
following pages show the description of each activity, key indicators, expected impact and
performance, and year of execution (Year 1 corresponds to 1994).



i}ii     1      I   i    Xli
Ml1    i]   10    1li



-35-
ECUador-GEF Biodiversity Not"=                ject
Mmion  d m iwhagkm Sym
Aotviy No.2: FoarzuId    of Natiozu PdIicir for iw Pzoecto of DBodlveiy. Fnacing: GEF US$65,000,  eFAN US$7,000
RmmA:  v 1.
COSTUSS           YEAR OF YCBCUHON
PLANNED           SOURCDS          INDIC&TORS           EN7TT              EXPBC1                Pi         ACTUAl    1    2    3    4    5
ACTIONS           INF)RMATION                          RPPONSMLE           IMPACT
A. Yini_  _       C*d mI           A Rqi  whki          INEFAN             PpoId nof a of _I                           X
awl poUch fordo      H.             Bc.                                    UP O snow IrMp
BP t   F                                         for                       dim a & oak
biodhvrk  pAld|                     e fondfn of                               _     MR _ X
_ioly  binakv                    *scty of  ciminu l
ppa.
BMW M  8_   PrOPmL                 A remt whicb         INEFAN             Rwonmmz -                                   X
"mod  I      u.1                     bh       um of                        pold pdpawu for BP o
oqzunhswk  ve awo*oops&                                                    be _dAnaui D e
a   Ouis W_             pimwi                                                      pforovaL
aN-      ,iolu
a mwd f
policy to dboo
PII    f_I of
_ BP poliy.
C. De*   of        Exzh la         A rpoutwhha          INEFAN             Reommidomoto                               X
~~~~~~~~~100kbd  oddIn                                                          .t    bw &
faomme bnad -                       eamddm                                 nsgutiim t read
A1                                                                         pohcim   d.



-36-
Ecuador-GEF BDdiod ty Protedou Projet
Moodag SW BEmas  Sym
AcUqky No, 3: tsrgic Phadb* Pro.. for Natol Syaem of PrtecSed As_i (NSPA). Phaig; GEP US$473 ,O, INEPAN US$44,000
COST US3        YEAR OF E03U=ON
PLANNE         SOURt:            INDICAIORS     9EWTTY        EaFmIc            PLANNED   ICUAL    1   2   3   4   S
ACIS           INMRMATION                        RESPONSIBL   IPACr.
E
A. I_ d        NSA 1km U.         PAW -odg    DEREuAN                   a a -
NSIA Pn EL            Xm NSPA U                                    fr BP (NSPA                     X    X
1.a            A_mm  a(
NOOn cm~mmme
& - -
iNvv  _ 



-37-
Ea~GU N_bnU hthdh. Ked
Mmuh a mi a h m lyimb
Aqdvky Nok4: Aniyda of   i bMtmudo. I.AI ed  Socidl Prble Raided W L1  T_m  do NSPA a be Ruldwib w .6 ewe?I os of do Skmg ftl NSPA.
Fh..I : GM USt74,000, DIEFAN USS 10,000
3a :m      2 Aeehty 2.
COST USS        YEAR OP EBCUION
PLANNED         XXURCRS            IICAmMRS         RTrrY          EXPBCTED           PLANIN    ACTIUAL     1   2   3   4   5
AC1II          DWFORA11ON                          RUSPONSZ        DIPACT.
A. Vhb I. doPAs   Iywg w_    b       _t R bpa      IN              0       _q  of
WI pf hm        ofdo PA. d boil                                      X  .Mba                                     X   X
of           _            N  NG OO    do e   viw  .                oipin  In NSPA.
_*~~~~~ is do _o               no" _OWL
~~e~lmm     PA..rqu
k.MhMg In PA.
IL D11     of do      & hwviw      iqd em di.      INEPAN          II_
_               * of_ f As   o Pd 1o   xd f-die                    *'JP5pdy _ osOt  b          X                     K
eacqindlmi h       =Mh= of boil   isz of binind .solm. ID a
Io_a PA.
I_&
^ ~- y   
C. Lai          I IAO   1 *- R1pedt uid bed   DERWN                Ovum  _       of                              X   X
modobowantb   bhumda "e.maw                               do. hpl a macb.
of         - du".h of w1  1amad   I-_   of
ofd             D     _m - p_                                       _   _ni_. .i..  *    . i h
Iecim" lo PAM   zoa   d                                            PA.
D. Or    dm of   Ap_odbof          Repo" wm&       INERAN           bo.ds a1_*_                                  X  X
, -..p, , 0 imbmdda alidIml  hchdu. a                            emuo fur
nd l of bed    X     .             indyu of                         -a
oom.(ukin(vwbg                     mjo* baUhgit                    p       in Ae NSPA.
h do hUM a      Appmmbof - bbo   I Il   &I
a -   .    dsy    - &..  o      bbdlka uiy
I~~ -
D_M& __4
s    ORdCo.MO
ampmb wbyo
ohmmmb.  1
'-of
a S



-38-
Ecuador-GEF. Bk.divesty Fotem Project
Aadvy No. 5: D naft   d Proumgadon of Regulado, so ALldw h Creation of PAa di Cobin eblk and Pdva Pe"t Undr a Magepat Sysa of Coasermdo. Fiacing:
GRP U3Mooo, INEPAN USS10,000
3aquiuumgc AMdy 4 and 15.
COST US$        YEA OF UC1B1UON
PLANN          SOURMS             DOAICA1O         IlTrT ENI           TI      E     LDNt    ACTlAL    1   2   S   4   5
ACTIONS          NORMATION                    ,ReOs               IMPACr.
A. em1 *        1 L _d esim. kw ad    A rpt      INUN               m                                       X   X   X
andr. hu                                .                       udumg  a.~
mdd
a. ap    of ea   Iha upe uut   gdi.  A &ral %W&     3VWN          DWdtm  telm  ai                             X   X   X
_ X. aqwtzhg ,_dSmb                               t    Ia   ofw
PA.
C. O.md of         ___            A               INEFAN          RN& e       as a.                          x   x   X
umIop, hvbh                       to mibulm otf                    ma    #_etpdw
plbo __a_ mi                                                          to     - .adlan
w6sa PA t                                                       PA.
D. Pr    of a    Ftm.  gmi  F d vauS otf   fl3Dan"                A.vfl NW                                    X   X   X
so S      o    do     t                                             -_z   _pAI m. of dX
X    d Xa sod Xd
-d 



-39-
Ead"GEF Bbodvnity hied"= Pq*
Ma_bea _i BUwhiha Syaim
Acdviy No 6: PupuaaI Updh of Mauui Hm of Preesciad Am. (PAs). Pi sI   t48,000
_oq*nmdLq Acivt 3 and 4.
cOST UsS       YEA OF EXON
PLANNE        ScWiaNu          DIXCAIM        ENaM Er                        PLANN0  fCTUlAL   1   2   S   4   5
SM            RINIMA1ION.   RE5PONSUII                      IYPCL.
A. D_e a   w_                  A mp_.         DOWAN         _u _h.m                                 X   X  X
ba p 0.y -     - um   sswIm.    hod"=                       nfwmd..,  msid
b    -           _     -         dmA_
-W-on do ubded                  b- *B                        - eP
__                              __~ em   i  hIm
PAM.                            wt .3 adm
PA.
3L K          AOpin_ o_        A 1_tuM        DIhAN         O0       , " diuehof                    X   X  X
Lmu      -                       -|-i.hpb dindp   haM..t    ti --   efX
(bhhgkd.=o s.b, gaM smoMd sd    umA       ~s.baoM lmdem
a    pnm so      gb _*                _. _                       PAw
ds 3gM.m.AppommaM d
Emoem" admA. 
waods f m    boe= 1      f- bbmso
And___of       -go-oph-                                     0-d o _
U. i  hahdh em                               .a._   
-'__  -_



s|x  tI,   [|
x~~~~~~~
p     lia iiifl^Z
1       X     i 3    0If.
t  t|  {f  it  1l    !x  0  ?   
x~              t



1                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41-
Ecuador-GEF DbdW versity Protedion Ph
Maahoda  d Bal o. Sym
Acdvky No, l: EBabldim  of Moaitodng and Ewat  Syam and Social APnmiu Shals. Fimalg: GEF US7.,000
R*qunam: A:tiM   1.
COSTI US$        YEAR OF EXUBMON
sOU                IC RS            eN1TY                              PLANNED   ACTUAL    1   2   3   4    5
AC1JONS         DM.RMAION                           RESPONS1IBE      IMPACT.
A. Dim of                           SuE_ h mld      lNEow"                                                   X
sEf so be h cbp                    powd-m
3.I hi~ Of   UN'p qwj-a(A   -    Thea. haiu h       INEUAN           Syik m WMu. - a                         X
&oa KAIsy.   Mm.wihag md            dh pmujecis                      mnosw hau to
Sy,u wE 6cad   Em&ahmo.             mcvn                             hiew u pugu of
,a SS.udwld-of    OE' "ehI  fiw MA                                   pmjodwinmaha
I  pojuimd      E b_Wdivadl i                                             of a  mm
Ie to NM d   sochi P Ai                             INR                     a mad.
s,_                                                             in  ha_*  hEd haw
C. Pe.iadnof    Pb 6gDbeaa.         App-Wu          IN'A
-~                   pb_mi-
I                                                                                        z_d.~h
-d-
D idw           PR                  P emum            nW 
L. Phpwo ad ba   Enmpeh inhmI  bY   Mae"d mid sew    NU#N             m   i                                  I   I   X 
- c   id        PA, - d      -d by    -od           INIEN
WAd BP         65 PCU.



-42-
Eacador-GEF Biodiversity Prot b  Project
Mouo,is and Euadwa Symm
Acdvity No. 9: Eiaadau of Relgic  Dav.lopme Pkns and teir oI an BDiodiwvey Promedw ud Pctted aft natgemit.
Fimng: GEF US2,000o, IFWAN USS4,000
Rlqunkau: Actvy 3 an 6.
COsT USS         YEAR OF EXBCtMION
PANNED           30CW                DMCA7oMs        E3ny              EXPECITD             PLANNED   AC7UAL    1   2   3    4    $
ACflONS          VIDRA11'ON                           RUPONS5IE        DIPACr.
P_p    da        8soamo             AA Bys                AN           Ova" BP _d such-                                X    X
of* . - -        me-chs                      .s.-  I                   suemsnk plop  for
-bd                                  scaondae ad                       to sdecad PA.
y X i _                  l_  _f
sump d           IX1
for M&of to
rs.ad  PA.



-43-
Ecuador-GEF Biodiymity 12Ktedou Pojec
Mcisod ad Ew_aaeouSyui
Acdqky No 10: Dsip, lnoatlioa a,nd Tfani of Six Reqoml Coodinaio CO _d.a for iw PA. ad of L1a Ow0*ouu for d aMaagems of PA.
Flinade: GEF US$499,000; InEFAN USs29,000
R_qmkmm: Acdvly I 1 3.
COST USS         YEAR OF EXBWIION
PLANNED         SOUC    NXXRC        ICATORS        ENfMY            EaUC               PLANNED   ACTUAL    I   2   5   4   S
ACTiONS         DIKRMA7MON                           RESPONS3LE      DPACr.
A. a       d   Sbak& P_e h          A repmtdm Whg   TNEAN            Nd _Im                                   X   X
so _-    bp     mrd,l' dmkd by    '       - d a                         gk -_  b _a
caiI "a t wek   NOOb md hin           Uu of dX                       GIeo e"
i_               _W1 om- .            nI                regimiaSm    aa_dawh 
* ~~~~~~~~d _b k _d                                      docm   f
mi m d                              regfiul iAgic                       "e  O PAL
.ebd PA.                            pihg.
11 FwP  uha .d    Nsaaa -   tuimi    MaKs)          BOWAN              bl_ea                                  X   X
NW"" Md      gIc plin           ewwhhhg 'a                       acdtkk of medhuhm
afiimdof                      aOauiaNI.                         md tacbic mmt for
OP_MamI         App.ua_mo           hedhija  and                    oam PA.
p .uaud  for    mosad bUioinld  t.dic 'acdio of
RAIhea           -d  tea            'a Lo min-.
p h    r          _ __w                   dnm
-.
oommma      boods at Ayto Uefi
I~aw _   'am .
|   C. Iu m    C~a o owI    T,ainf  pr a               WiA           P _d*
mi(s).d                                             natimal ad tmlom
I   ~        ~~~ -     E__ miIww         _awy 
e_~~~b   o PA. W d~
_ d 4I ,iomof
I 



-44-
Ectador-GEF Biodivrsiity Poedion Pojed
Moailrdng ad Ewluai Syiea
Acivity No. 11: Prepetioc of Sudics for Econormic Vainatio of Biodivaiy  d Ecoil Se     Prvide by PA. Finmu : GEF USS 134,000, INEFAN US$10,000
R*quirtmt: now.
C04T USS         YEAR OF ECBCUlON
PLANND          SOURCES              DCIORSDEN EEXPB                                      PLANNED   ACTUAL    1   2    3   4    5
ACIONS          IPORMATION                            RESPONSIMLE     IMPACT.
A. Org_ a ad    D     4_m_a#bWm      Re e_poet        n ocamon    InU AN  RinFcom                                    X    X
ow    tu dhins    ~ I             va1bia10:w"dm of                 eomamd vahudo of
ad WE~ v.1 horn   amoo               biawdivy ad                      bidmtlvmd ad
diff_  _i                                                                       bSa scohglm  v  m
-mkd         AppIoa&ntS ddie     ad &G                             a
i _ -_, I=                                                           _oka wwd
-d d      _     v          of Trh                                            Of* W.d
.. bft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oc,gll _u hm                                                                -   mda
D.DOeberbof   AppioaWbbkqa           Ai  powil&     DINEF              Themof s                                      X    X
a ad& oocm wm     prs Wm adW oq       w .zph 'a gbrnuoealb
o1    vin       AW __l sds           Ig~ 
foras ma  am    mowca vwahmdof    of a wwvlo
ofa bW hdlvay ad b_n _  so
bind  'aso      .aehga .uli.         mni v sgad
soomo vawm                           o imI*
of bWdivem



Ecuador-GEF BI.iv ity Frtedis Poject
Mamaodq ad Buhbs Syuam
Acdky No. 12: PIhI, Desig an EdabBidams of N_n Tourir Syim hi Ecaor. FiPu: 0  US$7,000; WINAN USS$,000
Daquk    Aidvky 2 nd 3.
COST USS$      YEA OF ExBCMON
PLINNE        SJu               INDKEAIri  EtDTIt             EXPCTD             ANNED  ACTUAL    1   2   S   4   5
AC1ONS        DOR3MAION                        RESPONIME      IeACT.
A. A   oto   PWAIa _  iE   W   PAP d3qmtinPg DkUUIy                    o                               X   X
bed mdmol gn a  dlim Wo  p1.mmm   *A bed mi                   Nub" eahime
ws    o        b       hi_           _d                       gulbarm <gmI
momi d   Xb                     of_ . I                       di     mdco
~~puImm d    ~~  hue mi  p~ma .pimi    yew he WAnh
kw n.inidin     uimaie mmh  dr ubaboponuv
hr                              _ . pm  ds
bmr   d         0i__               _
_mi -              _            -  of
I      _-_
3      d d     uoiy ofpukh      A _eut         INV&N                                                   X   x
I   ___Mmmdhi   -.  ,I_                                      lo, nwnmumm
"O-          m-u- - ,wbbmbk     f
prn__wI b        l_ S.u'b _hl   huiive_ _
1~~~~~~~~~~~r~ "                                           Wm __   _d X
I            w    _  X~~~~~~~~d   S    lio f=bm d _ ii  k _ .
NSM            __1NNIS   ,-
-  mi-if      -~m
Z-b -p
Ii S _  
_            t___~~Mi



-46-
Ecuador-GEF Biodiveity PNotetio Projed
Moodag Mad E      _ukuda  Syim
AUvty No. 13: Dnffin and Proangiaon of Rcpulabos for cablishing: (a) a Concsioaire Synm an Pnedue to ONt Operting Perts to Users; () Controls and Regultios
for Extwcin Aciviie whbin PA; nd (c) a nMchanim to redlistribut PA n iama among the. Fuicvg: GEP  US$11,000;, NEFAN US$4,000
R      _quirem: Actvity 2, 3, and 6.
COST USS          YEAR OP EXECUION
PLANNE           SOURCES              DtDICATORS       Emiry             EXICIED              PLANED   A 1AL         1    2    3    4    5
ACnONS           IRRMAnON                               RESPONStBE w~PAC1.
A. P-      ofd   L1A b _.             Dmft of d         INEFAN                    oes                                     X    X
_~~~~~ C  __                                                    u __ -
SYN&M md         Cumvw  ier                                               rwuam
_m~m  te gad  q_i.                                                        eu~   to p_
I_In t w
Dr Drafgda       L1ga       .         Dmftofd  ezhg   DINEPAN             slaId.i of a                                    X    X
* me d                                t      &l A                        u    to ceual aad
re_ubus my   of  Cam aM   sy          .dmi v.                            rquc to exracfi
a        -d_                            m                                sto  ailvWb wkhh PAh.
w     PA.                                       a
se-of
C.  _lh=d Of   tAl _  .               Po  dat.          INEFAN            oIaos                                           X    X
a nwmim to                            Asmi                               ,u elaya
revenu of PAs.
am  do P-t        ia C   _t ftixU
hveh_



KIf       Ij          Ivs  1  g i2X ,
i:         i iii"   [1.    1
iss1tlt|I  I0|     [|!! 15(Ii
.             N   E  td '



-48-
Ecuador-GEF Biodivesty F           tedom Pojed
Monilodag ua  Ev bau  Sysm
Acdvky No. 15: Aalysis and Quaiificstion of Uses of Protected Are&s Reasmes by L1a P1puatio. and dt. impact an Consnetioa/rotection of Pfatectd Aa.
Fmimg: GEF USS73,ooo; INEFAN USs20,000
: .
COST USS          YEAR OP ExBCrnON
PLANNED          sOURCBS             INDICATORS        ENITIY           EXPC1ED              PLANNW     ACTUAL    1   2    3    4    5
ACTIONS          EN1)RMAllON                           RESPONSB1E       IMPAC.
A. Canry   stdy    HomeboM vey.       Reporq wish      RIUFAN           bwmcmi Wdamik                               X    X
- ii.we of       CWTi d" frM                                            ofmdo.se bmel
I  c I y bhel    N1O0.1amoapblc                                         peuW    mike of
po- _ MVg   h                                                              - 
owiumia at b
F. olow up  dy    S_ m dao,.          Rept             INEFAN            Mom eEsctive edjoe l                       X    X
i 9i0d     my                                                              -l sci  du
mi -_ mo.y                                                              Wim -p
bmb  reevd  b                                                           b., b hel
hwf  -wd    by1-   to lo
loca popmfimpom                                                                  whvat
civm Wm~                                                                emduming    - vem
wek. md                                                                 Pmcting       _
-pmod rnMii
o p  o
C. C     eq _A wo    Sm  abw          Amam taeao       INEFAN           Same a .ba.                                 X    X    X    X    X
popubdomosueve                        acdivime NW
f.  embwL                                  ii
R9pa b i cde
propamb ic obti                                mdt
Imbmcid _



Eomndw4GEP Biodvy Notadi. Projed
,I d _    U 1aI Syi.By
AaUky N. 16: _i.bBAn. d *a UodwuWy b&I2uti Ceaw. h  a: ON USS213,0W, DINEAN USS1,0O0
cuns          TEA OEX UMON
LAINN         $OUR=            DCXcAU        UNlIY         EcaiD            RAJN     ACTIAL   1   2   3   4   3
ACOIS         DhIFIEMA11ON                    mBiz         DIPACT.
A. Cdsg,      3d.              A _-b.  =I z  WAN              *d wwhip.f                          X   X
_*                             to -OO                      =*ad  - _
-*-Njf        omm    IO            -O,b -  hgil. N         adbhd,       WE
~~~ dsdma m ak             a"' "mb                      addmis 
A       In~.h
ds m.udhg to
__   _~~P"   of_
I                                    b~~~~.   -
if_                    -_                          ford
3.Ppod ~        sI        A~tWI          N4           avudbv .offma.d                         X
w _I                               -~PA                                      d_m% NOON i



* Diiii Ii ." Ii
' 11        {|[I[|



Ecador-GEF BiodI.ty Noteclio  Nroje
MamSadu" aSW D.bauIm ajuem
Aciviy No. 1I: Desig and bImmetadtion of Training Program on Ia Syasm for Public Official of Imtlmtioc Deaing with l_m  Related to dw Piucted AMea Syaem.
Fur weig: GEP US$42,000; INEFAN US$3,000
COST USS           YEAR OF ECKMIION
PIANNED           SOURCES               INDICATORS         EN1TY             EXPICTED              PLANNED   ACTUAL        1    2    S    4    5
ACTlONS            N1MRMATION                              RESPONSIBE        IYPACT.
A. Daiwa of a     Ned A i invml   GiMclim UmuaL    INEFAN                    lacmed awesm                                             X
_  fhr pabic    tew.                                                         ange p       t    pAbic
offchh to wo                                                                   lcdbh bah
_M d          -ak   Lowa NOON _w,mc                                          bbodvealy
"Pr"Is            in                                                               _ v  dnw   a
*bdidlma WA        teg aevidesuuL 
-..
avshh . to     t
ar4ao mma wd
,d Ot4_gida   Want                     Rq,of evahig       INEHA                                                                      X
ofa  th mmml.wA
C. P dom eta    Prolpal                 Repon widbN13AN                                                                               X
N   No   of_
de me.                                   or Sami vasma Of
sec matm.
D. O_mAa of    Rewind vemaa of &e       Nmne of            INEFAN            SON - Aav                                                X    X
pwabl eseh hat
bwms ieiw to 111e
PAS



J                      xi
8 X|11lJ           ]X.i1 .1 '1  Ii liiis 
T.o    0it{ 
bySlI ! iiH|         11111    lll



I'll IIiIx
L  l ! I ;
111 III 1111 }Jii Ig II [
LL    -
'4



Ecuador-GEF Bidi"       y Prois    Pnjec
Mokwiq MA Blwhdha Syis
*liky No. 21: Depan  d Enablidamua of NaeI  Canism o PDa PubbS A   umeaMad Sppmt 1WAwy B _   F . F1 g: O   US$290,000, EMAN US$35,000
R_quimag: AIily 2 mad 20.
COST USS         YEAR OF XBL7fnM
PANND           SOURCES             INDICAWS        ENTlrf          EXPIE               PANNED   ACTUAL    1   2   S   4    5
AcIONS          INVMRMAflON                         R8SPONSMLEZ     DPACT.
A. Damkga of a       COMWARM        R_us      at    OWAN            IN8Ri wu1m of                                 X
_owmmwadie     _yM. NW.            .piupasut ru m as to
lecdois _                               u mo-am                     bhihu* 
d urge to                          for Combs                        IrN  PI.uqat.
-                                   A_ *Im                          regu_  puS  w
IL Prupdat ml  mby of R4u~Im.    A m of aowim    DnOAN              Smm - umu sbvX
commic6m    P-       -idu      Nadi I
_inhh.          Ehpu4m  NU.            1mb much _ m:
propme m. 
C. O.Pg_  d o   S d los .           N^uof            W                   d    _                                   X   X
du"mamaop                                                           Amsbsgimf bran
_i*omi                              otmu  ~NG _                          -g ini
agami hvd in                        olpuoph mdug.                   saimomrnd- slypat
Ci.    buk ds INt himNE^                                                _           
_* 6                 ,                       _d ta                  _oU0A  nd
)ommnlinew  md 6Um.ofluoo
mui   e                          dm  _  _ .                       _      _ 
.I  NSPA.                                                             abou
ad - bmpf cau
mcdvii o.psbie or
D. D_hod        Sm a hoe.oh   p of                  KNEAN           S _  shove.                S                       X   X   X
-    med.
E. Dmiy _    Exituesd by   Dme_d ay                 INEFAN          Me o                                               Xecd'  K  X K   K
__ s_im.        ONsasis far         Asujysh                         c cmiic dmuf
smdIv- . -,k,Of .v,bAoI                          hfoI h. WE mos
^-dhmmi                                             h mum4i hm_ wdp
-                                                   dpo   & at bw
sprommalm-  



A~* N.. 22: 3ah  ?Ub Awuam  Caupig  bt NIodiil Pruushn Q UsI  01 UUS (o    hiud IasMyN..21)
R3a    Mdvt  2 2, mi,21.
FLANNED          WJDM                 IND74O           ERT!X BTU                             PANNED         TtIAL    1   2    3    4    5
5~~~~~~~~CK                           1OIIWAIN                             R851^al           DCPAC.
A. Dal" a          Eify  21.          A reort r sw k   OiMPAN            i     I    m                                     X
bi "BP     in                         of d. setd                         sd      _ eat
for eC& of                            roglom deumifags0 psSarmadsee  m
R4EAN'.                              Uds izueg.                         biad1"mky
~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~~~~~~~~~~~   Is                           - ___ 'I
FERAN'S stout. to
wE0 be coahoi I
of regadha
of commo.mudca                        and edwAcadam
B.a.                                  anMeilal (XXs
acdvity 21)
A repoct deta ing
Xce irwy to
diutnbtt d 
materials sad
deliver dke
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mlnge.                                                                                                                    _
!



-56-
Ecuador-GEF Biodivebity Prodion Projed
asw Bmud symm
Acivity No. 23: Public National Level Campoign to Inforn Abom New Lgal Raguatiom Raganding the Proced Area Syem.
Fiacing: OEF USS (cd included in actvity No.21).
Rqu     u: Aivity 2, 5, and 20.
COST USS                YEAR OF E3UfON
PLANN             SOUXRCES        U      IX DCADRS          ENTrff            EXPBCTED              PIANN       ACUAL        1    2    3    4    5
ACtnONS           INFRMA11ON                                RESPONSIBLZ       MPACr.
Domig a _I        New h./ teru.hom.    A repot pr          INEMAN             Bohd        o avm   md                                   X    X
camag md                                 thmi. wdcmaln.a&lgo
pme_m der  to   Wrina., via al mdao   md aope of                              biodiv-mky red-
bMed i  ta  -          uuic              e_>.
AMW    -                               wed pqb&   p
rd evaMam of b                       of DIFANa edow  o
huSc  i                              proette,v    r
e_&ctvmm.                            NY   md biodiveky



-57-
1amdor-GEF Bb&dimniky Pk         Pjed
Mmikdq 9- Uld BlaSyim.
AMdMty No. 24: Pubfi Cauyelp Aind at da R.sgoa mlnd Loca LvWi to lalm AbwA d NsNw L" qml3gdlm lagaa4 da Pmuiisd Ame Symem.
Fi  I g: OUF USS (cos ihbhdd is aseMy N4.21)
3aiAm odyky 2,5. and0.
C05T USS       YEAR OF EUCKFDON
NED           S                 DIN           ENM            EBID             PA D  ACTUAL    1   2   3   4   5
ACIONS        DOR3MA11ON                       RPONSIBU      DQAcr.
D_*I a sqi    New hm Mi         A ripod       WAN            amh_         m                               X   X
mi Indl amwepai    u           6M.E Moiw                    inimihgde
NWi p_oml                       m_   d of
_Pmt be_am  Uhhum v_l md i mmi
_ -  mih_       w     _            
~~~~ ~~A1f 6mal                           PmM mopputd
m_   la,rb                   DhEKAWs off  t
_-                            ___i
u.A*



Ecuador-GEF Bbdivauty hPtecd    Projed
Mo.kSodq an E_W Aka Syua
Aciviy No. 25: CaMpqos Nadomi Pr. CoKum  of die Sham& aM Situdomi P_miug Ps  Pi.    : UEPAN USSm,ooo
ReqfIMama: Actvity 2.
COST USS        YEA OF EXBCUMON
PA)NN0         soulEh              NVICA1tRS        IIT IFDCTUs                      PANNED  ACFJAL    1   2   3   4   5
ACIONS         IIRMA 1TON                         RFPONSMP       DIMPACT.
Or_ief         PNyu r. lb i-f     A  _nt          INFAN           C __ r                                 X
&a,   _            _maIpd     'swab, nmabtim                      of crAa for 
_ to dh         a_m&a.            md psrepab has                  hai__m of a.
as Impac of d                     diii wenkaps swd                Gobi PAn of Towi
r_ d P_i of   Bwhqm   w am       . _, fa Xe            _           Cinwaiv._ Un af
Tm _           pd Few  cmad                                       a.    m  md ef
CO    _n i.  ml. hf                                                      J.   fer
matacti,.                 a.~~~~~~d GI"1 FbA             a NW di. q   of gm.va
bwr. -d as.X                                               e
PasIh Pha fara
Ps N_1 0b 
INOAA, Cbki
DWk P  I_S40
DqGAma. of, ._
l ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ Dgh~ a
I~~~~~~~~~~~MM~.1ui
I~ ~ ~ ~ .



IIIiiiii isiiX
IL~~~
'}li' iii'  111Z
1[1! bl   isf



Ecadorw-GEF Biodi Mbty Potetiu  NQjec
MoUouiae ad B_ko  Syi
Aiqvy No. 27: GalUpga Naonm Puk. hInlemnuuie of hmpectlooi anQuatza  Sysm to CodlAr  d. hidx of Bblocl or _in  to tb bbds.
Fwimug: INEPAN US$74,000
-_:.
COST UST          YRA1 OF WMATTION
PANE             SOUWRCES            INDICA7Ol          NmrY            EXPlI                PlANNM     ACTUAL      1    2    3    4    5
ACnONS           IMORlMAON                             RPONSIKLE        IMPACT.
A. RdvWm of do    itm  of fam         Reviud    I.    INEFAN            Res    of cid  of                           X
1t    _          , Idjecd- of'. MO.   doe DPOA.                               u DiK   may of
e    odfY t of'.  Syt  of  _                                              _edl  _  _ 
D    ioodft Ptwl   *d    l _dl tod    Moua* bsdIma
Agpopswahds      e.b.min mAhtor                                         Miesc.
&q-  DPA         cfrc                                                               -. - -
g-    b.pmn        ;        frm       Db.h"
mA qm__tID     DIALA, CIn          eviSM-of fed i
to bshX of   Dwwo FomAuiamd            -  m'
3. Orgmbd        Daof    Revi_ va   ofd.    N_dbwef    INEFAN           1     m_d of a                                   X
WO4* A   l d      SmL                 w_om                                      u    of
sam~ to tuda                          Nmeobw a                          tosadlm ml md
suEto toqidlam.    I ,m   -ml         tao.o  tod' *-h of
m   Nd  -    _ hml vuaglbing   R_a _ ds
n.j intob at pinoB  appaoam.             mmof
of ey m)                   _          s_. Me
tohx of .mo&
i   - ~~              to Pq .
C. PShbC  m.     Smom sobw.           A uspot          WMNFA             P~MI      inpu toX    X    X    X
ir                          -  g I -  in
t-i ~~~s~a                                        fosia '  b.h
D.  PWbn  ofa    MSdo4ogim ml         A repot a        INE          FAN osm           ofa MA                             X    X    X    X
MAltospadan  uuUelhto'slbmd    iMlldm'.&eM &E                     E fyo~to mhis'.6
syim to cadal    ~I a U & Esyim.   sy dml'                    bqmsdm md mdo
'.hbz of~~~~~~~~~           seladud                                       Jtos qmt cm'
-           ~~~~~Scim  moddobogim                                   hbdx of mC00
to toped md coai'                                      sq
616h of* pid                                              _
iso PAM.



11911 {'[fill JE
j   lii                            I    ll
iII           illl            1El   
I                  ~~~~~~~~~~I J
tiIi
L~:



-'a-
EcuFdw-GEF Bio sii  Pistedio Prjed
Mo_kadq NW Bnbnd= Syita
Aedyly No. 29: Eiabi*WAm of M_amgsmsd bIfouuda Syamua far OmU . IN m: DWFAN USS139,000
COST US$       YEAR OF EURION
PLANNED                        INDSUE1A       ENTM          EKPI             PIANNJD   ACTUAL    £   2   S   4   S
ACNONS        DOORMAfON                       RESPONfISU     1PACT.
A Duad ofSfb                                 DIEPAN                                              X
stf b b                           _q.  pa.Min.
P_d~ .1  01mW 1b Sw 3_m Rd1h6               am(Nom           ui___d                            X
dm   .f~k          . iDmwhb hfm mm                          pwL Dkia
d_m of _ok    aEIW 'd wia    6cdi rtow                      -pb_   _,
.amdv *hWh    P.               WinM. mi                    hdmdki afbmud -up
s_bim w                       .qmW.                        ded  W_s
be sf_d  d                                                  R.vM .1mbu,d
uC    ha Us and                                             tl IN                                X
dsuin oS o                                                 nwh 
do_
C. Nqd.d       ueed  PSIou  A        ard  oM DIN                                                 K
D. O_S   r _ wmmd    _m.d satEFW                                                                 X
I pMn a_ D_ bm ssofEM.          -b4          INs_ (GM        UN a  " U_                          X   X   X   x   X
-_



463-
Ecuador-GEF Biodiverdty Noleto  Pirojet
M loko rin EvaBuudm Syma
Activty No. 30: CNaMpgs  Naional Park. Inpmove and Strenathen Galipaoe Uran Pmnaing aa M _mgeuei. Fmecing: INEFAN USS249,000
Requir.mwul: Activity 3 and 6.
COST USS          YEAR OF EXBCUlON
LAONNED          SOURES              INDICATORS        ENTIY            EXPBCED             PLANNED   ACUAL        1   2    S    4    5
ACIONS           INP)RMA1MON                           RBPONS1LE        DAIPACT.
A. To AeUaa      Pi  tId Use Plan   Dom_  I             NEPAN/RMaidpa  R_qub"  of m
d -                                                     . a F_                                                        X
U. Phe fo to            Xmd                  h ubm                      m_ bbir wid
prow.k bm  heprbd
sm~D-bf i_ hf ui          _ 1
md ..N rw                        iinl  fronra
Setf gamigow
L Sbmgrn so      INGAIA. Duwl         FIuY q_rI        lNEFANXAGw*A   Som - aboe pin
_:m* of          P_Akm. GlobAl Phe   csdr. Ninhdof  im.                      mwai    fr                                X    X
McAaOWUi b0                           ON   I .                          popaty bin -
d    _m mi 6                          Eabl_ofk
peupd ri h                            o.cas. K                           nand ameon
b_dme. hedb                           Ocod. maafl.                      pukdndlahgwi
-         -  w-   __r
zf_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~emd wqpoutb
dan                                                                      apde ml
|~ ~ ~~~rfnk -_               ofb  homnbm~en
i_d_~~
ubomik..N
I _c-
I ~       ~m              b



Ecuador-GEF. Biodivaity Notcdon Projed
MoUbmod and BRuadou Symm
Mdyky No. 31: Galpago Natonl Pa*t: Iiplkmewatioo of M_nag.mt Ph., inchuding du deip nad .abHda.i_ of Zoning Pvoem for de bmai. Rbem.
Fuuwing: INEFAN US15l1,000
R*qlmut: Acliviy 3 ad 6.
COST US$         YEAR OF EXBUTION
PLANNE          SOUa                 INDICKTORS       ENTrlY           EXPBCED            PLANr   ACTUAL    1   2    3   4    S
ACTONS          !nnRMAnON                             RESPONSIBLE     IeACr.
A. OrVo        of   Exonhg _1in.     Rin wM           INEFAN          Apo    _                                            X
wemkapw         Globwl P_d                                                   s cin p  ay                             X
s~bibb                                                                no md lb
e S - - P-                                                                  -
rmw  o f
b__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mm _xoon
B. Conyeo       Seems  bov           Cylbad           WAN             haumov
hvaooy md       cuff"t moed.          v.ioukifnt Mdwmieutedg of aboxhs
hobnga_ d                              _ .                            poe_h ofd O Rmmw
ddin_m   _'     Chldb Dunh                                            md oiabl_ of
ta  i L    Faundchr.                                                  t gidu rdloes fo
- p- fe
C. Cary VA                                                            mtim oactlv
-nem ml                                                                 dkis
m_mw of                                                                                                              X    X
_ewoom  so
_o mh
bhrh.



K
K
iii:        K K    K
g
if'
I
J'i    .1
*111              ii   I
I    I
lyl   Iii       II      I
Ii               I
I  ii       11111  1
I
.1
illil   ml I
4
dIiiti



LtI            T     iIti:   
L1     llfiwllt}       51tx             7  Li



-67-
Eador-GEF Bidvaity noascdo. Nqjet
MMy No. 34.0 MpeoeNadioml Pwk. REsanacaaulig  RfRmuizW  oaMpad Elacadomi Syimwl hco  abiodivwuaeypacti.cF m    .Fim   : I:NEFAN US$121,000
3*oummd  Ac0ivky 25, 30, m 31.
(X3T usS        YEAR OF EXBDCION
tANNED          SOJU               IWXCATORS   E ny                ECPECI             PLANNDED AU) lAL    1   2   S   4   5
ACti0M          INI R MA11ON          R8S             PONSI        IePACr.
A.       of.hdmd  h_mm eyw         Ev_             WIN N.                                                             X   X
of e
I ~  ~~~~~~~~~ . 
of -hds
a Fid o_w                    Id J _ )d   M_iXof
M_imy of B&if V_ dw  dMed
.,mm. -cdb       I I  mIwt of                                      md   I~uh
-y -K do                dv.biogclk botmmm
a",             e_d- Go___a kw
C. OWudmm    cin         w         Ej.a.    h*  INE,M.             Sm a Wbw_                                          X   X
-Aoolmh                      of IadLa dmedoiLa
a Thi-          PropfsP d mIosk   d  N_uw of           a d e S      d o  w   Imd                                      X   X
_ecbwL          Now wchimg m_ _ h.    &ahed. Dopef                          of hod
mvrc d~ _l                                (mi
uwnnof schoolw    omb
cMM,in.            ~p                 ofpag
c-~~~~ __dvad
B. Si_of        DmA q              Asisf sigoed.   INFAN. Ihy             of an                                       X  X
h~of                                                              do.   um4-
_ d1W__ _
~~~~~~~~d-                                                     _ 
w-
___



Eadow-GEF  dioMsIty No.diou Nojed
Maamiqw a.d Bwhmlom Syim
Aciky No. 35. Thohecal AWMac and rilk Stude for ach  diana and otSba foounkin i ldcWfesl   in tbe bufef mom and arrnibe am o  toe CAeachb-Cqu   Ecoloal
Ragesy. Fimwiog: GEF USS350,000
COST USS          YEAR OF EXBCUllON
PLANNED           sou5C                 INDf10 RS         ENITY             EXPBED               PLANNED    ATUAL          1    2    3    4    5
ACIONS             WORMAlION                              RESPONSILE        IMPACT.
A. P Fat          LW N00,               I      q ,        INEFiAN.          Jnfoum. wim moi h                             X    X
of    lml                                                                   Os mxew, WAN.   _s.  - md
bmiz_r hvm                                                                  _<. h Pr.ma
Md b adjacus                                             "ch~~~~~~~ow mgmbpm tor
bmf am of 60                                                             cI.m  cimnwas lo
nma. (.bo.i                                                                 begroveamowuguiof
I00,OO be).                             Report md                           their bobl. Pm-va
,ecOMMlabtam.                       .c.nm  in may. wem
5. Piupuam of    WIEAN                                                     for illgw al hgg ml
A* l dawin.                                                                -uin.
offm ofhl
hggbgon
_im_ foma.
C. hPawuwod  of   UnjyivesW. MAO        OUiadid.INe                         Sam e above.                                  I    I   X
gkd_i      y am   INEAN.                Scmiwa to diuam
me p8ge.                                tbedti. imltviuel
atpplyua thern.
D. Dasign en      NOOB. Muiaz of        Number of evot    INEAN                 a     e                                    X    I   I    I    X
11.   m  of       Edu-im. Chachi md  Or Paflic anb.
wortabops lo      Cin,muidm.
- en
-aoo  lo natve
a isch -
hoo    for_.
pa_ml legal                               _   X 
I .                                    dm hdi
bud i_d            Ed   Ci              udof



-69-
Annx
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT IN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECTS
SAMPLE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objectives
1.    The objectives of conducting social assessment in biodiversity protection projects are to:
(1) provide information for the continuing process of participatory planning and management of
biodiversity projects; and (2) help in the evaluation of biodiversity conservation policies and
investment decision-making. There are five stages in conducting social assessment: (a) problem
identification; b) assessment design; c) data gathering; d) analysis and diagnosis; and (e) report
writing and presentation. Cooperation and participation of local communities is vital to the
success of each stage.
2.    The project implementing agency is responsible for identifying potential entities such as
research institutions, NGOs, or private individuals and determining whether they have the
experience and capacity to carry out the assessment. Aspects to consider will include: ability to
engage in social science field work, and to conduct primary data gathering in the local language
(especially in the case of indigenous peoples who may not speak the national language nor follow
the dominant culture). Once the entity selected has been contracted, the process, from data
gathering, analysis, and report preparation and presentation, should be completed in five to six
months. The total cost will vary by site, and may range from $40,000 to $70,000 per project
site, depending upon quality of available social data and costs of local labor.
Coammunity Participation
3.    ITe social assessment process (data gathering and analysis) should be participatory (see
Attachment 2 for examples of participatory data gathering and analysis techniques). Prior to data
collection, local communities and affected populations should be informed, through public
dissemination, meetings, and consultations about the assessment and the proposed biodiversity
project. Similarly, local people should be involved as interviewers or enumerators.
Compensation schemes for such activities may include additional community support through
provision of input supplies or construction of community health centers).
Problem Identificatio
4.    Social assessment begins with problem identification prior to data collection. This may
be done through consultations with government counterparts, NGOs, local experts, and when
feasible, representatives from affected communities.
Assessment Desig
5.    This stage makes use of problems and issues identified to formulate key questions that
are relevant for project implementation.   A basic section in the design is the description of
affected populations: who are project beneficiaries, at-risk groups, and stakeholders; what are
their incomes and livelihood; what are their income sources and how these affect conservation;
and why institutions are important in evaluadng conservation project benefits and ris}s.



-70-
6.    The following kinds of information should be gathered as required/determined by the
review of issues on people and communities in the area of influence of biodiversity projects (see
Attachment 1 for categories of indicators). Several data gathering instruments may be used; some
of them may be participatory, involving local communities and thereby building local capacity.
Other methods use experts in the conduct of interviews, and mapping.
a) biodiversity conservation project description, which may include people and
communities in surrounding buffer zones, towns and cities (area of lwuence or affected
poputions) through use of nature zoning and community mapping, and resource
management zones and historical mapping of land use changes; modes of access to
resources; project coverage and major biological features with significant human
interventions;
b) type of community and settlements in area of L&luence or affected populations;
c) population, Is distibution throughout area of lpluence and composition (age and
gender); growth rates; migration patterns; fertility and mortality rates; health
conditions;
d) temin and natural resource control including legal definitions; inheritance patterns,
and customary social practices; laws, political and administrative controls over
resources;
e) economic livelihood and production systems, including dominant livelihood; forms
of income earnig; maketing; labor sharing; labor profile by gender and age; labor
availability;
f) socia and political organization; traditional socio-political groups; municipal and
national groups; decision-making systems; resource allocation and sharing systems;
role of women in production and conservation;
s) conflict resolution mechanisms, including formal and informal structures, agrarian
conflicts and dispute resolution; mechanisms for dealing with expropriation and
resettlement (if applicable); mechanisms for dealing with population encroachment;
h) household charaterisics, including household formation, size, composition,
livelihood, tenure and inheritance patterns; family settlement history; impacts on
household of outside interventions; women-headed households;
i) participation procedures; legal basis for community participation; consultation
methods; perceptions of participation in conservation; attitudes towards conservation
and the environment.
6.    The focus of data gathering and analysis is natural resource control (within project
boundaries as defined by government). However, there may be processes that extend beyond
biodiveraity project boundaries and these should be integrated (e.g., impacts of national land
tenure aw; efects of market  systems; danges in land values in surrounding sites).



-71-
Diagnosis and Analysis
7.    Upon completion of data gathering, a diagnostic analysis should be performed on the
following problem areas: (a) current sustainable resource management practices and potentially
destructive human uses of natural resources; (b) uncontrolled encroachment of human populations
into biodiversity project sites; (c) insecure resource use rights; (d) poverty in area of influence
of biodiversity project; and (e) observed and potential conflicts between biodiversity project
authorities and affected groups and communities. Community representatives should be
encouraged to participate in diagnostic analysis.
Regort Writing and Presentation
8.    The social assessment report should include analyses and recommendations for dealing
with problems cited in (6) above, including alternative solutions (e.g., if resettlement is an option,
the report should contain suggestions on preferred relocation sites, manner of compensation) and
a formal resettlement plan. Priority livelihood and participatory conservation programs should
be identified according to scope, costs, and timing for implementation (often as perceived by local
residents; e.g., preferred tenure and use-rights). Attachment 3 contains a sample report outline.
All reports should contain a summary of essential findings and recommendations.
8.        Officials of the implementing agency should discuss the report with local
communities, and other NGOs. A separate presentation may be organized for local authorities
and representatives other local authorities where more detailed analyses may be done. During
presentations for the local communities, stakeholder, and NGOs, simple formats, such as
vernacular translations, audio visuals, videos, large illustrations, may be used to emphasize the
importance of maintaining biodiversity. The presentations should also stress the roles and
obligations of project authorities and affected populations by giving examples of how project
implementing agencies and project beneficiaries can be made accountable for sustaining
conservation.



-72-
Annex
Attacenmlt 1
CATEGORIES OF INDICATORS AND RELEVANCE TO PROJECT
DESIGN AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Desciption                   Indicator              Relevance to Project Design and Monitorn  and Evaluatiod
1. Natu  of Biodivesty
Project
Habitat/Vegetation           biodiversity          identify biodiversity conservation functions; mess degree of
functions/project     human intervention allowed in biodiversity project site
clasification
Modes of Access to Project   location;              evaluate if accessibility contributes to population encrowlhments'
Site                          accesibility
2. Type of Community
No. of Human Settlemts    legal classifications;   describe setdements and land use shift in biodiversity project
in Site/Buffers               settlement types      site; history of settlements in biodiversity project site and
surrounding communities
3. Demographics
Popuation Growth and          population density;    estimae population density and population growth rat  and
Distribution                   nnual gwth rate    impacts on carrying capacity
Age and Gender Distribution  population by age      estimt age and gender distibution; popultion depedency
and sex; dependency   burden (young and old-age); women-headed households; shifts in
ratio                 role of women and elderly
Type of People7              indigenous and         show population composition relative to settlement location and
migrant groups        livelihood dependence on natural resoumrs by different types of
resource users
Migration                     net migrtion rte;     determine if net inflows increased; trace origin locations and
migation patterns     desdnation points within biodiversity project site; evaluate off-
and on-site determinants of in-migration
4. Tenure
5.Tbe are mthe sa  indicators ured in Guidelinefbr Mwiorlng and Evaldaoan of GEF Bio&wersty ProJ)e.
6.Population encroachmens can be claified into seasona (sport hunting, tourism, labor migrtion) or permanent. Mhs am
flected in changes in fetity, poputation Srowth, an migation.
7.Somo posible claifications include: (1) hiaoric occupat (aboriginal or indigenous inhabitans; (2) persons aelsd in
region prior to protected am designation but not original occupants; (3) recent migrants (psons who ntred the au  since
sablihmmntof biodieraityproject); ad (4) no-rakdat usr of reoures. Other cuihcationu include easona migasu,
resident but noe-uai In PTrrounding vlagesbuffes.



-73-
Forms of Tenure                 classifications;'       evaluate ter -e and access to resources; describe legislation,
.aws; titling;         inheritance  .iaterns, and effectiveness of biodiversity project
inheritance patterns    authority controls (fines, penalties, amsts) in controUing acoss
to natual resources
Customay Social Controls        cultural and social     describe community rules on resource allocation, access,
regulations and         controls for encroachment (including community sanctions and
practices               social acceptance and rewards)
S. Economic   Livehood
Dominant Livelihood             modes of livelihood,   describe livelihood activities and dependence on natural
commercialization       resources; commercialization and role of markets and
middlemen; role of authorities in trading and pticing
Livelihood Sustinability        income security,        measure effects of livelihood/production activities on resources;
livelihood options      review socio-economic factors that promote unsustinable
_______________________                   ~production
Labor Angements                 labor by gender,        describe labor use and allocation by gender and age, hired,
age, informal use       family and exchange labor arrangements
6. Socio-Pblitical Groups
Socio-Political Structure       social groupings,       descnbe centers of authority, outsiders, decision-m     and
local authorities       sbaring systems influencing access and distribution of resources
in biodiversity project sites
Women in Production and         gender roles in         descrbe contributions of women and women-hed households
Conservation                    production and          in production and conservation decision making, land allocation,
conservadon             labor use, distribution of goods, maketing, and conflict
-                 -                       } ~~~~~~~~~~~~resolution
7. Conflict Resolution
Formal and Informal             agrarian conflicts,     describe conflict resolution mechanisms and review agarian
Structures                      dispute resolution      contficts
Expropriation and               extent and manner       in projects where expropriation/resettlement was an option,
Resettlement Procedures         of resettlement         evaluate procedures (use Bank guidelines; see OD 4.30)
Mechanism for Dealing with   social decision            describe local mechanisms for controlling encroachment;
Encroachment and                making and contrpl    attitudes to outside interventions and conflict resolution; assess
Interventions'l                 systems                 effectiveness of extension services
11Some categories of tenure arrangements include: (I) aboriginal or indigenous territories, (2) community-based tenure
regimes, (3) private or individual property rights, (4) forest concessions, (5) public lands (including biodiversity conservation
sie), and (6) common property situ, and othe.
9.T1_n refcr to; (1) kinship groups, (2) local vilage or ommunity orpnizations. (3) aupr-commuaky groups, (4) villag
chicf and hedme, (5) socia  ratification (by Sender, cane, religious qecialim), (6) patronlie  relations, (7) political
ot religious broken (appointed chiefs or headmen), and (8) prophets. Thes also refer to municipal groups Ike local
Svearmet, churche, and othe.
IO.Alte W  ecoachmen mechanism  include: (1) rea1emet outsid PA boundaies, Sw  World  eank OD 43, (2)
relocation wihin PA boundarie, to a site that is Ies  nsitive to buman interventions, and (3) legal recognipion of customry
omire muh as in nesral lands.



-74-
S. Process Documentation
and Participation
Formal Procedures           information            evaluate regulations governing local participation and assess local
dissemination and    involvement and consultation (meetings, attendance rates, quality
consultation         of project presentation)
Social Surveys               consultation in data   evaluate how social surveys were conducted; assm  participation
gathering and        of local leaders, community members, and NGOs in conduct of
project preparation    murvey; review mechansm used for training community
enumerators; supervision and payment schemes used;
effectiveness of participatory techniques used in social suveys
and project preparation
Attitudes to Biodiversity    measures of local    describe community perceptions of effectiveness of biodiversity
Project Authority            perceptions          project authorities; attitudes towards community conservation
responsibilities
Participation in Income      community income;   describe community income flows from biodiversity project;
Flows"                       income transfers      evaluate flows using equity standards; assess participation in
income transfers
Willingness to Manage        community role in    describe community perceptions of responsibilities in mnaging
Biodiversity Project         conserving resources  the biodiversity project and expectations about income Rlows nd
obligations; solicit suggestions for improvig comiqmity
managmeint of nautrl resources
II.Examplesare the following: (I) employmcnat in biodivetyprojectreled work; (2) mapplcmentaylivelihoodor income
tnsfer program; (3) tourist income; (4) special rights to use natural resourcs; (5) royalties from lices and CDtrn fee;
sad (6) specil tru  or endowments for local communities.



-75-
Annex 
Atdimen 2
EXAMPLES OF PARTICIPATORY DATA GATHERING AND ANALYSIS
TECHNIQUES USED IN SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
The data gathering and analysis techniques listed below strive to be simple, so that local
people may be trained to participate during pre-testing, fieldwork, data collection, and
analysis. The choice of techniques depends upon types of data to be collected, project
requirements (time and resources), quality of available social data, and others.
1.    Collection of Second    Infomation
1.1   Published government reports (statistical yearbooks, census, government
surveys)
1.2    Written records, histories, reports from NGOs, missionaries, etc.
1.3   Library search (books, articles, etc.)
2.    Ky Informant Intriews
2.1    Checklist format using several key informants
2.2   Informal, consensus-building techniques and group discussions
2.3   Formal meetings, consultations with local leaders, NGOs and stakeholder,
staff in project implementing agency, outsiders
2.4 Life histories of elders, key informants
3.    Direct Observation of Processes and Behavior
3.1    One-time, short-term site visits Oess than two weeks)
3.2    Two or more short-term site visits (each about two weeks)
3.3    One medium-term site visit (at least one month)
4.    Participant Observation of Processes and Behavior
4.1    Observers as part of community activity (at least one month)
4.2    Local resident as observer using records, diaries, or other media such as
tapes, films, photographs (for recording religious and political events, feasts,
meetings)
S.    Mapping of Social Structures
5.1    Genealogy mapping of dominant lineages
5.2    Decision tree diagramming of actors and decision making mechanisms using a
specific problem (e.g., decision to build a health center, plant trees)
5.3    Diagram of power structures; actors that determine allocation of resources;
livelihood; social obligations
5.4   Institutional linkages (through use of diagrams)
6.    Commnity Maping
6.1   IndIvidual farm (ural) or household property (urban) sketches
6.2    Nature zoning (rural) settlement zoning (urban)



-76-
6.3    Community or village mapping and sketch maps
7.    Production/Livelihood Diagrammin2
7.1    Production, seasonal calendar (rural); Industry, employment (urban)
7.2    Time lines and time trends
7.3    Production (rural) or Labor employment (urban) time transects
7.4    Synchronized calendars
8.    Gender Analysis Tools
8.1    Task analysis and role flexibility by gender (rural and urban)
8.2   gender needs assessment
8.3    women's time management
8.4    mapping and perceptions of women's realities
9.    Ground Observations and Aerial Surveys
9.1    Photographs across sites depicting land use changes from urbanization,
encroachment, environmental degradation; boundaries of resource plots,
squatter settlements; territories of open access or communal use (aerial photos,
GIS)
9.2    Participant mapping using local people to draw map of area and delineate
major physical features; communal or religious/sacred sites; nature zoning
10.   Socio-economic Surveas
10.1   Non-random sampling of persons arbitrarily interviewed at various locations
(such as rapid appraisal and so-called 'roadside interviews')
10.2   Random sampling using list frame from residential, NGO (such as church)
listing of village residents; also from census
10.3   Random sarmpling using combination of area and list frame from GIS or
village maps and listing of residents.
10.4  Sampling of populations such as disadvantaged segments, stakeholder
11.   Community Information and Consensus-Building Techniques
11.1   Village Management Plans
11.2   Ranking of problems by large social groups
11.3  Interest group meetings (stakeholder, outsiders)
11.4   Group dynamics; structured discussions; role playing
12.   Policy and Project Design Techniques
12.1   Logical framework
12.2  Systems diagramming and flow charts



-77-
Annex 4
Attachment 3
SAMPLE SOCIAL ASSESSMENT REPORT OUTLINE
A. Summary of Findings and Recommendations
1.    Results of household production surveys (household characteristics, economic
livelihood and household dependence on resources; family settlement history
and migration patterns; tenure; current land use practices)
2.    Existing resource management systems (sustainability and effectiveness of
local practices)
3.    Potentially damaging production practices (agriculture, gathering forest
products, wildlife hunting/fishing, grazing, mining and quarrying, commercial
uses, tourism)
B. Controlling Resource Access and Conflicts
1.    Mechanisms for land allocation, resource sharing, reciprocity Oinship,
lineage; labor sharing arrangements, inheritance, cultural prohibitions)
2.    Mechanisms for dealing with encroachment and outside interventions
(household-based systems; community decision-making and control; common
property controls)
C. Participation
1.    Legal basis for participation in biodiversity project operations and
management
2.    Consultation procedures (information dissemination, social surveys,
descriptions of direct consultations)
3.    Participation activities (consultation mechanisms, local perceptions of PA
authority and conservation, levels of local management, participation in PA
income flows)
4.    Perceptions and attitudes (views on biodiversity project authority,
environment, conservation; willingness to manage project)
D. Recommendations for Development of Participation Plan (strategies for project
delivery and community resource mobilization)
Annex 1.  Process Documentation of Participation in Project Preparation
Annex 2.  Brief Description of Data Gathering and Analysis Techniques Used in Data
Collection and Diagnosis
Annex 3.  References (sources of information)



-78-
Annex
Ecuador
Biodiversity Protection Project
Community Participation
1.    Background.  Human settlements and spontaneous colonizations are two important
sources of pressure to the integrity of the National System of Protected Areas (NSPA). Other
pressures are related to agriculture and forest activities, and petroleum exploitation and mining.
These pressures are in many cases closely related. For instance petroleum exploration and
mining lead to logging and open access to previously isolated areas followed by colonization.
Many of the conservation units of the NSPA are surrounded by indigenous communities and by
rural poor who have migrated from the highlands and from the coastal zone. In many cases their
lands are in the buffer zone and adjacent to the borders of protected areas. While in some
instances the areas protected and their region of influence have been the traditional home of
indigenous groups for centuries, the rural poor immigrants have been settling in these areas in
the past twenty years.
2.      Since the establishment of the NSPA and until recently, there had not been clear
governmental policies to guide interaction with all these groups in the management of protected
areas. This has led to conflictive situations and a lack of understanding of the Government's
protection efforts which have been perceived as an attempt to curtail the use of land resources
and limit or prohibit agriculture and forestry activities. Moreover, these groups do not perceive
themselves as part of the mechanism for protection and do not see what benefits could be derived
from it.
3.    There is a growing realization in INEFAN that biodiversity protection within protected
areas and sustainable use of resources in the buffer zones and areas of influence are closely linked
with the degree of community participation in the decision making process of managing protected
areas. To obtain community participation the following factors should be taken into consideration
within the context of the conflict resolution process when initiating preparation of a protected
area's management plan:
i.  the needs and interests of local populations within the context of the socio-economic
framework in which they live should be identified at the onset. Thus, a comprehensive
social assessment and an inventory of their resources should be carried out as a priority.
This should take into consideration that indigenous communities, settlers and other
stakeholders do not share the same needs and cultural background;
ii. to assure effective participation it will be critical to determine what kind of assistance
communities will require to reach adequate levels of implementing capacity. This will
include provision of information regarding the legal and institutional framework that are
relevant to their everyday life, natural resource management, and biodiversity protection.
In addition it will include assistance in technical aspects related to income generating
activities; and
iii. community participation should not be sought as a means to replace official
responsibilities and thus to lower operating costs.
4.     While under the project a key feature will be the integration of local populations in the
mnagement process of each conservation unit, the approaches and methods to be used such as
strategic planning and conflict resolution, are fairly new in Ecuador, thus, need to be tailor made



-79-
to each case. With this in mind INEFAN will launch its community participation initiatives in
the protected areas wtiere some previous work has already been advanced such as in the
Cotacachi-Cayapas Biological Reserve around which Chachi indigenous communities live.
5.    The Cotacachi-CayaMas Ecological Reserve is located in the western foothills of the
Ecuadorian Andes. It was established in 1968 and covers about 204,000 ha of coastal and sierra
zones. Its altitude extends from 100 to 4,939 m. It is considered one of the "hot spots" for
biodiversity and it is suspected to contain some of the highest levels of endemic species in the
world. The mnmber of people settled within the reserve or in its buffer zone is not known. The
main inhitabs  are members of the Chachi communities who reportedly have been settled
around the reserve area long before it was established. Most of the Chachi live in 150,000 ha
established by the Government as indigenous reserve specifically for the Chachi, however, the
physical delimitation of the area has not been completed. A large portion of the Chachi land lies
within the buffer zone of the ecological reserve. Other inhabitants include members of black
communities and immigrant landless farmers.
6.    One of the most important threats to the ecological reserve relates to illegal exploitation
of wood within its boundaries and its buffer zones. Depletion of this resource is exacerbated
by the lack of access of the local communities to current information related to improved forestry
and agricultural practices. Therefore, support to be provided to these communities should be
aimed at two broad objectives: i) improving the quality of their life by providing them with
information to learn and apply improved practices to manage their land's resources sustainably
and to maintain their socio-cultural identity; and ii) protecting the integrity of adjacent protected
areas.
7.    Paoed Actions, Actions proposed to seek and obtain community participation will
vary according to the particular socio-economic and cultural make up of pertinent communities
of each protected area. INEFAN will be responsible for carrying out all activities regarding
community participation. In this endeavor INEFAN will contract with local or international
consultants and/or NGOs with sufficient experience and qualifications.
8.     In the case of the Chachi, proposed actions are based on recommendations made by an
independent inquiry into the sustainabiity of planned timber resource extraction plans for an IFC
investment operation on Chachi lands (the IEFC project included GEF funding for an associated
biodiversity research program). As the inquiry concluded that the proposed project will not be
sustainable as designed, GEF funding was withdrawn, and an alternative program of assistance
to the Chachi communities was defined to give them the tools to manage the resources under their
responsibility in a sustainable manner. This progm, supported by the Biodiversity Protection
Project, will be carried out with the full participation of the Chachi communities and will include
the following activities:
i. Inventory of forestry and biological resources (about 100,000 ha). These inventories will
be carried out to provide a baseline for rational and improve utilization of forestry
resources;
H. Preparation of study to detemnine the effects of sdective logging on biodiversity;
ii. Preparation of guidelines for land use plannn. Ihis will include mapping of soils
according to potental use and identification of areas suitable for agriculture, forestry and
ptures.  In addition, it will include present land use maps indicating forest cover.
Comparison of data from these maps will determine the potential conflicts between
potentia and acual land uses; and



40-
iv. Since these communities lack experience in the proposed activities, classroom and field
workshops will be organized to provide communities with: a) information related to legal
land rights and the titling process, and b) training related to the planned inventory, land
use planning, and logging study activities.



-81-
Annex 6
ECUADOR-GEF BIODIVERSfTY PROTECTION PROJECT
SELECTED PROTECTED AREAS
BIODIVERSITY AND ECOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS
Sangay National Park
Background
1.    Sangay National Park covers an area of 271,925 ha within the provinces of Chimborazo,
Tungurahua, and Morona Santiago. It is the only continental protected area which has been
accorded World Heritage status in 1983 by UNESCO.
2.    The park covers an attitudinal range of 1000-5400 m, and hence a great variety of
climates and enormous diversity of flora and fauna. The park covers eight life-zones, from the
perpetual snow line of the volcanoes Altar, Sangay and Tungurahua to sub-tropical forest in the
Amazon.
Flora and Fauna
3.    The flora of the area is typically Andean, for example forests of Polylgi , Myrtu, and
Weimnannia, and other characteristic species such as Buddleia inca  and Senecio arbutifolia. In
addition the area is rich in orchid species, and in species of cedars, palms etc.
4.    The area is critical for the Andean tapir, and also has pumas, jaguars, spectacled bears,
and a great variety of monkeys. It is estimated that there are more than 500 species of birds
within the park, including the condor.
Threats
5.    One of the major threats within the park is colonization and peripheral settlements.
Human settlements are present in the sections of Purshi, Llushin and Palora. Within the park
there are 400 families of the Atila community. Land conflicts exist with the Santa Rosa,
Guarguala, Cuyuyne and Callebrillas baciendas along the Westem part. Along the eastern buffer
zone there are at least 9 human settlements. The majority of these are agricultural cooperatives
of some 688 families, occupying an area of 35,911 ha.
6.    Other threats within the park include mineral prospecting and road construction. In
particular the construction of the Guamote-Macas road, has posed a significant threat, and no
measures have been taken to mitigate environmental impacts.



-82-
Cayambe-Coca Ecolofical Reserve
Background
7.    Cayambe-Coca ecological reserve extends through part of the provinces of Imbabura,
Pichincha, Napo and Sucumbios. The altitude range spans from 800-5900 m, and covers 10 life
zones. About 25 percent of the territory is located in the Sierra and 75 percent in the Amazon
region. The reserve contains exceptional plant and animal diversity, with many species under
threat of extinction. There are some 81 lagoons located in the park. It forms the watershed for
the Quijos-Coca river, and constitutes a water source for approximately 1.5 million persons. It
is known to be rich in mineral resources. The reserve also contains some important archeological
sites in the eastern part and in the Cangahua zone.
Flora and Fauna
8.    In accordance with the variety of life-zones present, the biological diversity is extremely
rich. From numerous species of Bromelia to typical humid-tropical species such as OcoteaipD
TIrhihla forbundia, Cro=ia s.. Small forests and formations of Polylepis, Solanum, Eicu,
Cedreda montana etc. can be found in the various zones.
A multitude of manmal species such as armadillos, various types of monkeys and cats, rabbits,
bears, and andean tapir can be found. Bird species include: Aajsevra, Nonnula brunea,
Micrastur ruficollia, among numerous others.
Threats
9.    Colonization poses a significant threat to the reserve, particularly towards the north-east
and east, in the zones of El Chaco, El Salado, Reventador, San Rafael and at points along the
river Cofanes. These include indigenous Cofanes settlements of 14 families towards the north-
east, at least 2 communities of Quichuas: Oyacachi with 75 families and Chuscuyacu with 30
fmiies, along the border limits of the reserve. In these areas indiscriminate wood cutting is a
major problem.
10.   Illegal mineral prospecting has led to contamination of the water resources with cyanide
and mercury, particularly in the rivers Due, Condue and Aguarico.
11.   The water supply project in the limits of the reserve, was carried out with no
environmental assessment, and consequently no mitigative measures. This project has seriously
affected the integrity of the ecosystems.
12.          In addition a number of other projects related to mineral and petroleum
exploration and exploitation, road construction, and hydro-electric and irrigation projects are
affecting the reserve.



-83-
Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve
Background
13.   Cotacachi-Cayapas ecological reserve was established in 1968, however, its limits were
not defined until 1979. The reserve is located between the provinces of Imbabura and
Esmeraldas, covering about 204,000 ha of both coastal and sierra zones. In altitude it extends
from 100 to 4,939 m, and covers a huge variety of habitats in some 11 life zones. The area
contains several lagoons such as the Donoso-Pifan and Cuicocha and high mountain areas
(Cotacachi, Yanahurco). It is one of the 'hot spots' for biodiversity, and is suspected to contain
one of the highest levels of endemic species in the world. The reserve is located close to one
of the important archeological sites of Ecuador, 'La Tolita" where an important pre-columbian
society existed.
Flora and Fauna
14.   There are about 8-10 thousand plant species with some 40-60 of plant species and 25
percent of tree species endemic. For every plant species there are estimated to be 10-30 animal
species. Along with areas in Madagascar and the Atlantic coast of Brazil, this constitutes one
of the world's most important areas for preservation. Recent and future extinction will reduce
plant species by an estimated 6200 species of plants and 124 thousand species of animals.
To date about 630 species of birds have been registered.
Population
15.   Various reports indicate the exact number of people living within the reserve and in its
buffer zone is not known. Reportedly, some Chachi communities are settled in the low lands of
the reserve while some 15 small-farm families live in the altiplano zones. While members of
the Chachi communities were present in the area before the reserve was established, the small
farmers are in fact colonists without title to the land they occupy.   Most of the Chachi
communities live in 150,000 ha established by the Government as indigenous reserve for the
Chachis, however, a large portion of this land lies within the buffer zone of the Ecological
Reserve. Moreover, basic services are lacking for all these occupants.  The construction of
roads such as the Selva Alegre-Quininde, and irrigation canals poses a further threat since it will
facilitate and encourage the settlement of colonists and expand agricultural activities into the
buffer zone of the park.
Threats
16.   Threats to the park relate principally to illegal exploitation of wood by the colonists for
small businesses. It is estimated that in the Canton of Eloy Alfaro and San Lorenzo, some 40-45
percent of the population rely on illegal wood cutting for their livelihoods within the reserve and
its buffer zones. Moreover, the existence of mineral resources poses an enormous potential threat
to the reserve from illegal miners.
17.   The lack of complete physical delimitation of the reserve and little awareness of its
existence among local communities, there are land and resource conflicts that have not been
resolved.  This is exacerbated by the fact that the reserve land assigned to indigenous
communities has not been delimited either. The result is a rapid colonization process taking
place in the area. Moreover, local communities do not have access to technical assistance to
learn about sustainable agriculture and forestry; this contributes to the depletion on available
nural resources.



484-
Podocarnus National Park
Badcground
18.   Podacarpus National Park is located in the provinces of Loja and Zamora Chinchipe, in
the southernmost sector of Ecuador close to the Peruvian border. It occupies nearly 146,000 ha
at an altitude range of 1000-3600 meters above sea level. It crosses from North to South across
the Cordilera Real of the Andes, and contains highly unusual landform and lagoon systems (140
lgoons). According to the Holdridge life zone system, it contains 6 life zones and is an
important center for endemism.
19.   Ihe park was established in 1982 for the protection of large extensions of natural cloud
'forests that occupy regionally important watersheds. The headwaters protected by the park are
:Catamayo, Chinchipe, Zamora and Nangaritza. More than half of the population of the region
relies on the park's water for subsistence.
Flom and Fauna
20.   The area contains Ecuadorian Cloud Forest, and is the richest in tree species in Ecuador.
Endemic species include Podocru (the only conifer native to Ecuador) and Cincho   . Some
78 forest species of great importance have been identified including Buddleia incana and Cordia
liodora. In the altoandino ecosystems many different types of Hipericacea and Lycopodiaceae
have been found. R1stovia          previously encountered only in Antartica has also been
found. The number of vascular plant species is estimated at 3-4 thousand, and at 2800 m the
numbers of species registered per hectare vary from 75-90.
21.   With some 800 speies of birds, Podocarpus is believed to be the world's richest national
park for birds. In general the fauna of the park is poorly known and only a very conspicuous
species have been registered such as the mountain deer, mountain tapir, spectacle bear, cougar,
trogons toucans and parrots.
22.   The following species with distribution restricted to a specific habitat type in the park and
throughout Ecuador and the closest sectors to either Peru or Colombia have been considered
endemic:
i.  Birds. Bearded Guan (Penege  h , restricted to very humid forests in the
southernmost region of Ecuador and the northernmost region of Peru. Golden Plumed
Parakeet (Lesittaca branickii), known from similar habitats in Central Colombia, and
Peru. White-breasted Parakeet (Pyrrbura aibiDectus and Red-faced Parrot
fM-apasiteaa  rrhops) only known in central and southern Ecuador and the
northernmost sector of Peru;
ii. Plants. About 77 endemic species have been listed (by Madsen 1984) such as nine
species of Cmggn- six species of DendrohPh1o[I, and 12 species of the
Melastomaceae Miconiak
23.   There is a long list of mammals that have been recorded. Some of the most commonly
mentioned threatened species include: spectacle bear lTremarctus ornatus), jaguar (Pantera oncal,
mountain lion dix concolor)) and mountain tapir fTirus 2inchagiw). A list of vulnerable or
threatened plants has not been found.



-85-
Population
24.   There is a small population of small farmers and indigenous people settled in the buffer
zone of the park, and a floating population of miners in its core. In a few cases landholdings of
these people are partially located within the park borders. Many of the farmers do not live on
their farm but on nearby villages from where they manage incipient subsistence agricultural
activities. Some areas of the park in the southern part do not have clear boundaries. In the east
part some area is claimed as Shuar territory. Shuar communities rely on park resources for
hunting and gathering.
Threats
25.   The threats confronting Podocarpus relate principally to mining activities (principally in
the San Luis area and upper Loyola river), and colonization (mainly in the area of Numbala and
lower Loyola River). Mining and associated activities represent the most serious threat to the
park. Most of the mining concessions had been granted before the park was established.
Although most of the mining activities have ceased the infrastructure was left behind. Illegal
miners have tried to take over them. Presently, the army patrols the park to prevent illegal entry.
Threats from mining include, destruction of forest, soil erosion, construction of new roads,
sedimentation of rivers, mercury pollution, and depletion of biodiversity. The consequences of
colonization are: destruction of forest cover and of biodiversity, poaching/gathering of rare and/or
endangered species, introduction of foreign plants and animals, and pollution of water sources.
26.   Other problems related to colonization, is illegal exploitation of wood (especially in the
Romerillos sector) and use of land for farming and cattle-raising. There is also an illegal trade
in orchid species. Much conflict exists between the colonos, park authorities and visitors. There
are some 78 farms with 208 persons living through agro-pastoral activities and exploitation of
wood.



Machalilla National Park
Background
27.   Machalilla National Park was established in 1979 is located in the Province of Manabi,
in the central coastal region. The park consists of three independent continental sectors (Salaite,
Agua Blanca and Salango) joined by a two-mile wide marine corridor. The islands of Salango
and La Plata are included as part of the park. All sectors and the marine corridor enclose almost
55,000 ha of the Manabi Province. The Park forms a transition zone between dry and humid
tropical forest and is high in biodiversity. The terrain varies in altitude from about 400-600 m.
While much of the area in the region is subject to decertification, the park provides a refuge for
threatened plant and animal species. It contains 4 life-zones, and encompasses marine, sea-shore
and cliff environments. Machalila probably represents the only real opportunity to preserve the
last remnants of the low altitude dry forest and the coastal fog forest in western Ecuador. In
addition, it represents the only natural refuge for manu animals and plant species. Almost 8%
of the total bird fauna of Ecuador and 2.5% of the total of mammals have been recorded in
Machalilla.
28.   To date, there are no studies to assess the status of the species populations. Reportedly,
the numbers are low as a result of frequent poaching and intense habitat destruction.  The
marine ecosystems, including the islands of Salango and La Plata, are relatively diverse with a
high number of economically important fish and shellfish species. In addition to marine species,
La Plata is inhabited by large populations of seabirds, mainly pelicans and petrels.
29.   In addition to its biodiversity, the park has considerable archaeological importance
containing remains of the cultures of Mantena, Machalilla and Chorrera, and while much remains
to be investigated, an important site is located at Agua Blanca. Some artifacts collected in the
area, belonging to the Machalilla and Valdivia cultures, are estimated to be about 5,000 years
old. Items collected can be seen in two small archaeological museums located in the tow of
Salango and in the community of Agua Blanca, within the Park.
Flora and Fauna
30.   Few botanic inventories have been reportedly conducted in the park, and there is only one
study that deals with the patches of moist forest (Parker and Carr, 1992). In areas occupied by
moist or fog forest, two of the most conspicuous endemic species are the ivory palm Phypjtelphba
a&=atorliAi) and the legume Ehdrna megistophylla.  The endemic Bignonaceae genus
Macranthis4ibh is the most common species in the disturbed areas of the dry forest. The second
record ever seen of Delostoma gracike was found in the site of Mata Blanca. This species can
be considered endemic to that sector of the Pacific Coast. Reportedly, an undescribed species
of tree Ehytlacca, a new pendant Heliconia, one undescribed Dieffenbachia, CMaris,
Anthurium, and a new genus of Simaroubaceae. Typical flora includes the candelabra cactus,
palo santo, Ziziphus thyrsiflora, Ceiba petandra, Prosopis julifloa, Tabebuia chsanth (a much
exploited species), Cathya maxima (an indicator species for the dry tropical forest life-zone),
balsa (Ochromo lagp), a great variety of palms and numerous other species.
31.   A great diversity of (fast decreasing) animal life exists, which previously gave rise to the
traditional hunting practices of the area. Mammals include armadillos, bears, monkeys amongst
others. Reptile species include the boa constrictor and species of tortoises. Both marine and
other forms of birds species are found. However, no information has been found regarding
endemic animals.



47-
Threatened Species
32.   The park is in an excessively disturbed conservation unit. The majority of the predators
and the large mammal and  rds herbivores inhabiting Machalilla are endangered. Most of the
low density endemic species with highly restricted habitat in western Ecuador must be considered
either vulnerable or threatened. This is the case of ThYy1Q1ac  sp, Delostoma  gr , and
Macranthiaiphn sp. The majority of the large mammals and birds (mainly cracids) that have
been traditionally hunted for survival are endangered either locally, regionally or nationally.
Particular cases are: the Crested guam (Penelop   Duacensl, the white tall deer (doopileus
vin~ini and two brocket deer of the genus Ma=z.a Big cats are locally exinct, although
occasionally FeliL pardalis is still observed in the protected area.
33.   In the marine sector some highly endangered species of sea turdes have been recorded.
The nesting populations of petrels are imperiled not only due to the disturbance caused by
fishermen who come to the island to collect regurgiated food from the chicks, but also due to
introduced feral cats that feed on the eggs, chickens and juveniles. In addition, the scarce
vegetation cover of the island has been heavily impacted by goats.
34.   In general the park's integrity is threatened by several factors. In the terrestrial zones
the most important menaces are loss of tree diversity by commercial charcoal production and
selective commercial logging, overgrazing, soil erosion, loss of biodiversity by poaching, habitat
transformation and depletion of the population of cynegetic species. In the marine sector the
major threats are loss of endemic species due to commercial over fishing, and destruction of nest
habitat for sea turtles.
35.   To other important factors affect the park's integrity: its use as a service corridor for
power lines and for oil and natural gas multi-use pipeline. The pipeline runs through the park,
and has been a source of considerable destruction of plant life and perhaps archaeological sites.
Construction was carried out without any consideration given to environmental impacts which
could have been mitigated. Tourist development plans for la Plata Island and Los Frailes beach
also constitute a threat since these plans did not include an environmental impact assessment nor
an analysis to determine the maximum number of tourists that will be admitted annually.
Population
36.        Within the park area there are a number of small communities. The exact number
of people living within the park boundaries is unikown, however, it is estimated that about 700
people live within the park and about 980 are settled in the buffer zone. Inside the park and in
the buffer zone there exist private landholdings with legal titles issued before the park was
established. More than half of the families in an around the park depend on agricultural activities,
In addition they engage in complementary activities such as forest exploitation and harvesting of
tagua seeds (ivory palm tree).



Yasuni National Park
Badkground
37.   Located in the Ecuadorian Amazon region, in the Provinces of Napo and Pastaza, Yasuni
National Park was established in 1979 covering initially 679,730 ha. The park area was
expanded in May 1992 to 982,300 ha. The park was declared a World Biosphere Reserve by
UNESCO in 1988. It is the traditional habitat of indigenous groups of Huaorani, Quichuas and
Shuars. In 1990 the Government granted the Huarani 600,000 ha of which 135,000 ha are within
the limits of the park.
Flor and Fauna
38.   While litole has been studied about the biodiversity, data indicate that the park consttus
a significant center of endemism, where species are conserved in conditions similar to the end
of the Pleistocene era. The number and variety of species is greater than any other torrestrial
ecosystems. Up to 106 plant families with more than 700 species have been identified in an area
of less than a kilometer. Tree species include Cedrelinga catePnaeformin. arlckiLaDM Cedrela
fsilia, species of palm and others. Here more than anywhere, exists an enormous volume of
wood, lianas epiphytes and orchids of the genera ERid Wm and Mix2azin. At the source of
the river Napo are fbund 473 species of fish, more than in any other watershed in the world.
39.   Up to 1988, about 43 species of amphibians and 28 of reptils had been inventoried in
the area. Over 350 species of birds have been registered, and it is thought that more than 500
species may exist. Moreover, about 83 species of mammals had been registered, including
jaguars, armadillos, tigrillos.
I'opulation
40.   The majority of people living near or around the area belong to the Huaorani and Shuar
indigenous communities settled along the banks of the Yasuni and Tiputini rivers. In addition
there are a few groups of Quichua communities established along the Napo river.
Threats
41.   Without doubt the major threat confronting Yasuni is petroleum extraction, with 4 blocks
of exploration and exploitation located partially within the park boundaries. Ihis has caused
significant deforestation, loss of biodiversity and contamination of soil and water course. The
construction of service roads needed for the petroleum extaction activities encourage the
settlement of landless colonos in area assigned to the park or to indigenous communities.
42.   An additional threat is illegal hunting and poaching not only by colonos but also by
workers of the oil companies operating in the area colonization especially in the north-east is a
problem, along with illegal hunting, and also uncontrolled tourism.



-89-
GalaiggoS National Park
Background
43.          The Galapagos Islands are located 600 miles from the South American mainland
in the Pacific Ocean. The islands belong to Ecuador and are known worldwide for their unique
flora and fauna and habitats. Over 97% of the approximately 3,000 square miles of land area
was established by the Government as a national park in 1959. In 1986 a Marine Reserve
covering 32,000 square mile was established around the islands, the second largest such reserve
after the Great Barrier Reef.
44.          The Galgpagos archipelago is characterized by extreme climatic, oceanographic
and ecological variation within a small geographical area, biological simplicity, and largely
unaltered evolutionary and ecological processes and habitats. These characteristics along with
the archipdago's isolation from the continent, the young geological age and the hostile
environment, have limited natural colonization from outside the area. This combination of
conditions has permitted the evolution of unique species of plants and animals. Because of the
strong selection pressure, the pace of evolution is also accelerated under these conditions. This
results in the development of genetically isolated populations, races and subspecies- the 'raw
materials' of species formation and biodiversity.  The association of the Galipagos with
Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection have earned the park the term 'showcase of
evolution".
Flora and Pauna
45.          Approximately 42% of the native flora is endemic, as are 80% of the breeding
species of land birds, 90% of the native mammals, 95% of the reptiles and 66% of the beetles,
an almost 30% of marine species of all types. The islands continue to contribute to the
understanding of evolutionary processes. Some of the best examples of adaptive radiation are
seen in the cases of the 13 species of Darwin's finches, 11 subspecies of Giant Tortoises and
several other species groups such as mockingbirds, lizards, beetles, ants, land-snails, and several
groups of plants.
Population
46.          Population is composed of immigrants who have settled in the islands at various
times. Current total population is estimated at I 1,000 people concentrated in the islands of Santa
Cruz, San Cristobal and Isabella. While the majority are linked to the tourist industry and related
activities, a few are cattle ranchers exporting beef to the continent.  The urban areas are
established in an zone equivalent to 3% of the total land area of the archipelago.
lhrts.
47.          While the GaVlapagos is still one of the most unspoiled places on earth, it is
severely threatened by uncontrolled immigration from people coming from the continent attracted
by job opportunities supposedly available in the tourist industry. The population increase has
caused the single largest and constantly growing threat in terms of introduction of plants and
animals foreign to the islands' environment.
48.          While the plants and animals endemic to the Galapagos evolved in the absence
of competition and predators, some are being driven to extinction by newcomers such a goats,



-90-
dogs, pigs, rats, cats, cattle and a host of foreign plants and insects. New species are introduced
regularly, for purposes of agriculture, ornamental use, pets and accidentally in cargo. To date
this, coupled with human impact has led to the extinction of dozens of species of plants, nine
species of animals, plus numerous extinctions on individual islands.
49.           Over the last decade the islands have experienced a boom in the tourist trade,
with increasing pressure on the resources, and accompanying problems such as introduction of
species. With increasing human pressures, pollution has increased considerably, and demands
on the scarce resources and services (such as water, sewage and solid waste disposal) are reaching
critical proportions, and threatening the integrity of these fragile islands.



-91-
Antisana Ecological Reserve
Background
50.           Officially established in November 1993, Antisana is the most recent ecological
reserve of the NSPA. The reserve covers an area of 120,000 ha and is pristine and vulnerable.
The area's geology, typical of the eastern Andes, is characterized by dynamic volcanic features.
A lava flow, extinct volcanoes, and lakes formed as a result of volcanic activities can be observed
in this area. The reserve's most striking feature is the Antisana volcano, the fourth highest peak
in Ecuador at 5,705 meters above sea level. The most impressive volcano lake is La Mica,
which covers more than 200 ha. The reserve protects two major ecosystems: the humid cloud
forests in the lower elevations between 1,200 and 3,800 meters, and the paramo grassy fields
between 3,800 and 4,700 meters. The many streams and rivers that originate in the snow-capped
regions of the reserve and the nearby Cayambe-Coca ecological reserve constitute one of the most
important water reserves in the country. Quito, the capital city, with over one million inhabitants
taps about 75 per cent of its water requirements from these watersheds. Antisana is the first
protected area established to be managed by public and private sector institutions. In the first
agreement of its kind, INEFAN has authorized the Antisana Foundation (FUNAN) to assist in
the management of the reserve. FUNAN was the lead organization in securing the official
designation of the reserve.
Flora and Fauna
51.           The reserve's ecosystems are rich in wildlife, including several species on the
brink of extinction. The Andean condor (Vultur gryphus), national symbol of Ecuador, is
perhaps the most important of these species. Approximately one quarter of the condors in
Ecuador, fewer than 100 in total, are found within the reserve. The area is particularly well
Inown for its rich bird life. In the pgramo region alone some 50 bird species have been
identified to date. Unique birds other than the condor that are found within the reserve include
the caranculated cara-cara (Phalcoboenus carunculatus), a species endemic to northern Ecuador
and southern Colombia; the Black-faced ibis (Iheristicus melanotis), of which only two colonies
exist in the country; several species of cracids, and the rare, giant antpitta (Grallaria gigantea).
52.           Among the mammals found in the reserve, the most endangered is the spectacled
bear (Treamarctos ornatus) a species characteristic of the cloud forest. Other species in danger
of extinction include the pudu (dwarf) deer (Pudu mephistophiles), the plramo tapir (Tapirus
pinchaque) and the puma (Fellis concolor). More commonly seen in the reserve are the white-
tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), the broker deer (Manzana spp.), mice of the genus
Thomasomys, and wild rabbits (Sylvilagus brasilliensis).  In the higher areas, the South
American fox is also present.
Threats
53.           Although no human communities exist within the reserve, many activities
conducted by communities in the buffer zone present a serious threat to the wildlife and other
natural resources within the reserve. Poor an eroded soil in most of the surrounding lands, forces
inhabitants of neighboring communities to exert constant pressure on lands within the reserve as
they seek to extend grazing, firewood gathering and logging. Hunting, for subsistence and for
sport, takes a sever toll on the wildlife within the reserve, including rare species such as the
spectacled bear, the puma and the tapir. Moreover, indiscriminate fishing for rainbow trout take
place in highland lakes, sometimes with the aid of nets, electrical shocks, chemicals and
dynamite.



-92-
ECUADOR
INEFAN
PROYECTO GEF- BANCO MUNDIAL
TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA
PARA ACTIVIDADES DEL
PRIMER AflO DE EJECUCI6N



-93-
IMDICE
ACTIVIDAD No 1
Apoyo a las actividades de estructuracion y organizacidn del INEFAN, e implementaci6n de la
Unidad de Coordinaci6n y Control de Proyectos (UCP), dentro de la Direcci6n de Planificacion
y Coordinaci6n de Proyectos del INEFAN. .............................   5
ACTIVIDAD NO 2
Formulacidn de polfticas para proteccidn de la biodiversidad y manejo de recursos en Areas
protegidas ..................................................  14
ACTIVIDAD No. 3
3. 1 Proceso de Planificacion Estrategica Situacional para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas
y Desarrollo de una Estrategia para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas, Fase m . . 17
3.2. Proceso de Planificaci6n Estrat6gica Situacional para las Areas Protegidas
Continentales  .............................................  21
ACT`MDAD NO 7
Apoyo a las actividades de manejo y proteccidn de las areas protegidas ....  ........ 25
ACITVIDAD NO 8
Establecimiento de un programa de monitoreo y evaluaci6n para supervisar la administracion del
SNAP (INEFAN) y las condiciones econdmicas y socioecoldgicas de las Areas ... ....  29
ACTIVIDAD NO 11
Estudios para la valoracidn economica de la biodiversidad y los servicios ecol6gicos que proveen
las Areas protegidas y establecimiento de un sistema de contabilidad nacional para tales bienes y
servicios ...................................................  31
ACIVIDAD NO 15
Analisis de los regfimenes y estrategias para el uso de recursos por parte de las comunidades
locales y su relaci6n con el manejo y administraci6n de las Areas protegidas .... .....  34
ACTIVIDAD NO 20
Diseflo y formulaci6n de una estrategia para la protecci6n de la biodiversidad .... ....  37
ACTIVIDAD NO 25
Contimuaci6n del proceso de planificaci6n estrategica situacional en Galapagos ... ....  40



ACTIVIDAD NO 26
Proceso de planificacidn estratogica situacion en la Reserva de Recursos Marinos de
Galapagos ..................................................44
ACTIVIDAD NO 27
Implementacion de un sistema de inspeccidn y cuarentena para conbrolar l ingrao y disperzi6n
del material bioldgico que Rlega a las blas ....... I .......................  47
ACTIVIDAD NO 28
Reiseflo y  ortaloci eo d   istma de  co-utico; osablcimm     de un sistm  do
concusiones (patentes) para e Parque Nacional Galipagos y para la Reserva Marina y pan las
reas que no se consideran parte del parque .............................  49
ACIIVIDAD NO 30
Ordenamiento de lo& sentos Humanos de la Provincia de GalWos ....         ..... 52
ACTIVMAD NO 31
D3sollo de la propuesta do zonificacin dd Plan de Manejo de la Re  de Rocuros Mainos
de Galpagos (RRMG) en sus upetos normativos, de planes epcfficos y progmas
oporatSvos.s.
ACTIVIDAD NO 32
Equipamiento de la lnidad de conservacin GalIpagos ...................... 57
ACIIVIDAD NO 33
Capacitaci6n de cuadros profesionales y t6cnicos pan garanizar el manejo adecuado de las izrea
protegidas e incemntar la capkiad finciera del SPNG y de la RRMG ....    ...... 59
ACrIVIDAD NO 34
Reestructui6n y reforma del sistea educativo en Galipgs ................. 61
ACTIVIDAD No. 35
305.  Deualroilo de la Estaegia de Manejo Sustentable de la Zona de A ru   o de la
Raerva Cotacachi-Cayapu (cuencas de los rios Onzole, Cayspas y Santiao) ..... .... 63



-95-
PROYECTO GEF - PRIMER ANO
TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA
INTRODUCCION
El proyecto tiene dos objetivos principales: a) apoyar al recientemente creado Instituto
Ecuatoriano Forestal y de Areas Naturales y Vida Silvestre (INEFAN), en el proceso de
organizaci6n administrativa integral; y, b) apoyar en la ejecucion de acciones comprendidas
dentro del Plan Maestro para la Proteccidn de la Biodiversidad Mediante el Fortalecimiento del
Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (Proyecto GEF-Ecuador).
El documento de la fase preparatoria del Proyecto fue publicado en el registro oficial No.
322 de 23 de noviembre de 1993.
Como parte de las acciones preparatorias, es necesario contar con terminos de referencia
para la contratacion de consultores individuales o de empresas consultoras, segdn sea del caso,
que cubran todas las actividades previstas para la primera fase, que cubrira el primer aBo y parte
del segundo aflo.
Las actividades cuyos t6rminos de referencia se incluyen en el presente documento son
las siguientes: 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 11, 15, 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 y 35; de acuerdo a
la numeracion de las actividades que consta en el Reporte No. 12363-EC del Banco Mundial de
AIgunas de ellas se ejecutaran en el primer aflo y otras en el segundo (podrfa modificarse la
seleccidn precedente de acuerdo con los ajustes a la planificacidn que se requieran).
Los presentes terminos de referencia se han elaborado con miras a la contratacion, por
cada una de las actividades, de un consultor o empresa consultora responsable de toda la
actividad, que sea responsable del producto final. Esto tiene la ventaja de facilitar
considerablemente la administraci6n del proyecto, ya que se supervisaran las actividades como
componentes, y no individualmente a todos los consultores participantes en las mismas.
Para el desarrollo de estos terminos de referencia se ha mantenido la numeraci6n del
proyecto en su dItima versidn presentada al Banco Mundial, la cual podrfa tener alguna variacion
con las versiones posteriores. Por lo tanto se considera importante que se rija su utlizaci6n y
anrlisis principalmente por la descripci6n de la actividad.
SISTEMA DE PRESUPUESTACION DE LAS ACTIVIDADES
En el gmbito presupuestario, en el disefto del proyecto se ha incluido un metodo muy
detallado de presupuestaci6n de las actividades, que justifique las cantidades asignadas. Tambien
se ha determinado claramente cuales acciones se ejecutaran simultLneamente y cuales
secuencialmente, esto tiene relaci6n directa con la disponibilidad de fondos para el proyecto.
Aunque el monto autorizado en total por el panel tecnico para e proyecto es de USS 10'000.000
la disponibilidad real al momento es de USS 8'200,000, por tanto las actividades se han
planificado dentro de este dIltimo margen presupuestario.
Dentro de la descripcidn del proyecto se han incluido tablas correspondientes a los
honorarios, salarios y costos administrativos que se han prespuestado para consultores,
consultores, expertos tecnicos, asistentes de investigaci6n, asistentes administrativos y mensajeros.



-96-
Los presupuestos individuales para cada actividad incluyen por cada persona a conratarsoe
los costos de honorarios o salarios. Los costos administrativos deberan ser calculados para cada
una de las actividades.
La definicion de como se administraran esos rubros quedara a cargo del Coordinador del
Proyecto y claro est de la modalidad de contrataci6n. Como se trata de actividades que en su
mayorla se realizan en un perfodo de tiempo considerable, sera necesario que cuenten con ciertD
soporte administrativo. Tal soporte administrativo serla preferible que lo provea el consutor o
empresa consultora encargada de la actividad especfflca, en vez de que lo haga el INEFAN a
traves de la oficina del proyecto. Es decir que cads actividad se conate y organic como un
todo, en que la logstica y asistencia administrativa es responsabiidad del consultor o empresa
consultora y no de INEFAN. Por lo tanto los preseDtes tdrminos de referencia no induyen
ninguna referencia a costos, que ya se encuentran desarrollados on detale en el documento del
proyecto.
Los costos de todas maneras son estmativos y estan sujetos a revisidn. Bajo
responsabilidad del Coordioador del Proyecto.
En general para el proceso de seleccion y conatacion se ceEirdn a los procesos de
contratacion del Banco Mundial y del PNUD.



-97-
ACTIVIDAD No 1
Apoyo a las actividades de estructuracion y organizaci6n del INEFAN, e implementaci6n de la
Unidad de Coordinaci6n y Control de Proyectos (UCP).
DESCRIPCION
Antecedentes
Las Areas protegidas del Ecuador estAn sujetas a crecientes y severas presiones. Por razones
econ6micas y administrativas no ha podido desarrollar las polfticas necesarias para la
administraci6n de recursos naturales en las Areas protegidas, con la finalidad de proteger su
biodiversidad.
Un gran ndmero de instituciones pdblicas estAn relacionadas con las Areas protegidas y
especialmente con sus Areas aledahas o zonas de amortiguamiento (108 instituciones y entidades
pdblicas y privadas, ejecutan unos 282 proyectos de desarrollo en las regiones de influencia de
14 unidades de conservacidn en el continente). La mayorfa actlSan con serias deficiencias de
coordinaci6n interinstitucional.
Con la creacidn del INEFAN, se ha consolidado la figura de una institucion pdblica
descentralizada que hara la administraci6n, control y seguimiento de las actividades en Areas
naturales, bosques protectores, el patrimonio forestal del Estado, Areas marginales, que de
acuerdo a la ley de creacidn del INEFAN, pasan a este Instituto, plantaciones forestales, etc.
Como el INEFAN es un Instituto recientemente creado, es necesario apoyar las acciones
tendientes a su estructuracion y funcionamiento.
Adicionalmente resulta indispensable contar con un sistema presupuestario y financiero que
pernita realizar el seguimiento de los proyectos, el control de los gastos y demas acciones
contables y de auditorfa que son requeridas por los organismos nacionales e internacionales.
OBJETIVO
Concluir la organizacidn del INEFAN y la instalacidn y puesta en funcionamiento de una
Unidad de Proyecto para Administraci6n del Proyecto GEF.
ACCIONES ESPECIFICAS
Organizaci6n y operacidn de una unidad de proyecto para el GEF, que se encargue de la
administraci6n, monitoreo y evaluaci6n de todas las actividades dentro del proyecto.
RESULTADOS ESPERADOS
Una unidad de proyecto para el GEF en funcionamiento.
EMPACTO
Esta actividad asegurara una eficiente administraci6n del proyecto, porque proveera al
INEFAN de un soporte continuo en el Area administrativa y t6cnica para el proyecto y permitirt
ejecutar un sistema de monitoreo y evaluaci6n para realizar los ajustes pertinentes al proyecto y
cuantificar sus efectos.



-98-
Coordinador del Proyecto. Terminos de Referenda
Consultor, con tftulo acad6mico en una Area affn, especialista en administracidn de proyectos de
esta naturaleza (al menos haber administrado dos proyectos de dstas caracterfsticas y
embergadura), y con preparaci6n tecnica en materias relacionadas con administracion de Areas
protegidas y protecci6n de biodiversidad. Necesariamente con conocimientos de ingles.
Perfodo de contratad6n: 60 meses, comenzando inmediatamente.
Area de responsabilidad y actlvidades:
La direcci6n y supervisi6n general del proyecto y de su representacidn.
La determinaci6n de la polftica general a seguirse en el proyecto, tanto en el ambito
financiero, como t6cnico y administrativo.
El analisis y aprobaci6n final de los terminos de referencia de todos los consultores o
empresas consultoras contratadas en dste proyeclo.
La selecci6n final de los consultores y firmas consultoras a ser contratadas por el PNUD
dentro de este proyecto, previa aprobaci6n del Director del INEFAN.
Responsable del cuplimiento de los planes de trabajo del proyecto.
Responsable de ejecuci6n del plan de evaluaci6n y monitoreo y ademias de la preparacidn de
los ajustes necesarios al proyecto.
Responsable del desarrollo de una estrategia global para propiciar el cumplimiento de las
actividades del proyecto y de encargarse del Area de relaciones p4blicas con dsta finalidad.
Responsable de la administracifn financiera y de personal del proyecto.
Responsable de lograr la maxima rentabilidad en el manejo de fondos y de activos del
proyecto y de la preparacidn y presentacion de justificaci6n del uso de los reacrsos del
proyecto.
Actividades:
Actividad 1.4.
Preparaci6n y promulgaci6n de una Resoluci6n del Director Ejecutivo del INEFAN, para la
creaci6n de una Unidad de Proyecto y puesta en marcha del GEF dentro de la Direccidn General
de Programaci6n y Planificaci6nf2 del INEFAN. Plazo: 3 meses.
Actividad 1.6.
Selecci6n y contratacidn del personal de la Unidad de Proyecto. Debe ejecutarse una vez que el
Director haya sido designado para asegurar que participe en la toma de decisiones en cuanto al
personal contratado. Plazo: 2 meses.
ACTIVIDAD NO 8
Establecimiento de un programa de seguimiento y evaluaci6n para supervisar la administracidn
del SNAP (INEFAN) y las condiciones econd6nicas y socioccoldgicas de las Areas.
12.   En coordinaai6 cm I DlrewM Nwciol de Area Naturala y Vida Sivese



-99-
1 Consultores requeridos.
i. Experto en organizaci6n y sisternas:
Experto con tftulo academico en administracion de empresas, con experiencia en el sector
pilblico; este profesional debe contar con cursos de actualizacion de conocimientos, el d11timos
debe haberse realizado no hace m5s de dos afhos.
Perfodo de contrataci6n: 6 meses, comenzando inmediatamente.
Area de responsabilidad y actividades:
Responsable de disefiar y establecer un sistema de seguimiento y evaluaci6n de cada una de
las actividades del proyecto incluyendo el manejo del sistema financiero y de contabilidda.
Ademas deber5 entrenar a un contraparte del INEFAN en la implementaci6n del sistema. El
experto se reportara directamente al Coordinador del proyecto.
ii. Experto en desarrollo de politicas:
Experto con tftulo academico en ciencias polfticas, administraci6n plSblica o derecho pl5blico,
con experiencia en desarrollo de poifticas que conjugen aspectos tecnicos, de administraci6n
pilblica y legales. Este consultor debe tener ademas amplios conocimientos en planificacion
estrategica y haber participado en la aplicaci6n de esta metodologfa para analisis y desarroilo
de polfticas. Adem5s debe tener conocimientos de relaciones plSblicas y educaci6n pilblica.
Perfodo de contrataci6n: 18 meseslpersona
Area de responsabilidad y actividades:
Este consultor sera el encargado de supervisar la ejecuci6n de las siguientes actividades
incluyendo la preparacidn de trrminos de referencia para estudios especlficos que sean
necesarios, el analisis de los mismos y el asesoramiento a la Direccidn Ejecutiva referente a
la aplicaci6n de recomendaciones propuestas.
Perfodo de contrataci6n: 18 meses/persona
ACTIVIDAD NO 2
Formulaci6n de polfticas para protecci6n de la biodiversidad y manejo de recursos en Areas
protegidas
ACTIVIDAD No. 3
3.1 Proceso de Planificaci6n Estrategica Situacional para el Sistema Nacional de Areas
Protegidas y Desarrollo de una Estrategia para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas, Fase
m.
3.2. Proceso de Planificaci6n Estrat6gica Situacional para las Areas Protegidas Continentales



-100-
ACTIVIDAD N° 9
Evaluaci6n de las caracterfsticas regionales de desarrollo y su arr.culacifn con la conservaci6n
y manejo de las areas protegidas
ACTIVIDAD NO 10
Diseflo, operaci6n y entrenamiento de los Comites Regionales de Coordinaci6n para las Areas
protegidas
ACTIVIDAD NO 26
Continuacion del proceso de planificaci6n estrategica situacional en Galapagos
ACTIVIDAD N° 27
Proceso de planificaci6n estrategica situaci6n en la Reserva de Recursos Marinos de
GalApagos
lii. Experto en kgislad6n
Experto en legislacion ambiental, de areas protegidas y biodiversidad, con experiencia en
desarrollo de legislacidn ambiental, procesos de consulta pdblica y a la comunidad; y con
conocimientos t6cnicos sobre administracidn de Areas protegidas y protecci6n de la
biodiversidad.
Perfodo de contrataci6n: 18 meses/persona.
Area de responsabilldad y actividades:
Este consultor serA responsable de supervisar la ejecuci6n de las siguientes actividades
including preparacidn de terminos de referencia y de analizar las propuestas de normas y
regulaciones y de asesorar sobre estos temas al Director Ejecutivo.
ACTIVIDAD N° 4
Analisis de la situaci6n institucional, legal y de los problemas sociales relacionados con la
tenencia de tierra dentro de las Areas protegidas y su relaci6n con la elaboraci6n de una
Estrategia para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas
ACTIVIDAD No 5
Preparacidn y promulgacion de normas y reglamentos para permitir la creacion de Areas
protegidas que combinen propiedad pidblica y privada, solamente propiedad provada y que
regulen el uso controlado de los recursos, bajo un sistema administrativo para conservaci6n
ACflVIDAD N° 13
Preparacion y aprobacidn de normas legales sobre:
Sistema de concesiones (patentes) y permisos de explotaci6n y procodimiento para su emisidn.



-101-
Control y regulaci6n de las actividades extractivas dentro de las Area protegidas.
Mecanismos para redistribuir los fondos provenientes de tasas y tarifas provenientes de las
areas protegidas entre ellas
ACTIVIDAD NO 18
Programa de entrenamiento para funcionarios pdblicos de instituciones vinculadas con las
Areas protegidas en relacidn a la aplicaci6n del nuevo sistema legal
ACTIVIDAD NO 23
Campafia nacional pdblica para informar a la poblacion en general sobre el sistema legal
relativo a Areas protegidas y vida silvestre
ACTIVIDAD NO 24
Campafa pdblica regionl y local para informar a la poblaci6n sobre el sistema legal relativo
a Areas protegidas y vida silvestre
iv. Experto en manejo de reas protegidas y biodiversidad.
Este consultor debe tener un tftulo academico affn con el tema (bidlogo, ecol6go, experto en
manejo de recursos naturales y conservaci6n, u otro afln). Ademas debera tener experiencia
en administraci6n de Areas protegidas y conocimientos especfficos sobre ecoturismo y otras
actividades productivas dentro de Areas protegidas. Adicionalmente debera tener
conocimientos generales ye xperiencia en progarmas para regular la participaci6n de las
comunidades locales y el uso de recursos por parte de ellas.
Perfodo de contratad6n: 24 meses/persona.
Area de responsabilidad y actividades:
Responsable de la direcci6n y supervisi6n de las actividades descritas en estos terminos de
referencia. El analisis y revisi6n de los terminos de referencia de los consultores o empresas
consultoras encargadas de realizar las actividades asignadas a este consultor. La identificaci6n
y selecci6n de los consultores y firmas consultoras a ser contratadas. El cuplimiento del plan
de trabajo del proyecto en esta Area especffica. La administraci6n financiera y de personal
de las actividades del proyecto bajo su responsabilidad; y, la preparaci6n y presentacion de
justificaci6n del uso de los recursos del proyecto en las actividades especificas.
Actividades:
Este consultor es responsable de las siguientes actividades:
ACI1VIDAD N° 6
Reformulacion de los planes de manejo para las Areas protegidas continentales



-102-
ACTIVIDAD No 7
Apoyo a las actividades de manejo y proteccion de las areas protegidas
ACTIVIDAD NO  I
Estudios para la valoracion econ6mica de la biodiversidad y los servicios ecoldgicos que
proveen las reas protegidas y astablecimiento de un sistema de contabilidad nacional para
tales bienes y servicios
ACTIVIDAD NO 12
Planificacion del Desarrollo del Ecoturismo en el Ecuador
ACIIVIDAD NO 14
Disefo o implementacifn de un nuevo sistema finnciero para la recolecci6n de tasas y tarffa
por servicios ecol6gicos
ACTIVIDAD NO 15
Anilisis de los regmenes y esategias para el uso de recursos por parte de las comunidadas
locales y su relaci6n con el manejo y administraci6n de las areas protegidas
ACTIVIDAD NO 16
Estudios y publicaci6n de la historia natural de las areas protegidu pan manejo,
interpretacion, turismo, educacion
ACTVIDAD NO 17
Establecimiento y operacion de un sistema nacional do entrenamiento y capacitacion para e
personal del INEFAN y otros funcionarios de instituciones involucradas en la administracidn
y manejo de las areas protegidas
ACTIVIDAD NO 19
Diseho e implementacidn de una estrategia para educar al pdblico sobre el SNAP, a nivel
nacional y regional
AC7IVIDAD NO 20
Diseho y formulaci6n de una estrategia para la proteccion de la biodiversidad
ACIIVIDAD NO 21
Campahia nacional pdblica para la proteccidn de la biodiversidad
ACIIVIDAD NO 22
Campaha pdblica para la protoccidn de la biodiversidad a nivel regional



-103-
ACTIVIDAD No 26
Continuaci6n del proceso de planificacion estrategica situacional en Galapagos
ACTIVIDAD NO 27
Proceso de planificaci6n estrategica situacion en la Reserva de Recursos Marinos de
Galapagos
ACTIVIDAD NO 28
Implementacion de un sistema de inspeccion y cuarentena para controlar d ingreso y
dispersi6n del material biol6gico que Ilega a las Islas.
ACTIDAD NO 29
Redisefilo y fortalecimiento del sistema turfstico; establecimiento de un sistema de concesiones
(patentes) para el PNG y para la RRMG y para las areas que no se consideran parte del
parque.
ACTIVIDAD N° 30
Establecimiento de un sistema de monitoreo para el ordenamiento del uso turlstico en el
Parque Nacional Galapagos
ACTIVIDAD NO 31
Ordenamiento de los Asentamientos Humanos de la Provincia de Galapagos
ACTIVIDAD N° 32
Desarrollo de la propuesta de zonificacidn del Plan de Manejo de la Reserva de Recursos
Marinos de Galapagos (RRMG) en sus aspectos normativos, de planes especfficos y
programas operativos
ACTIVIDAD NO 33
Equipamiento de la unidad de conservacidn Galapagos
ACTIVIDAD NO 34
Capacitaci6n de cuadros profesionales y tecnicos para garandzar el manejo adecuado de las
areas protegidas e incrementar la capacidad financiera dci SPNG y de la RRMG
ACTIVIDAD No 35
Reestructuracion y reforma del sistema educativo en Galapagos



-104-
ACTIVIDAD N 2
Formulacion de polfticas para proteccidn de la biodiversidad y manejo de recursos en areas
protegidas.
Desaipci6n de la actividad
El Ecuador no tiene una clara definicion de objetivos nacionales para la conservaci6n de la
biodiversidad y manejo de recursos en areas protegidas. Esto ha contribufdo a la ausencia de
soporte politico a nivel institucional para la proteccion de biodiversidad.
Todos los recursos naturales no renovables son de propiedad del Estado y bajo la legialacion
ecuatoriana y la practica se sobreentiende que inclusive si esos recursos estin dentro de los limite
de un area protegida, el gobierno esta facultado para explotarlos. Ademis la Subsecrotarfa
Forestal y de Recursos Renovables Naturales (SUFOREN) del Ministerio de Agricultura,
instituci6n pldblica que manej6 las areas protegidas, no tuvo el poder de aplicar las regulaciones
de proteccidn de biodiversidad hacia otras instituciones pdblicas. Por supuesto la ausencia de una
politica nacional de protecci6n de la biodiversidad contribuyd al debilitamiento de la SUFOREN
para interactuar con otras instituciones. Se debe evitar que lo mismo pueda suceder con el
INEFAN.
Las poifticas deben ser preparadas basandose en propuestas de nuevos instrumentos legal.;
cuando sea posible, las polfticas deben ser aplicadas en base a la legislacidn existente, sin esperar
una reforma legal.
Objetivo
Poner en prictica un paquete de polfticas nacionales para la conservaci6n de la biodiversidad
-an el Ecuador, a traves del INEFAN.
Se espera que esta actividad produzca un significativo cambio en la capacidad del INEFAN,
en ia interaccion con otras instituciones en actividades directamente relacionadas con
biodiversidad, proveyendo al INEFAN de un conjunto de politicas claras para negociar.
Considerando que todas las instituciones gubernamentales deben haber participado en la discusi6n
de las politicas, se espera que su aplicaci6n sea mis ficil.
Requerimiento para la aelsoci6n
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contratacidn del personal necesario para su desarrollo. La firma o instituci6n
seleccionada debe tener experiencia en desarrollo de polfticas sobre medio ambiente o manejo de
recursos naturales y contar con exprtos en legislacidn ambiental.
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participaci6n al menos de:
1 Consultor, especialista en mEtodos para desarroulo de politicas.
1 Consultor, especialista en polfticas para proteccidn de biodiversidad.
2 Consultores, abogados, especialistas en legislacion ambiental.



-105-
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones espedficas
Preparar un reporte que provea al INEFAN de suficiente informacidn para desarrollar un
conjunto de polfticas nacionales para la conservaci6n de biodiversidad en Ecuador.
En base al mencionado reporte conducir entrevistas y talleres con todas las instituciones
involucradas y otras partes afectadas para discutir las polfticas necesarias.
Desarrollo y definici6n de polfticas y discusi6n con las partes afectadas.
Definici6n del marco legal mInimo neceario para la proteccidn de biodiversidad; revision do
convenios internacionales y tratados ratificados por el Ecuador e incorporados en leyas
nacionales; analisis de la polftica de biodiversidad en relaci6n a acuerdos internacionales no
ratificados por el Ecuador; y, todas las otras leyes relacionadas con el manejo e impactos sobre
Areas protegidas y biodiversidad y realizar recomendaciones para reformar esas leyes y
regulaciones que reflejen las poifticas acordadas. Una sesi6n de trabajo (taller) deberd hacerse
integrando a todos las partes interesadas.
Productos
Preparacidn de un informe para proveer de informaci6n al INEFAN, para desarrollar un
paquete de polfticas nacionales para la conservacion de la biodiversidad en el Ecuador. El reporte.
debera incluir una descripci6n de la situacidn actual sobre proteccion de biodiversidad, los
mayores problemas para cumplir esta tarea efectivamente y la estrategia institucional y legal en
esta Area.
Un informe por escrito a cerca de la discusion en los grupos de trabajo, entrevistas y
reuniones analizando la transcripcidn de todas las opiniones recolectadas.
Un conjunto de polfticas para proteccion de biodiversidad, que debera tomar en consideracidn
la polftica actual de conservaci6n de la biodiversidad con relacidn a acuerdos internacionales no
ratificados por el Ecuador.
Un informe sobre el marco legal mifnimo necesario para proteger la biodiversidad, incluyendo
una revisidn de los convenios internacionales y tratados ratificados por el Ecuador para incorporar
esos principios en leyes nacionales.
Un informe sobre todas las leyes relacionadas con el manejo y los impactos sobre Areas
protegidas y la biodiversidad, incluyendo las recomendaciones de reforma de aqullas leyes y
regulaciones para que reflejen las polfticas acordadas. Transcripci6n de las recomendaciones de
los trabajos en grupo.
Informes mensuales de avance y un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a
aplicar, asf como un plan de accion y la descripcidn detallada de una ostrategia para ejecutar ls
recomendaciones.
Tiempo de ejecuci6n de la actividad: 24 meses. Inicio: Julio 1994. Terminacidn Junio 1996



-106-
ACTIVIDAD No. 3
Proceso de Planificacion Estrategica Situacional para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas
y Desarrollo de una Estrategia para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas, Fase III.
Descripci6n de la actividad
La Estrategia para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas, Fasn I, preparada por Fundacidn
NATURA y el MAG, esta en el proceso de ser implementada. La Estrategia requiere ser revisada
y evaluada, con la meta de incorporar nuevas formulaciones adaptadas dentro de las llneas de
polfticas a ser introducidas para del Sistema. Esto convertira a la Estrategia en un insrumento
itil para la coordinaci6n inter-institucional y para el fortalecimiento de las acciones
administrativa para e manejo del Sistema.
En base a la evaluacidn indicada, un proceso de planificacion estrat6gica para e Sistema debe
ser llevado a cabo, que dara como resultado una Estrategia para e Sistema Nacional de Areas
Protegidas, Fase m (E-SNAP  o). El proceso conducido en h formulacion de la nueva fase de
la Estrategia tiene en esta instancia que estar basado en el concepto de planificaci6n estrategica
y dinamica, en el cual por lo tanto, pueden participar activamente, todos los seores de la
sociedad y del pals que estan involucrados directamente o indirectamente con la problematica de
la conservacidn de la diversidad biol6gica.
Objetivo
Llevar a cabo estas acciones permitira:
La creacion de un nuevo programa base para el Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas que
incorpore las formulaciones de las polfticas descritas.
La integraci6n de instituciones pdblicas de desarrollo, organizaciones no gubnentales y
organizaciones comunitarias en el proceso, para encontrar soluciones participativas y para
Ilegar a un consenso en los diferentes conflictos que afectan el manejo del Sistema de Area
Protegida.
Un canal de informacidn para los diferentes sectores de la sociedad sobre temas de
conservacion global y el Sistema de Areas Protegidu.
A traves de la realizacion de estos objetivos, se espera el manejo del sistema, a traves de una
estrategia que supere las deficiencias de los instrumentos de planiSicaci6n existentes,
convirtiendolo en un esfuerzo de la sociedad e incluira su aprobacion y participacidn.
Requerimiento par la selecdl6n
Para la presente actividad sert necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubonamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para quo desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
so encargue de la contatacion del personal necesario para su desurollo. La firma o insftci6n
sdeeccionada debe tenet experiencia en m&odos de planificaci6n estrat6gica y contar con los
medios y la experiencia para organizar desdo el punto de vista t6cnico y logfstico los talleres y
reumion. necesasios. La empresa o instituci6n debera contar ademis con personal especisizado
en proteccion de biodiversidad y areas protegidas.



-107-
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacidn al menos de:
1 Consultor, especialista en procesos de planificaci6n estrategica, preferentemente aplicados a
manejo de Areas protegidas.
1 Consultor, especialista en diseflo de sistemas nacionales de Areas protegidas.
I Consultor que debera apoyar las actividades en las Areas y asistir en los procesos de
capacitaci6n.
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones especfficas
Conducir una evaluaci6n rapida y precisa y una revisi6n de la 'Estrategias Nacional para
Areas Protegidas, Fase IIW (S-SNAP II) y su aplicacidn hasta el presente. Esto debe estar
basado en un analisis objetivo de las condiciones nacioziales y de las polfticas propuestas para
el sistema.
Desarrollar un proceso de planificacidn estrategica del sistema de Areas protegidas como un
todo, usando los metodos de planificacion situacional, resoluci6n de conflictos y creando
consenso, incorporando a todos los sectores y actores.
Acciones para reestructurar el marco institucional y fortalecerlo, incluyendo a las entidades
gubernamentales, ONGs y comunidades locales del sector privado.
Establecer un sistema de monitoreo y evaluaci6n para revisar el manejo del Sistema y la
implementacion de las reformas institucionales.
Desarrollo de mecanismos para colaboraci6n regional, resolucion de conflictos y creacion de
consenso, para ei manejo de Areas protegidas y sus alrededores, involucrando a las agencias
del gobierno, ONGs, el sector privado, comunidades locales, etc. Este componente deber5
involucrar un reforzamiento sustancial de ONGs, y sera coordinado con el Proceso de
Planificacion Estrategica Situacional para las Areas Continentales Protegidas.
Preparacion de una nueva fase de la Estrategia, como un plan maestro para el desarrollo de
SNAP.
Productos
El resultado de la ejecucidn de este proyecto incluye lo siguiente:
Un documento de evaluacion de la Estrategia-Fase II, que incluye aspectos relacionados con
la situacidn de las Areas protegidas que forman parte del Sistema, las condiciones de manejo
actuales, los principales problemas de las Areas y la gufa basica para su reformulaci6n.
Un proceso de planificacidn estrategica para la unificacidn del Sistema, que desarrollarfa una
propuesta basica y lograrfa un consenso entre las personas claves con relacion a los criterios
para polfticas y negociaciones, que serfa incorporada dentro de una nueva version de la
Estrategia. Este proceso debe incluir en todas sus etapas al personal del INEFAN el cual debe
ser entrenado en metodos de planificaci6n estrategica.



-108-
Un disefto metodol6gico y conceptual de evaluacidn y monitoreo de las actividades
instiucionales para la aplicacidn de la nueva Estrategia y alimentacidn contfnua del proceso
propuesto de cambio.
Urn propuesta de gufas para descentralizacidn regional, dentro del proceso de reestructuracidn
institucional y fortalecimiento en cada regidn.
Un nuevo documento para la tercera fase de la Estrategia por el Sistema Nacional de Areas
Protegidas.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de
acci6n y la descripci6n detallada de una estrategia para ejeutar las recomendaciones y una
guia metodol6gica sobre planificaci6n estrat6gica que permita a los funcionarios del INEFAN
codtzar con el proceso una vez conclufda esta actividad.
Fecha de inicio: Julio 1994. Finaliza: Julio 1995
-~~~~ _        



-109-
3.2. Proceso de Planlficad6n Estrat6gica Situacional para las Areas Protegidas
Continentales.
Descripci6n de la actividad
La Segunda Fase del Sistema Nacional de la Estrategia de Areas Protegidas estA actualmente
en aplicaci6n, fue preparada en 1989 por Fundaci6n Natura y por el MAG. Esta Estrategia debe
ser evaluada y revisada, para que sea posible incorporar nuevas formulaciones de acuerdo a las
gufas polfticas propuestas para el Sistema, y para que sea un instrumento itil de coordinacion
inter-institucional y que fortalezca el manejo integrado del Sistema.
Usando como base esta evaluacidn, sera necesario establecer un proceso de planificacion
estrat6gica situacional especificamente para Areas protegidas continentales, que complementara
la Tercera Fase de la estrategia a nivel regional. El proceso tendiente a esta accidn debe basarse
en un concepto estrategico y dinamico de planificacion, capaz de incluir participacion activa de
todos los sectores relacionados directamente o indirectamente con problemas de conservacion de
biodiversidad y manejo de Areas protegidas.
Objetivo
Esta accidn especfficamente tendrfa los siguientes impactos en las condiciones de manejo de
las Areas protegidas:
Permitir una descripcion completa de los conflictos y personas claves relacionadas con cada
Area, facilitando informacion para la toma de decisiones y la promocidn de coordinaci6n
interinstitucional.
Canalizar informacion actual y concreta sobre todos las personas claves de cada regi6n que
afecten la situaci6n global, los conflictos que afectan la conservacion y el desarrollo, asf como
otros puntos relacionados. Esto creara condiciones para discusiones abiertas.
Generar mecanismos concretos para coordinacion de acciones interinstitucionales.
Preparar una nueva base contextual y programatica para la reformulaci6n de planes de manejo
para las Areas protegidas.
Crear condiciones para que otros sectores de la sociedad asuman responsabilidades para el
manejo de areas protegidas.
Requerimiento para Ia selecd6n
Para la presente actividad podrfa ser contratada una empresa consultora u organizacidn no-
gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa, para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y se
encargue de la contratacion del personal necesario para su desarrollo; o podrfa subdividirse en
varios contratos, uno por cada regi6n. Esta ditima opcidn tendria la ventaja de que podrian
contratarse a instituciones o entidad que esten trabajando en la regidn y que tengan conocimientos
especfficos sobre los problemnas en cada una de ellas que deberan enfrentarse en el proceso de
planificaci6n estrategica. Los seleccionados deben tener experiencia en metodos de planificacidn
estrategica y contar con los medios y la experiencia para organizar desde el punto de vista t6cnico
y logfstico los talleres y reuniones necesarios. Deberin contar ademas con personal especializado
en protecci6n de biodiversidad y Areas protegidas.



-110-
La propuesta debera incluir al menos la participacidn de:
1 Consultor, especialista en procesos de planificaci6n estrategica situacional, aplicados al manejo
de areas protegidas.
1 Consultor, espocialista en diseho de sistemas nacionales de areas protegidas.
6 Expertos tocnicos. estas personas deben apoyar las actividades en las regiones. En caso de
subdividirse el contrato por regiones bastarfa una persona
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Aedones  pecffisp
Las seis areas continenals protegidas (Parque Nacional Sangay, Reserva Ecoidgica Cayambe
Coca, Reserva Ecol6gica Cotaci Cayapas, Parque Nacional Podocapu, Parque Nacional
Machalilla y Parque Nacional YasunI) sufren los mismos tipos de problemas generales vistos en
el caso de GaIpagos. En lo especffico difieren, pero no en el mlcleo gendrico de ar cas
y dinamias. El proceso de planificacion estrategica situacional, moerade avanzado para
el Parque Nacional Galapagos, puede servir como proyecto piloto, y modelo de prueba y error'
para las areas continentales. Las actividades de este proceso en las principales areas continentales
son las siguientes:
Disefar un plan general para e desarrollo de acciones para la planificaci6n estrat6gica
siuacional en las seis areas identificadas del Ecuador Continenal.
Formacidn de equipos de manejo tecnico para planificacidn estrategica situacional (un equipo
de coordinaci6n para e Sistema y un equipo de facilitacifn t6cnica por cada regi6n).
Formulacifn de planes espoefficos para cada una de las regiones.
Identificacion del marco principal de personas claves y conflictos en cada area y cada region.
Desarrollo del proceso de planiSfcaci6n a traves de talleres de trabajo, seminarios, reuniones
de trabajo, estudios puntuales, estudio de documentos y otros procedimientos.
Formulacidn de documentos sintetizando el proceso en cada region y irea protegida.
Diseflo de implementacion de estrategias para las propuestas, las cuales incluyen monitoreo,
evaluaci6n y reajuste, de acuerdo con el proceso en cada regidn.
Products
Se espera que para ci final del proceso, los siguientes resultados sean logrados:
Un plan general del proceso de planifticacidn estrategica situacional para cada regidn.
Siete equipos tdcnicos (uno nacional y seis regionales) operando el proceso de planificacion
como coordinadores, fcilitadorms y orientadores. Estos equipos deberin estar integrados por
personal dci INEFAN y de organizaciones locales y deberin s  entre_ados como parte de la
actividad en procesos de planificacion estrategica.



-111-- 
Seis planes especfficos (uno por cada Area seleccionada) sobre el proceso de planificaci6n.
Un perfil de los principales conflictos y personas claves en cada regi6n, como base para
proceder en el proceso de planificaci6n.
Un proceso de planificacion estrategica situacional en progreso en cada regi6n, basado en los
datos presentados previamente y aplicaci6n de los pasos disefados como parte del plan.
Seis documentos regionales sintetizando el proceso para complementar el nacional, que sera
la base de la nueva estrategia para el sistema de Areas protegidas, siguiendo lo que ha sido
descrito.
Seis documentos regionales y uno nacional sobre la ejecucidn, el monitoreo, la evaluaci6n y
el reajuste de los procesos especfficos derivados de la planificaci6n.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de
acci6n y la descripcidn detallada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Tiempo de duraci6n de la actividad: 12 meses. Fecha de inicio: Julio 1994



-112' 
ACTiVIDAD NO 7
Apoyo a las actividades de manejo y protecci6n de las Areas protegidas seleccionadas y que ya
tienen Plan Manejo:
Estudios, construccion, seAalizaci6n, interpretaci6n de senderos terrestres y acuaticos en las
Areas protegidas continentales;
Diseflo y construcci6n de centros de interpretacion en las areas protegidas continentales
incluyendo el disefo y decoracidn;
Diseflo y construcci6n de infraestructura basica en las areas protegidas;
Equipamiento basico para la Areas protegidas continentales; y,
Actividades de msnejo agroforestal en las zonas de amortiguamiento de las Areas protegidas,
para ayudar a su protecci6n.
Descripci6n de la actividad
A travds de esta accion se ha propuesto reforzar la proteoci6n y el manejo de ciertas Areas
protegidas continentales. De acuerdo a los planes de manejo, a los recursos naturales de cada
Area, al clima y demis elementos para el diseflo se pretende construir infraestructura basica en
un minimo de Areas protegidas continentales, que seran identificadas a traves del proceso de
planificacidn atrategica situacional y de elaboraci6n y revisi6n de los planes de manejo.
Uno de los mis valiosos apoyos de la oducacion e informacidn de los visitantes de las Areas
protegidas son los Centros de Visitantes que incluye la interpretaci6n de la historia natural del
grea.
Hasta el momento solamente existe en el Ecuador un centro de interpretaci6n construfdo en
el Parque Nacional Cotopaxi por la Fundacidn Ecuatoriana de Promoci6n Turfstica, FEPROTUR,
con la colaboracidn de la Embajada Americana. Otro Centro esta prdximo a terminarse con la
misma asistencia tecnica y econ6mica en el Bosque Petrificado de Puyango y fue disehado un
tercero con el apoyo tambien de FEPROITUR en el Parque Nacional Machalilla. Otro Centro de
Interpretaci6n sera construtdo por el MAG con financiamiento del BID en la Reserva del Cajas
y tres serfan construidos por el Proyecto SUBIR en otras tantas Areas protegias.
En las otras areas protegidas continentales es necesario contar con Centros de Interpretacidn
y en algunos con mas de uno ya que se extienden a regiones diferentes con poca o diflcD
comunicaci6n como en el Parque Nacional Podocarpus, Parque Nacional Sangay. La
determinacidn de las Areas se hara a traves del proceso de planificacion estrategica situacional.
Los centros se convertirin en lugares de reuni6n itiles para investigaci6n cientffica,
educaci6n, control de visitantes, ast como para proveer informaci6n que en parte alivia la falta
de capacitacidn de gufas, los escenarios y elementos de la historia natural que por razones de
accesibilidad u otras no pueden sar conocidos en una visita.
La falta de infraestructura para identificacidn (entradas), educaci6n (centros de interpretacidn),
proteccidn (guardianlas), administraci6n (viviendas), investigacidn cienttfica y eco-urismo
(muebles, torres de observacidn de aves, servicios sanitarios, etc.), ha influ(do para que no se
--_                   _ -        _    _     _ -  -          _     _    _     _    _     _ .  -



-113-
ejecuten o realicen estas actividades en las Area protegias y que por tanto no se administren
eficientemente, ni se impulse la generacion de recursos.
Esta actividad pretende disehiar y construir la infraestructura bAsica y necesaria que se indica
o indicara en los planes de manejo para cumplir los objetivos de cada area y ademas proveer de
ciertos medios para la adquisici6n de equipamiento basico para la proteccidn de las Areas.
Objetivo
Las actividades descritas permitiran el mejoramiento de las condiciones de proteccidn y
control de las Areas, que presentan la mayor presi6n y estAn afectadas por miltiples impactos.
Las actividades se refieren exclusivamente a las necesidades que se identificaran en la primera
etapa del proceso de planificacidn estrategica y planes de manejo y que tienen un car$cter
emergente. Otras actividades futuras solo podran ser determinadas a mediano plazo.
El equipamiento e infraestructura permitiran contar con elementos (senderos) basicos para la
educaci6n, investigacion cientffica, informaci6n y eco-turismo y obtener una valoraci6n de los
recursos naturales.
El impacto de estas acciones en cada Area sera el mejoramiento sustancial de las condiciones
de protecci6n, que reducira los impactos negativos que las Areas sufren por actividades humanas
de diversas clases.
Permitiran al INEFAN la ocupaci6n y utilizacion de los espacios naturales en forma efectiva
de posesi6n y por lo tanto contribuiran efectivamente a la proteccidn de la biodiversidad en las
Areas y de las Areas mismas, ya que la actividad redundara en un mejoramiento de la presencia,
proteccidn, control, educaci6n y turismo en las Areas naturales. El estado a traves del INEFAN
tendra una posesidn del sitio y una imagen de su papel de protector y motivador del conocimiento
de los recursos de cada Area.
Cada Centro sera nicleo de los parques y reservas y un medio para el manejo, mediante la
educaci6n e informaci6n, a traves de varios medios de informaci6n que se complementan con la
visita.
En suma esta actividad promovera el respeto por la naturaleza, el conocimiento de los recuros
y protecci6n de los mismos y crearAn efectos de educacidn, turismo, deporte, posesi6n en cada
Area y dar un sentido cientffico a la recreaci6n mediante la interpretaci6n.
Requerimiento para la ejecuci6n
Esta actividad debe ser directamente administrada por la Unidad del Proyecto GEF en el
INEFAN. Los integrantes de la unidad y en especial aquel responsable por la administraci6n de
esta actividad deberan identificar las actividades concretas que se realizarAn en cada Area y
desarrollar terminos de referencia especfficos. Esta actividad consta de una descripci6n general
de acciones y dentro de ese marco y del marco presupuestario existente deberan defmcirse las
actividades especfficas.
Acciones especfficas en las Areas Protegidas:
Delimitaci6n ffsica del territorio de las Areas Protegidas y establecemiento de 'trochas sobre
1000 km. de linderos.



-114-
Continuacidn y reforzamiento de las actividades de manejo agro-forestal, desarroilo comunal,
turfstico, artesanal, etc. en areas alrededor de los lfmites de las areas protegidas.
Examen del plan de manejo de algunas areas y del diagn6stico de la infraestructura existente:
equipamiento para actividades de protecci6n: sistemas de comunicacidn, artfculos de
campamento, herramientas, motocicletas, etc.
Diseho de los elementos necesarios:
Los senderosa temstres, acuiticos para recorridos intorpraos de disearin en cada area
partiendo de un taller prktico en el campo, dictado por un especialista que disearfa un
sendero 'tip&".
Analisis del Plan de Manejo, en las greas que de este se dispone y otros proyectos wsf como
entrevistas a operadores para obtener informacidn para el emplazamiento y disefio de Centros
de Ilterpretacidn. Establecimiento del programa de necosidades. Seleccion de los temas de
interpretacidn.
Diseho arquitect6nico de la construcci6n de los elementos de la exhibici6n.
Construcci6n. Contratar la construccifn y sefalizaci6n asf como la interpretaci6n.
Construcci6n de los Centros, de la decoracidn y ol mobiliario.
Entrega de la Obra para administracidn por el INEFAN y ONG's.
Publicaci6n de la interpretaci6n on dos idiomas especialmente de los senderos autoguiados.
Productos
*Trochas construidas sobre 1000 km. de linderos.
Un nimero determinado de actividades de manejo agro-forestal, desarrollo comunal, turfstico,
artesanal, etc. en areas alrededor de los lfmites de las Areas protegidas.
Diagndstico de la infraestructura existente: equipamiento para actividades de protoccidn:
sistemas de comunicacidn, artfculos de campamento, herramientas, motocicletas, etc.
Diseflo y construccion de senderos terrestres y aculticos tipo para recorridos interprotativos.
Colocaci6n de la sehalizaci6n respectiva.
Programa de necesidades sobre Centros de Interpretaci6n. Selccidn de los temas de
iterpretacidn seleccionados para cada una de las dreas acogidas.
Disefio arquitoctonico y construccidn de los centros de interpretacidn.
Publicacidn de la interpretacidn en dos idiomas especialmente de los senderos autoguiados.
Informes mensuales de avance y un informe final de resultados
flempo de duraci6n 32 meses. Fecha Inicio: Octubre 1994.



-115-
ACTIVDAD N 8
Establecimiento de un programa de seguimiento y evaluaci6n para supervisar la administraci6n
del SNAP (INEFAN) y las condiciones econ6micas y socioecol6gicas de las areas.
Descripcion de la actividad
Hasta ahora no se ha establecido en el Ecuador un sistema que tecnol6gicamente monitoree
los cambios en las areas protegidas, causados por acciones humanas o efectos naturales, asf como
el verdadero impacto de las acciones de manejo. Este sistema estA dirigido fundamentalmente
para asegurar la correcta orientacidn de acciones dirigidas a la conservacion.
El Proyecto SUBIR apoyara esta acci6n con el diseflo de una propuesta metodol6gica basada
en tres casos de estudio y definida en sus funciones y posible aplicacion junto con el SNAP, por
medio de la aplicacidn de sistemas geogrificos de informaci6n. Basado en esto, el proyecto
estructurara un proceso de monitoreo, que sera llevado a cabo durante un perfodo preliminar, con
una estrategia disefiada para su continuaci6n.
Objetivo
Los resultados descritos permitiran conocer con precisi6n las condiciones ecol6gicas de las
kreas, asf como los tipos de impactos que las afectan. Esto tambien se relaciona con el ajuste o
consolidaci6n de las acciones de manejo, con el objetivo dltimo de mejorar la proteccidn.
Requerimiento para la seleod6n
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contratacidn del personal necesario para su desarrollo. La firma o institucidn
seleccionada debe tener experiencia en desarrollo de programas de evaluaci6n y monitoreo, y en
el proceso debe estar en capacidad de definir indicadores confliables.
Debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacion al menos de:
I Consultor, especialista en sistemas de monitoreo y evaluaci6n de proyectos, en el area
especffica de biodiversidad y areas protegidas.
1 Consultor con el mismo perfil.
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones espectficas
Evaluacion de la propuesta t6cnica de SUBIR para monitoreo de areas protegidas.
Definir el proceso de aplicacion de la propuesta.
Ejecuci6n del monitoreo tecnico en las areas que forman parte del sistema de areas protegidas,
con el establecimiento de una evalauci6n inicial y la aplicaci6n de este proceso cada dos afios.
Esta actividad incluira un mecanismo de retro-alimentaci6n de informacion en el manejo de
las Areas.



-116-
Formulacidn de una propuesta para la continuaci6n del proyecto.
Productos
Una evaluacion operativa de la propuesta de monitoreo de SUBIR.
Una propuesta operativa para la aplicaci6n del proceso.
Una evaluacion global inicial de la condicion del Sistema de Areas protegidas.
Un reporte bi-anual del monitoreo de ls Areas, con instrucciones sobre la retro-alimentacion
de informacion sobre las estrategias de manejo.
Un documento de propuestas tecnicas y opetivas para la continuacion del proyecto.
1 taller de entrenamiento para el personal
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un sistema de seguimiento computarizado
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de
acci6n y la descripcidn detallada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Tiempo de duracion 16 meses. Fecha de inicio Julio 1994. Fecha de terminacidn: Octubre 1994



-117-
ACTIVIDAD N 11
Estudios para la valoracidn econdmica de la biodiversidad y los servicios ecoldgicos que proveen
las areas protegidas y establecimiento de un sistema de contabilidad nacional para tales bienes y
servicios.
Descripcd6n de la actividad
El establecimiento de un nuevo regimen econdmico para el financiamiento de la conservacion
de la diversidad biol6gica y el manejo de areas protegidas constituye un requerimiento sine qua
non para asegurar una efectiva relacidn del Sistema y el mejoramiento sustancial de las
condiciones de manejo. Este nuevo regimen financiero debe asegurar la obtenci6n de recursos
externos y la creacidn de condiciones para generar recursos locales.
El establecimiento de este r6gimen financiero debe estar basado en el andlisis de las
condiciones polfticas y econ6micas del Ecuador, tanto en el presente, como en los siguientes
aflos, creando un sistema para valorar econdmicamente los servicios ecologicos y la
biodiversidad.
Para crear las bases para la adopcidn de un nuevo sistema de financiamiento de la
conservaci6n, se propone implementar una serie de estudios que permitirin la identificacion del
valor economico de los bienes y servicios que las Areas protegidas y la biodiversidad que
contienen generargn. La meta serf establecer unsistema de valoraci6n y fijacidn de tarifas para
el uso de estos servicios interrelacionados.
Objetivo
El impacto de esta acci6n podrfa resultar en la creacion de bases conceptuales y operativas
para una reforma fiscal. Esto permitir5 adquirir nuevos recursos para conservacidn, basandose
en la aplicacidn del concepto de que los usuarios de los bienes y servicios que ofrecen las areas
protegidas, deben pagar tarifas y tasas por uso, asf como aquellos que causan impactos en el
medio ambiente en las Areas protegidas. Esto representar5 una manera para vencer la ausencia
crdnica de recursos del presupuesto general del Estado.
Este proceso tambi6n permitird el establecimiento de un criterio t6cnico para la aplicacidn de
tarifas al turismo dentro de las areas protegidas.
Requerimiento pua la selecd6n
Para la presente actividad ser5 necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizacidn
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultor(a para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contratacidn del personal necesario para su desarrollo. La firma o instituci6n
seleccionada debe tener experiencia en valoracidn econ6mica de recursos nahurales, y en 6ste caso
de biodiversidad en especffico; ademis valoracidn economica de servicios ecoldgicos dentro y
fuera de Areas protegidas. Debe contar con personal experto en temas como valoracio y
comercializacidn de germoplasma y adem5s identificar las implicaciones legales de tal
comercializaci6n.
La firma deber5 presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacidn al menos de:
I Consultor, experto en valoracion econ6mica de biodiversidad, servicios ecol6gicos y areas
protegidas.



-118-
3 Consultores, especialistas en las mismas areas para convertirse en un equipo local experto en
la materia y que participe directamente en las actividades de capacitacidn de personal del
INEFAN en las distas areas.
1 Asistente. Esta persona debe apoyar la actividad en los lugares de investigacion. Personal de
apoyo necesario.
Aceiones especfficas
Lievar a cabo una roumdn nacional de discusi6n y entrenamiento sobre aspectos conceptuals
de la valoraciou econ6mica de servicios ecologicos y biodiversidad, asi como su incorporaci6n
en las cuentas nacionales.
Preparacion de un doumento conceptal y metodoldgico que establezca las bases pau  el
proceso de valoracidn ocon6nica, asf como defina las estrategias generales para la obtencidn
de recursos econ6micos par conservaci6n.
Implementacidn de un estudios tocnicos de los bienes y servicios provistos por el sistema de
areas protegidas asf como su valoracion econ6mica.
Lievar a cabo una swrio de talleres nacionales ylo regionales para discutir el resultado del
estudio.
Preparaci6n de un doumento t6cnico sobre los resultados del estudio y las gufas para el
proceso de creacion de un nuevo regimen financiero. Publicaci6n de uno o mis documontos
como resultado del proceso.
Fodutos
Un sistema contable nacional de la biodiversidad.
Un grupo de 10 repre          de instituciones nacionales entrenados de una manera
mtroductoria en el tema de valoracidn econdmica de areas protegidas.
Un documento de orientaci6n sobre el proceso, su importancia para e sistema de areas
protegidas as( como mu factibilidad.
Un documento preliminar sobre el resultado del estudio tecnico de valoraci6n econdmica de
las areas protegidas.
10 grupos de representantes de organizaciones nacionales y regionales de conservacion y
desarrollo, entrenados en los resultados del estudio, a travds de varios eventos, incluyendo
el mejoramiento del documento preliminar.
Un documento final sobre el resultado del proceso y las gufas -oncenites al regimen
fnmnciero, conteniendo recomendacionos concrts a aplicar, ast como un plan de acci6n y
la descripci6n dezalada de una sategia para ejecutar las rocomendaciones.
Una publicacion que red=n los resultados mis rdelvantes y los publicite en todo el pals.
Informes measuales de avance.
Tiempo de duraci6n: 12 mesa. Fecha de inicio: Octubre de 1994.
-    -   -  -    -    -     --   -    -    -    -    - _-_-_    _    _



-119-
ACTIVIDAD N 15
AnAlisis de los regfmenes y estrategias para el uso de recursos par parte de las comunidades
locales y sti relscidn con el manejo y adnuinistraci6n de las freas protegidas:
Descripa6n de Ia actividad.
La adecuada participacidn de las poblaciones locales en el manejo de areas protegidas,
requiere no solamente de un adecuado entendimiento de los usos que ellan hacen de los recursos
de las areas, sino tambin de un pernianente seguumiento, y tins activa sdministracidn pars
incrementar los beneficios que reciben de las areas y pars reducir los riesgos de eventusles daftos.
Pars conseguir esto, hay una necesidad de permanente estudjo y monitorco de los taos de los
recursos de las ireas protegidas.
Uns primers aproximacidn tiene que ser hecha mientras no se hays establecido aim tin sistema
de participsci6n de is poblacidn local. Este primer estudjo serf parte de tin importante material
pars ci adecuado desarrollo de este tipo de participaci6n.
Un segundo estudjo tiene que ser hecho mientras ci sistenla est trabajando y como parte e
instrumento de eats participscidn. Para hacer esto, tin taller debe ser conducido pan preparar
y enlazar a Is comunidad local con Ia realizscidn de estos estudios.
El estudjo debe cuantificar los beneficios monctarios recibidos por Ia poblaci6n, par las
actividades turfsticas, el trabajo cientffico, is construcci6n de infracatructura pan ci parque ylas
oportundades de empico reiscionadas con las ireas protegidas.
Debe ser tambin analizado ci costa del parque para is poblacidn local, especialmente is
restriccidn de produccidn, is valorscidn de is propiedad y otras razones.
Tambin deben ser anslizados los costos y beneficios no monetarios, tales como opartunidades
educativas, servicios ambientales y otros.
Objetivo.
Eats es tins actividad espectfica que activar a las comunidades locales. Serf tambiEn tin
importante inatrumento para guiar actividades con ci objeto de incrementar los beneficios pars
la poblaci6n local, lo cual incrementar sti compromise con is conservscic5n.
Esto producir tambi6n beneficios espectficos pars is pobisci6n y generar uns administracidn
de los parques mAs gctiva y creativa.
Requerimiento pan Ia selecd6n.
Pars is presente actividad serf necesario contratar a tins empress consultors u organizsci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consuitorfa pars que desarrolle Is totalidad de is actividad y
se encargue de is contrstacidn del personal necesaria pars mu desarroilo. La firms o institucidn
seleccionada debe tener experiencia especffica en cads tins de las areas, haber trabaj ado con las
comumdades involucradas o demostrar que estarf a en capscidsd dc hacerlo, asf coim
conocimientos sabre las caracterfsticas de cads tins de las keas y de los recursos disponibles en
las nusnisa.



-120-
La firma debert presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacion al menos de:
Primer aflo:
Seis equipos formados por:
1 Consultor y Asistente.
Adicionalmente: 1 Consultor, para preparar un Informe General.
Segundo allo:
Seis equipos formados por: 1 Consultor y 1 asitente. Adicionalmhn: 1 Consultor, pars
preparar un Informe General.
El trabajo debera ser becho principalmente por los comit&s regionales, con la participaci6n
de un equipo consultor y un presupuesto para movilizaci6n.
Los consultores en total sergn:
6 Consultores, expertos en ol uso de recursos naturales, para producir el informe inicial en cada
uno de los seis parques, y un septimo para producir el reporte general.
6 Consultores para ayudar a los comitds locales durante el proceso de diagnsitco anual, en los
siguientes dos aflos, y un consultor para producir el informe goneral.
Productos.
Un informe de los actuales usos de las dreas protegidas y sus recuros por la poblaci6n local
y de potenciales usos de la biodiversidad de las areas para generar recursos a las conWades
y a la administracion de las greas.
Un informe anual de los usos y beneficios que las poblaciones locales han recibido en ese
perfodo en cada parque ( por los siguientes dos ahos).
Iniciativas y propuestas a cerca de los nuevos beneficios que cada grea puede producir para
la poblacidn local.
Informes mensuales de avance y un informe final conteniendo recomendaciona concretas a
aplicar, asf como un plan de accidn y la descripcidn detallada de una estrUtoei1 parsa jecutar is
recomendaciones.
Esta actividad debe empezar al comienzo del primer aflo y tiene qua ser mantenida por lo mews
dos aflos. Esta actividad debe ser implementada antes de las actividades de preparacion y
aprobacidn de un marco legal especial para este toma.
Tiempo de deuracion: Cinco meses. Fecha de inicio: October 1994.
_~ ~ _  _  _-   



-121-
ACIIVIDAD No 20
Disehlo y formulaci6n de una estrategia para la protecci6n de la vida silvestre.
Descripci6n de la actividad.
Esta actividad consistira en la formulacidn de una estrategia que oriente y garantice la
aplicaci6n de los conceptos y polfticas de manejo de la Vida Silvestre, las que estan contenidos
en el proyecto de Ley de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre. La estrategia tendra un caracter
similar a la estrategia para el sistema de areas protegidas, con respecto al disefho y estructura que
constituiran su base.
Objetivo.
Se espera que estos resultados permitan la preparacidn de una nueva t6cnica y de un marco
operativo para el manejo de la vida silvestre, asf como la creacidn de las condiciones
institucionales para su eficiente aplicacidn. Los usuarios de la vida silvestre, por su parte, tendran
la informaci6n necesaria para adaptar sus practicas de manejo a las reglas y polfticas pertinentes,
lo que guiara a una reduccidn significativa de polfticas ilfcitas y destructivas (contrabando, sobre-
explotaci6n, deterioro de habitads, etc).
Requerimiento para la selecci6n.
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizacidn
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contrataci6n del personal necesario para su desarrollo. La firma o instituci6n
seleccionada debe tener experiencia en metodos de planiflcacidn estrategica y contar con los
medios y la experiencia para organizar desde el punto de vista tecnico y logfstico los talleres y
reuniones necesarios. La empresa o institucidn debera contar ademas con personal especializado
en protecci6n de biodiversidad y manejo de areas protegidas. Por las caracteristicas particulares
del Parque Nacional Galapagos serfa deseable que la entidad seleccionada tuviera experiencia
previa en proyectos de proteccidn y planificacidn relacionados con 6ste parque nacional.
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participaci6n al menos de:
Primer Ahso:
- 1 Experto especialista en procesos de planificaci6n estrategica.
- 2 Consultores, especialistas en la misma area.
- 2 Asistentes de investigaci6n.
Segundo Afho:
- I Consultor, especialista en proceso de planificaci6n estrategica.
- 1 asistente de investigaci6n.
Tercer Aflo:
- 1 Consultor, especialista en la misma area.



-122-
- 1 Asistente de investigaci6n.
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones especfficas
Evaluacidn de las condiciones de manejo y de los usos de vida silvestre en el paLs, con enfasis
en su conservaci6n.
Examinar los instrumentos nacionales e internacionales que regulan el manejo de vida silvestre
y cuales son sus aplicaciones.
Formulaci6n de un documento sobre una estrategia preliminar, sujeto a discusi6n pdblica con
todos los sectores involucrados (comunidades locales, instituciones pdblicas y no
gubernamentales, etc).
Preparar la version final de la estrategia y publicarla.
Desarrollar acciones basicas de capacitacidn y difusion del documento final a base de por lo
menos seis talleres regionales.
Productos
Una evaluacidn preliminar del problema del manejo de vida silvestre.
Un documento analizando los documentos tecnicos y legales existentes, nacionales e
internacionales, que se refieren al tema.
Un documento sobre una estrategia preliminar, revisado y comentado por todos los sectores
sociales involucrados.
Un documento de estrategia final implementado y publicado, conteniendo recomendaciones
concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de acci6n y la descripci6n detallada de una estrategia para
ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Un grupo de diez funcionarios pdblicos entrenados en la aplicaci6n de la estrategia.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Tiempo de duracion: Ocho meses. Fecha de inicio: Julio 1994.
_ _ _ __ _ _    _ _ __ _-_    - -- - !



-123-
ACTIVIDAD No 25
Continuacion del proceso de planificaci6n estrategica situacional en Galapagos.
Descripci6n de la actividad
Galapagos necesita un efectivo sistema de planificacidn regional. El actual plan para
Galapagos debe ser actualizado y reformulado en consideraci6n a la creaci6n del INEFAN y que
tiene que ser adoptado como polftica oficial del gobierno. En este proceso debe haber una
consulta interactiva con los actores en Galapagos y debe basarse en instrumentos flexibles para
su implementaci6n.
El exito de la planificaci6n para Galapagos y su modelo de desarrollo selectivo para la regidn,
depende de la confrontacidn de los diversos intereses, resoluci6n de conflictos y creaci6n de
consensos. Tanto la fase de planificaci6n como la de implementaci6n tienen que ser
transaccionales e involucrar a todos los actores principales. Las organizaciones donde esto podrta
lograrse mejor serfan la Comisi6n Presidencial para Galapagos y el INGALA, en cuanto al nivel
de polfticas gobernamentales, e INGALA y las oficinas y grupos individuales, para el fivel
ejecutivo. El formato mas efectivo serfa una serie de talleres y seminarios desarrollados durante
todo el proyecto, dirigidos por facilitadores profesionales y neutrales. Se requeriran expertos
internacionales, entre los cuales constaran expertos en resoluci6n de conflictos y creaci6n de
consensos, que hayan trabajado en varias areas protegidas de Latinoamerica y Norteamerica.
Objetivo
Confrontaci6n de intereses distintos, resoluci6n de conflictos, tratando de crear un consenso
para impulsar con exito la planificaci6n y su modelo de desarrollo selectivo para la regi6n.
Lograr mayor conciencia entre los actores sobre sus propios papeles y responsabilidades.
Consolidaci6n e implementaci6n de la planificacidn.
Requerimiento para ia selecci6n
Para la presente actividad serl necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contrataci6n del personal necesario para su desarrollo. La firma o instituci6n
seleccionada debe tener experiencia en desarrollo de polfticas sobre medio ambiente o manejo de
recursos naturales y contar cwn expertos en legislaci6n ambiental.
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacidn al menos de:
Primer afio:
1 Experto especialista en Procesos de Planificaci6n Estratdgica y resoluci6n de conflictos.
1 Consultor, especialista en la misma area.
1 Asistente de investigaci6n.
Personal de apoyo necesario.



-124-
Segundo aflo:
1 Experto especialista en Procesos de Planificaci6n Estrategica y resoluci6n de conflictos.
1 Consultor, especialista en la misma area.
I Asistente de investigacidn.
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones especfficas
Identificacidn de expertos en resolucidn de conflictos relacionados con areas protogidas y sus
alrededores;
Conducir una evaluaci6n rdpida y procisa y una revisidn del Plan Maestro para e Parque
Nacional Galapagos e identificar y proponer las areas en que doberWa ser rovisado o
actualizado. Esto debe estar basado en un anilisis objetivo de las condiciones del aea y do
las poifticas propuestas para el sistema.
Continuar con el proceso de planificacion estrategica para el Parque Nacional Galipagos,
usando los metodos de planificacion situacional, resolucion de conflictos y creando consenso,
incorporando a todos los sectores y actores. Esta actividad incluye seminarios y talleres con
todos los actores y en todos los niveles, para promover la discusi6n de la planificaci6n y las
implicaciones del desarrollo selectivo.
Acciones para reestructurar el marco institucional y fortalecerlo, incluyendo a las entidades
gubenamentales, ONGs y comunidades locales del sector privado.
Establecer un sistema de monitoreo y evaluacidn para revisar el manejo del Sistema y la
implementacidn de las reformas institucionales.
Desarrollo de mecanismos para colaboracion entre las autoridades del parque y las que
regulan las zonas que no son parte del parque; resolucidn de conflictos y creacion de
consenso, para el manejo del area protegida y sus alrededores, involucrando a las agencias
del gobierno, ONGs, el sector privado, comunidades locales, etc. Este componente deberi
involucrar un reforzamiento sustancial de ONGs.
Preparacion de una nueva fase de la Estrategia, como un plan maestro para el desarrollo del
PNG.
Productos
Un documento de evaluacion de la palnificaci6n del PNG, quo incluye aspoctos rolacionados
con la interaaci6n del parque y las zonas habitadas, tanto urbanas como rurda, asf como las
actividades productivas en el archipie1ago; situacidn del area protegida, las condiciones de
manejo actuales, los principales problemas y la gufa bisica para su reformulaci6n.
Un proceso de planificacidn estrategica que desarrollarla una propuosta bisica y lograrfa un
consenso entre las personas claves con rdlacion a los criterios para polfticas y negociacione.
Este procaso debe incluir en todas sus etapas 81 personal del INEAN el cd debe s
entrenado en metodos de planificacidn estratgica.
_        _    _ -         _    _ -. 



-125-
Un diseflo metodol6gico y conceptual de evaluacidn y monitoreo de las actividades
institucionales para la aplicaci6n de la nueva Estrategia y alimentacidn contfnua del proceso
propuesto de cambio.
Una propuesta de gufas para descentralizacion regional, dentro del proceso de reestructuracion
institucional y fortalecimiento de la capacidad de manejo de las autoridades del parque.
Un nuevo documento conteniendo la Estrategia para el PNG, con recomendaciones concretas
a aplicar, asf como un plan de accidn y la descripcidn detallada de los medios para ejecutar
las recomendaciones y una guia metodoidgica sobre planificacidn estrategica que permita a
los funcionarios del parque continuar con el proceso una vez conclutda esta actividad.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Tiempo de duraci6n: Seis meses en el primer aflo, y dos meses en cada uno de los dos aflos
subsiguientes. Fecha de inicio: Julio 1994.



-126-
ACrIVIDAD N" 26
Proceso de planificaci6n estrategica situacion en la Reserva de Recursos Marinos de Galipagos.
Desaripci6n de la actividad
El exito de la planiflcaci6n para Galipagos y su modelo de desarrollo seloctivo para la region,
depende de la confrontacion de los diversos intereses, resolucion de conflictos y creacion de
consensos. Tanto la fase de planificacion como la de implementacin tienen que ser
transaccionales e involucrar a todos los actores principales. Las organizacioes donde esto podrla
lograrse mejor serfan la Comisi6n Presidencial para Galipagos y el INGALA, en cuanto al nivel
de polfticas gobermamentales, e INGALA y las oficinas y grupos individuales, para d nivel
ejecutivo. El formato mis efectivo serfa una serie de talleres y seminarios durroolados durante
todo el proyocto, dirigidos por faciitadores profesionales y neutrales. Se requeririn expertos
intenacionales, entre los cuales constaran expertos en resolucion de conffictos y creaci6n de
consensos, que hayan trabajado en varias areas protegidas de Latinoamerica y Norteamerica.
Objetivo
Confrontaci6n de interses distintos, resoluci6n de conflictos y obtenci6n de un consenso para
impulsar el exito una estegia de conservacion y manejo para la Reserva Marina Galapagos y
su modelo de desarrollo selectivo para la regi6n.
Requerimiento para la uelecd6n
Para la presente actividad sero necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contrataciGn del personal nocesario para su desarrollo. La firma o instituci6n
scieccionada debe tener exponiencia en metodos de planificaci6n estratgica y contar con los
medios y la experiencia para organizar desde el punto de vista tecnico y logfstico los tailers y
reuniones necesarios. La empresa o institucidn debera contar ademis con personal especializado
en protecci6n de biodiversidad y areas protegidas. Debido a las caractefsticas specials del
Parque Nacional Galapagos serfa deseable que la empresa u ONG hubiera participado
anteriormente en proyecto en Galapagos y tuviera extenso conocimiento sobre los problemas que
enfrenta el parque.
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participaci6n al menos de:
1 Experto especialista en Procesos de Planificacidn Estrategica y resoluci6n de conflictos.
1 Consultor, especialista en la misma irea.
1 Asistente de investigacidn. Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acdones especifis. Identificaci6n de expertos en resolucidn de conflictos relacionados con
Areas protegidas y sus alrodedores;
Conducir una evaluacidn ripida y precisa de la situaci6n de la Reserva Marina de GalApagos;
identificar las areas de confiicto.
Lleva adelante un proceso de planificaci6n estatigica para la Reserva Marina de Galipagos,
undo los m6todos de planificacidn situacional, resolucidn de conflictos y creando consenso,



-127-
incorporando a todos los sectores y actores. Esta actividad incluye seminarios y talleres con
todos los actores y en todos los niveles, para promover la discusi6n de la estrategia y las
implicaciones del desarrollo selectivo.
Acciones para reestructurar el marco institucional y fortalecerlo, incluyendo a las entidades
gubernamentales, ONGs y comunidades locales del sector privado.
Establecer un sistems de monitoreo y evaluaci6n para revisar el manejo del Sistema y la
implementacion de las reformas institucionales.
Desarrollo de mecanismos para colaboracion entre las autoridades de la reserva, el parque y
las que regulan las zonas que w son parte del parque; resolucion de conflictos y creaci6n de
consenso, para el manejo del area protegida y sus alrededores, involucrando a las agencias
del gobierno, ONGs, el sector privado, comunidades locales, etc. Este componente debera
involucrar un reforzamiento sustancial de ONGs.
Preparaci6n de una Estrategia, como un plan maestro para el desarrollo de la Reserva de
Recursos Marinos.
Productos
Un documento de evaluaci6n de la situacidn actual de la Reserva Marina de Galgpagos, que
incluya aspectos relacionados con la interaccion de la reserva, el parque y las zonas habitadas,
tat urbanas como rurales, asl como las actividades productivas en el archipiilago; situacion
del area, las condiciones de manejo actuales, los principales problemas y la guta bisica para
su reformulaci6n.
Un proceso de planificacidn estrategica que desarrollarfa una propuesta bisica y lograrfa un
consenso entre las personas claves con relaci6n a los criterios para politicas y negociaciones,
que serfa incorporada dentro de una estrategia para conservaci6n y manejo de la Reserva
Marina. Este proceso debe incluir en todas sus etapas al personal del INEFAN el cual debe
ser entrenado en metodos de planificacidn estrategica.
Un diseoo metodol6gico y conceptual de evaluacidn y monitoreo de las actividades
institucionales para la aplicaci6n de la Estrategia y alimentaci6n contlnua del proceso
propuesto de cambio.
Una propuesta de gufas para descentralizacidn regional, dentro del proceso de reestructuracion
institucional y fortalecimiento de la capacidad de manejo de las autoridades de la reserva.
Un final documento conteniendo la Estrategia para el RRM, con recomendaciones concretas
a aplicar, asf como un plan de accidn y la descripcidn detallada de los medios para ejecutar
las recomendaciones y una guia metodoldgica sobre planificacion estrategica que permita a
los funcionarios del parque continuar con ci proceso una vez conclufda esta actividad.
Informes mensuales de avance. Tempo de duraci6n de la actividad: tres meses. Fecha de
inicio: Julio 1994



-128-
ACrIVIDAD N 27
Implementacion de un sistema de inspecci6n y cuarentena para controlar el ingreso y dispersion
del material biologico que Ilega a las Islas.
Descripci6n de la actividad
Dada la demostrada vulnerabilidad de la flora y fauna nativa y end6mica a la introduccion de
organismos y al incremento de trafico desde y entre las Was, as crucial establocor un sistema do
inspocci6n y cuarentena para controlar el desastroso efecto quo plantas y animalos ozdticos
pueden tener en la biodiversidad. Se necosita instalar infraestructura para realizar inspeccidn y
para cuarentena, en los puntos de embarque en el continento y un control rudnario on Galapagos.
Ya se han realizado los estudios preliminaro nocesarios y so ha preparado una propuesta do
legislacidn y su reglamentacidn respoctiva en coordinacidn con el Programa de Sanidad Animal
y Vegetal del MAG. Actualmente es necesario operativizar los procedimientos de control.
Objetivo
La implementaci6n de un sistema de cuarentena para Galapagos protegera la flora y fna
nativas y eaddmicas contra los organismos introducidos, que tienen efectos desastrosos n allas.
Roquertmlento para Is slcei6
Para la presente actividad sera necesado conratar a una empresa consultora u organizacidn
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultoria para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actidad y
se encargue de la conavaci6n dci personal necesario para su desarrollo. La firma o ONG debera
toner capacidad paa llevar a cabo los anS1isis legales, institucionales y ocon6micos nocesarios
para ejecutar el plan de cuarenten.
La firma debera presentar una propuosta on la quo asegure la participacion al menos de:
I Consultor, Director del Proyecto.
1 Consultor, Experto en Biologfia.
1 Consultor, Experto en campalas pl1blicas.
I Asistente de investigacidn.
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones epeocffc
Revisidn de objetivos y funciones de la Direccidn Provincial Agropocaria de Galapagos y
anVIisis del marco institucional quo deboris participar on el programs de cuareontena. Identificacidn
del marco legal existente y de los requerimientos de regulacifn legal para la ojocucidn do un
programa de cuarentena.
Monitoreo dci influjo de organismos y rutas.
_ ~ ~ _  _  _-   



-129-
Disefho del sistema de monitoreo y evaluaci6n de su aplicabilidad. Definicidn del costo de su
implementaci6n e identificaci6n de financiamiento para su mantenimiento.
Talleres para entrenamiento de personal.
Campahia de concientizaci6n: disefho e implementacion.
Instalacidn del sistema.
Productos
Organico Funcional de las instituciones involucradas reformado, en especial el de la Direcci6n
Provincial Agropecuaria, reformado.
Resultados del monitoreo de afluencia de organismos y rutas.
Sistema de inspeccidn y cuarentena para controlar la afluencia de organismos exdticos en
Galapagos operando. Fuentes de financiamiento identificadas y plan de financiamiento.
Personal entrenado para aplicar el sistema de cuarentena.
Campaha para fomentar conciencia pdblica sobre el sistema de cuarentena disefada y
ejecutada; y,
Sistema de monitoreo operando.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de
acci6n y la descripci6n detallada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Tiempo de duraci6n de la actividad: cinco meses. Fecha de inicio Julio 1994.



-130-
ACTIVIDAD No 28
Redisefto y fortalecimiento del istema de eco-turfstico; esta'lecimiento de un sistema de
concesiones (patentes) para el Par(  Nacional Galapagos y para .a Reserva Marina y para las
areas que no se consideran parte Or. parque.
Descripd6n de la actividad
El esquema original fue disehado cuando habia un solo barco grande para noventa pasajeros
y seis pequehos con capacidad de entre 4 y 12 personas. El esquema fue diseado bajo el
concepto de:
Solamente un aeropuerto y un centro de turismo recibfan y canalizaban a todos los pasajeros;
Los barcos servfan como hoteles flotantes, restaurantes y para satisfacian todas las otras
necesidades de los visitantes;
El uso de los lugares de visita en el Parque debfa ser muy disperso;
Las operaciones basicas no podfan ser dependientes o conectadas con el desarrollo de
facilidades e infraestructura en los puertos locales (ciudades);
Gufas entrenados, con licencia, bien calificados debfan ser los principales
interpretes/administradores de primera lfnea para los visitantes;
El Parque Nacional fue zonificado para uso turfstico y los programas de manejo de los
Servicios del Parque (personal para la administraci6n del parque) fueron desarrollados en base
a esos principios;
Este esquema fue descartado durante los afios posteriores a 1980.  Se adopt6 otro
procedimiento que incluy6:
Apertura de un segundo aeropuerto/base de operaci6n turfstica otra isla;
Diversificacidn de las operaciones turfsticas en cinco diferentes clases, las que se encuentran
actualmente a disposicion. El cambio mas importante fu6 el del recorrido de un dfa, con
visitantes que tienen su base en pequeflos hoteles en los dos centros de turismo, quienes hacen
excursiones de un dfa en botes mns pequefios;
Se produjeron inversiones en los dos centros/ciudades turfticas (hoteles, restaurantes,
diversiones nocturnas, tiendas de recuerdos) en los puertos, para alojar a los visitantes;
Aunque existen cuarenta y cinco lugares de visita turlstca dentro del Parque, el uso se
concentro en la parte central de las Islas, que contienen algunos de los mis espectaulares
tanto como los mis accequibles lugares para los recorridos de un dfa; El mlmero de turistas
se duplic6, pero ei cincuenta por ciento de las visitas se concentran solamente en diez lugares,
los cuales estan sobre-visitados y sufren impactos; mis de veinte lugares estin notablemente
sub-utilizados;
Solamente el 10% de los barcos que operan en las Islas tienen itinerarios fijos; el exceso de
visitantes en los lugares centrales es exacerbando;
-   -   -   -   -     -   _   _, 



-131-
Se continuda presionando al Servicio del Parque para que abra mas sitios, especialmente
en las Islas centrales;
Mas de 25 sitios privados de visitantes ban empezado a operar en zonas fuera del Parque;
La comercializacion de los atractivos tur(sticos de Galgpagos muestra una falta de
entendimiento del recurso y su potencialidad; algunas compafifas, estan incluso comenzando
a vender la imagen de 'arena y velerismo o descanso y relajamiento', en vez de la de vida
salvaje y eco-turismo, aunque Galgpagos no ofrezca el primer tipo de atracci6n;
Una tendencia estA desarrollando dos tipos opuestos de turismo: el de masas, mas barato, bajo
en calidad turIstica, para nacionales, enfatizando en 'arena, velerismo' y recreaci6n; y otro,
el turismo de lujo para extranjeros, basado en la observaci6n de la vida salvaje y contando
con facilidades exclusivas en mar y tierra;
Un gran nulmero de intereses de afuera de las Islas principalmente de Guayaquil y Quito,
estan invirtiendo precipitadamente en este nuevo tipo de turismo, lo que esta provocsndo
como resultado un fuerte cambio, alejando el control local y con una constante tendencia a
los modelos de turismo continental (= tipo Caribe).
El sistema de los gufas ha empezado a decrecer en calidad y estindares, poca demanda de
empleo de gufas, y problemas de esta naturaleza;
El sistema para adquirir patentes de operaci6n en el parque, muy problematico desde el
principio, se ha deteriorado ademas por la falta de consistencia en su aplicaci6n, abusos,
coordinaci6n inadecuada y polfticas y regulaciones poco claras.
Objetivo
Disefiar e implementar un nuevo sistema turfstico para las Islas Galipagos, el Parque Nacional
y la Reserva Marina que asegure la conservacion y proteccidn de sus ecosistemas y su
biodiversidad y que tambien asegure un ingreso financiero para las actividades de conservacidn.
Requerimniento parm la selecci6n
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
encargue de la contrataci6n del personal necesario para su desarrollo.
La propuesta debe asegurar por la participacidn del siguiente personal:
I Experto especialista en procesos de planificaci6n estratdgica y resoluci6n de conflictos.
1 Experto especialista en eco-turismo y los instrumentos fiscales para su administarci6n en areas
protegidas.
2 Consultores, especialista en las mismas areas.
I Asistente de investigacidn.
Acdones especffis.



-132-
Las acciones especfficas sergn definidas por la Comisidn Presidencial encargada del Plan
Global de Turismo y Conservacidn de Galapagos.
Productos.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, mf como un plan de
acci6n y la descripcidn detallada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Tiempo de duraci6n de la actividad: cinco meses. Fecha de inicio Octubre 1994



-133-
ACTIVIDAD N" 30
Ordenamiento de los Asentamientos Humanos de la Provincia de Galapagos.
Descripci6n de la actividad
Esta actividad es parte del proyecto del mismo nombre formulado con el apoyo del PNUD
en el marco del Proyecto de Asistencia Preparatoria para las Islas Galapagos, que se concluyd
en septiembre de 1992.
Es un instrumento para orientar las inversiones pdblicas y privadas y regular el crecimiento
en los asentamientos humanos de la provincia.
Los objetivos de este proyecto se ajustan a los del GEF en cuanto a que, con su ejecuci6n,
se conseguirfa normar las actividades de la poblaci6n residente, es decir, del territorio que por
hoy carece de regulaciones y de capacidad de gesti6n por parte de de las municipalidades.
Este proyecto al describir la situaci6n problematica expresa que: 'El turismo basado en el
gran prestigio del area de conservaci6n Parque Nacional Galapagos, ha generado una amplia
expectativa economica que ha determinado una fuerte inmigraci6n a las islas. Esta situacifn ha
producido un crecimiento desordenado y descontrolado de los asentamientos humanos".
Para controlar esta forma de expansi6n que esta impactando negativamente en la calidad de
vida de la poblaci6n y en el necesario involucramiento de esta en los objetivos de conservacion
de los recursos naturales que son la base de su economfa, se ha previsto, fortalecer a la
administraci6n local; puesto que, como ente regulador y de provisi6n de servicios en las zonas
pobladas tiene un rol protag6nico en la propuesta de desarrollo sostenible al que se le pretende
orientar a la Regi6n Insular.
Esta actividad sera financiada con fondos de contraparte provenientes del INEFAN.
Objetivo
Actualizar y hacer efectivo el ordenamiento territorial de los cantones de Galapagos con el
fin de regular el desarrollo ffsico de los asentamientos humanos y armonizarlo con los objetivos
y actividades de conservaci6n del PNG.
Fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n municipal modernizando los sistemas catastrales y creando
los mecanismos para la participaci6n de los distintos sectores sociales de la comunidad, en la
administraci6n municipal.
Requeriniento para la selecd6n
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contrataci6n del personal necesario para su desarrollo.
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacion al menos de:
- 1 Consultor Asesor T6cnico Principal
- 1 Consultor Especialista en Impactos Ambientales.



-134-
- 1 Consultor Nacional. Coordinador del Proyecto.
- 1 Planificador urbano
- 1 Experto Tecnico. Economista.
- 1 Experto T6cnico. Soci6logo.
Acciones espeefficas
Coordinacion con funcionarios del PNG, INGALA, Comision Permanente de Galipagos y
Municipios para tratar las condiciones de apoyo financiero del proyecto.
Producteg
Planes Reguladores cantonales, elaborados y aprobados.
Municipios de los tres cantones, fortalocidos para la gestidn que demanda la aplicacidn de los
planes do ordenamiento cantonal.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de
accidn y la descripcion detallada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Tlempo de duracion de la actividad: doce meses. Fecha de inicio: Julio 1994



-135-
ACIIVIDAD NO 31
Desarrollo de la propuesta de zonificaci6n del Plan de Manejo de la Reserva de Recursos Marinos
de Galapagos (RRMG) en sus aspectos normativos, de planes especeficos y programas operativos.
Descripci6n de la actividad
La ley de crecion de la RRMG, publicada en el R.O. N° 434 del 13 de mayo de 1986,
constituy6 el primer paso en cuanto a concretar la propuesta de conservaci6n del ambiente marno
de Galapagos. Esta acci6n estuvo recomendada desde la publicacidn del primer Plan de Manejo
del Parque Nacional Galapagos en 1974.
Luego del establecimiento de esta base legal, el proceso ha continuado y al momento se cuenta
con el Plan de Manejo de la Reserva. En dste se determina, mediante un sistema de zonificaci6n,
el ordenamiento de las actividades que puede soportar el Area y cuyo cumplimiento dependera de
una estrategia de investigacion, manejo, control y establecimiento del sistema de administracidn.
Este l1timo aspecto no alcanz6 a detallar el sistema de dicho plan.
Requerimiento para a w.eled6
Para la presente actividad sera necesario conaar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de ia contrataci6n del personal necesario para su desarrollo.
La firma debert presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participaci6n al menos de:
- 1 Consultor Asesor Tecnico Principal que desarrolle la propuesta y coordine las actividades.
- 1 Consultor especialista en inventarios turfsticos.
- I Experto Tdcnico, en conservaci6n de recursos marinos y en impacto ambiental.
- I Especialista en turismo submarino
Acciones espeefficas
ior tanto, a travds de esta actividad se ha previsto las siguientes subacciones:
Talleres de trabajo y encuestas, de tipo participativo, para la fase de desarrollo de la
propuesta y de integraci6n de la propuesta en el contexto de la planificaci6n regional.
(Reserva de biosfera).
Coordinacidn de la aplicaci6n de los resultados.
Estudios de inventario y evaluacion del potencial turfstico en las zonas correspondientes,
segdn la zonificacidn del Plan de Manejo de la RRNG.
Instalacion de la estmctura adminisrtva en el PNG. Entrenamiento del personal; y,
oquipamiento.



-136-
Productos
Inf -maci6n publicada de las conclusiones de los talleres para difudir en los niveles de los
act. es institucionales y de la poblacion. conteniendo los compromisos de los respectivos
estamentos participantes.
Equipo de coordinaci6n tecno-polltica, conformado por funcionarios t6cnicos de las
instituciones competentes, asistido por consultorfas temporales.
Informaci6n bisica sobre potencia de recursos urfsticos y submarnos.
Diseho programttico de los programas t6cnicos y administrativos. (Programas de Operacion
e Inversidn).
Secretarfa Tecnica de manejo de la RRMG operando. llnfastuctura y personal).
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de
acci6n y la descripcion detallada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
riempo de duracion de la actividad: doce meses. Focha de inicio: Enero 1995
_ ~ ~ _  _- _          _.    _



-137-
ACTIVIDAD NO 32
Modernizacion del sistemna de patrullaje para el control del Parque Nacional Galipagos y
Reserva de Recursos Marinos.
Descripci6n de la actividad
La adquisicidn de equipos para asistir en las actividades de mmnejo del PNG y de RRM es de
surma importancia para asegurar la administracion eficaz.
Asimismo, la capacidad de manejo del Parque Nacional Galapagos en gran modida esta dada
por las condiciones en que se desenvuelve la actividad de control.
En el caso del PNG, el respaldo jurfdico -que es uno de los aspectos bisicos para ejercer el
control- es s6lido; mas no asf, el equipamiento y la dotacion de personal. Esto por as eigencis
de una geografia tan caracterfstica como la del archipielago y en donde ademis, con la creaci6n
de la RRMG se ha ampliado considerablemente el Area de protecci6n. Dichas circunstancias
exigen la modernizacidn de los mtodos de patrullaje.
ObJetlvo
La instalacidn y puesta en operaci6n de los equipos para e  patrullaj  els objetiv de ue
actividad. El mantenimiento posterior de la operaci6n se preve financiarlo con los ingresos quo
se recaudan por el uso de los recursos naurales del Area, especialmente los turfsticos; y, con la
cooperaci6n de entidades oficialea que tienen instalada en las islas parte de los recursos materiales
y humanos que requiere este tipo de operacidn.
El impacto de estas acciones en el PNG y en la RRMG sera e mejoramiento susuncial de las
condiciones de protecci6n, que reduciri los impactos negativos que las areas sufren por
actividades humanas de diversas clases.
Requwinimieto parm a Wsodo o
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a un eapecialista, empresa consultora u
organizaci6n no-gubernamental con amplia experiencia en sistemas de paruLulaje en condiciona
similares a las del PNG.
Acciones espedficas
Estudio de factibilidad t6cnica, econdmica y financiera del sistema.
Diseho y financiamiento de la alternativa factible.
Convenio con la Armada/FAE.
Ejecuci6n del proyecto.
Adquisici6n de equipos/contratacion de servicio
Instalacidn de inraaetucura para la logfstica y mantenimiento del servicio.



-138-
Producto
Equipamiento para la administracifn del Parque Nacional Galipagos y de la Reserva del
Recursos Marinos de Galapagos.
Sistema de patrullaje diseiado.
Sistema de patullaje operando.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, aif como un plan de
accidn y la descripci6n deta1lada de una estategia para ejecutar la8 recomendaconus.
Tlempo de duracion de la actividad: veinte meses. Fecha de inicio: Julio 1994
_ ~ ~ ~ _  _   _    _- _              



-139-
ACrIVIDAD N" 33
Capacitacion de cuadros profesionales y t6cnicos para garanfizar el manejo adecuado de las areas
protegidas e incrementar la capacidad financiera del SPNG y de la RRMG.
Descripci6n de la actividad
En 1991, el Plan Global de Manejo Turfstico y Conservacidn Ecoldgica de Galdpagos, al
desarrollar su metodologfa de planificaci6n por problemas, identific6 como uno de los prioritarios
al 'Deterioro progresivo de la Estructura institucional del Servicio del Parque Nacional GalApaos
(SPNG)'; y entre sus causas mas relevantes, se mencion6 el deficit cuantitativo y cualitativo de
sUS recursos humanos. A esta situacion se la describe asf:
....'La capacidad de manejo del SPNG, cuestionada desde 1981, se ha deteriorado por una
reducci6n del 50% del personal t6cnico y del 40% de los guardaparques entrenados.
Actualmente dispone solo del 40% del personal previsto en el Plan de Manejo; el presupuesto
de inversidn solo se obtiene a partir de 1988 y no retorna, ni el 20% de los ingresos
recaudados por patentes y tarjetas de entrada al Parque Nacional....'
La creacidn del INEFAN exige formular y desarrollar un programa especffico de capacitacidn
y reclutamiento de personal, de mediano plazo, en base a los requerimientos contenidos tanto en
el Plan de Manejo del PNG como en los del establecimiento de la RRMG.
Objetivo
Apoyar al desarrollo institucional de la entidad encargada de la conservacidn de las areas
protegidas establecidas en el Archipielago de Galapagos, financiando la capacitacion de sus
recursos humanos y dotAndole de los suficientes recursos financieros para remunerar a su
personal.
Requerimiento para la selecd6n
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contratacidn del personal necesario para su desarrollo.
Acciones especaficas
Para el desarrollo de esta actividad aportartn los resultados de la actividades de PES; asf
como, la revisidn del Plan de Manejo del PNG; y, las siguientes previstas por esta propuesta:
Andlisis de funciones y determinacidn de responsabilidades.
Disetio y ejecucidn del programa de capacitacidn que se orientarg a los siguientes aspectos
principales:
Mejorar la capacidad de gesti6n de todos los funcionarios del parque.
Productos
Informe conteniendo la evaluaci6n de las funciones del personal que actualmente depende
admninistrativamente del PNG y las recomendaciones para optmizarlo.



-140-
Mamual de Capacitaci6n
Programa amnu! de capacitaci6n y de actualizacion de conocimientos.
Preparaci6n de un mddulo en video sobre capacitaci6n.
Informes mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asi como un plan do
acci6n y la descripcin dellada de una estrategia para ejecutar las recomendaciones.
Tiempo de duracion de la actividad: seis meses. Fecha de inicio: Enero 1995.



-141-
ACTIVIDAD No 34
Reestructuracion y reforma del sistema educativo en Galapagos.
Descripci6n de la actividad
El sistema educativo en Galapagos estt inadecuadamente adaptado a las necesidades de
desarrollo de las islas y a las oporunidades que ofrecen los recursos del medio.
El sistema carece de los elementos necesarios para incrementar en los educandos una actitud
cultural de intercambio armonico con el medio natural.
Los recursos dispuestos por el Estado no son suficientes para la dotacion material y de
docentes altamente calificados para desarrollar un proceso educativo renovador, como lo exige
las peculiares condiciones de desarrollo que se propone para las Galapagos.
Objetvo
Un nuevo curriculum, sistema administrativo, personal entrenado, materiales de ensefianza
e infraestructura tecnica, aseguraran un sistema educacional para Galapagos, que cree un
entendimiento de la fragilidad de los recursos lnicos, y que prepare a las personas para usar y
conservar adecuadamente la biodiversidad.
Requerlmlento pam  la selecci6n
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad y
se encargue de la contratacion del personal necesario para su desarrollo.
La firma debera presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participaci6n al menos de:
2 Consultores, especialistas en educacion ambiental.
1 Asistente de investigaci6n.
Personal de apoyo necesario.
Acciones especificas
Evaluacidn de las necesidades de infraestructura.
Evaluacion de los sistemas curricular y administrativo vigentes.
Evaluaci6n de propuestas de reforma educativa anteriormente impulsadas por INGALA,
Parque Nacional Galapagos y Estacidn Charles Darwin.
Convenio con el Ministerio de Educacidn y Municipios.
Reforma del sistema educativo. Incluye diseflo y elaboracion de material didactico.
Capacitacidn Docente.



-142-
Productos
Propuesta de un nuevo currficulum para e sistema educacional en Galgpagos.
Propuesta de un nuevo sistema administratimvo.
Produccion de materials de aducaci6n.
Entrenamiento de profesores y personal.
Redisefo de la infraestructura t6cnica.
Informos mensuales de avance.
Un informe final conteniendo rcomendacions concretas a aplicar, aaf como un plan de
accion y la descripci6n detallada de una estrategia para ejocutar las recomendaciones.
Tiampo de duracidn de la actividad: ocho meses. Fecha de inicio: Enero 1995.



-143-
ACTIVIDAD No. 35
Desarrollo de la Estrategia de Manejo Sustentable de la Zona de Amortiguamiento de la
Reserva Cotacachi-Cayapas (cuencas de los rios Onzole, Cayapas y Santiago)
Descripci6n de la actividad
Al Oeste de la Reserva Cotacachi-Cayapas en la zona comprendida por los rfos Onzole,
Cayapas y Santiago, localizada en el Noroccidente del Ecuador, en la Provincia de Esmeraldas,
en un entorno de gran riqueza por su flora y fauna, viven las comunidades chachi y negra
fundamenalmente de la caza, pesca, explotacidn forestal y el comercio.
Esta zona califica como zona de amortiguamiento de la reserva Cotacachi-Cayapas, y en la
misma se desarrolla una intensa actividad maderera y ademas de desarrollo agrfcola, que esta
produciendo un efecto negativo considerable sobre la biodiversidad de la zona.
Hasta la fecha se han hecho esfuerzos aislados en el Ecuador para incorporar a las
comunidades que viven en los alrededores de los parques nacionales en las etapas de diseflo y
ejecucidn de los planes de manejo. Mas adn es muy poca la informacidn que existe sobre la
relaci6n y el efecto que los programas de protecci6n tienen desde el punto de vista econ6mico
y social sobre las comunidades que viven en la zona.
La inminente posibilidad del inicio de operaciones de extraccion de productos forestales
en la zona aledafia a la reserva, producirfa impactos negativos sobre la diversidad, causados entre
otros por los siguientes factores:
a. construccion de carreteras y senderos;
b. erosidn, perdida de nutrientes y sedimentacidn;
c. extranccidn de troncos y biomasa relacionada;
d. dafto al bosque durante la tala;
e. ayudar al proceso de colonizacidn; y
f. cambio en el uso del suelo y conversi6n del bosque en area agrfcola.
Objetivo
Brindar a la comunidad de la zona de amortiguamiento sefalada, dentro un programa
piloto y que podrfa ser replicado en otras zonas, la asistencia tecnica necesaria para emprender
un programa de protecci6n de la biodiversidad y manejo sostenido del bosque primario y
secundario.
Mediante este programa se propenderfa a la participacidn de la comunidad en el proyecto
de conservacidn y aprovechamiento sostenible de la biodiversidad de la zona, asf como el
desarrollo de proyectos silviculturales, forestales y agroforestales.
Requeriniento para Ia selecc6n.
Para la presente actividad sera necesario contratar a una empresa consultora u organizaci6n
no-gubernamental que pueda hacer consultorfa, para que desarrolle la totalidad de la actividad.
Debido a las caracterfsticas especiales de la Reserva serfa deseable que la empresa u ONG hubiera
participado anteriormente en proyects en la zona y tuviera eaxenso conocimiento sobre los
problemas que enfrenta la reserva. La actividad debera desarrollarse llevando a cabo un proceso



-144-
de planificaci6n participativa y por tanto la contratista debera contar con personal especializado
r este metodo.
La firma deberd presentar una propuesta en la que asegure la participacifn de suficientes
profesionales especializados en las areas cubiertas por el estudio.
Acciones espefiacs.
Efocuar un inventario foresal y de biodiversidad de 100.000 ha. del territorio ocupado por
la comunidad de los Chachi. En cuanto a biodiversidad se harfa dnfasis en las especies
animales y vegetales utilizadas por la comunidad Chachis para su consumo y en las
posibiidad de su utflizaci6n sostenible.
Estudio para evaluar los efectos sobre la biodiversidad de la deforestacidn en la zona.
Desarrollo de un plan de manejo para la zona, en el que se utilice un metodo de participacion
comunitaria.
Desarrollo de imStructivos psa cpcidad a la comunidad en el uso del suelo, utilizaci6n
sustentanble de productos forestales y de biodiversidad.
Actividades de capacitacidn a la comunidad.
Productos:
Inventario forestal y de biodiversidad de 100.000 ha. del territorio ocupado por la comunidad
de los Chachi.
Metodologfa parn evaluar los efectos de la tala en la biodiversidad de la zona.
Informes trimestrales de avance.
Plan de manejo para la zona conteniendo la Estrategia para el manejo sustentable de la
reserva, con recomendaciones concretas a aplicar, asf como un plan de acci6n y la descripcidn
detallada de los medios para ejecutar las recomendaciones y una guia metodol6gica sobre
planificacidn estratzgica que permita a los funcionarios de la reserva revisar y ajustar la
estrategia anualmente una vez conclufda esta actividad.
Inatructivos para capacitar a la comunidad en el uso del suelo, utilizaci6n sustentanble de
productos forestales y de biodiversidad.
Capacitaci6n a la comunidad y ejecucion del mismo.
Tiempo de duracidn de la actividad: 12 meses. Fecha de inicio Julio 1994.
_   _   _.  _   _    _    _-    _ -  _



,~~~~~~~~   00                L 0         
-*                  IAAS           -"        ' '                       COLOMBIA                     1.
P A C I F I C   -           E                    '| 
.ACJFIC                      SMtiSAL1AL
M A N A BWI
OCEAN~~~~~~A
MANAL   f'   .1Y/
0 Ch.      Lo       .... TN  tN
1'               * A1tAs.1kD CtN
L    RIOS J 
r      U A Y A~~~~~CA1SA-IA;c
G(   ' P EECUUADOR ^ea                                                          *o40s
J Fof            <^  .4         _           0
G u  oy a  - -i
PERU, '0 ,l X ' V ':
o  ?S ~~~~~~~~~~~AMRGLAAO SAD
5    ;   =E.                                                       !
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                    GOD  -  KIA1
SI.  -  - -  -U.SON  'I.GOW hwoiG OPERAnom
44               mvm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMAGING
Report. No:      12363 EC
Type: MOD



