Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20481
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT NO. 28700-EC
J-UNE 29, 2000
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Managing Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Ecuadorian Sucres (ECS)
Average Exchange Rate for 1998
US$1.00 =ECS 5,413.86
Exchange Rate from January 1 through June 16, 1999
US$1.00 = ECS 8.947.97
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONYMS
BIC            Biodiversity Information Center
FY             Fiscal Year
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GET            Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement
GOE            Government of Ecuador
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ME             Ministry of Environment
PA             Protected Area
NEF            National Environmental Fund
NSPA           National System of Protected Areas
NDPA           National Directorate of Protected Areas and Wildlife
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
PPA            Project Preparation Advance
RCC            Regional Coordination Committee
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WB             World Bank
Vice President           David de Ferranti
Country Director         Andres Solimano
Sector Director          John Redwood
Task Manager             Claudia Sobrevila



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT NO. 28700-EC
ECUADOR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............................................................                                               i.
EXECUTIVE  SUMMARY  ..............................................................i.
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.                                                                        1
A. Introduction. . .                                                                                 3
B. Project Objectives and Design. . .                                                                3
i)       Rationale and Objectives ...........................................  3
ii)      Operational Design ..................................................  5
iii)     Assessment of Risks ................................................   5
iv)      Strengths and Weaknesses .......................................... 6
C. Achievements and Outcome .                      . ................................................... 8
i)       Achievements .....................................................               8
ii)       Outcome .....................................................                   12
iii)     Sustainability .....................................................             13
D. Performance of the World Bank and the Recipient                                ...   13
E. Overall Assessment .....................................................                         15
i)        Outcome and Factors Affecting the Results ............... ...... 15
ii)       Lessons Learned .....................................................  16
iii)      Implications for Further Operations .............................   19
PART H.              STATISTICAL ANNEXES .................................................... 20
Table 1           -            Summary of Assessments .................................. .....  20
Table 2           -            Related Bank loans/credits/grants ..................................... 22
Table 3           -            Project Timetable .............                  .......................... 23
Table 4           -            Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....... .. 23
Table 5           -           Key Project Achievements .......................................                      24
Table 6           -            Studies Completed Under Grant ....................................... 28
Table 7           -           Project Costs ....................................... 31
Table 8           -            Project Financing Plan .......................................                      31
Table 9           -            Status of Legal Covenants .......................................                   32
Table 10          -            Status for Trust Fund 28700-EC  ......................................  35
Table 11          -           Bank Resources: Staff Weeks .......................................   35
Table 12          -           Bank Resources: Missions .......................................                     36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A.                   Recipient's Contribution ................                                 40



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT 28700-EC)
ECUADOR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Global Environment Trust
Fund (GET)-Biodiversity Protection Project for which GET Grant 28700-EC in the
amount of SDR 5.2 million was approved on May 9,1994, and made effective on July
24,1994. The Grant was scheduled to close on June 30, 2000, but actually did so on
March 31, 2000. The Grant was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on April
1999. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Government of Ecuador in the
amount of US $ 370,000'.
The ICR was prepared by Cesar Plaza, the project's original Task Manager and Gabriela
Arcos, Operations Officer at the Ecuador World Bank field Office. Revisions have been
made by the current Task Manager, Claudia Sobrevila and Robert Crown (Consultant).
Preparation of the ICR is based on the Grant Agreement; reports generated by
supervision missions; available documentation in the project files; and an independent
assessment by the Corporaci6n Latinoamericana para el Desarrollo (CLD) (August
1999). The Recipient contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation on the
project's implementation (Appendix A).
According to Section 3.01 (b) of the Grant Agreement, the Recipient should have provided a total amount
of $ 1,500,000. The shortfall is attributed to the Recipient's budget difficulties during implementation
and accounted for by a reduction in project-related activities for which the Recipient had full
responsibility.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT 28700-EC)
ECUADOR
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.   Ecuador has established 26 national parks, natural reserves, and protected areas
(PAs), covering about 19 million ha and including the 14 million ha Galapagos Marine
Reserve. Fifteen of the most important have been designated as a National System of
Protected Areas (NSPA). Since their establishment, however, and in spite of important
contributions by NGOs, international agencies and donors, these reserves have come
under continuous pressure, with heavy resultant loss of their biodiversity.
2.   By 1991, the Government of Ecuador (GOE) had taken steps to begin managing
tourism in the Galapagos2, and formed a new agency for biodiversity protection;
Ecuadorian Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas and Wildlife (INEFAN). The new
agency raised the organizational focus on biodiversity, by creating a directorate for
Wildlife and Protected Areas with a position equal to a National Forestry directorate.
However, INEFAN did not have mature internal working relationships and was
inadequately financed, staffed and trained.
3.  The Project was identified (1991) in response to persistent constraints on the
effective protection and appropriate sustainable use of biodiversity including:
(a)  the lack of an operational national policy and consistent practices on
protected areas management;
(b)  an inadequate institutional framework for addressing biodiversity protection;
(c)  lack of consistent enforcement of existing laws and regulations; and
(d)  insufficient budgetary allocations to support NSPA management at the
central and regional levels (while INEFAN obtained extra-budgetary
financial support from NGOs, international organizations and bilateral
sources, this support was generally tied to specific investments in specific
locations and did not support the general needs of NSPA management).
2 "Global Plan for Tourism Minagement and Ecological Conservation of the Galapagos National Park"
June, 1991



111
4.   A new government, elected in August 1992 initiated the preparation of an
"environment law"; and formed an Environmental Advisory Commission under the
auspices of the President with a mandate to prepare a National Environment Action Plan.
It also committed itself to implementing the Global Plan for the Galapagos, and applying
lessons from developing this plan (which had been based on broad involvement of
affected communities and other stakeholders) to major protected areas on the continent.
INEFAN was identified as the governmlent's lead agency for developing a program to
support these goals.
B. Project Objectives And Design
5.   The project's goal was to raise the level of protection of the NSPA through: (i) the
restructuring and strengthening of the institutional capacity with improvement in the
overall policy and legal framework for management of the NSPA and (ii) by ensuring
financial sustainability of the NSPA through the establishment of an efficient fees and
tariffs system.  This was interpreted to mean achieving an improvement in the
organizational performance of INEFAN in planning, financing, monitoring and
evaluation, and general management of ithe system at the central level, while relying on
decentralized units for planning and managing the protected areas in their locales.
6.   These improvements would be achieved through four components, comprising a
series of actions (Annex Table 5), which would affect:
a) institutional performance (including training and generating experience for
INEFAN's staff and communities in park management and the design of
protected areas management plans, analyses and studies of resource valuation, and
options for resource use; and alternative fiscal regimes for assuring adequate
operating budgets);
b) the legal and regulatory framework (including rationalization of legislation and
regulations governing protected areas; regulations governing local participation in
resource planning; land tenure regularization);
c) outreach (including public awareness information and dissemination; promotion
of alternative conflict resolution; involvement of indigenous peoples in
biodiversity protection); and
d) investment in key protected areas ( seven areas, including the Galapagos and six
continental reserves, covering about 66% of all areas covered in the NSPA).
7.   To account for the efforts being made by NGOs and through bilateral assistance
and its importance for the protection effort, responsibility for designing and managing a
collaborative and consultative process was delegated to INEFAN3.
8.   The GOE and the Bank recognized that while empowering communities to protect
biodiversity was working in some countries, and held promise for Ecuador, its institutions
did not have experience with this mode of operations, so that applying the method would
be experimental and would require time and intensive support to succeed. The project's
3 An early attempt to coordinate INEFAN's actions with those of the NGO community was the formation
of a "consultative committee" in early 1995



iv
actions were well identified and costed along with a clearly sequenced implementation
plan, following the best practice of the day. Adequate attention was paid to the Bank's
environmental and social safeguards policies and necessary covenants covering staffing,
effectiveness, disbursements for local initiatives, were provided for.
9.   The Bank identified the project's risks as: (i) potential budget constrains during
project implementation4; (ii) delays in establishing needed advances in the policy, legal
and regulatory framework to permit implementation of key project actions such as
establishing decentralized regional protection authorities; (iii and iv) inadequate
managerial and administrative capabilities in INEFAN, given the large number of actions
to be undertaken; and (v) the possibility of competing government investments near
protected areas, incompatible with protecting neighboring biodiversity reserves. To
manage the "capacity risk", it was believed that forming a PCU and recruiting a
procurement agent (UNDP) would suffice. GOE's commitment was considered to be
adequate to provide a basis for annual work plans that would adjust the program to
accommodate progress. These and other matters were covered in project conditionality.
However, surprisingly, considering the importance of INEFAN's cash flow to support the
project, a financial analysis of the project was not conducted.
10. The relevance the project's goal, biodiversity protection, was clear. Unfortunately,
neither the GOE nor the Bank established standards for "protection" or a timeframe for
raising performance as part of the project's framework. In fact, in spite of citing diversity
protection as a project benefit, the project did not hold itself accountable for achieving it.
Rather, it adopted the "softer" goal of establishing necessary conditions for protection to
occur. In addition, the risks of selecting a new organization with untested internal and
external relationships as the implementation agency, coupled with the insertion of a low-
placed PCU into the agency do not appear to have been fully appreciated. While GOE
showed good "ownership" of the project, little attention was paid to whether INEFAN
would "own" the actions of the PCU or whether it had incentives to adopt its
recommendations. The overall strategic concept of the project was, therefore, weak.
11. In contrast, the project's operational design showed a number of strengths. It
recognized the need for building new roles and capacities in both central and
decentralized agencies, and that flexibility in project implementation would be required
to achieve it. Unfortunately, the details were, in important ways. incompatible with
executing this approach. Project activities appeared to be over-designed and their links to
the improvement of INEFAN were not clear. Standards of organizational performance
were not stated so that results were not measurable. The monitoring and evaluation
system itself was designed to focus on the completion of the activities, not the
effectiveness of the organization's performance. A basis of accountability for a result,
and the flexibility of action required to implement an "experimental" design, were
therefore, missing.
4 Achieving a sound financing formula for the support of the NSPA was considered to be a project
outcome.






v
C. Achievements and Outcome
Achievements
12.  The project was completed and closed, September 30, 1999, three months early. At
that time, 24 of the 35 planned activities had been fully or partially completed, and 11
had been combined with other activities or not undertaken. Most activities were
implemented below anticipated budgets, however, several, notably, support for the
restructuring of INEFAN, the training of INEFAN staff and the development of
decentralized management planning in six key protection areas, overran their budgets by
more than 150%. Overall, final costs under-ran planned costs by about 10%. A
statement concerning the result of each of the main project activities and a list of the
studies completed with project resources is contained in Table 5 and Table 6, annexed.
13.  Activities to improve the protection of the Galapagos PA, the largest and most
prominent, were only partially completed; equipment for surveillance was upgraded, a
strategic management plan for the marine reserve was designed with the participation of
stakeholders, and a preliminary design for urban settlement on the islands was
formulated. These fell short of a more ambitious plan designed at the project's inception.
However, a very positive outcome of the project not foreseen at the time of its design,
was the passage of a new "Special Law" for the Galapagos (#278, of March 18, 1998).
The project stimulated outreach and participation when preparing the marine reserves
strategic plan.  This participation resulted in a wide open discussion by many
stakeholders of the main issues affecting Galapagos. The idea of a Galapagos Law came
from these discussions. The Special Galapagos Law permits among other things that all
the income and taxes generated in Galapagos are reinvested for Galapagos Protection.
Galapagos is the National Park that generates more income in the country, but the funds
collected use to be spent nationally with a very small fraction returning to the protection
of the Galapagos Islands. This Law is a success for Galapagos National Park's long term
protection.
14.  On one hand, interpreted narrowly and literally, the outcome of the project could be
considered deficient. On the other hand, the project has served its strategic purpose in the
development of Ecuador's approach to managing the environment and to biodiversity
protection. Overall, therefore, the project should be considered as having had a
"satisfactory" (although disappointing) outcome.
15.  The project did not produce a functioning institutional and financial framework.
Ecuador continued, at the end of the project, to be studying alternatives, including the
role of the newly created Ministry of Environment and the private sector in this regard.
The project did produce valuable strategic studies; a consolidated data base in the BIC,
useful publications on several important topics, and increased public awareness of the
issues involved. The BIC is a critical element for biodiversity protection in Ecuador as it
developed a comprehensive database on Ecuador's biodiversity. The government is
currently developing the operational manuals to make the database available as the
Clearing House Mechanism for the CBD. It also provided useful information on the
legal constraints confronting biodiversity protection and proposals for rationalizing this



vi
framework. However, the value of thie investments in INEFAN's development will
depend essentially on the role, stnjcture and operational characteristics of the
organizations that replace it.
16. The project also succeeded in developing experience in the management of
biodiversity protection and sustainalble resource use by local populations and
stakeholders. These would be important building blocks for a more comprehensive
program. The project also stimulated additional collaboration between the NGO, private
sectors and public authorities, although this has still not been fully "consolidated". Even
though this was partial, and not well planned strategically, it was not common in the
Ecuadorian tradition of the day and has left a model to be emulated.
17.  However, in a more general sense, the project may be considered as having actually
met the development objective of "supporting the restructuring and strengthening of the
institutions responsible for the management of the NSPA", even if not as originally
envisaged. By the project's closing dat:e, INEFAN as an organizational ideal had been
shown to be unable to play its assigned role and was disbanded and a new Environment
Ministry created with the mandate given to the Directorate of Wildlife and Protected
Areas under INEFAN. This may be seen as a further evolution in the restructuring of
Ecuador's environmental institutions iin which the role of the public sector as the
"protector" of biodiversity would need to be re-examined. The lessons, if internalized,
may reduce the costs of further efforts to establish a sound regime for protection. Judged
by a standard recently adopted in the 'World Bank with respect to "adaptable lending"
instruments (especially Learning and Innovation loans; LILs), this knowledge would be
considered a satisfactory outcome.
Sustainability
18.  The project has not produced a, sustainable institutional or financial outcome.
However, the ongoing activities of local authorities forming the RCCs and in the buffer
zone of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Reserve, and the activities of the BIC may be sustainable
if the organizations involved obtain regulatory recognition, acquire income to support and
maintain their activities from the broader research community. In all of these cases, an
analysis of their costs, efficacy and replicability is required. Therefore, the current
sustainability of the project's activities is at best, "uncertain".
D. Performance of Vorld Bank and the Recipient
World Bank
19.  Bank staff satisfactorily identified, and prepared the project through participatory
diagnosis of the issues and helped find informed responses to questions and issues.
However, the Bank may not have sufficiently appreciated the "political" and behavioral
risks associated with trying to improve INEFAN's performance through a "PCUY', placed
at a relatively low organizational level. The Staff did not appear to have appreciated that
INEFAN was not adequately prepared to assume the role of an NGO coordinator during
implementation. In hindsight, a more lormal remedial measure would have been called



vii
for. Finally, having identified unreliable financing as a project risk, the Staff did not
investigate the severity of the risk, and did not plan a remedial measure. This was
particularly problematic for the actions affecting the Galapagos PA. Therefore, the actual
appraisal process would be considered " deficient".
20.  Throughout supervision, Bank staff drew extensively on experience from other
countries to support implementation. The Recipient was also particularly appreciative of
the Bank's timeliness, assistance in solving grant administration issues. Unfortunately,
while exemplary in supervising implementation processes, the Bank did not effectively
maintained focus on achieving the project's intended strategic outcomes; that is, whether
the level of protection was poised to increase and whether INEFAN was becoming more
capable of assuring it. In spite of reporting continuous problems with re-enforcing
INEFAN and in reaching agreements on establishing a sustainable financing framework
the Bank considered the project as "problem free", on both meeting development
objectives and implementation progress throughout. The project was not restructured to
respond to the growing experience. Significant delays in counterpart financing and the
execution of project components, as well as shortfalls in the implementation of
components for the Galapagos PA for which INEFAN had responsibility, were noted but
were not rated as problems. Remedial actions were, therefore, not initiated. Therefore, on
grounds of unsatisfactory "realism" and low "proactivity", supervision, as well as overall
Bank performance would be considered "deficient".
Recipient Performance
21.  The Recipient initially showed strong project "ownership" at the policy level.
During implementation, this tendency was exacerbated. The PCU's preparatory work for
institutional reform, was not generally acted upon by INEFAN management. Further,
INEFAN did not adequately pursue coordination with the NGO community on policy and
strategic planning issues. A Consultative Committee (CC) that was established quickly
became a point of confrontation. The recipient's acceptance of NGO participation in what
it saw as essentially "policy making" remained low (it did accept NGO's work with
communities in the PAs). Moreover, the NGOs themselves failed to find the vehicle for
defining their collective interests. This left no structure for dialogue and little room for
meaningful consultation.
22. Recurrent budget difficulties prevented INEFAN from meeting its financial
obligations to the project, both to activities co-financed with GEF Trust Fund and those
financed in parallel.  INEFAN did not, apparently, raise the issue of obtaining a
supplementary GEF grant during project implementation or of restructuring the project to
conform more to its own budget possibilities.
23.  The Recipient, as represented by the PCU, UNDP, and some of the technical staff,
interacted very well with the Bank on implementation processing. They also assured that
most legal covenants governing the use of the grant were met, and that acceptable norms
for financial accountability, and procurement practices were followed. Unfortunately,
surrogates for the recipient, the PCU and UNDP, assured these administrative functions
and their performance was not effectively mainstreamed.



viii
24.  On most accounts, therefore, the Recipient's overall performance is considered to
have been "deficient".
E. Overall Assessment
25.   The project did not, strictly speaking, restructure and strengthen institutional
capacity to manage the NSPA. Nonetheless, it may be considered to have been
"satisfactory" from the perspective cf having contributed experience in defining an
institutional and financial framework for biodiversity protection and a research base from
which to develop a follow-on program5. It produced a model for including community
interests in the development and implementation of biodiversity management and
protection activities that appears to have been positive. At least at the level of PAs, a
practice of collaboration between stakeholders, including local NGOs, was initiated and
found to be practical in strategic planning. The PCU opened a line of communication
with communities and NGOs that hacd not previously been available. In addition, the
failure of INEFAN, created to protect and manage the NSPA was significant. It had
been generally believed that the public sector could assume major responsibilities for
biodiversity protection. In Ecuador, t:herefore, an alternative strategy for building the
necessary organizational structure for biodiversity protection would have to be
considered. A number of additional important outputs were produced which should add
to the success of a future operation.
26.  Several factors contributed to the positive side of the outcome. These included the
support from NGOs in the development of strategic plans for individual PAs with
communities, in a process that was considered "experimental". Although possibly not the
best designed or placed, the PCU was professionally staffed and dedicated to their work
in spite of their difficult position. Lastly, although it should have been more focused on
the outcomes of the project and less on the detail of implementation, the close
collaboration between the Bank and the Recipient provided additional stability to
implementing the individual components.
27. Unfortunately, other factors, largely beyond the control of the project, contributed
to its failures. Changes in governments and overarching economic and budgetary
problems diverted the recipient's attention from the project. In addition, INEFAN's staff
had been selected from a parent agency with a tradition of forestry exploitation and did
not receive the leadership or the incentives necessary to motivate a change favoring
"protection". Finally, while the NGO community's participation was welcomed by the
PCU in arriving at community-based strategic plans for specific PAs, the same openness
was not true of INEFAN management when asked to deal with NGO's at the policy and
legislative level. Moreover, for its part, NGO community itself appears not to have been
able to consolidate a technically grounded position. In this new environment, therefore,
it proved difficult for the parties to find common ground for discussion and to focus on
the issues, so that the process quickly became confrontational and was abandoned.
5 This standard for assessing project success is acceptable in evaluating Learning and Innovation Loans.
Given the uncertainties and the "experimental" nature of the project, which were identified and
accepted by the Bank and GEF at the design stage, applying LIL-type criteria for the assessment of
outcomes may be justified.



ix
Unfortunately, these risks were not fully appreciated at the appraisal of the project and a
definite strategy for dealing with them was not adopted.
Lessons Learned
28.  The experience of this project served to confirm a number of lessons derived from
other GEF and biodiversity projects.
29.  Approach to Institutional Development: The project was designed to improve an
organization that had been given a role and a legal structure without having had
experience on the ground. A special unit, the PCU was mandated to perform this task
from within INEFAN, supported by UNDP as procurement agent. The outcome
illustrated the dangers of this response. Experience has shown that such PCUs frequently
become seen as enclave operations. This was the root of poor ownership of the project
by INEFAN; difficulty in mainstreaming the capacity of the surrogates (PCU and
UNDP); and a lack of follow-up action on the PCU's studies and advice by higher levels
of INEFAN's decision-making. An alternative would have been to establish a program
of organizational strengthening, managed from without, setting expectations for
performance for INEFAN, supported by incentives to perform appropriately. Experience
has also shown that once an agency has a legal structure, it cannot be easily changed.
Therefore, it is prudent to gain experience through working relationships prior to
deciding what relationships will be legalized. It might have been preferable to execute
the project with a " mission champion"; that is, temporary agency that would have
managed a process through which roles, responsibilities and working relationships were
developed prior to giving them legal form. Projects that have adopted this approach have
placed PCUs at the disposal of a project "champion" with decisions about the legalization
of an institutional framework being considered as a project "output", not an "input".
30. Community Involvement: The involvement of communities in the planning and
implementation of sustainable resource management and biodiversity protection was
again shown to be important. Studies of the efficacy and efficiency of the plans made for
the seven test cases undertaken in the project have not been completed, and should be, to
draw the detailed lessons from the experience. However, the willingness of these
communities to undertake the exercise shows that they had positive expectations from the
practice. The value and cost of replicating this experience should be evaluated. More
attention should also be given need to the implementation of the plans.
31. NGO Collaboration: The project also confirmed the importance of collaboration
between public authorities and the NGO and bilateral community, but with some
nuances. Representatives of leading local NGOs were involved in the preparation phase.
This cooperation continued during project execution of decentralized project activities in
communities. However, the project failed to bring these interests together at the central
level. This project illustrated, therefore, that having determined that a consultative
process is important for project success, it would be crucial that an explicit process be
prepared and included in the project's basic design, with resources identified as needed to
make this effective at all levels (see the following point).



x
32.  Flexibility in Execution:  The project was considered experimental in several
respects, including the use of communities in the protection of individual NSPA sites-
and the process of building an organization like INEFAN. Unfortunately, the project
specified its activities as a blueprint, leaving little room for introducing new actions, or
dropping unproductive ones. In spite of repeated evidence that INEFAN was not
developing, the project was not restructured. This problem was compounded by the lack
of organization performance indicators that could have guided changes in actions. When
the project was initiated, the World Bank had not designed its "adaptable lending"
instruments (Learning and Innovation Loans and Adaptable Program Lending). If these
had been available, and given the issues and constraints that were being faced, the
adaptable lending approach might have been considered.
33. Monitoring and Evaluation: The monitoring and evaluation system should have
been functional before the project began, through such actions as conducting baseline
surveys or pre-project assessments of [NEFAN's performance. This would have focused
attention on the project's expectations for results. Instead, the monitoring system was
used to track the implementation of the project's inputs and actions. While this was
valuable for the purposes of project administration, it did not serve to flag or substantiate
shortcomings in achieving the institutional development outcomes. Without this, there
was little basis for proposing adjustme;nts to the project's design during implementation.
34.  Strategic Vision of the NSPA: The experience with this project again illustrated
the weaknesses in implementation when concrete priorities for biodiversity protection,
the ultimate purpose for the project, are not outlined ex ante. Without a unifying visionl
of the NSPA as an ensemble, including such features as the locations and sizes of the PAs
needed to constitute the NSPA, the meaning of "protection", criteria for either
abandoning and/or adding PAs, there was not a touchstone for assessing the efficacy of
the project's many actions. Instead, project implementers, including the Bank, focused
on setting "necessary conditions" among which it is more difficult to establish explicit
priorities. It also proved difficult to alter the "menu" in light of implementation
experience. Accountability for results was also hard to assign.
Implications for further operations
35.  To be successful, a follow-on project or program to promote protecting the NSPA
should have clear development olbjectives and explicit indicators that measure
"protection" directly, rather than through establishing the "necessary conditions" for
protection to occur. To do this would require agreement on a concept of protection, and a
time frame in which "improvement" would occur. Such a statement would establish a
level of accountability for project management overall, as well as accountability at the
level of each PA. It would also allow for less strict specification of the actions that the
project would support, and permit increased empowerment of project management to
respond to implementation experience.
36.  The project also showed that improving biodiversity protection depends on the
change in the behavior of individuals at the local and the national level, often against
perceived self-interest. The project succeeded in doing this at the local level but failed at
the central level, where the staff of INMEFAN was not motivated to alter their attitudes and



xi
approaches to resource management to accommodate a higher level of protection. Future
operations should be designed to allow for trial-and-error, action and feedback, leading to
the internalization of a "protection culture". Future projects in the area of biodiversity
conservation may be designed as either Learning and Innovation Loans or Adaptable
Program Lending to respond to these needs.
37.  The institutional and organizational framework for protecting the NSPA has
changed with the creation of the Ministry of Environment. This should not, however
preempt a process of developing institutional arrangements for the NSPA through an
evolutionary process in which the public sector, and civil society, at the central and at the
community levels, each find their respective roles. The choice of organizations to
perform protective services could then follow, not lead the process. The Ministry could
be the "champion" for developing such an organizational framework without considering
itself to necessarily be that management agency. A new operation, therefore, should
approach its institutional development "component" with a focus first, on arrangements
that are effective, and then on the organizational requirements that sustain these.
38.  The completed project produced promising experiences of planning and managing
the NSPA at the community level. In order to maximize the learning, it would be
necessary to disseminate the experiences that were positive and avoid repeating those that
did not work. Regarding the institutional arrangements and the long-term financial needs
for the NSPA, it would be necessary to bring experiences from other countries. The
institutional and financial aspects of protected areas management is a chronic problems in
most countries in the region. For this reason, bringing positive experiences from outside
of Ecuador would open new initiatives that might bring more long-lasting results.
39. Lastly, a permanent and open system for pooling the views and knowledge of the
NGO and bilateral communities should be established as an integral part of a follow-on
operation. This process should provide a framework for steering further GEF support as
an addition to the resources already committed to the NSPA. It should also provide a
vehicle for articulating policy and strategic options needed for biodiversity protection.
The follow-on project should plan for this as a monitorable component.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT 28700-EC)
ECUADOR
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.  Ecuador has long been recognized as having a considerable share of the world's
most valued biodiversity heritage. In addition to the Galapagos Islands, situated about
1,000 km from its coast, Ecuador's continental forest reserves in its coastal, Andean and
upper Amazon regions are believed to contain vast stocks of flora and fauna that have
only begun to be inventoried. Since as early as 1936, with the establishment of the
Galapagos National Park, Ecuador established some 26 of national parks, natural
reserves, and protected areas, covering about 19 million ha and including the 14 million
ha Galapagos Marine Reserve. Within this group, some 15 of the most important from the
point of view of global biodiversity have been designated as a National System of
Protected Areas (NSPA). These reserves, however, have come under continuous pressure
for exploitation by forestry, mining and drilling interests, tourists and the general spread
of population looking for new lands for agriculture. The resultant loss of species is
believed to have been significant but only partially documented.
2.   Several national and international non-governmental organizations and bilaterally
supported interventions have been made and are ongoing, to protect a number of the more
significant reserves and parks. These various initiatives have been well designed and are
contributing to improvements in specific areas. However, they have tended to address
specific issues in specific locales, and have lacked a vehicle for assuring overall
coordination and providing a focus on the system-wide and contextual issues. As a result,
their efforts may not have created the critical mass needed to capture the full attention of
policy makers and the public and thus, may only partially have dampen the major
negative trends towards biodiversity loss.
3.   Since 1981, the Government itself has made it a matter of national policy to
improve the protection of and to regulate the use of natural resources. Unfortunately, with
key public policy makers pre-occupied with general economic development issues, there
has not been the consistency of public attention to resource management issues, and to
the issues of biodiversity preservation in particular. By 1991, however, initial attempts to



2
manage tourism in the Galapagos had been undertaken6, and recognition of the unique
needs of biodiversity compared to more general resource use management had been
institutionalized in the form of a new agency, Ecuadorian Institute of Forestry, Natural
Areas and Wildlife (INEFAN). Prior to its formal creation in 1993, attention to natural
resources issues was under the responsibility of a sub-directorate within the Ministry of
Agriculture, with attention to biodiversity subsumed under units with responsibilities for
commercial forestry and other resource use matters. The new agency, while staffed with
former civil servants, was given broacder powers for its own management, and raised the
organizational level at which biodiversity questions could be addressed, by creating a
directorate for Wildlife and Protected Areas with a position equal to a National Forestry
directorate. INEFAN was to be suppcirted from the national treasury at a level of about
30% of the revenue generated by park fees, tariffs on paid by operators, fines and
penalties from illegal uses of forestry and natural resources, as well as an annual budget
allocation from the treasury.
4.  The present Biodiversity Protection Project was identified (1991) in response to
continued major issues affecting the effective protection and appropriate sustainable use
of biodiversity in the country. These included:
(a)  the lack of an operational national policy on protected areas management (the
existing policies governing natural resources management having been
fragmented when applied to different user interests, and broadly interpreted
to allow for and even encourage the use of reserves. Many of the more
notable users of sensitive biodiversity areas have been State enterprises);
(b)  an inadequate institutional framework for addressing biodiversity protection
(while INEFAN had been created, it's staff was still inadequately selected
and trained to address biodiversity issues, and relatively few, given the
number of tasks that protecting biodiversity entailed);
(c)  lack of consistency in and enforcement of existing laws and regulations; and
(d)  insufficient  budgetary  allocations  to  maintain  various  biodiversitv
management agencies at the central and regional levels (while INEFAN
received extra-budgetary support from NGOs, and bilateral contributions.
these were generally tied to specific investments in specific locations, and did
not support the general needs of NSPA management).
5.   Given the history of attention given through NGO  and bilateral efforts to
understand and manage parts of the NSPA, the lack of basic scientific and technical
knowledge about Ecuador's biodiversity was not initially perceived as a constraint to
improving protection. However, the pooling and synthesis, as well as the dissemination
of this information as a basis of public awareness and action were considered poor.
6.   A new government, elected in August 1992, gave indications that it would attempt
to address the needs for biodiversity protection. In addition to following through with the
creation of INEFAN, it initiated the preparation of an "environment law" in an attempt to
rationalize the treatment of natural resource management and protection that had evolved.
6 "Global Plan for Tourism Management and E]cological Conservation of the Galapagos National Park"
June, 1991



3
and formed an Environmental Advisory Commission under the auspices of the President
with a mandate to prepare a National Environment Action Plan. It also committed itself
to implementing the Global Plan for the Galapagos, and applying lessons from
developing this plan (which had been based on broad involvement of affected
communities and other stakeholders) to major protected areas on the continent. INEFAN
was identified as the government's lead agency for developing a program to support these
goals.
7.   GEF awarded a PPA of SDR 227,000 (US $ 326,025) in September 27, 1993, to
assist INEFAN finance expenditures related to the preparation and start-up phase of a
biodiversity protection project. Specifically, the following activities were financed: (i)
preparation of software and operating manuals for INEFAN's accounting, administration
and management information systems; (ii) acquisition and use of computers and office
equipment in support to the above systems; (iii) training of INEFAN's staff, with the
assistance of consultants, in project procedures and implementation; (iv) contracting of a
procurement agent; and (v) assistance to INEFAN's management in selecting and hiring
technical staff.
B. Project Objectives And Design
Rationale and Objectives
8.   Based on available scientific knowledge and ongoing biodiversity protection
efforts, it was believed that a significant contribution to the protection could be achieved
through (i) the restructuring and strengthening of the institutional capacity and overall
policy and legal framework for adequate management of the NSPA and (ii) through
special emphasis on ensuring financial sustainability of the NSPA through the
establishment of an efficient fees and tariffs system. In the context of the day, this was
interpreted to mean achieving an improvement in the performance of INEFAN in the
areas of system-wide planning, financing, monitoring and evaluation, and general
management, relying on decentralized regional units to be responsible for planning and
managing the protected areas in their locales.
9.   The project's components were designed to address:
(a) Institutional Strengthening: aimed at strengthening INEFAN's capacity to
manage the NSPA by: (i) training its staff and other public officials on technical issues
related to park management and on the implementation of proposed new laws and
regulations; (ii) review/updating of existing management plans for PAs with the
participation of local communities; (iii) studies to determine the economic values of
goods and services generated through use in the PA resources; (iv) analysis of the
relationship between local populations and PAs, focusing on their use of resources and
ways to maximize the benefits accruing the communities; (v) the design of a new system
for the collection and allocation of revenues from resource use activities; and (vi) the
review of the role and responsibilities of tour operators in promoting conservation while
allowing for sustainable revenue generation.



4
(b) Legal Regulatory Framework: comprising: (i) a comparative review of
current legislation affecting PAs; (ii) idenrtification and establishment of legal reforms for
the protection and management of biodiversity; (iii) drafting and promulgation of new
regulations for granting operating permits to official and private users of the NSPA and
for limiting extraction activities within PAs; (iv) development and establishment of
regulations that encompass both public and private property within a management
regime, and allow private property owners to participate in the management of the area;
(v) development of regulations and a strategy to allow community participation in the
administration of the PAs and their bu'ffer zones; and (vi) analysis of the institutional,
legal and social problems related to landholding within PAs, which undermine the
successful implementation of strategies, related to protection of biodiversity so as to
determine effective legislation to solve these problems.
(c) Outreach Activities: including: (i) conflict resolution amongst key target
groups through a national forum to promote project activities and to obtain the support of
all interested groups; (ii) creation of Regional Coordination Committees to overlook the
Implementation of Management Plans and Conflict Resolution Process; (iii) a study for
the solution of problems of tenancy and resource use within PAs; (iv) public awareness
campaigns at the national level to promote biodiversity conservation and the new legal
system concerning protected areas; (v) development of a strategy at the national and
regional levels to educate the public on the NSPA; and (iv) technical assistance and pilot
studies for Chachi and other native communities located in buffer zones and surrounding
areas of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Reserve.
(d) Investment Activities: providing financing for civil works and infrastructure
for selected PAs. It included border delimitation, establishment of trails for visitors, and
the construction of visitor information centers. In addition the project financed logistic
support for INEFAN's field staff in the protected areas, such as vehicles, motorcycles,
survival equipment, etc.
10. The government and project teams were aware of the efforts being made by NGOs
and through bilateral assistance, and assumed that their actions would complement these.
A consultative and information sharing process with these organizations was undertaken
during project preparation. However, the Teams did not design a process, a priori, for
following through with the consultative process, leaving coordination to be one of
INEFAN's several responsibilities.7
11.  The government and the Bank also recognized that while the practice of engaging
local participation in biodiversity protection was working in some countries, and held
promise for Ecuador, its institutions did not have long experience with this mode of
operations, so that applying the methodl would be experimental. It was also recognized
that the process for doing so would require time and intensive staff inputs.
An early attempt to coordinate INEFAN's actions with those of the NGO community was the formation
of a "consultative committee" in early 1995



5
Operational Design
12.  The projects' components were designed by specifying a more-or-less complete list
of actions to be taken as project outputs. Thirty-five were so identified and costed. A
well-defined implementation schedule/sequence was also specified. The new agency,
INEFAN was given responsibility for project implementation, however, the govemment
and the Bank recognized the need for "technical transfer" and building local "models" for
planning and managing protected areas as a major thrust of the operation. Technical
assistance, designed to be available principally through a project coordination unit (PCU)
supported by the UNDP for procurement assistance and short-term assignments of
individuals and teams, would work with the staffs of INEFAN and the six Regional
Coordinating Committees. Technical assistance would account for about 45% of project
costs, and about 64% of the GEF grant.
13. Government and the Bank agreed to use annual work programming and budgeting
to maintain project activities. This would allow adjustments to be made to account for
experience in implementing some of the more experimental parts of the project. For
example; while principles of good practice were available for arriving at strategic plans
for managing PAs, including the process of consultations with local stakeholders, these
had not been tested in Ecuador. The project needed some flexibility to conduct trial
application of these principles. Agreements also covered the staffing of the PCU; terms
of reference for the studies and major activities to be conducted in the first project year;
the principles of the sources and application of counterpart funds (the parties agreed to
use INEFAN financing for the components related to the Galapagos, and GEF financing
for the remaining activities); and the indicators to be used in the monitoring and
evaluation system. Investments in the six key NSPA PAs would be made progressively,
when an appropriate plan for the PA had been made. World Bank environmental
assessments would be made on a case-by-case basis.
14. The project was thoroughly prepared following the standards of the day. Adequate
attention was paid to assuring that INEFAN had been provided with training and
assistance with the financing of the PPA in basic procedures of project implementation.
Components and activities were well specified and costed. Implementation
responsibilities were clear. However, there was not an analysis of INEFAN's cash flow to
support the realism of the assumption that its sources of revenue would be adequate and
reliable for financing the project. This lack of understanding of the sensitivity associated
with project financing proved to be a source of difficulty throughout the project's
implementation.
Assessment of Risks
15.  The Bank identified five risks to meeting project objectives: (i) potential national
budget constraints limiting funding during project implementation ; (ii) delays in
establishing needed advances in the policy, legal and regulatory framework to permit
implementation of key project actions such as establishing decentralized regional
8 Achieving a sound financing formula for the support of the NSPA was considered to be a project
outcome.



6
protection authorities; (iii and iv) inadequate managerial and administrative capabilities
in INEFAN, given the large number of actions to be undertaken; and (v) the possibility of
government investments near protected areas, incompatible with protecting neighboring
biodiversity reserves. The Bank believeid that adequate preparatory steps had been made
in establishing INEFAN with a measure of adequate financial support (see above), and
that the actions of a newly elected government favored environmental protection, so that
continued dialogue and annual work program planning could mitigate the first two of
these risks. It also believed that it could manage the "capacity risk" by forming a PCU
and recruiting a procurement agent (UNDP) could compensate for INEFAN's lack of
internal managerial and administrative experience. These arrangements were covered by
adequate project conditionality.
Strengths and Weaknesses
16.  On a global and strategic level, concern for Ecuador's biodiversity was
undoubtedly, well founded.  Most professionals readily accepted the relevance of
protecting nearly 19 million ha comprising the NSPA. Without an inventory of Ecuador's
overall biodiversity resource and an assessment of its value, judging whether this was an
"adequate" reserve would have been difficult for the Government and the Bank. The
project did not propose to lead to an expansion of the areas within the NSAP; however,
the knowledge of the biodiversity value of the reserves already under "protection" would
have indicated that the NSPA was already "significant". Unfortunately, neither standards
for "protection" nor a timeframe for raising performance to meet them were stated. As a
result, a basis for judging the efficacy of the project in reaching the strategic objectives
for biodiversity protection could not be elaborated. The project did not, in fact, in spite of
statements in the project documentation concerning its benefits, hold itself accountable
for achieving an improved level of biodliversity protection, but rather the more limited
and "softer" goal of the establishing some of the necessary conditions for this to occur.
Whether it addressed enough of the necessary conditions is still an open question.
17.  The early strategic choice was to select a newly legalized agency, INEFAN, a
priori, as the institution to be developed to assure the protection of the NSPA. It is clear
that INEFAN was the result of administrative decision-making and its staffing largely a
process of re-assigning existing staff to new tasks. The Bank and Recipient assumed that
an operational culture could be built into the existing legal and staffing framework using
the PCU, UNDP and technical assistance. The risks of adopting this approach were not
fully appreciated or acted upon. While the risks of low administrative and managerial
capacity of a new INEFAN were cited, the risks associated with developing ownership of
the project and its goals by the INEFAN staff (particularly given that a PCU would hold
executive power) and the creation of incentives for the staff to internalize training and
adopt new attitudes and behavior, were not. While not common at the time of the
project's inception, an alternative might have been to assign responsibility for project
implementation temporarily to a central authority with national policy responsibilities (a
"Champion"), with the mandate to guide the creation of an institution or institutions that



7
would be subsequently empowered to protect biodiversity. In fact, this was the strategy
for developing the RCCs, which are awaiting regulatory confirmation of their structures .
18.  Given these strategic choices, however, the project's operational design showed a
number of strengths. It recognized the need for developing both central and decentralized
roles and capacities to play them. It recognized that under the circumstances where there
was not a developed institutional framework for doing this, that experimentation and
building models of performance by INEFAN and the RCCs would be required. In this
respect, the project's design concept anticipated by several years, the rationale for the
eventual development of the World Bank's "adaptable lending" instruments. The details,
however, were, in important ways, incompatible with executing this design. Project
activities were over-designed and specified given the unpredictable nature of institution
building (thirty-five were specified the Grant Agreement). Moreover, it was not clear
how these activities and the numerous studies that were undertaken, were to have been
used to improve 1NBEFAN's operations. The scope for adding new activities or not
implementing those that proved redundant was ambiguous. It was also not clear what the
standards of institutional performance would be expected which would lower
monitorability of results. In this regard, the monitoring and evaluation system appears to
have been designed so as to focus on the completion of the activities, with much less
attention paid to the effectiveness of the "models" being developed. Some of these
weaknesses appear to have been accommodated through the implementation process, for
example, the achievement of relatively well organized RCCs through planning the
implementation of several activities that were germane to this task as a group.
19.  The project partially accommodated the risks inherent in its operational design.
Having decided to use INEFAN to implement the project, the use of substitute
management structures (the PCU and possibly UNDP) compensate for INEFAN's
unproven capacity was logical, although this solution would have its own risks of low
internalization of the project by INEFAN staff. An alternative might have been to agree
on a less strict set of outputs and agree instead on performance standards on the tasks that
were performed. Holding higher expectations for INEFAN, even if over a smaller
number of actions, may have built more incentives for it to grow. With the uncertainties
associated with INEFAN's budget, the Bank should also have been more concerned
about designating all project activities related to the Galapagos to this institution, rather
than making provisions for the more reliable, GEF financing for these critical activities. It
is also surprising that a financial analysis of the project was not done, considering the
importance of INEFAN's important role in providing cofinancing.
20.  Overall, the project should be appreciated for having addressed a significant issue,
and for having brought into play new strategies for increasing biodiversity protection that
held promise (for example, the involvement of local communities in protecting their own
biodiversity zones; and working towards establishing enabling frameworks for protection
at a macro level). At the same time, however, the project showed some flaws in defining
its objectives and inconsistencies between actions and expected outcomes that would
9 This model has been employed in the implementation of a number of Learning and Innovation loans;
LlLs, including, for example, Dominican Republic: National Environment Policy Reform Project,
1998



8
later frustrate implementation. In addition, while the project took a number of important
lessons from experience into account, the risks inherent in critical assumptions about the
behavior of INEFAN's staff and the incentive structure in that institution were not
explicitly recognized. Finally, the project did not elevate the possibility of establishing
more cooperation and collaboration amrong NGOs and bilateral agencies to a level of a
basic objective or design element so tlhat an early initiative foundered. This may have
been a lost opportunity to create a critical mass of influence, advice and support for
biodiversity protection as a counterweight for other entrenched interests.
C. Achievements and Outcome
Achievements
21.  The project was completed and cilosed on March 31, 2000. At that time, 24 of the
35 planned activities had been fully or partially completed, and- 11 had been only
partially undertaken, these related mainl.y to the actions for the Galapagos protected area.
Most activities were implemented below anticipated budgets, however, several, notably,
support for the restructuring of INEFAN, the training of INEFAN staff and the
development of decentralized management planning in 6 key protection areas, overran
their budgets by more than 150%. Oveirall, final costs under-ran planned costs by about
10%.
22.  A statement concerning the result of each of the main project activities and a list of
the studies completed with project resources is contained in Table 5 and Table 6,
annexed. Activities to improve the protection of the Galapagos, the largest and most
prominent PA, were only partially completed; equipment for surveillance was upgraded,
a strategic management plan for the marine reserve was designed with the participation of
stakeholders, and a preliminary design for urban settlement on the islands was
formulated. These fell short of a more ambitious plan designed at the project's inception.
However, as an unexpected outcome of the project, work financed under the GEF grant in
stimulating outreach and participation, a convergence of interests was facilitated that led
to the passage of a new "Special Law"' for the Galapagos (#278, of March 18, 1998)
which established the groundwork for follow-on investment in sound urban development
in the reserve.
23.  On a component-by-component basis, the project produced the following resultsl:
a) Institutional Strengthenin :
24.  Restructuring INEFAN and its I)irectorate for Protected Areas'": A significant
effort was devoted to diagnosing the management and training needs of INEFAN and its
1 Ecuador has also financed an independent assessment of the project; conducted August 1999, by the
Corporation Latinamericana para el Desarrollo (CLD); Quito. The summaxy draws on their finding as
well as those of the Bank Team; both views being essentially identical.



9
key staff devoted to biodiversity protection. Several operational manuals covering all
aspects of managing the technical, financial and administrative systems, deemed
applicable to managing biodiversity were produced by consultants engaged through the
UNDP for the PCU. Owing to a lack of consensus among INEFAN's management
committees, however, these systems were not put into effect. An extensive training
program was also designed and conducted for about 200 staff on the use of these tools.
While the field staff appeared to appreciate the added training, its usefulness without the
systems in place to exploit the training was low. At the root of the failure to adopt the
systems and training appeared to be irreconcilable differences within INEFAN over the
balance between the roles it should be playing in two essentially different aspects of
natural resource management- - biodiversity protection and minimal use versus forestry
resource development. From its position as a project unit, the PCU was unable to
integrate itself into INEFANs mainstream operations so that its proposals were largely
unsupported.
25.  Protected Areas Trust Fund: Plans to establish the Protected Areas Trust were
developed by the PCU, but not acted upon. The fund was to be financed through tourist
fees, tariffs, fines from illegal forestry and wildlife harvesting in protected areas, and the
national budget. Supplementary study was conducted on the demand for access to
reserves as a basis for fee setting. Intended for the exclusive use of biodiversity
protection, the proponents were unable to shield the fund from the interest of the forestry
sector staff who foresaw a loss in their financial support if the plan succeeded.
26.  Additional Strategic Studies: Four important strategic studies were completed,
although not acted upon. These covered development of a proposed policy for the
management of the NSPA that benefited from the advice of several NGOs, managers of
protected areas and independent consultants; a proposed operational strategy for
managing the NSPA which would increase reliance on decentralized/regional
management and a mechanism to increase areas under protection; proposed revised
policies for tourism in protected areas and a strategy for the sustainable use of
biodiversity (wildlife); and a preliminary evaluation of the economic value of
biodiversity as a basis for the justification of protection activities. These have received
wide comment and may form a basis for further planning of a subsequent operation.
27. Management Plans for Protected Areas: Progressively, several activities were
brought together to support the development of experience in biodiversity protection in
six different areas, under the management of RCCs. RCCs did not enjoy legal standing,
and operated as NGOs (although work continues to address this need). A technical unit
was established to coordinate with PCU the preparation of management plans. This unit
was staffed with specialists in the following areas: natural resources management,
protected areas planning, biodiversity, social development, cartography, and nature
tourism who provided assistance to communities. In addition to management provisions,
each plan contained a set of projects aimed at increasing revenues to local communities,
while promoting the sustainable use of biodiversity (the implementation of these projects
I rNEFAN was structured to contain 3 major directorates; Forestiy, Wildlife and Protected Areas and
Research. The project was to focus on the Directorate for Wildlife and Protected Areas. The PCU was
lodged in this Directorate in the Division of Protected Areas.



10
is contemplated for the project's second phase and will allow the development of on- the-
ground conservation actions). Plans were eventually concluded for the following
parks/reserves: Machalilla, Sangay, Yasuni and Cayapas-Mataje. Partial support was
provided for specific components of the Cayambe-Coca, Antisana and Galapagos Marine
Reserve management. As part of this process, a conflict resolution methodology was
developed and applied as well. This experience has not, at this time, been evaluated for
replicability or efficacy but is considered to be instructive for future interventions.
28.  Biodiversity Information Center: To support further interventions in the area of
protection, and the public's need for information, a Biodiversity Information Center
(BIC) was established with the main purpose of providing updated information about the
situation of biodiversity in the country as one of the most important tools for decision
making on actions addressed to its sustainable use and conservation. INEFAN signed
agreements with several public and private research institutions for the transference of
information on biodiversity. Indirectly, these organizations were strengthened by the
implementation of this activity. A specialist12 was contracted to design and install at
INEFAN the database to register this information. This database was designed to provide
data on species such as: scientific and common names, geographic location and altitude,
status of conservation, traditional uses, etc. The development of cooperation relations
between private and public research institutions and the governmental sector for
information exchange has had a positive effect. A new Vegetation Classification System
has been developed to show the real idiversity of vegetal formations and ecosystems
existing in continental Ecuador. Currently, the government is developing the operational
manuals that will rule the use and access to this database.  Once the manuals are
operational, the BIC will be able to act as the Clearing House Mechanisms for the CBD
in Ecuador.
29. Buffer zone development of Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve: This activity
was considered particularly instructive in the search for reproducible models for local
biodiversity protection. The lack of economic alternatives for local communities, and
growing threats to extremely fragile ecosystems, have been identified as extremely
critical by the governmental sector and NGO community. The nature of the conflicts
existing in this area, motivated the development of a strategy aimed at improving the
economic situation of local communities, while reducing pressure towards the interior of
the protected area and conserving biodiversity. A consortium of NGOs developed this
activity; through a diagnosis of the biological and socio-economic situation, assessment
of current and potential land use issues and the involvement of local organizations, and
the availability of other natural resources management programs in the area. Based on the
analysis of this information, the following products were obtained: (i) a preliminary
strategy for the sustainable management of the buffer zones of Cotacachi-Cayapas
Ecological Reserve; (ii) individual sub-community management plans; (iii) an assessment
on non-forestry resources; (iv) a training strategy for communities, and (v) a set of pilot
sub-projects for natural resources management.
12 This specialist was contracted by the "Conservation of Biodiversity in Ecuador Project", financed by the
Govermment of Netherlands and executed by Fundaci6n Ecociencia.



11
b) Legal Regulatory Framework:
30. The PCU, through the work of consultants, has completed a compilation of
regulations for the administration of protected areas and biodiversity and specific
mechanisms for application. This has been published and made available to public at
large. PCU also originated the drafting of other specific regulations as proposals related
to: (i) operation of non-governmental organizations in protected areas; (ii) tourism
operations in protected areas and grant of operating permits; (iii) operation of the
Biodiversity Information Center. This work was severely hampered by the inability of the
PCU to secure action by INEFAN management. The possibility that reform of the
regulatory framework would not be acted upon, owing to its complexity and political
importance, was foreseen as a risk to the project. Much of the agenda has still to be acted
upon.
c) Outreach Activities:
31. Public awareness campaigns were considered as the most effective vehicle for
mobilizing public support for biodiversity protection. A communication strategy to
support biodiversity protection was completed and communication materials were
produced. Some dissemination of these materials through mass media was carried out in a
very initial stage and evidence of increased public awareness was observed.
32.  The PCU had other dissemination and educational materials produced with the
active participation and contribution of the NSPA's technical staff. These materials were
published and sold to interested organizations and persons, in order to recover the
production costs. These publications include:
Map of the National System of Protected Areas.
Guide to Ecuador's National Parks and Reserves (book and CD).
Guide to Ecuador's Paramos.
Guide to Tourism at urban sites in the Galapagos.
Policies for Tourism in Protected Areas.
Regulations for the Administration of Protected Areas and Biodiversity.
The acceptance and demand by the public of these publications has been significant.
Earnings obtained from their sale were used to cover a project component for which grant
funds were not available. The new authorities of the Ministry of Environment have
manifested their interest in pursuing such a program, however, the value added of so
doing has not been evaluated.
d) Investments:
33.  Construction of Visitors Centers: As a tangible part of the building of local capacity
and ownership of biodiversity protection, the project financed construction and
remodeling of visitor and information centers in several protected areas. A key element
regarding the visitors centers, was the establishment of mechanisms for their
administration by the private sector. The Ministry of the Environment is currently
defining the best alternatives to put into operation these centers.



12
34. Logistic support-equipment: Equipment needs for the Galapagos and six
continental PAs were also identified with protected areas managers, lists and technical
specifications were prepared and purchase was carried out following procurement
methods specified in the Grant Agreement. This equipment has facilitated the overall
management and maintenance activities in a significant way, as manifested by protected
areas managers.
Outcome
35.  The outcome of this project may be seen from two different perspectives. On one
hand, interpreted narrowly, and literally, the outcome of the project could be considered
deficient. On the other hand, the project has served a valuable strategic purpose in the
development of Ecuador's approach to managing the environment and its approach to
biodiversity protection. Overall, therefore, as discussed below, the project should be
considered as having had a satisfactory (although disappointing) outcome.
36.   The expectations that the project would create important necessary conditions
leading to the protection of Ecuador's biodiversity through the establishment of a
functioning institutional and financial framework was clearly not achieved. Without this,
Ecuador continued at the end of the project to be studying alternatives, including the role
of the newly created Ministry of Environment and the private sector. The project did
produce valuable contributions to strategic thinking in the form of a number of well-
executed studies; a consolidated database in the BIC, useful publications on several
important topics, and increased public awareness of the issues involved. It also provided
useful information on the legal constraints and contradictions confronting biodiversity
protection and proposals for rationalizing this framework. These achievements, however,
while important, would support, but not form an integrated basis for a comprehensive
biodiversity protection program. The residual value of other achievements such as the use
of the training and systems manuals developed for INEFAN in successor institutions
would depend essentially on the structure and operational characteristics of these
institutions.
37.  The project succeeded in developing two important sets of experience in the
management of biodiversity protection and resource use on a local level, through the
participation of local populations and stakeholders. This is considered important in that
local ownership and commitment to sound resource use is considered essential for a
biodiversity protection program to succeed. These would be important building blocks for
a more comprehensive program, although not the equivalent of the program itself. The
project also stimulated additional collaboration and partnering between the NGO, private
sectors and public authorities. Even though this was partial, and not well planned
strategically, it was for the Ecuadorian tradition of the day, relatively rare, and has left a
model to be emulated.
38. As summarized in Table 1, Achievement of Objectives, achievements in terms of
sector policies, social objectives, public sector management, private sector development,
the rating would be "partially met". Negligible achievements were registered in meeting



13
financial objectives, institutional objectives and environmental objectives. Only physical
objectives have been substantially met.
39.  However, in a real sense, the project may be considered as having actually met the
strategic objective of "supporting the restructuring and strengthening of the institutions
responsible for the management of the NSPA", even if not as originally envisaged. By the
project's closing date, the agency that was expected to be ready to assume a major role in
the protection of biodiverse resources, INEFAN, had been shown to be unable to play its
role. The reasons for this have become clear: INEFAN was an organizational ideal,
generated by a largely political decision and lacking an internal operational culture. As
such, it was unable to harmonize legitimate pressures for the use of forestry, land and
water resources exploitation, with those for biodiversity protection. INEFAN was
disbanded and a new Environment Ministry was created with the mandate given to the
Directorate of Wildlife and Protected Areas under INEFAN. This may be seen as a
further evolution in the restructuring of Ecuador's environmental institutions, although
not the final such step. It is disappointing that this lesson was learned at considerable cost
in time and financial resources. However, the lessons, if internalized, may reduce the
costs of further efforts to establish a sound regime for protection. Judged by a standard
recently adopted in the World Bank with respect to "adaptable lending" instruments
(especially Learning and Innovation loans; LILs), this knowledge would be considered a
satisfactory outcome.
Sustainability
40.  The project has generally not produced a sustainable institutional or financial result
and a follow-on project or program that would be required to do this. The exceptions may
be in the ongoing activities of local authorities forming the RCCs and in the buffer zone
of the Cotacahi-Cayapas Reserve, and the activities of the BIC. The work in local
reserves has depended fundamentally on the incentives felt by local stakeholders to find
alternative livelihoods, with only minor outside technical support and encouragement to
take biodiversity protection into account and a modest financial grant for investment. The
organizations involved may still require regulatory recognition to permit them to acquire
income to support and maintain their activities, which would require a one-time decision.
The BIC has been developed through the appeal to the interests of the broader research
community, who would be in a position to continue financial support if the service is
judged to be useful. In all of these cases, an analysis of the replicability of these
experiences is required. Therefore, at this moment, the sustainability of the project's
activities is at best, "uncertain".
D. Performance of World Bank and the Recipient
World Bank
41.  Bank staff appears to have satisfactorily identified, and supported the preparation of
the project. The diagnosis of the issues and the response were generally well conceived,
and appears to have adequately involved the Recipient (at least on one level) and
stakeholders in the NGO and bilateral donor community. Staff sought to learn from



14
experience and take lessons from other GEF and biodiversity projects into account, and
throughout, relied on a network of knowledgeable individuals to support the technical
aspects of the operation. However, the Bank may not have sufficiently appreciated the
"political" and behavioral risks associated with trying to  improve INEFAN's
performance by inserting a PCU into the organization, and at a relatively loB
organizational level. The Staff did not appear to have appreciated that INEFAN was not
adequately prepared to assume the role of an NGO coordinator during implementation. In
hindsight, a more formal measure to involve the NGO community would have been
called for. At approval, the Bank staff had identified the counterpart funding for the
project and agreed that Galapagos's revenues from park entry fees would be ear-markee
to an account that would support the project. During implementation and due to the
Bank's macro-economic advise, all earmarked accounts were abolished for Ecuador. This
financial policy affected the project counterpart funding sources, but should not bc
identified as a failure from the tearn's part at appraisal and approval. Perhaps the
supervision team would be at fault for not having raised this issue at the countrn
department or ENVGC level to ensure the adequate counterpart funds originalli
committed.
42.  Throughout supervision, Bank staff was careful and innovative in the drawing oil
persons with experience in similar programs in other countries to assist. The
recommendations provided during missions were very important in promoting innovative
technical alternatives for local initiatives. In addition, supervision missions fully engaged
to assist in the resolution of project implementation and grant administration issues.
Unfortunately, while attention to implementation processes (i.e. responsiveness and
timeliness to procurement, disbursements, auditing, and other financing issues,
collaboration to maintain coordination and lines of communications between the
recipient, NGOs, and between the central and the regional/community participants) was
intense, the supervision effort did not act effectively to maintain focus on achieving the
project's intended strategic objectives- - whether the chances of protection of the PAs
were increasing, and whether there were stronger institutions for assuring this protection
This may have been difficult considering that the project had not at the design stage
defined an objective set of standards against which to measure progress on these
outcomes. In spite of noting and reporting on continuous problems with the restructuring
of INEFAN and in reaching agreement on a financing framework, the project was
considered to be   "problem  free"' in meeting its development objectives and
implementation progress expectations throughout. The project was not restructured to
account for recognized evidence that the design might be ineffective. Likewise.
significant delays in counterpart financing and the execution of project components, as
well as shortfalls in the implementation of components for the Galapagos that INEFAN
was intended to finance and low levels of management commitment, were noted but were
not rated as implementation problems. Therefore, on grounds of less-than-satisfactorv
"realism" and low "proactivity", supervision would be considered "deficient".
Recipient Performance
43.  The Recipient initially showed strong "ownership" at a high policy level of the
project's objectives, but did not take steps to adequately prepare for the project. INEFANT
apparently failed to include key staff members in the project preparation process. This led



15
to the impression that the project was an enclave activity, creating additional demands on
staff but not bringing additional benefits. During implementation, this tendency was
exacerbated. The PCU was fully involved in project implementation, and with difficulties
completed preparatory work for institutional reform, and assisted the development of
planning studies with communities. However, its work was not generally acted upon by
INEFAN management. Further, having accepted to coordinate the development of
policies and strategic planning with the NGO community, INEFAN did not adequately
pursue this. A Consultative Committee (CC) that was established quickly became a point
of confrontation. The recipient's acceptance of NGO participation in what it saw as
essentially "policy making" remained low (it did accept NGO's work with communities
in the field). Moreover, the NGOs themselves failed to find the vehicle for defining their
collective advice and interests. This left no structure for dialogue and little room for
meaningful consultation.
44. The most serious negative impact at the project level was the inadequacy by
INEFAN and the rest of the Government to provide their financial obligations to the
project. The Bank did not insist that the Government find a solution to these recurrent
financial difficulties. This might explain why no solution was proposed, such as project
restructuring. In future projects, the source of counterpart funds needs to be assessed
objectively so that project activities are designed based on realistic expectations.
45. The Recipient, as represented by the PCU, UNDP, and some of the technical staff,
interacted very well with the Bank on implementation processing. They also assured that
most legal covenants governing the use of the grant were met, and that acceptable norms
for financial accountability, and procurement practices were followed. Unfortunately,
surrogates for the recipient, the PCU and UNDP, assured these administrative functions
and their performance was not effectively mainstreamed.
46. On most accounts, therefore, the Recipient's overall performance is considered to
have been "deficient".
E. Overall Assessment
Outcome and Factors Affecting the Results
47.   The project did not, strictly speaking, restructure and strengthen institutional
capacity to manage and protect protected the NSPA. Nonetheless, it may be considered to
have been "satisfactory" from the perspective of having contributed experience in
defining an institutional and financial framework for biodiversity protection and a
research base from which to develop a follow-on program'3. It produced a model for
including community interests in the development and implementation of biodiversity
management and protection activities that appears to have been positive. At least on a
community level, a practice of collaboration between stakeholders, including local
3 This standard for assessing project success is acceptable in evaluating Learning and Innovation Loans.
Given the uncertainties and the "experimental" nature of the project, which were identified and
accepted by the Bank and GEF at the design stage, applying LIL-type criteria for the assessment of
outcomes may be justified.



16
NGOs, was initiated and found to be practical in strategic planning. The PCU opened a
line of communication with communities and NGOs that had not previously been
available. In addition, the failure of INEFAN as an organizational structure, offered
important findings. INEFAN had been created to protect and manage the NSPA without
having had experience or a predisposition to execute this function. It had been generally
believed that the public sector could assume major responsibilities for biodiversity
protection, but the case of INEFAN showed that this was not realistic when the staff of
government organizations did not share these goals. In Ecuador, therefore, an alternative
strategy for building the necessary organizational structure for biodiversity protection
would have to be considered. A number of additional important outputs were produced
which should add to the success of a future operation.
48.  Several factors contributed to the positive side of the outcome. These included the
support from NGOs in the development of strategic plans for individual PAs with
communities, in a process that was considered "experimental". Although possibly not the
best designed or placed, the PCU was professionally staffed and dedicated to their work
in spite of their difficult position. Lastly, although it should have been more focused on
the outcomes of the project and less on the detail of implementation, the close
collaboration between the Bank and the Recipient provided additional stability to
implementing the individual components.
49.  Unfortunately, other factors, largely beyond the control of the project, contributed
to its failures. Changes in governments and overarching economic and budgetary
problems diverted the recipient's attention from the project. In addition, INEFAN's staff
had been selected from the ranks of a parent agency with a tradition of forestry
exploitation and did not receive the leadership or the incentives necessary to motivate a
change favoring "protection". Finally, while the NGO community's participation was
welcomed by the PCU in arriving at community-based strategic plans for specific PAs,
the same openness was not true of INEFAN management when asked to deal with NGO's
at the policy and legislative level. Moreover, for its part, NGO community itself appears
not to have been able to consolidate a technically grounded position. In this new
environment, therefore, it proved difficult for the parties to find common ground for
discussion and to focus on the issues, so that the process quickly became confrontational
and was abandoned. Unfortunately, these risks were not fully appreciated at the appraisal
of the project and a definite strategy for dealing with them was not adopted during project
implementation.
Lessons Learned
50.  The experience of this project served to confirm a number of lessons of other GEF
and biodiversity projects.
51.  Approach to Institutional Developiment: The project was designed as a vehicle for
improving an organization that had been given a role and a legal structure without having
had experience on the ground. A special unit, the PCU was mandated to perform this task
from within INEFAN, supported by UNDP as procurement agent. The outcome
illustrated the dangers seen in many other projects, of both committing to an organization
that has a legal and administrative structure but that has not yet begun to perform, and



17
attempting   to   compensate  for  this   by   establishing   a   specialist
implementation/coordination unit within the organization. Experience has shown that
such PCUs frequently become seen as enclave operations. This was the root of poor
ownership of the project by INEFAN; difficulty in mainstreaming the capacity of the
surrogates (PCU and UNDP); and a lack of follow-up action on the PCU's studies and
advice by higher levels of INEFAN's decision-making. An alternative would have been
to establish a program of organizational strengthening, managed from without, setting
expectations for performance for INEFAN, supported by incentives to perform
appropriately. Experience has also shown that once an agency has a legal structure, it
cannot be easily changed. Therefore, it is prudent to gain experience through working
relationships prior to deciding what relationships will be legalized. It might have been
preferable to execute the project with a " mission champion"; that is, temporary agency
that would have managed a process through which roles, responsibilities and working
relationships were developed prior to giving them legal form. Projects that have adopted
this approach have placed PCUs at the disposal of a project "champion" with decisions
about the legalization of an institutional framework being considered as a project
"output", not an "input".
52. Community Involvement: The involvement of communities in the planning and
implementation of sustainable resource management and biodiversity protection was
again shown to be important for the harmonious development of strategic management
plans for PAs. The studies of the efficacy and efficiency of the plans made for the seven
test cases undertaken in the project have not been completed, and should be to draw the
detailed lessons from the experience. However, the willingness of these communities to
undertake the exercise shows that they had positive expectations from the practice. The
value and cost of replicating this experience should be evaluated. More attention should
also be given need to the implementation of the plans.
53. NGO  Collaboration:   The project also confirmed earlier lessons that the
participation and collaboration between public authorities and the NGO and bilateral
community was important for project implementation, but with some nuances.
Representatives of leading local NGOs were involved in the preparation phase from the
beginning. The design and scope of the activities proposed were the result of numerous
discussions, consultations, joint review and agreement on proposals, and of close
cooperative efforts between Government authorities and NGO's representatives. This
cooperation continued during project execution, with the participation of NGOs in the
implementation of the decentralized project activities in and around targeted PAs.
However, the project failed to bring these interests into a structured consultative process,
the "consultative committee" that would have been necessary at the central level. If this
had been done, civil society might have had a more coherent voice that could have
exerted influence at the policy and regulatory level in favor of the reforms that the project
sought. Without this, the value of efforts to disseminate information (as was done
successfully) and some of the value of the BIC would have been partially lost. This
project illustrated, therefore, that having determined that participation and a consultative
process is important for project success, it would be crucial that an explicit process be
prepared and included in the project's basic design, with resources identified as needed to
make this effective at all levels (see the following point).



18
54. Flexibility in Execution: The project was acknowledged to be experimental in
several respects, including the application of concepts of community participation in the
protection of individual NSPA sites, and. the process of building implementation capacity
within a legally constructed but non-functioning institution, INEFAN. During appraisal,
it was very difficult to anticipate all the political and institutional changes that actually
took place during project implementation. Unfortunately, the project specified numerous
activities that it was committed to undertake so that it's "flexibility" was limited to hovw
these would be implemented Throughout the project, the question of not whether these or
other activities would have been more effective in achieving the project's ultimate
objectives was not addressed. In spite of repeated evidence that INEFAN was not
developing as intended, no activity was dropped or modified, and no new activity was
introduced that might have improved the project's efficacy. The project did not specify
the indicators that would have shown whether the objective of institutional development
was occurring, so that attempting to alter project actions during the project's
implementation period to improve performance might have been difficult. This
experience illustrates that when, as the project appraisal team noted, the project is
experimental in nature, and would demand flexibility in its implementation, the design
should emphasize and be guided by anticipated results, not detailed components as
"blueprints" for action. When the project was initiated, the World Bank had not designed
its "adaptable lending" instruments (Learning and Innovation loans and Adaptable
Program Lending). If these had been available, and given the issues and constraints that
were being faces, the adaptable lending approach might have been considered.
55. Monitoring and Evaluation: The project would have been strengthened if the
monitoring and evaluation system had been functional before the project began, through
such actions as conducting baseline surveys or pre-project assessments of INEFAN's
performance. This would have focused attention on the project's expectations for results
As there were no explicit performance goals, the emphasis of the system was to monitor
the implementation of the project's actions. While this was valuable for the purposes of
project administration, it did not serve therefore to flag or substantiate shortcomings in
achieving the institutional development outcomes that might otherwise have permitted
the Bank and the recipient to adjust the project's design.
56.  Strategic Vision of the NSPA: The experience with this project again illustrated the
weaknesses in implementation that may arise when concrete priorities for biodiversity
protection, the ultimate purpose for the project, are not outlined ex ante. Without a
unifying vision of the NSPA as an ensemble, including such features as the locations and
sizes of the PAs needed to constitute the NSPA, the meaning of "protection" in these
different cases, criteria for either abandoning PAs that were not viable and/or adding PAs
that were warranted, there was not a touchstone for assessing the efficacy of the project's
many actions. Instead, project implernenters, including the Bank, focused on setting
"necessary conditions" among which it is more difficult to establish explicit priorities. It
also proved difficult to alter the "menu" in light of implementation experience
Accountability for results was also hard to assign.



19
Implications for Further Operations
57.  One of the most significant implications of the project was to show the importance
of changing the behavior of individuals at the local and the national level with respect to
biodiversity protection. The completed project succeeded in doing this at the local level
where individuals agreed to plan while taking biodiversity into account, but failed at the
central level, where the staff of 1NEFAN were not motivated to alter their attitudes and
approaches to resource management to accommodate a higher level of protection. The
project recognized the risks and unpredictability of the time needed to achieve such a
result and was unable to fully manage these factors with the design it adopted. Future
operations should be designed to allow for a process of trial-and-error, action and
feedback, leading to the internalization of a "protection culture". Future projects may be
designed as either Learning and Innovation loans or Adaptable Lending Programs to
allow for greater flexibility both in how to implement pre-designed actions, but also in
selecting what actions to implement.
58. The institutional framework for protecting the NSPA has changed with the
elimination of INEFAN and the creation of the Ministry of Environment. This should not,
however preempt a process of developing institutional arrangements for the NSPA
through an evolutionary process that would allow the public sector, and civil society, at
the central and at the community levels, to each find their respective roles. The Ministry
could indeed be the "champion" for developing the framework without itself being the
project management agency. A new operation, therefore, should include an institutional
development "component" that supports new models for managing protected areas in
Ecuador that are agile at solving emergency problems in biodiversity protection as soon
as these are identified.
59.  The completed project produced promising experiences of planning and managing
the NSPA at the community level. To allow for the replication of these experiences, both
as a means of increasing protection coverage, and also for helping define the upstream
institutions that would be necessary to sustain the field work, a thorough evaluation of
these experiences would be necessary. It would then be important to design the system
that supported the re-application of the experience. A similar evaluation of alternatives
for establishing a supporting financing system for the NSPA should be completed.
60. Lastly, a permanent and open system for pooling the views and knowledge of the
NGO and bilateral communities, building on the good will that already exists, should be
established as an integral part of a follow-on operation. This process should provide a
framework for steering further GEF support as an addition to the resources already
committed or which may be committed to the NSPA. It should also provide a vehicle for
articulating policy and strategic options needed for biodiversity protection. The follow-on
project should plan for this as a monitorable component.



20
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Granit Number 28700-EC
A.  Achievement of objectives    Substantial    Partial   Negligible  Not ApplicahV-
Macro policies                E ]                     El
Sector policies                            E3         E             O
Financial objectives          E            E3
Institutional development     El           El         E 
Physical objectives           IA           E          E1            El
Poverty reduction             O            El         E             E3
Gender issues                 El           E          E             E:
Other social objectives        L           I E3                     El
Environmental objectives                    I         E
Public sector management      El                      IE
Private sector development    El
Indigenous people             El            El        E              I
B.  Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikely     Uncertain
Ol           El           El
Highly
C.  Bank performance                  satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                     El            El            0]



21
Preparation assistance             E]            El           E
Appraisal                          E]            I            E
Supervision                        E:1            0           I
Highly
D.  Borrower performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification    E         E          E
Preparation assistance             El                         IA
Appraisal                           O                         IA
Supervision                        El                         I
Highly                              Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome       satisfactory    Satisfactory Deficient  unsatisfactory
El         A*          El           El
C Consideration given to the strategic importance of knowing that an institutional
structure would not be reliable for future operations.



22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits/Grants
Grant Number 28700-EC
Credit/Grant Title           Purpose             Year of Approval           Status      _l,
Ongoing Operations in
lending program:                                                       __
Environmental          Strengthen recipient.'s           1996          Under implementation
Management Technical  capacity to undertake
Assistance Project     environmental policy
analysis and
implementation.          _
Following operations
in GEF grants
program:                                                                                    !
Biodiversity Protection   To consolidate the National    2001          Under preparation
Project-Phase II       System of Protected Areas.                      _
Monitoring of the      To establish a souncl             1998          Under execution
Galapagos Islands      monitoring system to
measure the well being of
the eco-regions of the
Galapagos Islands.                                                 --__ _
Wetland Priorities for    To assist and promc,te the     2001          Under execution
Conservation Action    conservation of Ecuador's
wetlands through the
identification,
characterization, and
priorization of wetlands in
the country.                                    __
Conservation of        To carry out in situ              2001          Under preparation
Biodiversity in Pastaza -  ecosystems' conservation
Project Brief          and management in the
indigenous territories of
Pastaza.                  _
-i-1
Recovering Ancient     Increase the understanding        2001          Under preparation
Knowledge in Coastal    about the technologies
Ecuador Project Brief    utilized by ancient
inhabitants of the region to
sustain use of the
biodiversity of the Santa
l ____________________    Elena Peninsula  area.
Choco-Andean           The preservation of the           2001          Just approved
Corridor-Project Brief   threatened biodiversity of
the southern section of the
Choco-Andean ecosystems.  __



23
Table 3: Project Timetable
Grant Number 28700-EC
Date Planned        Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                    l
Preparation
Appraisal                                                                     l
Negotiations                                                                  l
Board Presentation (RVP Approval)              N/A                N/A
Signing                                      5-19-94             5-19-94
Effectiveness                                 8-17-94            7-25-94
Midterm Assessment                           4-15-97             4-15-97
Project Completion                           12-31-99            9-30-99
Credit Closing                              6-30-2000            3-31-00
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Grant Number 28700-EC
FY95    FY96      FY97      FY98    FY98    FY99
Estimate
Annual                      1.0      1.5       2.0       1.5      1.2        0
Cumulative                  1.0      2.5       4.5       6.0      7.2       7.2
Actual
Annual                      0.5      1.2       2.2       1.5      1.3       0.3
Cumulative                  0.5      1.7       3.9       5.4      6.7       7.0
Actual as % of estimate     50%      80%      110%       100%     108%
Date of final disbursement                                                12-2-99



24
Table 5: Key Project Achievements
Grant Number 28700-EC
Key implementation indicators in
Memorandum and Recommendation to the  Estimated    Actual                     Comments
Regional Vice-President
1.1  Preparation of INEFAN's administrati,finiancial  1994-1995   1994-  The preparation of manuals took
and technical systems and manuals.                      1997       longer than originally planned.
Systems and manuals were
completed, however they have not
been inplemented yet because
institutional restructuring still
pending.
An assessment of proposed systems
carried out by a consultant concluded
in specific recommendations for their
_____  ______________________________________   _________  application in Project's second phase.
1.2  INEFAN's restructuring and organization:    1994-1995  Not          Several attempts were made to carry
financial and administrative systems                    carried     out pertinent studies, however they
out        were never accomplished due to the
lack of political support from
____________________  _   ____________  _________           INEFAN authorities.
1.3  Formulation of policies for biodiversity protection  1994-1995   1995-  A document which includes policies
and management of natural resources in Protected        1998       for NSPA has been completed. Its
Areas                                                              recommendations will be
implemented within the new
_____ ____________________________________ _________                       institutional and legal framework.
1.4  Formulation of a Strategy for the sustainable use   1994-1996  1997-  A document containing the new
of wildlife                                             1999       strategy for the sustainable use of
wild life has been completed.
1.5  Design and development of a methodology for  1994-1995   1995-      A methodology has been established
conflict management and resolution within                1996       and implemented during preparation
protected areas.                                                    of management plans for protected
___________ ______________________________________  ____________   areas.
1.6  Study for the establishment of a Protected Areas   1996-1997  1996-  Proposal for the establishment of the
Trust Fund.                                             1998       trust fund has been concluded, but
not yet approved by INEFAN's
authorities.
1.7  Training of INEFAN's staff and other        1995-1996  1996-        Following products have been
organizations related to paTk management.               1999        obtained:
X Curriculum design
* 5 educational modules
* 10 tutors trained
200 INEFAN staff members
trained.
Full implementation of the training
system is expected to be carried out
in Project's second phase.



25
Table 5: Key Project Achievements (continued)
Grant Number 28700-EC
Key implementation indicators in
Memorandum and Recommendation to    Estimated    Actual                      Comments
______         the Regional Vice-President
1.8   Preparation of protected areas management   1995-1997   1996-1999  Management plans completed for
plans.                                                              Machalilla, Yasuni, Sangay,
Cayapas-Mataje, Cayambe-Coca*,
Antisana*, Galapagos Marine
Reserve. Ready for implementation
______ ______________________________________ ___________                   on Project's second phase.
1.9   Preparation of the Management Plan/Strategy  1994-1995   1997-1999  Management Plan concluded and
for the National System of Protected Areas                         ready for implementation on
Project's second phase.
1.10   Study to determine economic values for goods    1995-1996   1998-1999  Study included in the NSPA
and services generated through resource use in                     Management Plan. Also a pilot study
protected areas.                                                   in one protected area (Cayapas-
Mataje) was developed.
Recommendations will be
implemented during second phase.
1.11   Study for the establishment of a Regional  1996-1998   1996-1998  Study concluded and approved by
System of Protected Areas in southern Ecuador.                    INEFAN.
1.12   Prelimninary Archeological Survey of protected  1996      1996     Study concluded and used as support
areas.                                                            information for protected areas
management plans.
1.13   Study: Proposal for a Vegetation Classification    1995-1998   1995-1998  Study and nap concluded.
System for Continental Ecuador.
1.14   Design and establishment of a quarantine                           Galapagos National Park together
system in Galapagos National Park:                                 with Charles Darwin previously
Support for alien species control in Santiago                      developed the design of the
Island, Galapagos                                                  quarantine system.
The system was not implemented due
to the following reasons:
*  Operational staff was never
hired and put in place by
implementing organizations
(INEFAN, Ministry of
Agriculture).
  Counterpart funds were not
available for this activity.
*The project supported only with specific components. Fundaci6n Antisana completed the remaining issues.



26
Table 5: Key Project Achievements (continued)
Grant Number 28700-EC
Key implementation indicators in
Memorandum and Recommendation to the    Estimated           Actual              Comments
Regional Vice-President
1.15   Review of the role and responsibilities of tour
operators in promoting conservation while
allowing for sustainable revenue generation:
* Policies for tourism in protected areas
1995-1996   1995         Study concluded and published.
Recommendations applied in
management plans.
* Study for payment of park fees and demand of
an annual pass.                                                     Same as above
1995      1995
* Tourism Guidelines for Galapagos' Urban
Centers                                                             Concluded and published.
1997-1998    1997-1998
1.16   Strengthening of urban planning in Galapagos  1997-1998    1997-1998  Limited to two neighborhoods in
Santa Cruz Island. Includes plans
and CD Rom
1.17   Design and development of a Biodiversity     1995-1996   1996-1999  Agreements with research
Database and establishment of a Biodiversity                          institutions concluded and
Information Center.                                                   information delivered to
INEFAN.
Information Center database
designed and in operation.
1.18   Design and establishment of a monitoring system  1995-1998    1995-1998  System designed and in operation
to follow up of the implementation of Project
activities.
1.19   Environmental Education Plans and Identification    1995-1998   1996-1998  Completed for eight protected
of infrastructure needs.                                               areas: Sangay, Podocarpus,
Yasuni, MachaliUla, Cotacahi-
Cayapas, Cayambe-Coca,
Antisana and Cayapas-Mataje.
2.1    Comparative review of current legislation affecting  1995  1995        A document including a review of
protected areas.                                                       current legislation and proposals
of legal reforms has been
produced and published to make it
available to users and public in
_general.
2.2   Identification and establishment of legal reforms  1995     1995       Included in document mentioned
needed for the protection and management of                            above
biodiversity.
2.3    Drafting and promulgation of new regulations for    1995-1996   1995-1998   Same as above.
granting operating permits to official and private
users of the NSPA and for limiting extraction
activities within reserve areas.
2.4    Development of regulations and a strategy to allow    1995-1996   1996-1998  Regulations and strategy proposed
community participation in the administration of                       in protected areas management
the protected areas and their buffer zones.                            plans.



27
3.1    Conflict resolution amongst key target groups  1995-1996   1996-1998  Activity developed during the
through a national forum to promote project                            process of preparation of
activities and to obtain the support of all interested                  protected areas management
groups.                                                                 plans.
3.2    Creation of Regional Coordination Committees to    1995-1996    1996-1998  Activity developed during the
overlook the implementation of the Management                           process of preparation of
Plans and Conflict Resolution Process                                   protected areas management
plans.
3.3    Public awareness campaigns at the national and  1995-1998    1997-1999  A set of education audiovisual
regional levels to promote biodiversity                                 materials such as: videos, audio
conservation and the new legal system concerning                        programs, leaflets, and posters
protected areas.                                                        have been produced.
A strategy for communication and
distribution of materials has been
designed and implemented in a
preliminary stage. Is expected to
continue on project second phase.
3.4    Development of a strategy at the national and  1995-1998    1997-1999   Same as above.
regional levels to educate the public on the NSPA
3.5    Technical assistance and pilot studies for Chachi  1994-1998   1996-1998   The main product produced is the
and other native communities located in buffer                          Strategy for the Sustainable
zones and surrounding areas of Cotacahi-Cayapas                         Management of the area. The
Ecological Reserve.                                                     Strategy includes: 25 community
management plans, a study on
non-forestry products, productive
pilot projects, guidelines on land
use planning and a
training/technical assistance
strategy to native communities.
4.1    Civil works and infrastructure in protected areas  1995-1998   1996-1999  Design and construction of
Visitors Centers has been
completed for the following
protected areas: Boliche,
Cotacachi-Cayapas, Cayapas-
Mataje. Includes design and
construction of educational
contents.
Other minor works have also
been completed: administrative
center in Borb6n (lower
Cotacachi-Cayapas), guard house
and trail in Podocarpus National
Park, design of San Cristobal's
Administrative Center, support
for the conclusion of San
Cristobal's Visitors Center,
remodeling of visitors center and
design and construction of
educational contents in
Machalilla National Park.
4.2    Logistic support-equipment for protected areas.   1994-1996   1994-1997  Purchase and delivery of
equipment has been successfully
.____________________  .__ . concluded.



28
Table 6: Studies Completed Under
Grant Number 28700-EC
Study               Purpose as defined at
Appraisal/redefined         Status     j       npact of study
1.1   Elaboration of administrative    Support the restructuring  Completed   Systems not implemented
and financial systems and   process of INEFAN.                           yet, institutional
manuals                                                                  restructuring still pending.
1.2  Formulation of policies for  Define a set of policies aimed   Completed, but   Even though not approved,
biodiversity protection and  at improving biodiversity  not approved by  the recominendations of the
management of natural       protection actions in the      INEFAN        study have been the basis
resources in protected areas  National System of Protected               for the revision/updating of
Areas (NSPA).                              the NSPA's management
plan.
1.3  Formulation of the Strategy for  The establishment of an   Completed     The operational framework
the Sustainable Use of Wildlife. operational framework for               is in place and the strategy
the sustainable management                  is ready for implementation
of wildlife at national level.              on Project's second phase.
1.4   Design a methodology for    Integration of stakeholders to  Completed   Methodology has been
conflict management and     protected areas management.                 successfully applied during
resolution within protected                                              the preparation of
areas.                                                                   management plans for
_____                                                                 protected areas.
1.5  Establishment of a Protected  Not contemplated in        Completed, but   The recommendations of
Areas Trust Fund            appraisal, but identified as  not approved by  this study will become part
necessary.                    INEFAN        of the operational
framework of the National
Environmental Fund.
1.6   Design of a training system for  Strengthen INEFAN's      Completed     Implemented in a very
INEFAN staff and other      capacity to manage the                       initial stage, no evaluation
organizations related to park  NSPA                                      to measure impact has been
management                                                               carried out yet. However,
this initial stage has
awakened the interest in
participating on a significant
number of INEFAN staff
and other related
organizations
1.7  Preparation/update of protected  Produce management plans  Completed for   As a result of a highly
areas management plans.     that would become planning  protected areas   participatory methodology
and operational tools for the  mentioned in    applied for the preparation
efficient management of    Table 5 (section   of management plans, all
protected areas.                 1.8)       stakeholders have been
involved and understand
their roles and
responsibilities for the
implementation stage.
1.8  Preparation/update of the    Sound management of the       Completed     The updated management
management plan for the NSPA  NSPA, through the                          plan will respond to new
application of improved                     legal and institutional
planning instruments.                       framework and will
strengthen the participation
of civil society in the
management of the NSPA.



29
Study                 Purpose as defined at
Appraisal/redefined           Status            Impact of study
1.9   Study to determine economic    The establishment of a new     Completed      Recommendation of the
values for goods and services    revenue system based on the                  study will allow the
generated through resource use   economic valuation of                       establishment of
in protected areas.           biodiversity                                    mechanisms for auto-
financing the operation of
the NSPA.
1.10  Establishment of a Regional    Not contemplated in             Completed      A new vision of a
System of Protected Areas     appraisal, but later requested                 decentralized management
by INEFAN                                      of protected areas has been
l _____   _ _____________________________   ____________________________   __________________   incorporated.
1.11  Archeological survey of       Integrate cultural values of     Completed      Archeological have been
protected areas               protected areas into                            considered in zoning within
management actions                             protected areas for
conservation/protection
purposes.
1.12  Proposal for a Vegetation     Enhance the knowledge of        Completed       The new system has been a
Classification System for     existing biodiversity in                       valuable tool for the
Continental Ecuador (includes a  Ecuador.                                    characterization of
map)                                                                         biodiversity and better for
defining conservation
_____  _________actions and priorities.
1.13   Study for the payment of park    Define the potential nature  Completed      The information generated
fees and demand of an annual   tourism activities in the                      by the study was the basis
pass.                         NSPA and recommendations                        for the definition of tourism
for the improvement of                         policies.
_____                                 revenues.
1.14  Policies for tourism in        Establish coherent guidelines   Completed      Policies were the basis for
protected areas               to enhance revenue to                          the definition of tourism
improve management and                         management plans for
operation and maintenance of                   protected areas.
the NSPA, while conserving
biodiversity.
1.15  Tourism Guidelines for         Assessment of other tourism   Completed and   Increased awareness on
Galapagos urban centers       sources available in             published     alternative tourism sites in
Galapagos.                                     Galapagos.
1.16  Urban planning in Galapagos    Database and establishment      Completed      Information used as a tool
of a Biodiversity Information                  for sound management of
Center.                                        biodiversity.
Make available updated
information for the scientific
community, donors, NGOs,
and public.
1.17  Monitoring system for project   Implementation of a tool to    Completed      Efficient and updated
activities                    follow up progress of project                   reporting
execution.
1.18  Interpretation plans for 7 cited   Provide relevant information  Completed    Interpretation plans have
areas (Yasuni, Podocarpus     to visitors and create                          been applied for the
Cotacachi-Cayapas, Cayambe-  incentives to increase tourism                  improvement of services
Coca, Antisana, Machalilla,   and revenues to protected                      provided to visitors in the 5
Sangay).                      areas.                                          protected areas.
Interpretation/educational
contents design for five protec-
ted areas (Boliche, Cotacahi-
Cayapas, Cayapas-Mataje, La
Chiguita, Machalilla).



30
r            Study                Purpose as defined at   |
j   Appraisal/redefined           Status           Imact of study
2.1   Comparative review of         Identification of gaps on     Completed      New regulations will
legislation affecting protected  protected areas management                 ensure management
areas.                        legal framework.                              improvement of the NSPA.
Identification and establishment  Establish an updated/sound
of legal reforms needed for the   legal framework for the
protection and management of    NSPA.
biodiversity.
2.2   Drafting and promulgation of  Establishment of a            Completed      Same as above
new regulations for granting  concessionaire system,
operating pennits to official and   procedures and regulations
private users of the NSPA and    to grant operating pennits.
for limiting extraction activities
within reserve areas.
2.3   Development of regulations and   Regulate the participation of  Completed  Roles and responsibilities
a strategy to allow community    buffer zones inhabitants in                of buffer zones inhabitants
participation in the          protected areas                               clearly established.
administration of the protected    management.
areas and their buffer zones.
3.1  Public awareness campaigns at   Design a communication       Completed      Increased awareness of the
the national and regional level to  strategy to conduct a public           public on the importance of
promote biodiversity          awareness campaign.                          biodiversity and reserve
conservation and the new legal                                             areas.
system concerning protected
l ______    areas.                                                                                         l
3.2   Development of a strategy at the  Same as above             Completed      Same as above
national and regional levels to
educate the public on the NSPA.
3.3   Technical assistance and pilot    Preparation of a study to  Completed     The information compiled
studies for Chachi and other  determine the effects of                     assisted in the preparation
native communities located in    selective logging on                      of a strategy for the
buffer zones and surrounding  biodiversity of tropical                      sustainable management of
areas of the Cotacahi-Cayapas    forest.                                   the area, management
Ecological Reserve.           Prepare guidelines on land                    plans and the design of
use planning.                                pilot studies as a basis to
Provide technical assistance                 provide assistance and
to native communities in                     training to communities.
improved forest
management and
biodiversity protection.                                              l



31
Table 7: Project Costs
Grant Number 28700-EC
(USS million)
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   ActualAatest estimat (US$M)*
Component              Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Costs    Costs      Total      Costs     Costs       Total
I  Institutional Strengthening       1.62      1.98       3.60      3,71       0,01       3,72
II  Legal Regulatory Framework        0.24      0.30      0.54       0,07       --        0,07
Im   Outreach Activities              1.05      0.14       1.19      0,93        --        0,93
IV  Investments                       2.17      0.76       2.93      1,51       1,52       3.03
Total Base Cost   5.08      3.18      8.26       6,22       1,53       7,75
Price Contingency    0.13     0.06       0.19
Physical Contingency    0.09     0.16       0.25
TOTAL PROJECT COST               5.30      3.40       8.70
Table 8: Project Financing Plan
Grant Number 28700-EC
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate (USSM)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)*
Source              Local   Foreign                Local     Foreign
_________________________________   Costs  Costs   Total     Costs      Costs       Total
GET                             3.8       3.4       7.2       5,85       1,53        7,38
Government of Ecuador          1.23      0.27       1.5       0,37        --         0,37
TOTAL                          5.03   l  3.67       8.7       6,22       1,53        7,75



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Grant         3.01 (b)     5         CP                             The Borrower shall cause INEFAN to provide,  The US S 1.5 million was to be allocated mostly
promptly as needed and pursuant to the annual  to activities plainned for the Galapagos National
review process referred to in Section 3.09 of this  Park. At project closing, US S 370,000 was
Agreement, a total amount of at least S 1,500,000  actually disbursed. In March 1998, a law was
equivalent in funds required for the Project;  approved granting Galapagos access to about 60
percent of the revenues received by the park or
about US S 1.8 million per year. The
Goverunent claim that under the new law, the
park would be receiving more than what was
agreed in the Grant Agreement.
3.01 (d)     5         C                              Shall provide, or shall cause INEFAN to provide,  OK
promptly as needed, the facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project
3.02(b)      5         C       07/07/95              The  Recipient shall abide  by  a  contract,  INEFAN signed an agreement in 1994 with
satisfactoiy to the Trustee, with a procurement  UNDP for this purpose.
agent, whereby INEFAN may obtain such agent's                                            L
assistance in carrying out (in a manner fully
consistent with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, unless the Trustee shall otherwise
agree) procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project.
3.03       5          C                             Throughout the course of Project execution, the  INEFAN recruited specialists in both fields to
Recipient shall cause INEFAN to maintain the  work full time in the PCU. INEFAN has kept the
PCU operational and fully staffed with a full-time  same staff at the PCU during the project
Project Coordinator, and  a full-time Project  implementation period, even though changes of
assistant coordinator, two part-time scientific  INEFAN's authorities have taken place.
advisors (one specialized in biodiversity protection
and the other in management of natural parks) and
two full-time support staff.
3.04       5        NYD                             In any case where INEFAN may lack authority  No such situation has presented.
under Ecuadorian law to issue a regulation referred
to in Part B of the Project or in the Implementation
Letter, such regulation shall be issued by the
Recipient



3.04 (b)     5          C                              All Management Plans shall be prepared under  Preparation of Management Plans has been
terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee. All  carried out according to TORs approved by the
provisions contained in such Management Plans  Bank.
shall, if satisfactory to the Trustee, be canied out
by INEFAN. In any case where INEFAN may lack
authority under Ecuadorian law to cany out such
provisions, they shall be carried out by the
Recipient.
3.06        5        NYD                              The Recipient and INEFAN shall ensure that no  No resettlement has been necessary.
voluntary resettlement of people be required as a
consequence of the Project
3.07        5         C                               Throughout the course of Project execution, the
Recipient shall cause INEFAN to operate and
maintain its management information system,
referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, in
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08        5         C                               By no later than March 31 and September 30 of  Report of second semester was received in
each year during Project execution, the Recipient  September 1998.
shall cause INEFAN (without limitation of the
obligations under section 9.07 of the General
Conditions) to furnish to the Trustee semi-annual
reports with regard to the execution of the Project.
3.09        5         C                               The Recipient shall participate, and shall cause  The last review took place on October, 1998
INEFAN to participate, in annual reviews of
Project execution to be held in conjunction with the
Trustee each month of October during Project
execution.
3.10        5         C                               With regard to Par. A. 1  of the Project, part of the  Social assessments for selected parks are being
implementation of the monitoring and evaluation  carried out as part of the preparation of
system referred to therein shall consist of the  management plans.
preparation of social assessments for each of the
Project Areas, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Trustee and as a prerequisite for the
preparation of a Management Plan for the Project
Area in question.
3.11        5        NYD                              Any amendment, suspension, abrogation, repeal or  Not applied during project implementation
waiver of the Law referred to in Section 1.02 C of  period.
this Agreement (or of any regulations there under)
or of Ecuador's Ley Forestal de Conservaci6n de
-   -                      -       Areas Naturales y Vida Silvestre (Natural Areas



and Wildlife Conservation. Forestry Law) (or of
any regulations there wnder) shall if it affects, in
the opinion of the Trustee, materially and adversely
the canying out of the Project, constitute an
additional event for purposes of Section 6.02 (1) of
the Geneal Conditions.
4.01          2            C                                     The Recipient shall cause INEFAN  to maintain   Auditreportwas submittedonApril 15, 1999
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect to
the Project.
4.01          2            C                                     The Recipient shall cause INEFAN to: (i) have the   Audit report was submitted on April 15, 1999
records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including those for the Special
Account, for each fiscal year audited; (ii) furnish to
the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such
year, the report of such audit by said auditorsm
4.01          2            C                                     For  all expenditures  with  respect to  which   OK
withdrawals from  the GET Grant Account were                                                                         W
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Recipient shall cause INEFAN to: (i) maintain or
cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate
accounts reflecting such expenditures.
5.02          5            C                                    The date August 17, 1994 is specified as the Date   Actual date July 24, 1994
of Effectiveness.
Key
Covenant types:
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries               S Indigenous peopl
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                                   9 Mouitoring, review, and reporting
4 Counterpart funding                                                     IO Projet implementation not covered by categories 1-9
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agency                   12 Sectoral or cross-wectoral budgletry or other resource allocation
6 Environmnental covenants                                                12 Sectoral or cross-sctoral policy/regulatory/inatitstional action
7 Involuntary resettlement                                                13 Other
Status:
C    = complied with
CD    complied after delay
NC   = not complied with
SOON = compliance expected in rewaonably short time
CP   = complied with partially
NYD   not yet due



35
Table 10: Status for Trust Fund 28700-EC
Disb Officer:        ABOUSLEIMAN, ISSAM A.       Task Manager:           PLAZA, CESAR ALEJANDRO
Disb Analyst:        BALCHUN, CECILIA MARIA    Managing Division:        LCSES
Sector:              Envirouent                  Loan Type:             Trust Fund
Currency             XDR                         Restrictions:           Disb. Allowed
Amounts in XDR                             Date
Original Principal                     5,200,000.00              Approval 5 -sept-1994
Disbursed            5,200,000.00                          -      Signing 19-may-94
% Disbursed               100.00                                 Effective 25-jul-94
Cancelled                   0.00                                  Closing 30-jun-00
Undisbursed                                  0.00   Latest Disb/Refund/Recov 30-apr-1999
Comnmitted                                   0.00          Last Cancellation
Free                                          0.00
Pipeline Application  _     0.0
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Grant Number 28700-EC
Stage of project cycle        Planned         Actual        Planned         Actual
Weeks          Weeks          US$*           US$*
Preparation to appraisal
(FY91-92-93)
Not available      35.5           53.5           83.4
Appraisal
(FY 93-94)                     Not available        59.4          185.7           73.4
Negotiation- Approval
(FY-94)                         Not available       16.7           50.4           19.3
Supervision:
FY95                                                40.8          252.1           50.4
FY96                            Not available       57.8           92.5           84.0
FY97                                                74.8           68.2           92.5
FY98                                                54.0           48.8           68.2
FY99                                                 0                            49.1
FY00                                                39.4
Total                     378.4           751.2          520.3
*Direct costs



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Grant Number 28700-EC
Stage of project         Number  Days         Specialized       [P        DO                           Types
Cycle      Month       Of       In       Staff skills    Rating    Rating                           Of
/Year   Persons   Field     Represented                                             Problems
Project
Identification
Implementation   Octobe      2             *  Environment        S         S      *  PCU financial and accounting systems.
r 15-28                       Specialist                         *  PCU administrative and financial guidelines.
First Supervision   1994                   *  Social                              *  Training program for INEFAN's staff.
Mission                                        Development                        *  INEFAN's participation in planning activities.
Specialist                         *  Lack of park rangers.
*  Institutional procedures.
*  Organization of Regional Coordination
Committees.
*  Lack of knowledge of conflict resolution
methodologies.
*  Establishment of Protected Areas Trust Fund.
Implementation:                            *  Environment        S         S      *  Terms of reference for the establishment of the
Second            July                         Specialist                             Biodiversity Information Center (BIC)
Supervision      17-21       2             *  GIS                                 *  Type and format of the information delivered to
Mission           1995                         Specialist                             INEFAN for the BIC.
Implementation:   August     4        3    a  Environment        S         S       *  Limited participation of National Directorate of
Third            14-30                         Specialist                             Protected Areas (NDPA) staff.
Supervision       1995                     *  Institutional                       *  Increase staff in PCU.
Mission                                        Development                         *  NDPA's weak organizational structure.
*  Archaeologist                       *  INEFAN's financial administration.
*  GIS                                 *  Promulgation of laws pending in the Congress.
Specialist                         *  Establish new priorities regarding project's
activities.
*  Delay on allocation of counterpart funds.
*  Delay on Galipagos activities due to counterpart
funds.
* Conservation of cultural resources in Machalilla
National Park.
* Define activities to assist communities in
Machalilla National Park.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Grant Number 28700-EC
Stage of                Numbe   Days    Specialized            IP        DO                                Types
project      Month/        r        In      Staff skills    Rating    Rating                                Of
Cycle        Year        Of      Field    Represented                                                  Problems
Persons
Implementation:   February     2        3    Envirornent                      S       a   Disbursements interrupted due to a delay on requests by
Fourth             3-16                       Specialist                                  PCU.
Supervision        1996                                                              *   NDPA's weak organizational structure.
Mission                                                                              *   Improvement of TORs by PCU.
*   NGOs complain regarding their treatment as consulting
firms.
*   Establishment of an interim training plan, until training
system design is completed.
*   Delay on contracting of NDPA's institutional assessment.
*   Operational Plan for 1996 too extensive needs to be revised.
Implementation:    March       8        8    *   Environment       S          S       *   Continues delay on counterpart funds, only USS 285,000
Mid Term         30-April                         Specialist.                             (I 9%) has been allocated.
Evaluation and      18                        *  NGO                                  a   Continues delay on Galapagos activities due to lack of
Fifth Supervision  1997                           Coordinator                             counterpart funds.
Mission                                           Resoural                            a   Partial involvement of NDPA's staffin project activities.
Resources
Management                         a   NDPA position wthin IEFAN's institutional structure.
*   Protected                          *   Operational and administrative independence of the
Areas                                  Galapagos National Park in relation to the NSPA.
Management                         a   Several initiatives regarding policies for protected areas and a
*   Social                                 lack of consensus among them.
Development                        a   Lack of a legal specialist in the NDPA.
T Nature (                                 Participation of civil society in the administration of the
Tourism (2)                            NSPA.
a InstitutionalNSA
Development                        *   Management plans: large documents, language and concepts
difficult to understand.
*   Management plans: deeper analysis on stakeholders is
necessary and should promote more participation.
*   Activity 35: local communities have manifested their concern
in the sense that most of the funds have been used for studies,
while no practical projects/experiences have been
contemplated.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Grant Number 28700-EC
Stage of project           Number   Days       Specialized       IP        DO                         Types
Cycle       Month/       Of       In       Staff sidils   Rating    Rating                        Of
Year    Persons   Field     Represented                                           Problems
Implementation:   April 20-    2        4    *   Environment      S          S      *  Continues delay on counterpart funds, only
Sixth Supervision    May 7                       Specialist                             USS 352,000 (24%) has been allocated.
Mission            1998                      *   NGO                                *  Continues delay on Galipagos activities due
Specialist                            to lack of counterpart funds.
*  Administration and maintenance of
Interpretation Centers.
* Improve NGOs participation mechanisms.
* NGOs need technical assistance for the
preparation of proposals.
* Depleted INEFAN's financial situation due
to the Galapagos Special Law.
* No decisions are taken by INEFAN
regarding the establishment of the Protected
Areas Trust Fund.                                                       00
*   Delays and disagreements regarding the
contract for the design of a Regional System
of Protected Areas.
Implementation:   Novemb       1        2    *  Environment       S          S       *   Only few activities have been implemented
Seventh           er. 30-                        Specialist                             for Galapagos, due to partial allocation of
Supervision      Decemb.                                                                counterpart funds.
Mission             11                                                              *   INEFAN's Board has not approved policies
1998                                                                 for protected areas.
*   Minor problems detected in the design of
Interpretation Centers.
*   There are no clear mechanismns for the
administration of the Interpretation Centers.
*   Biodiversity Information Center: INEFAN
needs to intemalize the system and work out
the regulations for its operation.
*   Training System: the contract will be closed
by the end of December, but only 80% has
been completed.
* The GoE has the intention of restructuring
INEFAN, but the specific actions and
mechanisms are not known yet.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Grant Number 28700-EC
Stage of project              Number  Days        Specialized        IP        DO                               Types
Cycle       Month/Ye       Of        In      Staff skills     Rating     Rating                             Of
ar       Persons   Field    Represented                                                  Problems
Implementation:    April 6-16     2       2    *   Environment        S          S      *   Changes in the institutional framework: INEFAN has been
Eighth              1999                            Specialist                              eliminated and its functions have been transferred to the
Supervision                                     a   Biodiversity                            Ministry of the Environment The new institutional
Mission and ICR                                     Specialist                              framework for the administration of the NSPA is under
Mission                                                                                     design.
Policies for protected areas have not been approved due to
changes in institutional framework.
a Studies and assessments carried out under the project are
not being considered by the Ministry of the Environment
for the institutional restructuring process.
* There are still no clear mechanisms for the administration
of the Interpretation Centers.
*   Maintenance plans for Interpretation Center should be
prepared.
End of Project
Evaluation



40
Appendix A
RECIPIENTS ASSESSMENT AND COMMENTARY
Part I:   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives and Description
1.  The main objective was to support the restructuring and strengthening of the institutional
capacity and overall policy and legal framework for adequate management of the National
System  of Protected Areas (NSPA).  Special emphasis was made to ensure financial
sustainability of the NSPA through the establishment of an efficient fees and tariffs system.
While most of the project activities benefited the entire system, proposed investments were done
in the Galapagos National Park (GNP) and seven of the most representative conservation units
on continental Ecuador selected for their contribution to protection of global biodiversity
(Machalilla, Podocarpus, Sangay, and Yasuni National Parks, and Cotacachi-Cayapas, Cayambe-
Coca and Antisana Ecological Reserves). Actions were designed to complement previous
Government and NGO activities on the NSPA.
B.  Project Description
2.   To support these objectives, the project focused on activities that were grouped in the
following four components:
* Institutional Strengthening (US$ 3.60 million). This component supported strengthening
of INEFAN's capacity to manage the NSPA and execute the project by financing: (i)
training for INEFAN's staff and other public officials on technical issues related to park
management and on the implementation of proposed new laws and regulations; (ii)
preparation/updating of existing management plans for protected areas with the
participation of local communities and NGO's; (iii) studies to determine economic values
for goods and services generated through resource use in the protected areas, (iv) analysis
of the relationship between local populations and the protected areas, focusing on their
use of resources and ways to maximize the benefits accruing to communities; (v) design
of a new system for the collection and allocation of revenues from resource use activities;
(vi) review of the role and responsibilities of tour operators in promoting conservation
while allowing for sustainable revenue generation; (vii) design establishment of a
quarantine system in the GNP to control the influx of non-native species: and (viii) the
design and establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system to follow up on the
implementation of activities proposed under the project;
* Legal and Regulatory Framework (US$ 0.54 million). (i) a comparative review of
current legislation affecting reserve areas; (ii) identification and recommendation of legal
reforms needed for the protection and management of biodiversity and natural resources;
(iii) drafting and promulgation of new/updated regulations for granting operating permits
to official and private users of the NSPA and for limiting extraction activities within



41
reserve areas; (iv) development and establishment of regulations that encompass both
public and private property within a reserve area, and allow private property owners to
participate in the management of the area. These regulations will allow for the creation of
privately protected areas; (v) development of regulations and a strategy to allow
community participation in the administration of protected areas and their buffer zones;
and (vi) analysis of the institutional, legal and social problems related to landholding
within protected areas, which undermine the successful implementation of strategies
related to protection of biodiversity so as to determine and recommend effective
legislation to solve these problems.
* Outreach Activities (US$ 1.19 million). Outreach activities were focused on conflict
resolution through a process of consultation and public awareness raising. Specific
activities included: (i) conflict resolution amongst key target groups through a national
forum to promote project activities and to obtain the support of all interest groups; (ii)
creation of Regional Coordinating Committees to oversee the implementation of the
Management Plans and Conflict Resolution Process; (iii) a study for the solution of
problems of tenancy and resource use within the protected areas; (iv) public conservation
and the new legal system concerning protected areas; (v) development of a strategy at the
national and regional levels to educate the public on the NSPA; (vi) technical assistance
and pilot studies for native communities (such as the Chachi Indians) located in buffer
zones to assist them in developing sustainable plans and options for natural resource use
in areas surrounding conservation units; and,
* Investment Activities (US$ 2.93 million). This component provided financing for civil
works and infrastructure as identified in the management plans of the eight critical reserve
areas selected. This included border delimitation, establishment of trails for visitors, and
the construction of visitor information centers. In addition, the project financed logistic
support for INEFAN's field staff in the units of the NSPA, such as motorcycles, horses,
mobile communication systems, survival equipment and first-aid kits.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECTS OBJECTIVES
3. The project met, and even exceeded objectives outlined in Chapter A as evaluated by all
Bank supervision missions. Annuals audits were also positive. The most important factor
limiting project performance was the general lack of appropriation of the project from INEFAN
and particularly of activities related with institutional strengthening such as politics for protected
areas, fiduciary fund and administrative restructuring. Fortunately, the policies and strategies
(Protected Areas Policies, Sustainable Development Strategy, Biodiversity Strategy) now being
developed by the Ministry of Environment uses important parts of the work developed by the
Project in those and most matters.
Specific objectives met:
L    Institutional Strengthening
1.   Training of INEFAN staff and other public officials on technical issues related
to part management and on the implementation of proposed new laws and regulations.



42
A nation-wide training and education system on the protection, management and sustainable use
of natural resources (SEC) was designed, organized and implemented with its corresponding
curriculum and materials. The system is custom-made to the needs of INEFAN technical and
professional level field staff and public officials from other institutions, as well as adults from
peasant communities. SEC is a distance education proposal in all levels: primary and secondary
school, technological level and a University degree corresponding to a B. A. SEC has a national
coverage serving the staff of 24 protected areas and more than 40 surrounding communities. By
the end of the project, 1,000 students were enrolled in 21 educational centers. At the B. A. level
the first semester of the Environmental Management career with a specialization in Protected
Areas had concluded.  An important institutional coordination is part of the successful
implementation: the Ministry of Education, the National Training Service SECAP and the
Universidad Tecnica Particular de Loja. Interest is growing among different institutions and
agencies (the National Institute for the Amazon Region ECORAE, projects PATRA and
PETRAMAZ, the Podocarpus project, the Ecuadorean-Swiss Fund, among others), to support the
project and transform it into a long-term activity. On the part of the communities, mounting
interest is shown as hundreds of people would like to have the opportunity to get registered.
1.1 Additional training
A number of INEFAN staff were trained in international events: Master Programs in Protected
Areas and in Geographical Information Systems (2); wildlife management (3) genetic resources
access (1) biological diversity convention (1) Ramsar wetlands convention (2) GIS
implementation (1), strategic planning (3) legal training (1) Protected areas (5).
INEFAN staff was also trained in national courses, seminars and workshops on the following
topics: mastering negotiation (50), tropical forest biodiversity (3) environmental interpretation
(9), use of geopositional equipment (16), use of field equipment (16), strategic planning (25),
nature guide (6) computers (25), environmental interpretation design and planning (18).
A number of people belonging to NGOs were also included in the above-mentioned courses and
seminars.
1.2 A voluniteer program for the NSPA
Conceived as an educational and training activity, Terms of Reference for a Volunteer Program
were developed by the PCU, taking into account the personnel deficit in the field, as a result of
restriction in public spending. Several NGOs bid for the contest, but it was declared null since
the TOR were not understood by the bidding participants and they presented extremely high
costs and heavy bureaucracy.
2.   Preparation/updating of existing management plans for protected areas with the
participation of local communities and NGOs.
In order to prepare/update existing management plans all the technical staff from the head office
as well as all park technical officials from INEFAN were trained with a methodology adapted by
the project for protected areas. This methodology puts together Kenton Miller's protected areas
planning strategies, with the situational strategic planning -PES-, developed by Carlos Matus,



43
and it pays specific attention to community and local actors participation.   A video was
produced to summarize the main methodology strategies.
The preparation/updating of existing management plans required the creation of the Technical
Planning Unit (UTP) which has as its objective the technical strengthening of the National
Directorate of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DANVS) and the training of staff in plan
development. The Unit had a fixed number of specialists in protected areas planning, economic
projects, eco-tourism, social matters, and others. The Unit also coordinated actions with other
project activities such as archeology, interpretation, infrastructure, etc.
Sangay, Yasuni and Machalilla Parks14 Management Plans were developed, as well as the one
for the Cayapas Mataje Reserve for which the project had previously promoted its declaration as
a protected area by developing a management alternatives study.
The Project also supported Fundaci6n Antisana's efforts in the development of management
plans for the Cayambe Coca and Antisana Reserves. The project also supported the Galapagos
Marine Reserve Plan which the Parque Nacional Galapagos implemented.
Cartographic, flora and fauna studies were also developed for most of the protected areas.
The National Protected Area System Strategic Plan is further outlined as numeral 2.7 below.
2.1 Land Tenure and border delimitation
Landholding patterns, human occupation, influx of human occupation, property registry and
conflict resolution strategies were developed in all protected areas for which management plans
were formulated. Members of local communities (living in the NSPA & surrounding towns)
were invited to workshops and future actions registered as priorities within the management
plans.  Special land tenure studies and actions were carried out to solve conflicts where they
were occurring. Such was the case of the land tenure study for the Mache Chindul Reserve and
the border marking for the Sangay National Park in the Guamote Macas area.
As a result of land tenure studies and the processes of consultation and systematization that
ensued, new strategies have been developed for the NSPA Strategic Action Plan which include
changing categories for certain areas, creating new categories, declaring and including privately
owned areas of conservation within the NSPA, establishing land use and biological resources
zoning as a planning and administrative mechanism, retracing area borders, buying/indemnifying
areas where conservation is critical, and establishing legal mechanisms to legalize privately
owned lands.
A very important step has been taken to conceive human presence not as a limiting factor or a
deterrent for conservation but as an opportunity to get people involved in management. This
point of view is critical, especially in the case of indigenous-held lands.
2.2 Southern Regional Management Plan
In order to provide basic information for decision taking on the part of NSPA authorities to
prioritize areas of conservation in the southern part of the country 90 areas of special interest for
14 including the Marine Reserve



44
conservation were identified, 29 were selected and 3 prioritized, one on each southern province.
Management alternative plans were developed as well as a general management strategy for the
southern part of the country.
2.3 Cultural diagnosis of the Machali11a National Park. Preliminar Archeological
Diagnosis of the NSPA.
As a result of the first study, the Park has information materials: a tourist pamphlet, an
educational module for the area schools, a video, audiovisual registry of ways of life, scripts for
the area museums.  Priorities were developed for restoration and conservation of the
archeological sites.
A Preliminar Archeological Diagnosis of the NSPA was also developed which was included both
in the management plans and on the Strategic NSPA Plan.
2.4 Strategy for Wildlife Protection and Sustainable Use
The study included a diagnosis and a strategic plan for the development of research,
management, control, educational and institutional strengthening.  Additionally, 10 pilot
economic and research projects were designed.
This strategy, which was developed in a series of forums, is being taken as the basis for the
development of the National Strategy for Biodiversity, which the Ministry of Environment (MA)
is currently working on.
2.5 Sustainable management of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Reserve
This activity which was developed by an NGO consortium in the buffer zone of a protected area,
resulted in community natural resources sustainable management for 30 black and Chachi Indian
communities, located in an area of 120,000 has. between the Cotacachi -Cayapas Reserve and
the Cayapas, Onzole and Santiago rivers in the Esmeraldas province. The strategy is based upon
the results of the physical, socioeconomic, land tenure and biological studies. Pilot projects on
agriculture; marketing and education were also designed.
2.6. Classification of Ecuadorian vegetation: Methodology and map
In order to support management processes, local and regional monitoring through digital systems
to allow an efficient data up-to-date- evaluation and analysis, standardized ecosystem
classifications were developed for natural communities. Four reputed botanists were hired as
consultants (R.Sierra, W.Palacios, C.Cer6n and R.Valencia). The Wildlife Conservation Society
and the University of Arizona gave additional financing for maps of actual and remaining
vegetation.   The structure and nomenclature of this classification methodology uses
physiognomic, environmental, biotic, and topographic criteria in the continental regions of
Ecuador.



45
2.7 National Protected Area System Strategic Plan
The making of the 10-year plan for the NSPA included as a first step, a management
performance evaluation on the basis of the former strategies from 1976 and 1989. Some of the
main strategies suggested would be:
* Regional subsystems structuring.
* Regional subsystems' integration to public and private areas.
* Regional organisms, provincial and municipal governments, NGOs, other private
organizations and community's involvement in these areas' management.
* The imperative need to include the NSPA in national land use zoning; and
* The definition of step-by-step strategies with full participation of all actors involved.
For the plan, former studies and experiences were systematized (both of the project itself and of
others).
Other studies developed specifically for the plan were:
(i)   Socioeconomic
On the basis of gathering secondary data information such as land tenure, land use, agricultural
activities, population explosion, project development; land tenure typology was established.
(ii) Priority areas for the conservation of biodiversity
Critical areas for conservation were identified, through the GAP analysis methodology
application. The model defines biodiversity using the following as indicators: bird's availability,
ecosystem information and the vegetation classification developed by the project. Numbers and
values were established through a cartographic digital base scale 1:200.000, together with a
pondered function of biodiversity and representation in the NSPA plus three other factors:
ecosystem remnants, ecosystem diversity and human pressures. The results suggest that
institutional efforts should be placed in the dry and humid Coastal Region, where ecosystems are
not yet represented on the NSPA. This study was co-financed by WCS, Ecociencia, CDC,
University of Arizona and the Audubon Society.
(iii) Establishment of Potentially Protected Areas for the NSPA
This study took into account topography, vegetation, actual and potential soil use, actual and
potential conflicts, socioeconomic data, tourism, archeology, protected areas at present, degraded
areas, and others.
Areas to be protected were identified, as well as potential areas to be incorporated on the NSPA.
The results include ecological corridors, current PA amplification, buffer zones and regional PA
systems.
3.   Studies to determine economic values for goods and services generated by local
populations and the protected areas, focusing on their use of resources and ways to
maximize the benefits accruing to communities.



46
A methodology to determine economic values for NSPA goods and services was developed. It
integrated as a standard procedure, a calculation of global change rate, which facilitates the
definition of protected area dynamics. The substitution of a derivative income model was also
applied to account for human pressure over renewable resources.
Information was drawn from studies done for the management plans, for the NSPA Strategic
Plan, for other activities of the Project and from studies done by other institutions. Methodology
was applied in case studies in the Cayambe-Coca and Cayapas Mataje Reserves.
These studies are part of the management plans and of the socioeconomic component of the
NSPA Plan.
4.   Design of a new system for income collection and allotment for use of resources
within the NSPA
The study and design have become in part of NSPA Plan.
5.   Review  of the role and the responsibilities of tour operators in promoting
conservation while allowing for sustainable revenue generation
5.1 Tourism policies in PAs
Workshops conducted by an NGO and an international consultant determined policies which
were compiled in a widely distributed publication (500 copies).
5.2 Tourism management plan within PAs management plans
In the making of the different management plans, a chapter on tourism management was
included.
5.3 Tourist guide for urban centers in Galapagos
A tourist attractions guide within the Galapagos urban centers and their surrounding areas was
researched. It also included a budget for tourist facilities in the surrounding areas.
Three (3) pamphlets were published, one for each of the Santa Cruz, San Crist6bal and Isabela
islands.
5.4 Market and feasibility studies for eco-tourism projects in the Cotacachi-Cayapas and
El Boliche Reserves.
Studies provided basic information for the rental processes of the two areas. They included
values added by the newly built (by the Project) interpretation centers and tourism complexes.
Later on, terms of reference and legal parameters for rental contracts were developed. These are
now being adopted by the Ministry of the Environment. Rentals will enter into bidding
presently.
5.5 Entrance fees and annual passport demand to the NSPA (passport) studies and
implementation



47
The study done through polls, suggested fee values to be charged in the Protected Areas System
and the possibility of an annual entrance fee - something like a passport- to enter to all of them.
All this data was used in the economic value component of the NSPA Plan.
6.  Implementation of Inspection and Quarantine system in the GNP to control the influx
of biological organisms.
The Galapagos National Park and the Charles Darwin Foundation designed an inspection and
quarantine system. PCU staff participated in frequent meetings to develop terms of reference for
implementation.
Eventually system implementation did not take place as all activities assigned to the Ministry of
Agriculture were not started, especially the hiring of inspection personnel.  The lack of
Government counterpart contribution prevented further action.
Galapagos System of Inspection and Quarantine SICGAL would be established by May 315.
Through a combined action of all institutions concerned (FCCHD, GNP, INGALA, MAG,
SESA, and one IDB project). A 5% contribution from the tourist income of the Galapagos
Special Law will fund all activities for which 14 inspectors have been trained.
7.  Improve and strengthen Galapagos urban planning and management
Due to the lack of action on the part of the municipalities, the agreement for the modernization of
the cadastre system could not be set in action. Still, the project supported urban planning in the
Santa Rosa y Bellavista barrios on Santa Cruz Island.
A request from the San Crist6bal Municipality Mayor for studies on a major tourist attraction,
the Cobos ruins, was followed through, when a PCU request for support to the Quito's
Municipality was served with the contribution of a planning architect. A basic study was
completed.
Recycling solid waste courses were provided to the Isla San Cristobal municipality.
Right now, the Environmental Program for Galapagos, a project to provide rationale in the
charge of public service tariffs and the provision of services, is being prepared through a grant
(lDB- PPF- 1 89/OC/EC) by the Ministry of the Environment.
8.   Design and establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system  to follow up
implementation of activities proposed under the project
System analyst consultants developed a data base structured system, which has been fed through
the project's life. All activities were kept up to date, monitored, evaluated and followed.
9.   Establishment of a Biodiversity Information Center CIBE
A study was prepared to integrate data, keep it up to date and collect as much information as
possible in order to establish the Ecuadorian Biodiversity Information Center (CIBE). This
Center, to be placed within the DANVS, has as its main objectives: information centralization,
its incorporation in a GIs system, management decisions, and supply of information to the
public.



48
The first phase of this activity was a preliminary study, the drafting of norms and regulations for
taxonomic transference and the drafting and signing of cooperation agreements. Information
was generated and transferred by Museums and Universities (owners of taxonomic collections),
to INEFAN. Participating institutions were: Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Quito, Museo de
Ciencias Naturales, Fundaci6n Herpetol6gica G.Orces, Universidad de Loja, Herbario Nacional,
Universidad de Guayaquil, Escuela Politecnica Nacional, Universidad del Azuay.
As a second phase, new custom-made information requested by INEFAN was researched and
transferred. Equipment was acquired and personnel trained in GIS use, including a public
official receiving a grant for a Master's degree in the University of Arizona. This person will
take CIBE's management responsibility as soon as he returns to the country.
The second phase consisted in the design and development of research projects.
The Biodiversity Conservation Project will continue this activity, an Ecociencia/INEFAN
initiative financed by the Netherlands.
Programs of research, information management, education and communication, politics and
legislation will be put into effect.
An additional database named "Protected Areas" was also developed.  This base includes
information on 24 PA and it is designed to be brought up to date continuously. Its first use was
the publication of a book and a CD-ROM called "A Guide to Ecuador's National Parks and
Reserves".
10. Strengthening of INEFAN and DANVS
10.1 Support for the organization and Strengthening of INEFAN and DANVS
During the first two years, INEFAN Executive Direction postponed consultants hiring for
developing an institutional organization and strengthening study. Eventually a first phase study
was developed in early 1997 but cut short as the consultant argued lack of cooperation from
INEFAN and institutional instability (three Directors in charge and one Executive Director on
his way out). Later on, lack of interest from the next Executive Director's part did not provide
the opportunity to return to the issue. With the last administration, some of the measures taken
for the institution restructuring have been those suggested by the study and the PCU.
10.2 Elaboration of INEFAN information systems
The World Conservation Center (WCMC) and the International Institute for Environment and
Development (IIED) were hired to design a Forest and NSPA Resources Accounting System.
The contract was co-financed with Overseas Development Administration (ODA) funds. Once
information equipment requirement studies were made, equipment was bought and installed all
over the country. Later on, eight system analysts were hired to research, analyze, develop and
install the following systems: PLANFOR (reforestation), forest inventory, forest industries
census, wood transport guides, tourist operation licenses, tourist monitoring, species
management, research, personnel management and payrolls, purchasing, operational plans, filing
systems.
200 INEFAN officials were trained in three software applications with the co-financing of
another INEFAN internationally funded project.



49
Systems were developed partially. The PCU hired a consultant firm to establish the status of
system developing. This study recommended that INEFAN institutionalize a systems committee
that restructure the web, purchase the appropriate software for operational systems such as
communication, database, GIS and provide in depth, training to staff.  The study also
recommended a structure for a systems department with personnel to provide support and to
establish priorities according to its institutional needs and framework
Twice, administrative and financial systems were put out to bidding.  They included
governmental accounting, budget implementation, goods inventory and control, project
monitoring and evaluation, and so on. In both occasions the processes were declared voided.
Later on, 1NEFAN did not show enough interest as to continue with these activities.
Activity No. 20 "Strategy for the Protection and Sustainable Use of Wildlife" developed a
database called "Vidasil" and the corresponding manual for its use. An additional data based
named "Protected Areas" was also developed to systematize NSPA information.
XII. Formulation of National Policies for the Protection of Biodiversity and the
Management of Protected Areas
11.1 Policies for the Protection of Biodiversity and the Management of Protected Areas
This activity was initiated in 1995 and developed a nation wide participative process. A number
of workshops took place. The main participants were NGOs, public officials and other actors
involved with PA. The final document is also part of the National Protected Area System
Strategic Plan.
11.2 Policies for Wildlife Protection and Use
In the activity "Design and Formulation of a Strategy for the Protection and Use of wildlife " a
number of policies are proposed.
12. Methodologies for actor identification and conflict resolution in PAs
Methodologies were developed; PA field staff trained and training materials were published.
Actor identification methodologies were incorporated in management plans and NSPAS Plan.
Methodologies were applied in a case study for a land tenure conflict with communities along
the Guamote Macas highway in the Sangay National Park. Negotiations and border marking
took place with the participation of the people themselves. Relationships have markedly
improved and right now Fundacion Natura is carrying out the Sangay Project, doing community
project implementation as designed in the Sangay Management Plan.
12.1 Study for a Fiduciary Fund for the NSPA
In order to achieve as much financial independence as possible for the management of PAs, a
fiduciary fund was conceived based on examples from other area countries. Consultancy works
were hired by the Project to develop the fund. NSPA financial needs, strategies for fund raising
were established as well as a long-term financial plan. Results were put to a former INEFAN
Director's consideration but the creation of the fund was not approved; all the information,
however, is now being used for the Fondo del Medio Ambiente (National Environmental Fund).



50
II Legal and Regulatory Framework
1. A comparative review of current legislation affecting reserves areas. Identification and
recommendation of legal reforms needed for the protection and management of
biodiversity and natural resources
The results of consultancy work were published in a book under the name of "Regulations for
PAs and Biodiversity Administration".
2.   Drafting and promulgation of new/updated regulations.
The following regulations were approved by the Board of Directors of INEFAN: (a) agreements
of cooperation for ordering and management of PAs, (b) processes to update PAs delimitation;
and (c) Rules for wildlife (flora and fauna) research, collections, and exportation. Proposals for
other changes/additions to legislation are now been studied by ISEFAN: (a) Hunting and closed
seasons for certain wildlife species, (b) establishment and functioning of wildlife rescue centers,
zoos, botanical gardens and wildlife collections (c) CIBE implementation, functioning and
management, (d) statement of declaration for species threatened or in danger of extinction, (e)
Provisional tourist charge capacity for tourist operation quotas, (f) Regulations for the protection,
management and use of wildlife, and (g) Sustainable use of camelids.
In the activity Strategy Wildlife Protection analysis of current legislation and proposals to
improve rules and regulations are included.
M11. Outreach Activities
1.   Conflict resolution amongst key target groups through a national forum to promote
activities and to obtain the support of all interest groups.
This process took place at the same time as policies for Protected Areas were discussed.
2.   Creation of regional coordinating committees to oversee the implementation of
management's plans and conflict resolution process.
All management plans initiated processes for the structuring of coordinating committees. Some
coordinating structures have worked better than others, the best example been the Podocarpus
Committee.
3.   A study for the solution of problems of tenancy and resource use within protected
areas.
Analysis of the institutional, legal and social problems related to landholding and tenure within
protected areas took place so as to determine and recommend effective legislation to solve these
problems.
Particular strategies to solve problems also are included in specific management plans, the NSPA
system (as are in the legislation), conflict management and others.



51
4.   Development of a strategy at the national and regional levels to educate the public on
the NSPA
This strategy was based on a market study that resulted in a campaign design, a production phase
for the media: printing press, radio and TV and a nation-wide public campaign. For the first
time public TV broadcasted programs about the NSAP and educated the public on the protection
of biodiversity and protected areas.
In Galapagos National Park a youth park ranger program was developed with the cooperation of
the Scouts.
5.   Technical assistance and pilot projects for native communities (such as the Chachi
Indians) located in buffer zones in order to assist them in developing sustainable plans and
alternative actions for natural resource use in areas surrounding conservation units
This objective was accomplished in the development of sustainable management strategy from
the Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve Buffer Zone.
6.   Outreach Graphic Material
Aside from published material concerning each activity, the project has published:
1. 10 numbers of"Dialogos" magazine.
2. Ecuador's Protected Areas Map (5.000)
3. The NSPA Paramo Guide (2.000)
4. Biodiversity Agreement (5.000).
5. Brochure printed for the "Convention on Biological Diversity"
6. Book and CD Rom "National Parks and Ecuador Reserves Guide"
7. CD Rom, "Architecture and Interpretation of Nature"
8. Photographs and logos for the Protected Areas contests, pamphlets, posters and stickers to
prevent wildlife illegal traffic.
IV. Investment Activities
Furnishings and Equipment for INEFAN
Throughout the life of the project, INEFAN received all equipment and furnishings required,
especially DANVS, according to the following specifications and amounts which show the
relevance of this component:



52
Type of Equipment              US
dollars
Field Equipment                  237.354
Computers and software           814.411
Office furnishings                97.808
Audio - visual equipment          95.788
Weapons,  ammunitions,  riding    36.278
outfits, mules
Vehicles, motorcycles, canoes    594.086
Other Furnishings                 62.090
TOTAL                          1'937.815
A. Construction and Furnishing of Interpretation Centers
The project contracted the Design and Construction of the Interpretation Centers during different
project phases and under different contract specifications.
The Interpretation Centers built are:
a. "Ecuador's Pioneer Area in Conservation" and "The National Protected Areas System"
located at Recreational Area "El Boliche".
b. "A Reserve from the Snow to the Jungle" at Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve.
c. "3.000 years of History in the Tropical Forest" located at "La Chiquita" in Cayapas Mataje
Ecological Reserve.
d. "The mangrove" Interpretation Center in San Lorenzo, designed but not built.
All Interpretation Centers rely on the project's contracts for the designing and construction of
furnishings and exhibitions.
The Interpretation Center located at San Crist6bal, Galapagos National Park, was assisted in its
design by the project with US$ 20,000.oo.
Other constructions executed by the project were:
a. Classroom and office at INEFAN's station in Borb6n, Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological
Reserve;
b. 50 kilometers trail and daytime office for Podocarpus National Park;
c. Recreational Area El Boliche Tourist complex made of:
* 2 Interpretation Centers
* 1 Administrative Center



53
10 log-cabins,
* 1 restaurant
* Camping lots
* Tables and BBQ place
a 2 sanitary batteries
& Complete external lighting
* Parking lots
. Water
. Gardening
* Basic furniture and domestic equipment.
Environmental Impact and Economic Feasibility Studies were prepared for this Area and also
for Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve Interpretation Center.
d. Photovoltaic Energy Study in Isla Floreana, Galapagos.
e. Guard posts at Galapagos National Park.
f. Office, Housing and Services Design at Isla San Crist6bal, Galapagos National Park.
g. Trail Design under the Interpretative Diagnostic Study of 8 Protected Areas.
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
The project has been rated overall as "satisfactory. It exceeded all goals and objectives outlined
in the legal agreement 5 except for the lack of Government counterpart contribution. This event
changed the development of Galapagos activities for which this contribution should have been
used.
It must be remarked that certain activities that INEFAN took under its direct charge, which were
activities requiring INEFAN's approval such as the Development of Information Systems, the
Fiduciary Fund, the Administrative Restructure, and Protected Areas Policies were not
satisfactorily concluded. Finally, the Ministry of Environment will involve those resources in
INEFAN's restructure.
The factors which affected the project positively are as follows:
i) World Bank support: Task Manager's fast and efficient participation in all processes, agile
system of disbursements; as well as successfiul Supervision Missions with INEFAN
participation that led to an adequate Bi-annual routine of technical evaluations.
Bank's coordination permitted that most of the original foreseen activities have been executed
according to the original design, others have been substituted or updated, and some have been
modified in order to fit into unexpected requirements and processes. However, under those
events, the objectives accomplished have exceeded original expectations". (7h Supervision
Mission).
l The project assisted a larger number of protected areas



54
ii) UNDP's participation as service agent gave all activities a transparent image. They assisted on
agile processes for the dealing and contracting of goods and consultants, that if done by the
government, would have been complicated and sluggish, creating suspicion.
iii) Equally important was UNOPS participation in contracting and supervising civil work, which
allowed effective, economic and non-conflictive selection of construction companies.
iv) Wide and effective involvement of NGO's in the accomplishment of different activities. Even
though this participation was not clearly specified in the Agreement, it made a relevant
contribution. NGO's led teamwork; sometimes operating by themselves and some other in
association. Most of these associations promoted excellent outcomes and permanent learning
for the parts.
v) Even though the project experienced four Executive Directors' administrations and four
different governments; the PCU held stable technical staff that gave continuity and
institutional memory to the process in order to support coordination between INEFAN's
administration, World Bank, NGO's and private consultants.
vi) The Planning Unit established inside the PCU was conformed by qualified staff whose
objective was to intermediate and work together with INEFAN and independent consultants.
It held a permanent relationship along DANVS and communities to fulfill the NSPA and PA
need for strategic planning and conflict resolution.
vii) Architectonic Design and Investigation were relevant contributions from consulting of
national universities.
viii) Importation of vehicles and equipment carried out during the first years of the project
permitted more dedication to later technical responsibilities.
ix) The support given especially by the first16 and last Executive Directors.
16 who subscribed the project



55
x) Exclusive participation of national consulltants. Even though the initial plan included a large
number of international consultants, during the project's execution, international consultants
were contracted only for two short activities and some seminars.
xi) DINICE (Investigation, Training and Outreach Activities Direction) cooperated and
supported all activities and issues related to this area.
The factors that limited the project's performance were:
i. One of the main problems was DANVS bureaucratic transactions when checking and
approving: staff selection and hiring, Terms of reference, and processes' evaluation. These
transactions were especially slow and difficult when final approval decisions on
investigation studies were required. DANVS's excessive task assignment and weak
appropriation of the project resulted in sluggishness.
ii. Coordination between INEFAN (PCU) and UNDP wasn't always satisfactory. On several
occasions they were asked to speed up processes and procedures.
At the beginning there were some complications with functions' definition between UNDP
and PCU, until World Bank's opinion was given and methods and procedures were
specified and clarified in order to carry out the actions planned. Due to the large number of
project activities and their specialization, UNDP's staff rotation also obstructed normal
continuity and management.
iii. INEFAN changed its policies constantly during the project's execution according to
Government and Executive Director's interests. The authority's lack of knowledge about
ongoing activities and processes, new demands and strategies applied to Protected Areas
distorted NSPA's importance and its relation with the Forest Area.
iv. Authority's lack of final decision in such important activities like administrative restructure,
legislation, fiduciary fund, institution's policy.
v. INEFAN never assumed the responsibilities mentioned above in order to take care of the
Information System matter. Guidelines were never established for permanent information
flow, hardware and software updating and maintenance.
vi. Forest Districts obstructed intermediation and communication between Protected Areas and
Executive Direction.
vii. DANVS had relevant deficiencies; it didn't have a correct organizational structure and it
wasn't adequately fit into INEFAN's management structure.
viii. DANVS is not provided with the specific and specialized human resources it requires in
areas such as legal and financial issues, ecological tourism, archeology, hydrocarbon and
mines, community management, interpretation, environmental education, equipment and
infrastructure maintenance. The participation of women in its staff is almost null.
ix. The lack of support from INEFAN's other departments (Planning Direction) also affected
the introduction of Information Systems and Legal Assistance.
x. DANVS never practiced an effective and complete participation with the project; it didn't
take advantage of its sense of ownership. PCU was forced to work as executor to carry out
annual operative plans.
xi. Galapagos National Park decentralization brought several coordination problems to the
project.
xii. Failure to develop a coherent, integrated eco-tourism policy suggested by the project
through the application of a fee's system, which could have helped, to increase revenues in



56
protected areas management. In the same way, income generation through other elements
(petroleum, water, hydraulic energy, anthems, mine concessions and others) was never
concluded due to the non-existence of a "Unit of Internal Revenues".
xiii. Failure to get NGO's technical assistance in the preparation of proposals, establishment of
accounting and financial systems, and in the know-how of selection, hiring and training
processes.
xiv. Some activities' Terms of Reference weren't clear enough, especially at the beginning of
the project or when they were prepared by DANVS. In some cases, there were Terms of
Reference too general or too specific.
E.  Project Sustainability
The prospects for the sustainability of the NSPA are not good enough. The expedition of the law
that authorized Galapagos National Park to reduce the amounts of money shared with INEFAN,
makes it necessary, (as told before), to increase INEFAN'S income by means of a special unit
working for Protected Areas' auto-financing through concessions, entrance fee rationale,
environmental services tariffs and others.
INEFAN's restructure which is now being planned by the current government involves some
modernization methods such as deconcentration, civil society participation in Protected Areas
management, environmental funds development. This way, the areas' conditions may improve in
short or medium time frames.
Project's studies and their results give important guidelines to this ongoing process and are
compiled in the "System Plan". Phase II of this Project, which is currently being prepared and
negotiated, must contemplate certain activities' continuity and further application the processes
tat have been initiated.
F.  World Bank Performance
World Bank's performance was highly satisfactory.
Supervision missions were of particular assistance to the project in:
a. Solving financial issues related to taxes, procedures, operative plans definition, and
categories re-assignment.
b. Technical assistance identification.
c. Executed activities supervision. Special emphasis was given to topics such as office
installation, coordination  committees, conflict resolution, fiduciary  fund, NGO' s
participation, civil work and fieldwork activities.
d. Operational Coordination between INEFAN/PCU/UNDP/WB/NGO's/ Ministry of Finance.
e. Establish relationships between the project with similar ones in Bolivia and Venezuela.
f  "Aid Memoires" to follow the recommendations agreed by the parts.
As explained before, World Bank's functions were fast and efficient in all processes, non-
objections were effective without obstacles or excessive transactions, successful Supervision
Missions led an adequate routine of technical evaluations and recommendations application.



57
G.  Recipient Performance
The attention paid to the visiting missions was almost without exception, exemplary.
Coordinated information programs and fieldwork visits were well organized.
The missions' suggestions and recommendations were usually followed up with the adequate
actions. The success achieved in meeting project objectives is a matter of record.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCI) within INEFAN was very efficient in activity coordination
and execution in order to achieve set up goals on the annual operative plans.
Stable and qualified technical staff gave continuity to the process, and permitted the achievement
of the best positive accomplishments.
The transparency of all project's actions was guaranteed by UNDP and UNOPS participation
together with World Bank's approvals.
One serious limitation on recipient performance was the ongoing unsteadiness of INEFAN and
its consequent incapacity to appropriate the project. It was especially difficult to carry out those
activities of institutional reinforcement (policies, information systems, institutional,
administrative and financial structures)
During the project's life there were four acting directors, four different govemments and two
full-scale reorganizations.
H.  Current and Future Operations
INEFAN expressed to the Bank its interest for a second phase of the GEF Biodiversity Project,
in September 1998, sending a preliminary profile of the proposed project with this statement.
The Bank acknowledged the proposal and expressed their will to consider a second phase for the
project, with the guarantee that INEFAN would follow GEF and World Bank's requirements. In
November 1999, the government submitted a GEF Block B request to prepare the second phase
GEF Biodiversity Project. On January 7, 2000, the Bank signed a grant agreement with the
Fondo Ambiental Nacional (FAN), which was selected by the Ministry of Environment as the
recipient of the preparation grant. Following the Independent Evaluation recommendations and
the results of this ICR, the new projects will: (i) strengthen the administration of the NPAS; (ii)
continue and expand the successful training program started in the pilot phase; (iii) implement
the Strategic Plan for NPAS and protected areas' management plans, converting them into
operational plans; (iv) design and apply mechanisms for social participation; (v) increase
biodiversity conservation policy and public awareness campaigns; (vi) establish mechanisms and
strategies for NPAS long-term financial sustainability; (vii) promote and strengthen private
sector participation in the management of the NPAS; (viii) explore and implement methods for
obtaining income from environmental services provided by protected areas; and (ix) create legal
reforms to implement the new National Strategy for NPAS and the Special Biodiversity Law.The
institution's sense of ownership of the project.



58
L.   Key Lessons Learned
Government commitment
Commitment to a course of action should be continuous over the course of changes in
government. When an incoming government reestablishes priorities and strategies without
building on the success of previous experiences, problems immediately arise.
Shared administrative functions, coordination, transparency and information
For contracting processes, administrative functions must be split amongst various institutions
with the PCU as a central unit of monitoring and coordination, with approval in the hands of the
governmental institution -INEFAN- and an international institution for processes and payment -
UNDP-.  Thus, the necessary transparency is achieved, while suspicion from civil society
diminishes toward government institutions whose technical and coordinating functions are
strengthened.
General planning documents and budget, as well as monitoring and control documents must be
known and shared by all intervening parties, and made into public documents. Information must
also be covered as widely as possible, to all interested parties in the project.  The newsletter
"Dialogos" published by the project was a good example of the type of outreach communications
to government officials and field staff, NGOs and other individuals and institutions involved in
the protection of biodiversity.
Final written reports, studies and publications must be made available to all sectors of the public
through specialized libraries and electronic media, CDs, etc. Information can be spread thus, and
so illegal business of reproducing unknown works is curtailed. Special care must be taken to
protect consultant author rights and the copyrights in the use of software.
A gender policy must also be clearly stated, in such a way as to improve equal opportunity for
men and women (of the individual consultants hired by the Project 35% were women). On the
other hand, it is of the outmost importance to have interdisciplinary teams.
Public Participation
The adoption of the situational strategic planning as a planning methodology for the PAs and the
NSPA was a great step forward for the institution which was not accustomed to consulting
communities and asking for their participation. In workshops designed to elicit community
participation, problems and solutions were posed by the people themselves. The strengthening of
PA support committees, the creation of ecological clubs and park ranger programs for the young,
workshops, training events, polls, focus groups, pilot projects and other mechanisms of
community encounter helped to define community and PAs problems and served as instruments
to acquire information and to gather commitment. This was common to all activities where this
methodology could be applied.
Based on the premise that only through public cooperation biodiversity protection is possible, all
outreach programs to promote knowledge and involvement -whether through printed materials,
radio, or TV as well as distance education and training- took into account popular participation
within and around PAs. The role of community participation in conservation should be
reinforced and expanded.



59
The Importance of Flexibility in Project Execution
The original project concept document did not foresee the numerous political changes, new
priorities and eventual conflicts that would affect the National System during the life of the
project. This lack of foresight was rare as the project took at least three years in its preparation
and negotiation, a period when many changes did occur.
It was important to the success of the project that the Bank had enough flexibility to approve
changes in the operating plans.  As the Bank says in its seventh mission "The majority of
activities originally planned have been executed according to the original design, others have
been substituted or updated or its sequence has been modified in order to adjust to requisites
and/or processes which were not foreseen. In such cases however, the reached objectives have
surpassed the original expectations." The Bank also approved differences in expense categories
with the necessary flexibility. Even though the differences in categories planned and actually
spent are minimal, the results obtained are very important.
The project also followed government priorities and eventually changed its focus to encompass
areas originally not included. This involved activities such as management plans, investments,
etc.
NGO's and Universities Participation
Although the design of the project did not include a specific objective to ask for the participation
of NGOs, Universities and others, the PCU opened a channel of participation that could have
worked better if implementation mechanisms would have been planned for.
Some public officials were not in agreement with NGOs participation. They perceived certain
tasks as belonging exclusively to government, especially those such as the discussion and
issuance of NSPA policies. They felt that NGOs received international funds and benefited
from them, while their image was not tarnished by the operations of control and management.
Resistance was partially overcome by the support of the Executive Direction, but the presence of
NGOs was never truly accepted, and that resulted in delays and bureaucratic obstacles in
approvals of consultant works.
NGOs' experience benefited the project and has had satisfactory results, including the cases
where alliances and consortiums of various NGOs participated as consultants. In these cases
participation happened more in terms of former work specialization of each NGO rather than in a
complementary fashion.
In the bidding process some NGOs -especially the smaller ones- felt as if they were left out;
others thought that the rules such as proposal drafting and presentations, security deposits and
others were too hard to follow.
The success of experienced NGOs winning contests, forced the PCU to limit to two (2) contracts
the number of contracts allowed to each.   This in order to perrnit wider participation.
Administrative capacity is still an NGO weakness, especially in planning and financial matters.
Technical assistance in these issues is of paramount importance. These weaknesses were always
pointed out during the life of the project, to the point that various WB missions recommended
UNDP provide assistance, which was never delivered.



60
NGOs participation undoubtedly has opened ways for them to participate in other programs
related or derived from those executed by the Project.
In the case of universities, they did a very good job in terms of research.  The range of their
participation should be opened more widely and incentives placed so that they can act in other
fields of their expertise and with the support of national external consultants, as were the case of
the Wildlife Strategy and the design of buildings.
NSPA Expansion
Throughout the life of the project, the NSPA continued to expand, adding five new (unfinanced)
areas, to total 24 (including the Galapagos Marine Reserve) and so representing 18% of the
country land area. The Project financed three new areas, drawing away important resources
meant to stabilize the core NSPA areas agreed upon under the master plan.
Lessons leamed are:
(i)    A solid central core of well run, adequately financed areas with a functioning
administrative unit should be in place before considering the addition of new areas to a
system. Subsequent new area additions should have a financial management plan in
place before they are established.
(ii)   Expansion should proceed within context of the NSPA Plan and with extensive
community participation.
Infrastructure Development
An institutional policy must be developed for NSPA civil construction and equipment. It is also
important to start all administrative processes at the onset of a project as they take a long time to
implement. For visitor Centers/Interpretation, three procedures were chosen: a bidding within
the Architectural Association, a direct contract with an architect of the consultant NGO and an
agreement with a firm associated with a university. Of the three procedures, the last two were the
better modalities, as they were more economical and faster.
Centers must be built, as much as possible inside PAs and not in the peripheral cities. Public
officials argue often ---for their comfort- that in cities one can find public services, land can be
obtained easily and areas can be publicized. Although these reasons are important it is necessary
to have as a basic premise that at the onset of the planning stage the necessary staff for
maintenance and for public service is available for the new facility. In San Lorenzo, Esmeraldas,
a building was much needed for control of the Cayapas-Mataje Reserve. The PCU received a
request form the institution to buy a piece of land and build a Visitors and Administrative Center.
The land was bought and the building designed, but the facility was not built, as the institution
never provided the staff. In the Podocarpus National Park the institution insisted on the
construction of a guard post and a 50 km. walkway for the control of miners. As no control
personnel was assigned to the post, the PCU had to move the post to the city of Zamora
Tourist cabins should not be built in PAs if such facilities exist in the surrounding towns. On the
other hand, first priority should be given to the construction of trails, if park rangers are available
for control. Finally, before setting off to build any facility it should be clear which type of



61
administrative mechanism this facility will have, whether state's, rental, consortium, etc., and the
conditions and values to be charged.
Equipment
Public officials usually request equipment that they would like to have, but that it is not used
regularly in their everyday tasks. Therefore, a detailed study should be performed before any
acquisition (whether local or international) and decisions made at the onset of a project to speed
up processes which usually take a long time.
Training in the use of the equipment must be included in the purchase conditions and before
delivery. Projects should verify that all institutional inventory control registries are done and in
order. It is also important to take into account that equipment acquisitions require a special
budget for use, maintenance and repair that it is not usually listed in the institutional budgets.
Therefore, the project should require that the institution budget m & r for each new item.



