RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-119
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specificaly authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK POR RECONSTRUCflON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
INTER-ISLAND FLEET
INDONESIA
June 12, 1972
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Except where otherwise stated all figures
are quoted in US Dollars (US$5. The project
cost estimate is shown both in US$ and in
Rupiahs (Rps9).
US$1                 =  Rps 410
Rps 1                    US$0.002439
Rps 1 million         =  US$2,,439
Rps 1 billion         =  US$2,,439,OO0
Weights and Measures
Except where otherwise stated, all tonnages
are expressed in metric tons. Weight-carrying
capacity is expressed in deadweight tons (dwt).
Fiscal Year - Government of Indonesia
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations
ADB         - Asian Development Bank
BAPINDO     - Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
BAPPENAS    - National Planning Council
BKI         - Biro Klasificasi Indonesia
BOPBERPAN   -  Joint Operational Body of Inter-
Island Shipping
GL          - Germanischer Lloyd
IDFC        - Indonesian Development Finance
Conmpany
INSA        -  Indonesian National Shipowners'
Association
MCD         - Maritime Credit Department
PELNI       -  P. N. Pelajaran Nasional Indonesia
(a major shipping company)
PRODJASMAR  - Directorate General of Marine
Production
R1S         - Regular Liner Service
SEACOM      - Directorate General of Sea
Communications
TCAS        - Transport Coordination Advisory
Services
TSKT        - Team Shipping Kerdjasang Teknik
(Netherlands Shipping Team)



DONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLND FLEST
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                            i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                     1
II.  BACKGROUND                                                        2
A. Economic Setting                                              2
B. Transportation                                                2
C. Transport Policy and Coordination                             5
D. The Banking Structure                                         6
III.  ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT                             6
A. Goverrment                                                    6
B. Indonesian National Shipowners' Association (INSA)            7
C. Joint Operational Body of Inter-Island Shipping
(BOPBERPAN)                                                  7
D. Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia (BKI)                              8
D.  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)                         8
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                      9
A. Project Description                                           9
B.  Cost Estimates                                              11
C. Procurement                                                  12
D.  Disbursement                                                12
E. Project Execution                                            12
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                              14
A.  General                                                     14
B.  Traffic Projection                                          15
C.  Fleet Forecast and Rationalization Program                  16
D.  Economic Return                                             17
VI.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                            18
A.  General                                                     18
B.  Present State of the RIS Shipping Companies                 18
C.  Effects of Investment in Repair and Re-equipment             20
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                             22
This report was prepared by Mrssrs. T. Asser (lawyer), G. Bain (port special-
ist), H. Brandreth (economist), J. Burns (financial analyst), A. Johnsen
(oonasultant - engineer), R. Roberts (economist)s Mr. Rowat (financial analyst)
and T. Saunders (financial analyst).



- ii~ -
ANNBXES
1. Registration and Classification of Ships in Indonesia
2. Organization Chart for Ministry of Comwunications
3. Organization Chart for Directorate General of Marine Production
4. Organization Chart for Directorate General of Sea Comunications
Chart 6730(R) - Bank Pembargunan Indonesia Organization Chart
5. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
6. Bank Pembangunan Indonesia Policy Statement
7. RIS Fleet Forecast Methodology
TABLES
1. Area and Population of the Main Islands
2. Estimated Composition of Indonesian Merchant Marine
3. Passenger and Cargo Traffic Projection
4. RIS Fleet Forecast
5. Registered RrS Fleet - Composition by Age and Tonnage Class
6. Savings Calculation
7. Performance Ratios by Class of Vessel and for Fleet Before and
After Rehabilitation
A. Comparison of Earnings per Vessel Before and
After Rehabilitation
B. Comparison and Analysis of Revenue Flows to the
RLS Fleet Before and After Rehabilitation
C. Comparison and Analysis of Vessels' Annual
Operating Costs Before and After Rehabilitation
8. Projected Cash Flows for Vessels Rehabilitated from January 1, 1976
MAP
IBRD 3420R - Indonesia Major Ports



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Indonesia has progressed towards economic recovery after more than
a decade of stagnation and rampant inflation. Confidence in Government econ-
omic policies has been regained and output and investment have substantially
increased in the last three years, but formidable problems remain. In this
nation of 3,000 widely dispersed islands, an effective transport infra-
structure is vital to effective administration and economic progress. Over
the past decade the transport system was neglected and consequently became
obsolete, ill-maintained and disorganized. The inter-island shipping ser-
vices, which form the vital trunk links in the transport system, were partic-
ularly affected. Through administrative neglect, the licensing system col-
lapsed, the tariff structure was abused, and safety regulations were ignored.
Additional ships were permitted to operate without regard for their technical
and operational suitability or traffic needs. Shipping became an adjunct of
smuggling, private trading and lucrative port terminal operations. An over-
supply of vessels resulted while efficiency deteriorated and operating costs
rose. Investments declined as profits dwindled and, without enforcement of
technical standards, maintenance was neglected. The Regular Liner Service
(RLS) became costly, unreliable and unsafe. Furthermore, port operations
and facilities deteriorated, limiting vessel access and slowing cargo-handling
and ship turnaround. The shipyards also suffered from lack of management,
maintenance, investment and supplies.
ii.       Over the past two years the Government, with considerable bilateral
assistance, has started studies of the shipping industry in an effort to
embark on a rehabilitation program for the RLS and domestic shipping services
generally. The telecommunications and navigational aids are being restored.
Studies have been completed of the major ports, their operations analyzed and
commitments made for investments and technical assistance. The shipyards are
similarly being improved. A large part of the RLS fleet has been physically
surveyed to determine its condition and requirements. Arrangements have been
made to bolster the organization responsible for establishing and enforcing
ship technical and safety standards with foreign expertise. Studies have been
made of the traffic currently moving on the RLS routes and the vessel and
service standards required, and studies relating to future requirements are
proposed.
iii.      The next vital step is the rehabilitation of the RLS fleet to bring
it to acceptable standards of safety and operational efficiency and reliability.
Such is the state of maintenance throughout the fleet that nearly all RLS



- ii -
ships currently in use would become ineligible for service if reasonable stan-
dards were applied. Scope must be provided for the repair and re-equipment
of those RLS ships which can be rehabilitated at reasonable cost and which
have a remaining economic life expectancy sufficient to warrant the expendi-
ture required.
iv.       The proposed project is designed to offer this scope.  The Associ-
ation would provide the foreign exchange element of the funds needed for
justifiable RLS ship repair and re-equipment. The funds lent to the Govern-
ment would be relent through a specially-created Maritime Credit Department
(MCD) of an established state banking institution (Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
- BAPINDO) to shipowners lacking resources to effect the necessary repairs.
The loans, suitably secured by mortgages on the borrower's ships and other
appropriate assets, would be repaid over a period of up to five years, in-
cluding one year's grace. Once repaid, the foreign exchange funds would be
returned to the Government accounts and would not reside with BAPINDO for
relending. The more substantial of the proposed shipping loans will be sub-
ject to prior scrutiny and approval by the Association for an initial period.
v.        BAPINDO, which will receive technical assistance for this project
in the form of three shipping experts to be financed by the UNDP or failing
this, through the proposed credit, would be competent to appraise and manage
the proposed loans. The organization has been carefully examined by the
Bank Group over the past two years, resulting in suitable changes in its
capital structure, administration and operating procedures. As a result,
BAPINDO received a US$10 million credit from the Association in June 1972.
vi.       At the present time, the financial records maintained by the
shipping firms are not adequate to permit proper appraisal of their resources
or operating results. The Government will arrange, through bilateral aid
sources, the UNDP or the proposed credit, to attach a three-man team of man-
agement, operations and accounting experts to the Indonesian National Ship-
owners' Association (INSA) to assist the operators to improve their account-
ing standards and operating statistics. The Government has requested this
assistance from Norway and the request is currently being considered. These
experts will not only enable shipowners to demonstrate the extent of their
creditworthiness for the proposed loans but will also assist them generally
in improving operational efficiency.
vii.      Provision of funds and facilities for the repair and re-equipment
of ships must be coupled with the enforcement of suitable technical regulations
if the project is to succeed, for the shipowners must be convinced that ship
rehabilitation is not only desirable, but also necessary. Further, while
ship rehabilitation is, in itself, economically justifiable since it reduces
vessel repair and maintenance costs and improves safety and reliability of
service, it also permits substantial increases in ship utilization. The root
cause of the present state of the RLS fleet is the oversupply of vessels
which has resulted in intense competition and much idle ship time. There
is, then, little prospect of realizing the potential benefits of increased



- iii -
fleet productivity unless the surplus fleet capacity is reduced by eliminating
obsolete and inefficient ships from the RLS and the remainder are re-assigned
in accordance with traffic needs. This is the responsibility of the Director-
ate General of Sea Communications (SEAOM)N which must establish the necessary
standards and procedures and see that they are enforced. A program for these
actions includes two major elements:
(a) technical - the enforcement of ship classification
standards throughout the RLS fleet. These standards
are the responsibility of the Biro Klasificasi
Indonesia (BKI), the national ship classification
society (Annex 1). Enforcement is a SEACOM function,
applied at the local level by the harbor masters
and other Government administrative staff.
(b) economic - the planning and implementation of a coordinated
three-year (1973-75) ship repair and fleet rationalization
program and the initiation of longer-term studies of
traffic, fleet capacity, vessel types and tariff struc-
tures, together with a review of regulatory controls and
procedures, followed by an agreed program to implement
the results. This will be done by SEACOM itself.
viii.     A project of this complexity involves obvious risks.  If the en-
forcement of regulations designed to reduce surplus fleet capacity and im-
prove safety and operational standards is not undertaken vigorously by SEACOM,
there will be no incentive for the shipowners to repair and rehabilitate
their ships, in which case the loan will not be drawn down. On the other
hand, the enforcement procedures must be carefully phased and coordinated
with licensing revisions, lest service to the public suffer. Even if the
incentive for ship repair is clearly established, there is the possibility
that the financial situation of the shipowners will make it difficult for
them to borrow funds for ship rehabilitation. Every effort has been made,
in formulating this project, to minimize these risks by reaching agreement
with the Government on a three-year fleet rationalization program dovetail-
ing the enforcement of regulations with ship rehabilitation, and by provid-
ing expert advisers for both the lending institution and the shipowners.
Provision has been made for intensive supervision, with a full-time appointee
to the Resident Mission in Indonesia who will also serve on the Government's
Coordinating Committee.
ix.       Given the elimination of surplus, unsafe and uneconomic fleet units,
the remaining vessels, repaired and re-equipped as necessary, should be able
to operate profitably and effectively on RLS routes. The repair and rehabili-
tation program itself will yield an economic return of 24% plus important
safety and reliability benefits. The concurrent rationalization of the
shipping services, with provision for further refinements after additional
studies have been completed, will yield substantial further benefits which
cannot, at present, be measured in absolute terms. The project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$8.5 million equivalent, incorporating US$7 million
for ship repairs and the balance for consultants' services.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked the Association for a credit
to help rehabilitate the Regular Liner Service (RLS) which carries the bulk
of the inter-island traffic. The project will consist of:
(a) the repair and re-equipment of a proportion of the RLS fleet;
(b) a three-year (1973-75) RLS fleet rationalization program coupled
with a long-term study of the RLS fleet requirements; and
(c) consulting services and technical assistance for shipyards and
the various organizations involved in the project.
The repair and re-equipment of the vessels will be incorporated in, and form
the core of, the fleet rationalization program. Most of the proposed credit,
US$7 million equivalent, will be made available to RLS shipowners for needed
repairs through a specially created Maritime Credit Department (MCD) for Bank
Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO). The proposed credit will also finance tech-
nical assistance to the shipyards and, to the extent that UNDP and bilateral
assistance should not materialize, that required for BAPINDO and the Indonesian
National Shipowners' Association (INSA). An amount of US$1.5 million equivalent
has been provided for technical assistance, the unused balance of which would
either be reallocated to ship repairs or cancelled. The total credit will
therefore be US$8.5 million.
1.02      This will be the first project in the Indonesian maritime sector
and the third in the transport sector. Two credits for highway projects
have been approved, one in 1969 for US$28 million (Credit 154-IND) and one
in June 1971 for US$34 million (Credit 260-IND). Credit 260-IND is proceed-
ing satisfactorily but local currency disbursements of Credit 154-IND have
been delayed due to administrative difficulties. In addition, other proj-
ects of the Agricultural and Industrial Projects Departments include provision
for engineering for a fishing wharf (Credit 211-IND) and for the construc-
tion, in association with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), of a natural
gas gathering and distribution system to supply a fertilizer plant (Credit
193-IND).
1.03      This report is based on the findings of missions composed of
representatives of the Transportation Projects Department, the Legal De-
partment and the Development Finance Companies Department which visited
Indonesia in December 1971 and March 1972. It was prepared by
Messrs. T. Asser (lawyer), C. Bain (port specialist), H. Brandreth (economist),



-2-
J. Burns (financial analyst), A. Johnsen (consultant - engineer), R. Roberts
(economist), M. Rowat (financial analyst) and T. Saunders (financial analyst).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 3,000 islands stretching
5,000 km along the equator. The land area, 70% of which consists of the
four major islands of Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi, is about 1.9
million km2. (See Map 3420R.) The population in 1970 was about 121 million,
growing at the rate of 2-1/2% per annum (Table 1). Population pressure is
intense in Java where almost 80 million people live in an area of only
132,000 km2, but vast areas of other islands are underpopulated. The
Government is encouraging migration from Java and Bali to other islands,
but with only limited success. Urbanization is accelerating and the popula-
tion in the capital, Djakarta, now approaches 5 million.
2.02      The economy has recovered from the past decade of stagnation and
rapid inflation. During 1969 and 1970, output and investment substantially
increased in all major sectors. The return to stability has established
confidence in Government economic policies and provided an environment con-
ducive to economic growth. The Government's commitment to development
through free market policies and free access to foreign exchange also has
stimulated a high inflow of both public and private foreign capital.
2.03      The recent expansion of economic activities has strained the infra-
structure, which has been inadequately maintained. Therefore, rehabili-
tation and improved maintenance continue to rate high priority in present
Government policies; public investments will concentrate mainly on infra-
structure facilities which support and stimulate growth of the private sector.
Emphasis is being placed on the transport sector, where worn-out facilities,
high costs and inefficient operations hinder the economy's development. High
priority is being given to rehabilitation of the run-down inter-island fleet,
because of its vital function as a link between the widely dispersed islands
of the archipelago. Construction of new transport facilities, particularly
roads, is necessary to provide access to producing areas presently isolated
from their potential markets, and to underdeveloped interiors of the larger
islands. The current Five-Year Development Plan (1969-73) specified a total
investment target of Rps 200 billion (US$488 million) in the transport sector,
or about 19% of total public investment.
B. Transportation
(a) General
2.04      Marine transport services, linking the island network, form the
major trunk system in Indonesia. Roads and railways provide the secondary



- 3 -
system, linking the interiors of islands with their ports, and connecting
surplus and deficit areas. Air transport volume is still very small, but
has increased rapidly in the last few years. Very little transport data
exist. No reliable data on distribution of traffic by modes, general trans-
port costs or tariffs are available.
(b) Highways
2.05      There are about 82,000 km of roads of which about 15,000 km are
paved. The national roads, about 10,000 km, are the country's trunk roads;
there are about 22,000 km of provincial roads; and the county roads, about
50,000 km, comprise the remainder. In addition, agricultural estates and
oil companies construct and maintain roads outside the system.
(c) Railways
2.06      The Indonesia State Railways tPNKA) consists of six separate systems
with 7,200 km of track. The road bed, track and operating equipment are in
poor condition as a result of over-age and inadequate maintenance. Speeds
and loads are severely restricted and load factors and equipment utilization
are extremely low. Management deficiencies and overstaffing combine with the
operational difficulties to produce deficits in spite of recent tariff in-
creases.
2.07      The potential of PNKA is limited by the short-haul, low-volume
nature of available traffic which is vulnerable to road competition. Consul-
tants (DECONSULT, Federal Republic of Germany) are studying the traffic poten-
tial, costs and tariffs, managerial improvements and investment requirements.
Although some scope now exists for modest rehabilitation projects, further
analysis of the benefits of such investments relative to those of competing
modes is required.
(d) Air Transport
2.08      Air transport is currently not significant in freight traffic, and
accounts for only about 1% of total passenger traffic, but it is growing in
importance as a rapid means of linking the islands and of opening the other-
wise inaccessible interiors of some larger islands. Garuda Airlines is the
national flag carrier, with a fleet of 37 aircraft in 1970. As a result of
the 1970-71 modernization program, conventional propeller aircraft have
been replaced by jets. In terms of passenger seat-kilometers, Garuda's fleet
capacity should be sufficient to absorb domestic traffic growth for the next
few years.
2.09      At most domestic airports, length and bearing strength of runways,
and navigational aids are inadequate. To permit efficient use of new types
of aircraft, improvements to runways and other facilities are scheduled for
18 airports in the next few years.



-4-
(e) Ports
2.10      Indonesia has about 300 ports, but only 20 can serve ships of over
500 deadweight tons (dwt) at quayside and only 10 handle significant volumes
of cargo. The major ports for dry cargo, Tandjung Priok and Surabaja on Java
and Belawan on North Sumatra, each have approximately 2,000 ship calls per
year by powered vessels. The major port for petroleum products is Palembang
on Sumatra, where about 3,200 ships (of which 1,900 are tankers) call annually.
Port capacities are generally adequate to handle existing traffic, but infra-
structure and service facilities need rehabilitation, and the efficiency of
port operations needs improvement. Substantial ship delays occur because of
poor cargo-handling, warehousing, forwarding and customs clearance procedures.
Consultants (NEDECO, Netherlands) have made recommendations for the moderni-
zation and operational improvement of the ten major ports and the Government
has formed an inter-departmental committee to carry out certain of the re-
commendations. The ADB has made a loan of US$5.3 million to finance the
modernization of the major port, Tandjung Priok, and will appraise the port
of Surabaja in June 1972. The Netherlands Government is considering finan-
cial and technical assistance for improving the other eight ports.
2.11      Siltation is reducing the depth of most entrance channels and
harbor basins, and the dredging backlog is about 15 million m3. Existing
dredges must be repaired and operations improved to meet this requirement,
and a detailed rehabilitation program has been drawn up by the Government
assisted by a United Nations Dredging Adviser and a team of consultants from
the Netherlands.
(f)  Shipping
2.12      The Indonesian ocean-going merchant marine consists of 102 general
cargo vessels totalling 532,000 dwt which operate on foreign routes beyond
Singapore and Malaysia. These are supplemented by a fleet of specialized
cargo ships carrying oil, bauxite, salt and other bulk products both within
the archipelago and to foreign ports (Table 2).
2.13      Indonesian coastal navigation law, like that of most countries, re-
serves domestic trade for vessels owned and operated by Indonesian shipping
companies; in addition, the Government has reserved half of the trade between
Indonesia and Singapore/Malaysia for Indonesian ships.
2.14      Domestic shipping services are divided into inter-island and
coastal.  The inter-island fleet consists of 355 ships each of over 350 dwt,
totalling 450,000 dwt. Of these, 277 vessels of 320,000 dwt are licensed
to operate on RLS routes and the rest are tramp ships. At the end of 1970,
only 187 RLS ships (242,000 dwt) were operative, with the remainder unservice-
able. Those in service are in poor condition.
2.15      RLS fleet productivity is very low.  Port time is high (70-80% of
total operating time); speeds are slow. Shipping management and financial



-5-
control are poor: lack of maintenance results in frequent breakdowns; lack
of shipboard spare parts increases breakdown delays; sailings are delayed
to accumulate additional cargo; there is widespread rebating from the offi-
cial freight rates.
2.16      Approximately 17,000 sailing and small motorized craft, ranging in
size from 50 to 350 dwt, operate in the coastal trade, providing feeder
services between small island ports. These compete, in certain instances,
with RLS services, as do a number of vessels owned by the Government and the
military.
C. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.17      The current Five-Year Development Plan (1969-73) includes a
Rps 100 billion (US$244 million) investment target for roads and road trans-
port, Rps 46 billion (US$112 million) for marine transport, Rps 33 billion
(US$80 million) for railways, and Rps 21 billion (US$51 million) for aviation.
The allocation among modes was prepared without adequate information and is
only a rough framework for investment. Current trends in the Government
development program indicate that actual investments for the whole sector
over the Five-Year Plan period are likely to be close to the original target
of Rps 200 billion, but substantial departures from the original allocations
among modes are expected in view of the knowledge and experience accumulated
since the basic Plan was formulated.
2.18      Project and budget preparation for the transport sector originate
in the Directorates General of the Ministry of Communications and in the
Directorate General of Highways in the Ministry of Public Works and Power.
Project proposals are reviewed by planning bureaus within these Ministries
and subsequently by the Communications and Infrastructure Division of the
National Planning Council (BAPPENAS), which is responsible for coordinating
investments and determining the total budget for the sector. However, the
original presentations are such that comparisons of projects even within one
transport mode are difficult. Neither the Ministries nor the Planning Council
have qualified staff to prepare or evaluate investment proposals and lack of
adequate data makes it difficult to determine priorities. Foreign experts
provided under bilateral and multilateral aid agreements are assisting in
the identification, analysis and preparation of specific projects in the
fields of water, road, rail and air transport. These investment proposals
are being evaluated by the UNDP-financed Transport Coordination Advisory
Services (TCAS). The Bank Group's Resident Staff are also assisting in trans-
port planning and coordination. To improve these efforts the Bank Group will
assign a staff member concerned with marine transportation to its Resident
Staff so that maritime transport as well as land and air transport will be
supervised. These joint efforts are leading to improvements. However, it
is likely that continued technical assistance will be required in the fore-
seeable future because progress is slow in training local personnel.



-6-
D. The Banking Structure
2.19      The banking system consists of Bank Indonesia (Central Bank), five
state commercial banks, BAPINDO (the State Development Bank), the Indonesian
Development Finance Company (IDFC), a joint Netherlands-Indonesian develop-
ment bank, and over 120 small private commercial banks as well as 11 branches
of foreign banks. At the end of 1970, Bank Indonesia and the state banks
accounted for 91% of total outstanding bank credits.
2.20      Each state commercial bank nominally provides funds for specific
sectors, though their activities often overlap. Bank Rajkat Indonesia deals
with the agricultural sector; Bank Export-Import Indonesia, with exports and
estates; Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, with industry, transport, agriculture
and exports; Bank Bumi Daya, with estates, mining and exports; Bank Dagang
Negara, with mining and exports. All provide medium-term loans (up to 5 years)
to their clients along with commercial banking services.
2.21      BAPINDO specializes in providing long-term finance for the indus-
trial and transport sector, though in earlier years it was also engaged in
commercial banking operations which it is now phasing out. IDFC, established
in 1972 as the successor to the Development Bank of Indonesia, has made com-
mitments to only three projects (US$1.4 million) to date.
2.22      Bank Indonesia determines the interest rates for state commercial
banks and BAPINDO. These range from 12% per annum for medium-term investmeit
loans to 30% for short-term working capital loans. Private banks, free to
set their own interest rates, charge between 3% and 6% per month.
III. ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
A. Government
3.01      The Ministry of Communications is the ministry responsible for the
maritime sector. Within the Ministry there are Directorates General for
Air, Land, and Sea Communications (SEACOM) and for Marine Production and
Services (PRODJASMAR). 1/ (See organization charts, Annexes 2-4.)
3.02      PRODJASMAR undertakes capital dredging and maintenance of the
dredging fleet and supervises the operations of the major Government-owned
shipyards, which are expected to undertake most of the proposed repair and
re-equipment work in the proposed project. These shipyards are, at present,
poorly operated and managed. The Netherlands Government has recommended a
detailed plan for technical assistance and equipment to rehabilitate them.
Equipment provided by bilateral aid is now being installed in the shipyards
and is adequate for the project. Technical assistance to adequately improve
operations and management in included in the proposed project (para. 4.03).
1/   A plan to reorganize the structure of the Ministry of Communications is
underway. As a result it is likely that PRODJASMAR will become a depart-
ment of SEACOM.



3.03      SEACOM, which is responsible for all marine operations, is divided
into directorates of shipping, ports, inspection, regulations and registration,
navigational aids and communications, and training. The Director General of
SEACOM and the directors of the various branches are able and experienced.
Since the present Director General took office in early 1971, the agency has
begun to attack the basic problems of the RIS. A Dutch technical assistance
team which has been advising SEACOM for the past three years has provided
much needed assistance in planning and analysis of RLS operations. While
SEACOM will be able to implement the three-year fleet rationalization pro-
gram associated with this project (para. 5.08), in the longer term its middle
management in the field of regulation and enforcement will require strengthen-
ing. SEACOM's organizational requirements will be reviewed under the long-
term study of the RIS incorporated in this project (para. 4.05).
3.04      SEACOM has set up a Coordinating Committee to coordinate aid to the
maritime sector on which various Government departments concerned - Trade,
Finance, Communications and Plafnning - are represented. This body will have
the ultimate responsibility for coordinating the actions of the various agen-
cies and entities in the implementation of the proposed project and the Asso-
ciation is satisfied that it can fulfill this task efficiently.
B. Indonesian National Shipowners' Association (INSA)
3.05      Any Indonesian shipping company can join INSA and all RLS companies
are members. The organization's primary function is to represent its members'
interest in discussions with the Government and with other trade associations.
In addition, it may take disciplinary action against a member for an infringe-
ment of RLS regulations, although this is rarely done.
3.06      In order to improve the management skills of RLS shipping companies,
the Government is seeking technical assistance from Norway, particularly in
the fields of accounting and shipping operations, for INSA members. Such
improvements, particularly in accounting and financial control, will be a
necessary feature of the proposed project, for without them most RLS companies
would not be able to demonstrate their creditworthiness for ship repair loans.
The Association has reviewed progress in obtaining the technical assistance
required and is satisfied that it will be available by September 1972 at the
latest either through the UNDP or bilateral sources or as a technical assis-
tance element of the proposed project. Funds have tentatively been allotted
in the proposed credit for this purpose. These funds would be reallocated
for contingencies or cancelled if not required.
C. Joint Operational Body of Inter-Island Shipping (BOPBERPAN)
3.07      BOPBERPAN, formerly a SEACOM agency, now administers the RIS regula-
tions under the authority of INSA. It establishes RLS routes and sailing
schedules and issues operating licenses, subject to SEACOM's approval. The
real responsibility for regulating the RLS rests with SEACOM, and BOPBERPAN's
role is limited to administrative details.



- 8-
D. Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia (BKI)
3.08      Indonesian law requires that every ship over a certain tonnage and
with specific equipment be registered with the Indonesian ship classification
society, BKI, and meet its standards; effectively all ships except small
coastal motor and sailing craft must be so classified. Indonesia is a signa-
tory of a number of international maritime conventions concerned with ship
strength, machinery, and safety at sea. Special Indonesian conditions are
allowed for through accession only to those conventions considered to be
appropriate. BKI standards are not recognized by organizations outside Indo-
nesia. As a result, re-insurance abroad is very expensive or unobtainable.
The technical personnel of BKI are naval architects, adequately trained but
lacking experience. To rectify this the Federal Republic of Germany is to
provide four technical experts from the ship classification society,
Germanischer Lloyd (GL), to assist in training personnel and in carrying
out the classification needed in connection with the rehabilitation program.
It is intended that a dual classification (BKI/GL) be granted to ships financed
under the proposed credit in order to assure reasonable insurance accommodation.
The Association has reviewed progress in this area and is satisfied that
the proposed classification program will proceed expeditiously.
E. Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
3.09      A detailed review and appraisal of this Government-owned developmen.
bank is contained in the Bank's Appraisal Report, DB-90a, dated May 8, 1972.
Established in 1960 to succeed Bank Industri Negara, BAPINDO was initially a
channel for Government funds to finance projects, which were not always
developmental.
3.10      In 1969, at the Government's request, the Association began a de-
tailed examination of BAPINDO which, over a two-year period, has resulted in
substantial reforms in its capital structure, management and organization,
and appraisal and operating procedures (see organization chart, No. 6730(R),
following Annex 4). In addition, BAPINDO's management has been strengthened
and four advisers, who are expected to remain for at least two more years,
have been seconded to BAPINDO by the Bank Group. BAPINDO was granted an
IDA credit (US$10.0 million) in June 1972 to provide medium- and long-term
loans to the industrial sector. The Association-'s industrial credit to
BAPINDO provides for a minimum re-lending rate of 9-1/4% p.a. with no maxi-
mum, with the foreign exchange risk being borne by the Government.
3.11      As of December 31, 1971, BAPINDO had total assets of Rps 35.1 bil-
lion and had outstanding Rps 11.1 billion in medium-term loans, the balance
consisting of short-term assets, particularly short-term loans for raw cotton
(Rps 12.6 billion). As of June 30, 1971, some 46% of its medium-term loans
were divided equally between textiles and rubber processing, while loans for
the transportation sector accounted for 10%. Over 90% of the loans by number
were for amounts less than Rps 150 million, while 58% by number were concen-
trated in Java. BAPINDO's medium-term resources consist primarily of loans
at 4% from Bank Indonesia (Rps 8.5 billion).



- 9 -
3.12      In November 1971, the Government of Indonesia selected BAPINDO as
the financial intermediary to be used to channel the proposed IDA credit to
the maritime sector for ship repair and re-equipment. BAPINDO has agreed to
set up a separate Maritime Credit Department (MCD) with its own accounts, to
be used exclusively for maritime lending. A Managing Director for the MCD
has been appointed, and is satisfactory to the Association. The Government
has asked the UNDP to finance technical assistance to BAPINDO's MCD to pro-
vide three maritime experts as advisers. UNDP has agreed to broaden the
scope of assistance already arranged for BAPINDO to include these experts
but as final arrangements have not yet been made, it is included as a con-
tingent item in the project costs. These funds will be reallocated for
contingencies or cancelled if not required. The Association would act as
executing agency and would secure the experts.
3.13      BAPINDO has an existing shipping portfolio which at the end of
December 31, 1971 amounted to about Rps 535 million in long-term and Rps 94
million in short-term loans. Twelve of the 13 long-term loans (99.8% by
amount of the shipping portfolio) were in arrears (principal and interest)
at that date, though only two (11% by amount) for more than a year. In the
case of the short-term portfolio, all 16 loans were in arrears (principal and
interest), with 7 loans (58% of portfolio) in arrears for more than one year.
The situation reflects the previous weak appraisal standards of BAPINDO and
the poor financial condition of the shipping industry as discussed in detail
in this report. Most of the shipping companies presently in BAPINDO's port-
folio will probably require repair and re-equipment loans. BAPINDO has
agreed to review its existing portfolio with a view to rescheduling loans
where appropriate.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a)  the repair and re-equipment of those vessels in the RLS
fleet (approximately 119) which, though in poor condition
through neglect or inadequate maintenance, still have a
useful economic life expectancy;
(b) a three-year (1973-75) RLS fleet rationalization program
designed to eliminate the surplus capacity and to reassign
vessels in accordance with traffic requirements, coupled
with a long-term study of the RLS fleet requirements; and
(c) the provision of consulting services and technical assis-
tance for shipyards, BKI, BAPINDO and INSA.



- 10 -
4.02      The Association will provide up to US$7 million equivalent in
foreign exchange for the repair and re-equipment element of the project
through a credit to the Government which will lend the proceeds to BAPINDO,
which in turn will relend the funds to shipowners. In addition, BAPINDO
will provide up to US$4.4 million in local currency from its own resources
to shipowners requiring financial assistance to make the necessary repairs.
If the resources of BAPINDO and the shipowners prove to be insufficient to
meet the local currency costs of the project, Bank Indonesia has agreed to
make the additional funds available to BAPINDO. 1/ The repair and re-
equipment program is expected to cover a period of three years, 1973-1975
inclusive.
4.03      Based on surveys of the shipyards undertaken by the Netherlands
consultants (para. 3.02) and by Association staff and consultants, it has
been determined that four shipyards will be sufficient to carry out the pro-
ject. Technical assistance for one shipyard has been provided by the Gov-
ernment of Japan. The Government has agreed that the technical assistance
required (up to three teams totalling up to 16 men) for management and pro-
duction advice will be included in the credit. Several proposals which are
satisfactory to the Association to provide the assistance are in hand.
4.04      Funds have been included in the credit for technical assistance
to BAPINDO (para. 3.12) and for INSA (para. 3.06) on a contingency basis.
If not required, they will be reallocated or cancelled.
4.05      The Government has approved a concurrent three-year phased program
for the reduction of the surplus capacity in the RLS fleet by eliminating
over-age or economically unrepairable vessels (paras. 5.07 and 5.08). The
program, prepared by SEACOM, incorporates the results of a recently-completed
survey by SEACOM, with bilateral technical assistance, of current RLS traffic
movements in relation to route and service structure. The Government has
also accepted a proposal drawn up by Netherlands technical assistance experts
in cooperation with the Association for a long-term study of RIS services.
This study will be designed to relate service standards and ship types and
sizes to forecast traffic movements in order to produce a program for the
development of an effective, economic RLS network. The study will include,
in addition to economic forecasts, reference to: (i) the cost and revenue
aspects of the required services and, hence, the tariff structure; (ii) the
required shore facilities and services; and (iii) the regulatory function
of the Government, together with Government capabilities in this respect.
Agreement has been reached on the specific terms of reference for this study
and confirmation sought that the study will be adequately funded from bi-
lateral aid sources and that it will be completed by January 1, 1974. The
Association and the Government will consult and agree on a program to imple-
ment the recommendations of the study as mutually considered appropriate,
incorporating, as necessary, modifications to the ongoing three-year program
for reducing the RLS fleet.
1/   In the event that this was accomplished under the Joint Financing
Scheme (see para. 3.14 of Appraisal Report DB-90a, dated May 8, 1972),
the 25% contribution cost normally required of the sub-borrower, in
this case the shipping company, will not be required.



- 11 -
B. Cost Estimates
4.06      Actual physical surveys of 143 RLS ships under 21 years of age have
been completed satisfactorily by experienced Indonesian, Dutch and Japanese
marine surveyors. Cost estimates were prepared on a basis acceptable to the
Association, and the resulting average cost per dwt (US$56.64 equivalent),
incorporating devaluation of the rupiah up to December 1, 1971, has been
applied to the estimated fleet tonnage requiring repair or re-equipping
(168,000 dwt) to produce a project cost. The survey also indicated that the
foreign exchange component of the works would approximate 62% of the total.
Rupiahs (Million)             US$ (Million)
Local  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign  Total  %
1. Ship Repair and
Re-equipment
a.  Hull                 -      996      996           -       2.4     2.4  18
b.  Machinery            -      748      748           -       1.8      1.8  13
c.  Radio/Navigation   -        374      374           -        .9      .9   7
d.  Class Fee           124      -       124           .3       -        .3   2
e.  Labor/Dock        1,411     290   1,701           3.4       .7     4.1  30
Sub-total      1,535   2,408   3,943            3.7     5.8      9.5  70
Contingencies:
Physical 5% and
Price 15%                 291     497      788            .7     1.2      1.9  14
Sub-total      1,826   2,905   4,731            4.4     7.0    11.4  84
2. Consulting and
Advisory Services
a.  Shipyard Teams    124       332      456           .3       .8      1.1   9
b.  BAPINDO /1           42     124      166           .1        3       .4   3
c.  INSA Advisers /2   41        83      124           .1       .2       .3   2
Contingencies:
Price 15%                  42       83     125            .1      .2       .3   2
Sub-total        249      622     871            .6     1.5      2.1  16
Total          2 5602                           5.0     8.5    13.5 100
/1   Para. 3.12.
T2   Para. 3.06.



- 12 -
4.07      The modest physical contingency reflects the detailed nature of the
surveys and allows for additional repairs which may be identified at the time
of drydocking. A price contingency of 15% is based on the assumption of 8%
per annum inflation in the domestic component and 5% per annum inflation in
the foreign component estimated on the average outstanding balances during
a three-year disbursement period.
C. Procurement
4.08      The specialized nature of the specific ship repairs, the small
number of parts items required to be secured from specific manufacturers
at any one time, and the limited size of each repair job (averaging less
than US$100,000 equivalent per ship, as against an average ship replacement
value of about US$720,000 equivalent) would make international competitive
bidding procedures impracticable. Procurement of material and equipment will
be undertaken by shipyards and shipowners in accordance with commercial
criteria. A review of procurement will be undertaken by BAPINDO's MCD prior
to disbursement in order to ensure that costs are competitive.
D. Disbursement (Annex 5)
4.09      The Association will disburse 60% of each BAPINDO loan for ship
rehabilitation undertaken in Indonesian shipyards. This is estimated to
approximate the foreign exchange component of the work, assuming that BAPINDO
lends the full cost of rehabilitation. For rehabilitation undertaken out-
side of Indonesia, the Association will disburse 100% of each BAPINDO loan.
Disbursements will only be made against itemized documents indicating that
the loan funds had been fully disbursed by BAPINDO and that the repair or
re-equipment work has been completed. It is estimated that the average
repair or re-equipment job will take 2-3 months.
E. Project Execution
(a)  BAPINDO's Lending Term
4.10      BAPINDO's lending criteria for loan applications for RLS ship
operators will, aside from directives outlined in its Policy Statement of
June 1, 1972 (Annex 6), be based primarily on:
(a) the current and potential financial viability of the
borrower; and
(b) a survey of the vessel or vessels to determine the exact
extent of repairs necessary, together with an assessment
of the life expectancy of the vessel.
4.11      With the technical support provided through UNDP (para. 3.12),
BAPINDO's MCD would be capable of adequately appraising loan applications.
Nevertheless, loan proposals for sums over US$50,000 equivalent will be



- 13 -
subject to Association approval. This limit will be reviewed after the first
ten loans (all of which will be submitted to the Association) have been made
and, if necessary, adjusted as mutually agreed by BAPINDO and the Association.
Project documents for all loans will be forwarded to the Association for in-
formation or approval and for disbursement.
4.12      Vessel surveys will be undertaken by BKI or by such other competent
marine surveyors as BAPINDO may approve. BAPINDO will require a statement
of work completion before release of the vessel from the shipyard and a survey
of the vessel to ensure its compliance with classification standards. This
will be carried out by BKI and GL.
4.13      BAPINDO's lending terms will extend up to five years, including up
to one year's grace. The Government will lend the proceeds of the credit to
BAPINDO at an interest rate which would provide a sufficient spread between
BAPINDO's borrowing and lending rates to adequately provide for BAPINDO's
administrative costs. The interest rates and spread are similar to those
negotiated for the industrial credit. The foreign exchange risk related to
the loans and sub-loans will be borne by the Government.
4.14      Loan repayments to BAPINDO will be repaid to Government accounts,
and will not remain with BAPINDO for relending. This complies with normal
Bank Group lending procedures for DFC operations.
4.15      The Government has agreed that during the period covered by this
project BAPINDO will be the sole state-owned source of loans for RLS ship
repair work and permanent working capital and that lending operations to
RLS shipowners by other state-owned banks will be limited to working capital
loans.
4.16      The Government has agreed that BAPINDO loans will be available for
repair work outside Indonesia (e.g. Singapore) where it can be agreed among
the dockyards, the Government and the shipowner that the work in question
could not be done in Indonesia or in a reasonable amount of time. Since
there is free movement of capital, there can be no guarantee that shipowners
will apply for loans from BAPINDO instead of seeking aid in Singapore and
Hong Kong. However, the terms to be offered by BAPINDO will be sufficiently
attractive to make it unlikely that RLS companies will seek aid from Indonesian
private banks or from other sources abroad.
(b) Other Aspects of ProJect Execution
4.17      In accordance with the standard practice for DFC lending operations,
the Association will require that BAPINDO have its accounts and financial
statements audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. In addition, BAPINDO will be required to furnish to the Associa-
tion within a specified time all information that the latter reasonably re-
quests concerning the operations and financial condition of BAPINDO and its
subsidiaries.



- 14 -
4.18      The BKI will be responsible for reviewing the classification of
repaired ships, designating ships that must be retired from service through
inability to meet class requirements in accordance with international conven-
tions. In accordance with the agreed three-year plan (para. 4.05) SEACOM
will be responsible for enforcing retirement from service of over-age or
unsafe ships. Enforcement of Indonesian laws will rest to a great degree upon
the harbor masters at the 10 major ports who have, but do not now effectively
use, the power to prevent ships sailing illegally. Enforcement procedures
have been reviewed with the Government and agreement has been reached that
continued improvement, to be reviewed by Resident Staff and supervision
missions, will be sought to ensure that regulations will be enforced at all
administrative levels.
4.19      Improvements in RLS operations and the utilization of vessels on
these services depend to some degree on improvements in port operations to
speed cargo movements and, hence, ship turn-arounds. Technical assistance
is to be provided by the Netherlands for port operations improvement at
the most important ports, including the two major ports. ADB has made
a loan (US$5.2 million) from its special funds for the improvement and mod-
ernization of the port of Tandjung Priok, also including technical assistance
for streamlining the financial management of the port. This, combined with
Government efforts, fleet reduction and service rationalization, will in-
crease ship utilization and reduce operating costs.
4.20      Coordination of the Government action to improve port operations
is being undertaken through a "Streamlining Committee" appointed by the
President and representing all interested parties. The Association has
reviewed the work of this committee and is satisfied that considerable
progress is being made in improving the efficiency of port operations at
Tandjung Priok. The lessons learned there will be applied to other ports
in due course.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The project contains two distinct elements:
(a)  the repair and re-equipment of suitable RLS ships;
(b)  the reduction of the surplus capacity in the RLS fleet,
principally by eliminating from service those vessels
which are unsuitable for repair and cannot meet classi-
fication standards.
These two elements are interdependent to the extent that, on the one hand,
the benefits accruing to ship rehabilitation cannot be fully realized unless



- 15 -
the fleet surplus is reduced while, on the other, it would be impracticable
to attempt to reduce the fleet surplus in the manner described above without
making provision for ship rehabilitation since virtually none of the ships
now in service can meet acceptable safety and technical standards.
5.02      Nearly all the project costs are related to the repair and re-
equipment of RLS ships. From these, several types of benefits ensue. The
most immediate and obvious is a reduction in ship repair and maintenance costs.
The next is an increase in ship utilization stemming from increased operating
speeds and reduced in-port time for running repairs. Finally, ship rehabilita-
tion will increase vessel safety, with economic savings from reduced loss and
damage to traffic, and increase RLS service reliability, with obvious though
somewhat intangible economic and social benefits.
5.03      This economic evaluation uses, as quantifiable benefits, only
expected reductions in ship repair and maintenance cost of rehabilitated
vessels. It omits, therefore, the substantial saving derived from elim-
ination of the operating costs of those vessels which will be scrapped.
Total fleet costs for repairs, maintenance, stores, insurance (as a proxy
for loss and damage to cargo) and fuel will be substantially reduced, at
the expense of a slight increase in costs per ship of the rehabilitated
vessels, reflecting their much more intensive utilization. The internal
rate of return thus produced is, therefore, extremely conservative. The
reasons for this limited approach are threefold. First, traffic data for
the RLS services available to the Association are extremely sketchy and do
not lend themselves to reliable estimates of probable results from fleet
rationalization or vessel improvements. Secondly, vessel and fleet data
permit only a global approach to the RLS system and thus a very generalized
estimate of increased utilization. Thirdly, many complex business and
economic factors will influence the numbers and types of vessels which will
be withdrawn from service and the manner in which the fleet balance will
shift as a result. The rationalization program utilized in this report
represents one conceptual approach which may only approximate actual results.
B.   Traffic Projection
5.04      Usable traffic data for inter-island trade are available for only
one year, 1969. Since no analysis of past trends is possible, there is no
firm statistical base for traffic projections. In order to provide a working
hypothesis for assessing future RLS fleet needs, cargo traffic has been fore-
cast to grow at from 5% to 10% per annum to 1979 in terms of ton-miles with
the most likely level estimated to be 7% per year. Passenger traffic has
been forecast on the same basis (Table 3).
5.05      An assumption of an overall growth in traffic of from 5% to 7%
annually in inter-island trade is reasonably conservative in view of the
Association's projection of an annual growth rate in Indonesia's GDP of 7%
to 8% for 1970-80.



- 16 -
C.   Fleet Forecast and Rationalization Program
5.06      From the current traffic data and knowledge of RLS fleet operations,
only a rough approximation of future fleet requirements can be prepared at
the present time. However, based on estimated ship productivity after re-
habilitation, a 30-35% decrease in deadweight tonnage over the proposed three-
year ship rehabilitation program period - 1973 to 1975 inclusive - would prob-
ably result in a reasonable balance of fleet capacity and traffic require-
ments. This could be achieved, in approximate terms, by retiring from ser-
vice those vessels reaching the end of their economic life-span of 20 years
by the end of this period (Tables 4 and 5). Analysis of the productivity of
this rationalized fleet shows that, commencing in 1976, additions would be
required annually to keep pace with anticipated traffic growth and to replace
ships which become over-age. A forecast of the RLS overall fleet requirement
to 1979 is shown in Table 4 and summarized hereunder:
1970    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Deadweight ('000 tons)
Start of Year            242.4   217.8   193.2   168.7   177.7   186.6   195.9
Additions                  -       -        -       9.0    30.4    30.8    31.3
Retirements               24.6    24.6    24.5      -       21.5    21.5    21.5
End of Year     242.4   217.8   193.2   168.7   177.7   186.6   195.9   205.7
Details of the methodology used in the fleet forecast are contained in Annex 7.
5.07      A practical three-year program for RLS fleet reduction in concert
with the proposed repair and re-equipment program, therefore, could be based
on:
(a)  the enforced retirement from the RLS of all ships over 20
years old (by 1975), which do not currently meet acceptable
classification standards, on the universally-acceptable
grounds that they are no longer economic to operate, and
are, therefore, not worth rehabilitating;
(b)  the rehabilitation to meet established classifica-
tion standards of all RLS ships needing repair and
re-equipment which, with such rehabilitation, would
have a remaining economic life of at least 4 years
(not over 16 years of age at the time of repair); and
(c) the enforced retirement of all other RLS ships which
are beyond economic repair.
Provision might have to be made for exemptions for some ships in the over-age
or "unrepairable" groups because they possess certain unique and temporarily
irreplaceable operational or structural features necessary to a certain route
or service.



- 17 -
5.08      SEACOM has drawn up a 1973-75 fleet rationalization program reflect-
ing this approach and providing for phased implementation with due regard for:
(a) the impact of the program upon specific routes and services
and the need for fleet redistribution to cover possible
deficiencies which may occur through ship retirement; and
(b) the capacity of the shipyards for ship rehabilitation work.
The program includes a methodology for the redistribution of fleet units among
routes and services as necessary to make up deficiencies which may occur through
vessel retirements.
5.09      The precise number and mix of vessels which will actually be re-
paired and re-equipped is currently unpredictable. Since few, if any, ships
in RLS can meet acceptable technical standards, it has been assumed that re-
habilitation will apply to all vessels which will be under the age of 21 years
in 1975. The benefits accruing from a three-year rehabilitation program on
this basis are shown in Table 6 (Alternative No. 1).
5.10      Benefits will vary considerably from ship to ship, and globally
they are sensitive to a change in the mix of vessels. Alternative No. 2 in
Table 6 illustrates this by assuming the mix of vessels rehabilitated corres-
ponds to that of the vessels already surveyed (para. 4.06) rather than to the
overall fleet, as in Alternative No. 1.
D.   Economic Return
5.11      The internal rate of return for the project, with quantified benefits
limited to repair and maintenance cost reductions, is estimated to be 24% on
the basis of Alternative No. 1, declining to 17% if a less favorable rehabili-
tation mix in accordance with Alternative No. 2 is assumed. These returns are
satisfactory, particularly since it may safely be assumed that they will be
complemented by substantial other benefits relating to improved fleet pro-
ductivity (higher load factors coupled with increased time at sea) accruing
from fleet reduction and rationalization, and reductions in cargo damage and
loss.
5.12      The rate of return range, calculated on this minimum basis, offers
reasonable assurance that the proposed ship loans will prove attractive to
the shipowners, provided that the surplus fleet capacity is reduced as planned.
The economic return, based on ship repair and maintenance cost reductions,
closely parallels the financial return. However, in present conditions of
surplus fleet capacity, the benefits from ship repairs are limited by low
ship utilization, and the financial return is prqbabhlvlower than               t
cost of borrowing.  Th  c ains the  r    temV    ect of the flee    Under
te  opto       ject, the minimum econoic  (or fin                     ll exceed
the cost of borrowing for                                             dition,
I o    eyon    s  o      e Io-ftrh



- 18 -
5.13      The net_benefits relating to lower operating costs a_nd_iDsreased
vessel productivity wou d'ncrfuie tothe    not likels  be
passed on to the               R in the form of l         triffs.The effective
tariffs are uprofltan      an                        ~ovemeA~  inroutit1
tari                                   ln 7ct v-it-y"
andomar                                                                        ept-
able retutn  L>cital.  Tariffs may, in the fina                           e in-
,cre     and, to the extent that              cd as part of the
rat onalization               ffectivE~Wts to the consumer may actually rise
as a function of this project and its  Iding conditions.  This would not,
however, be alA_ggonomic cost to the nation but simply a transfer  ayment
reflect      D^W2Sle eliminat  n of a subsidy enJoedb  t e7-p ense
of      hipping  nutry which has-resulted in an intolerable decay o   h
t!S system.    e co    r would, o    ~     re-        enefits from       ed
se1,Vr  reliability an ~~
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
6.01      Adequate financial results from the project are contingent upon a
reduction in the RLS fleet according to a three-year phased program (para.
4.05) and the enforcement of regulations necessarv to stabilize operating
practices in the fleet.  Based on these assumptlons, the financial return
to the owners of ships larger than 500 dwt is likely to provide a satisfac-
tory return on equity after meeting all operating and capital costs.
6.02      Given the restrictions on borrowing from state-owned banks and
lending institutions proposed in para. 4.15, RLS shipping companies' require-
ments for rehabilitation loans can be met by BAPINDO on terms and conditions
agreed with the Association.
6.03      After completion of this first stage in rehabilitating and rational-
izing the RLS fleet, the improvement in the financial resources of the com-
panies will enable them to provide from internally generated funds a reasonable
share of the capital required for further improvements and expansion, if
necessary.
B. Present State of the RLS Shipping Companies
6.04      Of the 45 RLS shipping companies, three own about 40% of the total
fleet tonnage. The largest, P.N. Pelajaran Nasional Indonesia (PELNI), owned
by the Government, has 43 vessels in RLS totalling about 50,000 dwt, while
many firms have only 2 or 3 ships. With the contemplated overall fleet
reduction, mergers or liquidations, particularly among the smaller operators,
may be advisable and, since this is likely to improve RLS service, SEACOM
has agreed to encourage and assist such moves. The Government has reduced



- 19 -
the ship registration transfer tax, applied on the sale of a ship and payable
by the new owner, to 1% of the value of the ship. The previous level of 10%
discouraged transfers and the Government agreed with the Association's
view that it tended to prevent mergers and that it was no longer a source
of revenue.
6.05      Financial management by the operators is inadequate, accounting
practices are unsatisfactory and only very rudimentary costing and informa-
tion systems are in use. Of the companies examined by the Association only
PELNI retains independent auditors, who have been helping PELNI to develop
sound accounting procedures.
6.06      The shipping companies' administration expenses, according to the
Dutch consultants Team Shipping Kerdjasang Teknik (TSKT), are higher than
necessary and the Association concurs in this conclusion. In addition to
inefficiency, a number of "invisible" 1/ payments are met from office expen-
ses each year (one company put these as high as 12% of its total expenses in
1970). The RLS companies have only recently begun to regard depreciation as
an operating expense; thus reported profits have in the past been overstated.
6.07      Revenues, although generally being quickly realized in cash,
are insufficient to meet regular commitments, resulting in a shortage of
working capital and a tendency to postpone all but the most essential
expenditures. Since there is a shortage of long-term finance as a result
of the stringent terms upon which capital is raised, short-term financing
is being used for long-term outlays. This imbalance in the capital structure
of the RLS companies must be corrected if companies are to meet debt servic-
ing commitments.
6.08      A number of RLS companies already have loans outstanding from state
banks, particularly BAPINDO. The security for these loans is in the form of
mortgages on ships or other company assets. These encumbrances on their
assets will limit the amount of extra funds which can be borrowed.
6.09      The low or negative return on investment in the RLS has resulted
in virtually no new ships being bought in the past 8 years, and in the run-
down condition of the present fleet. In addition, the stock of spares
carried on ships for running repairs has not been replenished. Because
realistic depreciation policies have not been followed, almost all capital
required for new ships or the rehabilitation of existing ships has been
raised from outside the companies.
6.10      Other activities, particularly terminal operations, in which RLS
companies are engaged should assist some of them in meeting BAPINDO's lend-
ing criteria. Since legal requirements limit the operation of terminals to
Indonesia ship-owning companies, theme terminals, with at least a 40% net
margin on revenue, enable RLS companies to remain in shipping and are
responsible for enabling many to survive.
1/   Additional payments to customs, security, ship personnel and stevedores
for services rendered.



- 20 -
6.11      The shipping companies are frequently reluctant to divulge facts
about their business because they fear increased taxes. This fear may be
misplaced, however, as a number of companies have been paying taxes on
profits which in fact do not exist. Taxes are assessed on the revaluations
of assets (some at 20% and some at 50%). As unpaid taxes have priority
over ship mortgages, companies applying for loans will be investigated
carefully for tax liabilities past, present and future.
6.12      The Government has confirmed that the provisions of the Domestic
Investment Law (No. 6 of 1968) will apply to the rehabilitation of the RLS
fleet, financed by BAPINDO under the proposed credit. This law provides
for freedom from import duties for equipment and for tax exemptions for
approved investments in expanding or rehabilitating enterprises in trans-
portation and other specified industries.
C.   Effects of Investment in Repair and Re-equipment
6.13      To show the effects of rehabilitation, the estimated results for
1970 have been compared with the forecast earnings for 1976 (by which time
the repair program would be completed). Vessels have been divided into the
size classes used by TSKT. Operating costs for 1970 are based upon the
costing data developed by TSKT, while those for 1976 have been altered to
show the effects of repair and re-equipment. Revenues are based upon the
data developed to show the 1969 traffic levels and the 1970 tariff levels.
Traffic is assumed to grow by 7% p.a. Tariff levels are assumed to remain
constant at the 1970 level. While too much reliance should not be placed
on the absolute levels, the figures indicate order of magnitude benefits
from the repair program. It is not possible at this stage to relate these
benefits to specific company performance. This will follow once the steps
taken to improve administrative, accounting and credit procedures are effec-
tive.
6.14      Operating results and performance ratios for vessels of three
selected sizes (Table 7) are summarized below:



- 21 -
(Rps Millions)
1970                       1976
Vessel Size (dwt):         500   Average  3,500       500   Average  3,500
(1,450)                    (1,575)
Revenue                    16.0    40.5    96.7       33.3    95.4   202.6
Operating Expenses
Fixed Costs             33.2    40.0    74.4       19.0    29.0    50.0
Variable Costs           2.6      6.5    14.3       2.8      8.1    17.9
Depreciation             6.6    16.5    35.0        6.6    17.3    35.0
32.4    63.0   123.7       28.4    54.4   102.9
Operating Profits
(Loss)         (16.4)  (22.5)  (27.0)       4.9    41.0    99.7
Interest                    8.0    19.8    42.0        5.4    14.1    28.1
Net Profit (Loss)         (24.4)  (42.3)  (69.0)       (0.5)   26.9    71.6
Operating Ratio            202%    155%    128%         85%     57%      51%
Return (Loss) on
Canital                 (12.4%) (6.4%)  (3.9%)       3.7%   11.9%   14.5%
Return (Loss) on
Equity (assuming
20% Equity)             (92.4%) (64.1%) (49.3%)   (1.9%)  39.0%   51.3%
On the foregoing basis all vessels show operating losses in 1970 and operat-
ing profits in 1976. The larger vessels can be seen to be more profitable
than the smaller vessels. In practice, there are bound to be significant
variances from the average for each size group and from the overall average.
Apart fror the smallest size vessel (500 dwt), all ships would earn a net
profit in 1976. These figures indicate that either the tariff requires
restructuring to reflect the cost of services to shallow harbors, or that
the smaller vessels should be replaced by larger vessels.
6.15      An indication of the financial return on the project can be gauged
by comparing the return on capital invested in the average-sized vessel in
the years 1970 and 1976 (before and after rehabilitation). There is an im-
provement in the return from a negative 6.4% to a positive 11.9%. The
return on the owner's equity, by reflecting leverage, shows an even greater
improvement (from a negative 64.1% to a positive 39.0%).



- 22 -
6.16      Sensitivity checks were carried out for changes in traffic level
assumptions.  If the annual rate of growth in traffic is limited to 5% then
the return on capital falls to 8.6% whereas if the growth rate is 10% it
increases to 17.6%. Likewise, the return on shipowner's equity fails to
22.57 or rises to 67.6%.
6.17      The projected cash flows for 1976 through 1980 for vessels of
three selected sizes (Table 8) are given below:
(Rps Millions)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
500 dwt Vessel
Cash outflow              24.3    30.3    29.7    29.0    28.5
Cash inflow                33.3    33.4    33.6    34.0    34.3
Surplus                     9.0     3.1      3.9     5.0      5.8
Average Vessel (1,575 dwt)
Cash outflow              40.0    47.2    46.5    45.7    45.1
Cash inflow               95.4    97.1    99.0   101.2   104.2
Surplus                   55.4    49.9    52.5    55.5    49.1
3,500 dwt Vessel
Cash outflow               74.5    90.6    89.1    87.4    85.7
Cash inflow              302.6   200.2   213.3   227.3   226.0
Surplus                  128.1   119.6   124.2   139.9   140.3
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations confirmation was obtained thlat:
(a)  technical assistance for INSA members in the fields of
accounting and shipping operations is forthcoming or, if
not available from other sources, will be accepted under
the proposed credit (para. 3.06);
(b)  BAPINDO's existing portfolio of shipping loans will be
reviewed with a view to rescheduling them where appropriate
(para. 3.13);
(v) the Gbvernment policy regarding foreign shipyard competition
will not delay or frustrate the project (para. 4.16).



- 23 -
7.02      During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(a)  technical assistance will be provided by the UNDP, with the
Association as executing agency, for three experts to advise
BAPINDO's MCD (para. 3.12);
(b)  technical assistance consisting of up to three teams of up to
a total of 16 experts for shipyard management and operations
will be provided under the proposed credit (para. 4.03);
(c)  the terms of reference for the long-term study are satis-
factory to the Association and implementation will be
arranged (para. 4.05);
(d)  a concurrent three-year program for phasing out over-age
or uneconomic vessels from the RLS fleet has been prepared
by SEACOM and its implementation arranged (paras. 4.05,
5.08);
(e)  the Association will approve loan proposals for sums over
US$50,000 equivalent subject to a review of this limit
after ten loans have been submitted to and approved by the
Association (para. 4.11);
(f)  the proceeds of the proposed credit will be lent to BAPINDO
by the Government and relent by BAPINDO to shipowners on
terms similar to those negotiated for BAPINDO's industrial
credit with the foreign exchange risks being borne by the
Government (para. 4.13);
(g)  BAPINDO will be the sole source of ship repair and permanent
working capital loans from state-owned lending institutions
to shipowners licensed to operate in the RLS (para. 4.15).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit to the Government
of US$8.5 million equivalent, incorporating US$7.0 million equivalent for ship
repair, and the balance for technical assistance.
June 12, 1972






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THli INTER-ISLALND LWT
Registration and Clas ification of
Ships in Indonesia
1.        Registration of Indonesian ships and their classification are
interrelated through a number of laws and regulations. The Indonesian
Commercial Code requires that ships of greater than 20 cu m capacity
(about 110 Gross Tons) be registered (Book II, Articles 31, 319). Var-
ious regulationsl/ also refer to ship registration. Classification of
ships is also provided for under Indonesian regulations.2/
2.        In addition, Indonesia has subscribed to a number of inter-
national conventions dealing with shipping. Among these are the Conven-
tion on the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultive Organization, 1948;
Safety of Life at Sea Convention, 1960;  Prevention of Collisions at Sea
Convention, 1960;  and the SIMLA Rules, 1931.  These conventions make
reference to certain structural and equipment requirements related to
safety and the assignment of tonnage measurement. In order to provide
for special Indonesian conditions adaptations have been made to Dutch
regulations (which were themselves derived from international conventions)
concerning ship measurement and construction.
3.        Responsibility for initial and continued compliance with the
various national and international rules is assigned to Government inspec-
tors and to BKIo  Under th load lines regulations, the responsibility for
making the assignment is entrusted to the classification society designated
by the Government (in this case BKI). The regulations state that the ship
will be judged by the highest standards of that classification society.
4.        The validity of the Indonesian load-line certificate and the
responsibility to maintain marine safety equipment to the minimum standards
set out in the safety conventions, are reviewed prior to each departure
from an Indonesian port by the harbor master. If acceptable, the ship is
issued a pass or clearance, which must be recorded in the port of destina-
tion by the next harbor MAster.
1/  Ship's Registration Ordinance, 1933;  Ship's Ordinance, 1935;  Ship
Implementation Regulations, 1935; Marine Letters and Ship's Certifi-
cate Decree, 1934 (and ibid., Ordinance, 1935); Implementation
Regulations, Marine Letters and Ship's Certificate Ordinance, 1935.
2/ Minister of Communications Decree Th.l/17/h and Thl/17/2, Sept. 26,
1964.



ANX I
Page 2
5.        The BKI classification standards are based closely on those of
Germanischer Lloyd (GL). The regulations or rules make specific allow-
ance for Indonesian conditions in certain areas such as required spare
parts. However, all classification societies have developed technical
rules dealing with corrosion ands for example, the percentage of wasting
of hull plate thickness allowed prior to replacement. Nearly all of
these technical rules are similar and represent minimum technical stan-
dards. There is, therefore, no reason to believe that the technical
standards are excessive for Indonesian conditions.
6.        Ship classification, and the creation of classification soci-
eties, developed from the commercial need to establish standards accept-
able to insurance organizations. Most insurance for large risks (insur-
ing all or part of the Indonesian fleet would be an example) is partly
reinsured by the original insurer. Thus, in Indonesia, insurance regu-
lations stipulate that 75% of the insurance liability must be issued by
Indonesian companies and 25% may be insured abroad. In order to reinsure
abroad, the ship must bear the appraisal of a classification society well
known to the foreign markets. Such is not the case with BKI.
7.        To enable Indonesian ships to obtain reasonable insurance
premiums or to obtain insurance at all (for rates are set on factors
other than solely technical ones), it is necessary to improve the accep-
tance of the BKI classification.  In order to accomplish this a two-step
development is proposed:
(a) the assignment of a joint classification with GL; and
(b) the eventual constitution of BKI as an entirely indepen-
dent body.
8.        Other relevant Indonesian laws, regulations and rules are:
(a)  Ship registration:
(i)  Indonesian Commercial Code, 1847, as amended and
revised, Book II.
(ii) Ship's Registration Ordinance, 1933 (Regeling
teboekstelling van Schepen, Ordonnantie 1933 No. 38
48, S. 1933 Jo. S. 1938 No. 32)o
(iii)  Registration Fee Ordinance, 1924 (De Ordonnantie
op het recht van Overschrijving S. 1924 No. 291
Jo. S. 1949 No. 43)0
(iv) Ordinance on the conveyance of ownership of un-
movable properties and the registration of mort-
gages of the same in Indonesia (Conveyance of
Properties Ordinance), S. 1934 No. 27.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(b) Sbip mortgages:
(i)  Indonesian Civil Law, 1847, as amended and revised,
Book II Chapter XXI, Ari4cles 1168; 1169; 1171
(3), (Li; 1175; 1176 (2); 1177; 1178; 1180;
1186; 1187; 1189; 1190; 1193; 1197; 1199-
1205; 1207; 1224-1227i
(ii) and the above-mentioned laws/regulations.
(c)  Ship classification:
(i)  Government RXgulatiot No. 28g964, August 24, 1964,
concerning the *establiabs 't of the Indonesian
classification bureAu (BKI).
(ii) Minister of Sea Conxnicationls Decree No. Dn.1/13/2,
July 21, 1965, concerning general provisions on con-
ferment of ahip certificates and ship inspection in
compliance with Ship's Ordinance, 1935.
(iii)  Ship's Ordinance and its Implementation Regulation,
1935 (based on SOIAS, 1929).
(iv)  Marine Letters and Ship's Certificates Regulation,
S. 1934 No. 78.
(v) Indonesian Shipping Law, 1936.
(Ti) Existing National Regulations concerning tonnage
measurements, ship construction, load line, etc.
(originally Dutch regulations based on international
conventions).
(vii) BKI rules and regulations, Uhich are basically based
on National Law/Regulations and International (IMCO)
Conventions and Internal Regulations of GL:
a.   Regulation on ship classification and construc-
tion, 1968.
b.   Regulation on ship machine classification and
construction, 1968.
c.   Regulation on material, 1967.
d.   Regulation of weld/electric arc of ships, 1967.
e.   Dictionary of Ships Construction, 1967.
f.   Regulation on ship classification, 1968.



ANNEX 1
page 4
g. Regulation on wooden ahip conatruotion, 1971.
h. Register Book, 1972.
June 12, 1972



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THIE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Organization Chart for Ministry of Comamunicattons
Mini ster
Frans eda Drs, Ec.
an| Shiprngnn||Policyland  PlanPingt
I _ Court    l                                                                                            D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iscipline
Securi ty.
c   Inspector General                                                                                                         Drt   G era trry Gener                 Ge
for- allDe artes                                                                                                                       ._ 
6nd Pcr60nrel |     j     L0  Soial    ||Secretariat|
Legal|
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o  Gaeco            eraal          i  Crnncto6|                                        otlTLcOmntt1                    Director General            !Lrector General
Land Commtunications       DirSea   eMnirati-         At                                                                                  l'ar:le Production                 Tourism
(Admiral Nimpuno)                                                                                                 and Services
Directorate               Directorate               Directorate                                            Directorate                    Directorate                  Directorate
(See Annex 4)                                                                                                   (See Annes 3)
.June 12, 1972






IN-NCSA
N-FMAT,,I  "F A   )JECT FP R THE PEH3ITLTTATI N
.-iI . S          I   -.  Ym R .T
Organization Chart for Directorate General of Marine Producion
Director Genera;l
(Mr.  oekarton)
Secretary
,r. Partana) 
Planning and
Research
Organizat ion
and Personnel
Administration and
Pub lic Relations
fL I 11 T' r T 0  A T T'
Marine Product Services                  Marine Production |E priseFromtioZj
Maintenatnce and                         Shipbuilding
Re airs
{alvage                                  Engines and
Vessel s' Equipment 
Evaluation   |                           I val aion 1
S OATE             ENTERPRISES
I Dock    }     1              1 IPPA       I   |   Alit                    [ Ko'j Bar e      Duc a
TaPrik ng         Pakinl          Gaja Barul    Meodjajal                      jjj               Surabaja|






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOY THE RENABILITATION
OF 0THE _NTER-ISIAND FLEET
OrRanization Chart for Directorate General of Sea Communications
Director Generai
(Admiral Nim,  no
Secretary
(Mr. SapLa Adgi)
Planning and 
|Developent I
and PersonneM
|Finance|
Law      t
Pealth|
Adm,ni8Rtrattion and
D) I R E C T O R A T E
Sea                       Marine           Nvigation Z            Harbors  and                      IShip-building             aterils and             Educational
Transportation             Services                                Dredging                                                     Sivply                 Institute
STATE                           ENTERPRISES
Pilotas ge ano    and |                                     L_I
I guides   I      g Ports and    |          I PELNI_|_          Djakarta     I        IBio k            llVrn
________                            Elasiikasioa
KIndonesia      |            p Tirtaka
_,n Mari e
.Regions|
Tone 12, 1972






BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
Supervisory
Board
Board of Managing
Directors
President                            sor
Audit and                                                         Secretariat
Inspection                                              I                          I
(Managing Director I) (Advisor)                                                    (Managing Director 11) (Advisor)         (Managing_Director IBA) (Advisor)               (Managing Director IV) (3Advisors)
1                                      Credit and                             Finance andMLtm
General Services     lFollow-up                                                                          lAccountingd
Research                                     |                                                                              Po1
<        .                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Commercial
Planning                                                                            Engineering                                Banking
Legal and                                  Branch
Personnel                            18 Branch Offices                            Coll|ateral                               Supervision
World Bank-6730 (Ri






ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
(USO000)
IDA Fiscal Year
and Quarter                            Ship Repairs        Consultants        Total
1972/73
December 31, 1972                                           20               20
March 31, 1973                                            190             260
June 30, 1973                          210                 380             590
19731/74
September 30, 1973                     560                 570           1,130
December 31, 1973                      910                 760           1,670
March 31, 1974                       1,610                 950           2,560
June 30, 1974                        2,450               1,050           3,500
1974/75
September 30, 1974                   3,850               1,130           4,980
December 31, 1974                    4,900               1,230           6,130
March 31, 1975                       5,390               1,300           6,690
June 30, 1975                        6,160               1,500           7,660
1975/76
September 30, 1975                   6,790                               8,290
Decemnber 31, 1975                   6,860                               8,360
Marcri 31, 1976                      7,000                               8,,500
June 30, 1976
June 12, 1972






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Bank Pombangunan Indonesia
Policy Statement
The Board of Managing Directors of BAPINDO, with the approval
of the Supervisory Board, adopts the following policies and guidelines
to be observed by BAPINDO in its operational activities.
1. Basic Policy
BAPINDO is established as a development finance institution to
provide, within the framework of the Government's general policy, financial
and related assistance to enterprises in Indonesia which, by their acti-
vities, are expected to make a positive contribution to the economic
development of Indonesia. In order to achieve this objective, BAPINDO
will conform with the following guidelines:
(a) BAPINDO itself will build up a sound financial
structure to enable it to carry on its activities
and will acquire the necessary funds, mainly long-
and medium-term, with which to provide the
development assistance required. It will assure
that the maturities of its assets are appropriate
to those of its liabilities.
(b) BAPINDO will build up a sound organizational
structure and the high level of expertise which
will be required to carry out its duties
efficiently.
(c) BAPINDO will give particular attention to the
necessity of fostering a strong and healthy
entrepreneurship and capital market in Indonesia.
(a) BAPINDO's assistance will taKe as wide a form as
necessary for the fulfillment of its duties, con-
sistent with BAPINDO's role as a development
finance institution.
(e) In order to enhance its effectiveness as a develop-
ment finance institution, BAPINDO will seek to
establish firm and growing relationships with other
financial and allied institutions, both domestic
and foreign.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
2. Field and Scope of Activities
(a) BAPINDO will assist in the promotion, establishment,
rehabilitation, expansion and modernization of
enterprises, especially in the fields of industry,
tourism and transportation.
(b) Tne main emphasis in BAPINDO's operations
will be on medium- and long-term loans.
The proceeds of such loans may be used for
financing of permanent working capital.
3. Basis for Investment Decisions
(a)  BAPINDO will make its decisions to assist only
on the basis of sound investment criteria and
will set the terms of its loans according to
the needs of the projects financed. Therefore
BAPINDO will give assistance only to enter-
prises which are soundly managed and organized
and which are judged to be viable after careful
economic, financial, marketing and engineering
appraisal.
(b) Subject to 3 (a) above BAPINDO will select pro-
jects on as broad a geographical basis as
possible.
(c) BAPINDO will maintain continuous contact with
enterprises to which assistance has been given
and will endeavour to provide any advice or
guidance it feels necessary and take whatever
action which may be required under particular
circumstances.
4. Financial Guidelines
BAPINDO's financial commitments will normally not exceed the
following guidelines:
(a)  BAPINDO's total outstanding debts, including
deposits, and guarantees, will not exceed 3
times BAPINDO's net worth.
(b) BAPINDO's participation in any single
enterprise will not exceed 10% of BAPINDO's
net worth.



ANNX b
Page 3
(c) BAPINDO's equity participation in any single
enterprise will not exceed 10% of BAPINDO's
neb worth.
(d) BAPINDO's financial commitments (in whatever
form) to any single enterprise will not ex-
ceed 20% of BAPINDO's net worth.
5. Relationship with Enterprise
(a)  BAPINDO shall not have a controlling
interest in an enterprise which would
result in giving it primary/single
responsibility for management of the
enterprise. Therefore, it will not
normally participate in more than 25% of
the share capital. of any single enterprise.
(b) To safeguard BAPINDO's interests and/or
the interests of the economy, in case of
Jeopardy and notwithstanding 5 (a) above,
BAPIND0 will take effective measures for
providing adequate supervision and guidance
for the enterprise. It may seek representa-
tion on the managing body of the enterprise
concerned.
(c) It is recognized that as a result of its
underwriting of share issues of enterprises
BAPINDO may hold issued share capital of an
enterprise in a ratio greater than that as
mentioned in (a) above.  In such cases, BAPINDO
will dispose of the excess portion of the
share capital as soon as possible following
the guidelines of 6 below.
6. Portfolio Management
(a) BAPIND0 will conduct its operations in such
a manner as to assist in the growth of a
sound capital market in Indonesia.
(b) BAPINDO will endeavour to diversify the hold-
ing of securities in its portfolio, and to
revolve the contents of its portfolio whenever
possible on satisfactory terms.
(c)  In revolving its portfolio, BAPINDO will pay
due regard not only to its own interests, but
also to market conditions, and to the interests
of other holders of the securities and of the
enterprise concerned.



AM=EI 6
Page 4
7. Risks and Profitability
(a)  Although BAPINDO's decisions to give financial
assistance will be based upon its judgment of
the overall prospective profitability of the
enterprise, BAPINDO will obtain and secure in
accordance with sound business practice, ade-
quate security for the financial assistance
it provides.
(b) BAPINDO will not carry the foreign exchange
risk attendant upon its borrowing and lend-
ing activities. The risk will be passed on
to its clients or covered by other suitable
means.
(c) In order to finance its activities BAPINDO
will endeavour to acquire sufficient funds of
a stable nature, on as reasonable terms as
possible, to be able to give financial assis-
tance to its clients on terms which will allow
a healthy growth in the economy.
(d) In carrying out its activities, BAPINDO will
adopt charges which will allow it a satis-
factory return, after meeting all expenses,
including the necessary provisions. Tnis should
also allow BAPINDO to build and maintain re-
serves consistent witn sound financial practice
and adequate legal reserves for strengthening
its equity.
8. Organization and Staff
BAPINDO will rapidly build an effective organization and develop an
adequate well-trained staff in the fields of financial, marketing, economic,
engineering, accounting and legal services in order to discharge effectively
its duties and to enable it to assist its clients in the fomulation and
implementation of their projects.
9. Revision of Policies
This Policy Statement will be amended when necessary to secure
BAPTNDO's successful operations, and to give flexibility in its activities.
10.  Transitional Policies
Tne reduction in BAPINDO's commercial banking will be carried out
gradually with as little disruption as possible to either BAPINDO or its
clients.
June 12, 1972



ANNi9 7
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
RLS Fleet Forecast Methodology
1.        The fleet forecast shown in Table 4 is based on an analysis of
the RLS fleet as at the end of 1970, broken down into deadweight and four-
year age groups (Table 5).
2.        The forecast of retirements assumes about a 20-year economic
life for ships. It further assumes that the first retirements arising
out of this project will occur in 1973 and that by 1975 vessels which
were 17 or more years old in 1970 will have been retired.  Similarly,
vessels which were 13 to 16 years old in 1970, and have had their normal
life extended by rehabilitation, will have been retired by 1979.
3.        So long as the present excess of shipping tonnage continues
there will be little or no incentive to new investment. However, as the
program of rationalization proceeds and capacity utilization and profita-
bility improve, the incentive to invest in new vessels will increase. By
1976, as the financial evaluation indicates (paras. 6.15-6.16), the prof-
itability of most classes of vessel should have improved substantially,
even given the present level of freight rates. Accordingly, new vessels
are shown entering the fleet in 1976.
h.        New vessels are forecast to enter the fleet at a rate which will
result in a net increase, after retirements, of 5% per annum in fleet dead-
weight. This is a rate which, given the forecast increase in demand of 5-
10% per annum, yields an acceptable load-factor (cargo ton-miles as a per-
cent of deadweight ton-miles) in each of the years 1976 through 1980, as
follows:
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Deadweight ton-miles (millions)               6,210  6,i541  6,869  7,212  7,573
Cargo ton-miles - 10% growth rate (millions) 2,462  2,709  2,980  3,278  3,605
Cargo ton-miles -  5% growth rate (millions) 1,863  1,956  2,054  2,156  2,264
LI:ad-factor - 10% growth rate (%)                40     41     43      45     48
Load-factor -  5% growth rate (%)                 30     30     30      30     30
A load-factor of 50% of deadweight is probably close to the practical
maximum for Indonesian conditions, taking account of the type of cargo and thi
inevitable light-loaded return trips. If the load factor were to fall
significantly below 30% it is doubtful if there would be much incentive to
invest.
June 12, 1972






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF TTUE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Area and Population of the Main Islands
Area                              /2                                     (population in thousands)                   %
Island                       (Ng mi)              1961      1962       1964       1966       1967      1968       1969       1970       1971       total
Kalimantan                   208,286            4,120      4,220      4,433      4,661     4,782    L4,907       5,037      5,172     5,312         4.3
Sumatra (incl. sur-
rounding islands)          182,859           15,803    16,189    17,003    17,879    18,343    18,823    19,322    19,840    20,387              16.4
Sulawesi                       72,986            7,109     7,283      7,649      8,043      8,251     8,468      8,692      8,925      9,167         7.4
Java and Madura               51,032           63,226    64,661    67,690    70,943    72,660    74,440    76,286    78,201    80,187              64.5
Other Islands/1              220,218             7,129     7,303      7,670      8,o67      8,275     8,)192     8,717      8,951      9,195         7.L
Total                    735,381           97,387    99,656   1o4,445   109,593   112,311   115,130   118,054   121,089   124,248             100.0
Rate of Increase (%)             -                 -         2.32      2.39       2.45       2.48       2.51      2.54       2.57       2.61
/1   Includes Halmahera, Ceram, Sumbawa, Timor, Flores, Bali, Lombok and West Irian.
12   These projections are based on the assumption that the rate of population increase for Java and Madura was 2.24% in 1961;
progressing linearly to 1971 according to the equation: r - 2.24 + 0.03t (where r is the rate of increase and t the number
of years since 1961). For the other islands the equation is:  r = 2.41 +  0.0-3t.
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics
June 12, 1972



TABLE 2
INWONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
CF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Estimated Composition of Indonesian Merchant Marine
No.         Approx.
Type of Employment                     Ships           dwt           Notes
A.  Domestic Tradess  general cargo
1.  inland and local sailing craft      n/a            n/a            (a)
2.  Local craft, under 250 dwt          800          100,000          (b)
3.  Barges, estimated minimum             35          10,000          (a)
4.  Inter-island - under 3,500 dwt       240         235,ooo          (c)
- over 3,500 dwt         5          40OOO0          (c)
B. Overseas Shipping, general cargo
5. Short-range and inter-island
- under 3,500 dwt      13           35,000          (d)
- over 3,500 dwt       12           45,000          (d)
6.  Ocean-going - under 3,500 dwt
to over 10,000 dwt    60          475,000          (e)
C. Tankers - Inter-island, Ocean
7.  Under 1,000 dwt barges                20          15,000          (f)
d. 1,000 dwt - 7,000 dwt                  20          75,000          (f)
9.  Over 7,000 diwt                       33         715,000          (f)
D.  Ore and Bulk Carriers                 (6)        (24,000)         (g)
E. Goverrnent Fleet
Under 500 dwt to over 3,500 dwt      85          105,000          (h)
Notes
(a)  No reliable data.  Economic mission noted 17,000 sailing craft.
(b)  200 enterprises registered with 500 vessels totalling 70,000 dwt;  not
registered, about 175 enterprises with some 500 vessels totalling 30,000 dwt.
(c) 56 enterprises. Excludes Singapore-based ships in inter-island trade -
about 35 vessels totalling 35,000 dwt.
(d)  Three enterprises.  Of the 25 ships, five are chartered totalling 20,000 dwt.
(e)  Nine enterprises.  Of the 60 snips, 15 totalling 120,000 dwt are chartered.
(f)  PERTAMINA fleet, 40 owned, 21 on hire purchase, 12 chartered.
(g) Self-unloading colliers only. No data on other such ships.
(h)  Army, navy, police etc.  About 40% are engaged in inter-island trade
officially, but a further 30-35% is also thought to be engaged in such
trading.
June 12, 1972



TABLE 3
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
(1)
Passenger and Cargo Traffic Projection
Year      Pass(ng( rs     Cargo Tons(1000)                 Annual Ton-miles (Millions)
- 7%  rowth (3)   7% Growth (3)       10i Growth A)  7S Growth (3)   57 lrowt.h 
1969           n.a.            2,850               1,390             1,390          1,390
1970           450             3,050               1,529             1,487          1,460
1971           480             3,260               1,682             1,591          1,532
1972           520             3,490               1,850             1,703          1,609
1973           550             3,740               2,035             1,822          1,690
1974           590             4,000               2,239             1,950          1,774
1975           630             4,280               2,462             2,086          1,863
1976           680             4,580               2,709             2,232          1,956
1977           720             4,900               2,980             2,388          2,054
1978           t70             5,240               3,278             2,555          2,156
1979           830             5,600               3,605             2,734          2,264
(1)  Passengers based on estimate for 1970; cargo based on 1969 actual, including
50% of Singapore/Malaysia traffic.
(2)  Assumes 7% growth in cargo tons plus 3% growth in average trip miles.
(3) Most likely growth rate.
(4)  Assumes 5% growth in cargo tons and no growth in average trip miles.
Source: Bank Staff
June 12, 1972



I NL'O N ESIA
A?PRATSAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITTAION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
RLS Fleet Forecast
VESSEL SIZE (DEADWEIGHT)
500-750         750-1000          1000-1500         1500-2500         2500-3500                  T
Vessels  Dlt   Vessels   Dwt   Vessels   Dwt   Vessels   Dwt   Vessels   Dwtotal Fleet
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1972(1)                              67   41,200       26   23,600       33   40,400      45   91,800       16   45,400        187      242,400
1973 - Additions
-  (Retirements)                                         _    (7,570)    -         (570)    -    (12370)    _    (7.170)    _         (3,900)      _        (24,580)
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1973                                 54   33,630       25   23,030       28   35,030      41   84,630       14   41,500        162      217,820
1974  -  Additions
-  (Retirements)                        _                      (7,570)    -        (570)    -        30)       _    7,170)    __   (3900)          _        (24,580)
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1974                                 42   26,060       24   22,460       24   29,660      37   77,460       13   37,600        140      193,240
1975  - Additions
-  (Retirements)                                         _    (7,560)    _         (560)    -        360)    _      (7160)    _         (3,900)    _        (24,540)
(3)-    710                                                                                                390
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1975                                 30   18,500       24   21,900       20   24,300      33   70,300       12   33,700        119      168,700
1976  -  Additions                                                    1,500             1,000             1,500             2,500             2,500                  9,000
-  (Retirements)                                         _                                       -                 -                 -                -
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1976                                 32   20,000       25   22,900       21   25,800      34   72,800       13   36,200        125      177,700
1977  -  Additions                                                    4,270             2,000             1,500            12,370           10,300                  30,440
-  (Retirements)                        _                      (3,270)    __       (930)    -       3)        _   (8,400)            (8,600)        _      (21.540)
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1977                                 34   21,000       26   23,970       27   26,960      36   76,770       13   37,900        131      186,600
1978  -  Additions                                                    4,270             2,000             1,500            12,670           10,400                  30,840
-  (Retirements)                                         _    (3,77        _-      (940)            (330)    _    (8.400)        _    (8,600)       _       (21,540)
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1978                                 36   22,000       27   25,030       23   28,130      38   81,040       13   39,700        137      195,900
1979  -  Additions                                                    4,360             2,000             1,500            12,960            10,500                 31,320
-  (Retirements)                                         _    (3,260)    -_    (930)                (330)     _    (8,400)       _    (8,600)       _       (21,520)
Composition of Fleet  -  end 1979                                 37   23,100       28   26,100    'i3   29,300        40   85,600       14   41,600        142      205,700
Notes:   (1)  Assumes no change from end 1970.
(2)  Retirements assume a 20-year economic life.
(3)  On completion of the rehabilitation program.
(4)  Assumes that rehabilitation has extended vessels' economic life by at least four years - i.e. those rehabilited in 1973
will not be retired before 1977.
(5)  Additions are calculated to provide a 5% net annual increase in deadweight.
Source: Bank staff
June 12, 1972



APPRAISAL 00 A P5 0J00T 000 THE OROANFLI TATTOOl
OF THO INTER-ISIAND FL~ET
Registered RIO Fleet  Cn,Pnsltlsn b  Age and Tonnag   Class. Red I-
(Number and '000 dat) 
(a Naber and P..e,netage nof Ennh Tnngs Grasp by Age Class
500- 750                           750 -100,0-1,,500                                                         1.500 - 2,5oc                          2.500 - 3.500                              T.ta1
Age ,                                        n                 -Na.    N3r       dZw                 Na.             d s                   Na.    N        dat        %          tie.     9       dat       NNa                  N       An
0-.   years                   2      3.0       1.0      2.1                                                                                                                             -  -                               2       1'       1.0      0. 1
5- 0year                      1      1.5      0.7       1.7       10    38.5       5.0      30.1        9    27.3       11.6     20.1         5     -1.1      11.0     12.0         -      -         -        -25                '3.t      30.3     13.3
9   12 years                 11    i6.4       7.0      17.0      11    42.3       10.1     o2.8        10)    30.3      11.7     29.0        15    33.1       31.1     3-.'         3     10.-         0     1.           50     25?-    70.8       2-.2
13 -  6 year                  i6    23.9        0.0     23.0        3    11.5       2.0      11.0         1      3.0      1.0      2.5        17     20.9    25.2       27.5               1 3.0     10.5    p.             c     71.1      50.6     21.0
172-00 years                  20    Li .0    17.3    10.0           2      7.7      1.7       7.2        A    21.2    10.1        25'.0        2      1..       3.73      1.o        2     '2.5       6.o     1 3.2        27    02.5    30.0       10.2o
21 Years and avr               9     13.1       5.4     13.1        -      -        -         -           5    15.2       0.0      11.0       10     72.2      17.8    10.1          .1    25.0      ''.,    25.0          28    11.0    10.0         16.9
T.tn1                     67   100.0    11.2   100.0           20   100.0       23.0    100.0        33   100.0,    lob   100.0            15   102000.0            100 lo.3     13   '00.0    1,5.1    00o.0          100    100.0   7o2.a    100.0
(b)  Nnber and Percen tage af Eanh 5ge GraP by T-nngs Clans
Class                               0 - I Year                            5 - 0 Tear                          9 ,- 17 Years,o    13 - 16 Yearn                                            1- - 20 Years                        21 Years aM  Ose                            FeTtal
Na.   N        Al      N=         T    N     N9.                         I.       N      dt                    n                d,,t     N1         En.         ~dat           N           No.     %         dt        Nr        Mn.      7.     AnI
500 -750                       2   100.0        1.0   100.0         1      1.0      0.7       7.1        I1    27.0       7.0       q0.        16    LO.C       0.0      16.        20    -0.           .3    'L.".                32.'      5.0      13.2        67     35.0     11.2      17.0
750-1,o0o                      -      -         -        -         10    40.0        P.0J    27.0        11    22.0      10.1      11.0         3      '.0      2.0      1.0          2      -.       '.        4.3          -      -        -         -         26      13.9     23.6       9.7
1,000 - 1, 500                 -      -         -        -          9    36.0~    11.6       35.o        10    20.0      11.7    10.5           1      2.5      '.o                          -'.0    'O.,    70.0             S     -,       .c       141?        33    17.6    10.1        16.7
1,500 - 2,500                  -      -         -        -          5    20.0      11.0      31.1        iS     30.0     341.     aOl2         13     32.5    25.2    13.3            2       .0      3.        -.5         '0     35.      '.0       13.5       45    21.2       91.0      30.9
2,500 -3,5to-                        .                              -      -         -        -                  0. 0     7.'    11.0                   .  ''U2'Z.       33.0f        2      3.       -                      L 'i,.3        11.3I    20.0         16      0.5    15.1       10.7
Tatn1                       2   100.0       1.0   100.0        25   100.2       32.3    100.0        50   100C.0C    70.0    100.0         -1    00O.0    50.0,  '00.c           a?    1 001 .0 P.0'0 ~. 0              28 10.           , 101O0.0          '07    1 00.0,   212.1   100.0
Sonn'ne   Diletarate Gersra  sof Sea Caseinatinalan
Jane 12, 1972



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REIABILSTATION
OF THE INTIR-ISLAND FLEET
Savings Calnlotior. (Rpn Millions)
lessn  Sine llD-d-ioht)                                               Total Fleet
500-750        750-lOSS         1000-1500          1500-2500        2500-3500
Annual Repairs and maintenancr Costs per Vessel                       -      Without Rehabilitation                                               5.3              7.4              13.1              19.2              23.3
-     With Rebabilitotion                                                   2_1             2.3               2.8                3.5               4.2
-     Saving                                                                3_i2                             10.3               15
ALTERNATIVE #1
Estimated Number of Vessels Rehabilitated31                                                                                                    30               24                20                33                12
Annual Saving - First 4 years following rehabilitative                                                                                         96 0            22.4              206.0             518.1             229.2
Estiontod Nunber of V-ssels benefitting for a farther period of 4 years                                                                        14              21                 19                20                 3
An.nal Saving - Seond 4-year period                                                                                                            44.8            107.1             195.7             314.0              57.3
Loss extra annn   -oo ts(4                                                                                                                       .6               .9               1.2               1.8               3.0
Nrt Saving - Second 4-y-ar pooid                                                                                                        44.2            106.2             194.5             312.2              54.3                        711.4
ALTERNATIVE #2
Estioated Nveber uf Vessels Rehabilitated32                                                                                                   47               22                 18                30                 2
Annual Saving - First 4 years following r-habilitation                                                                                        150.4            112.2             185.4             471.0              38.2                       957.2
BENEFITS BY YEAR
Alternative #l                                       Alternative #2
Iet 4 years   2Od 4 yeats        Total               ist 4 years   2nd 4 years          Total
1973 - One-third  3of bsenfits                                                                                                                      390.6            -              390.6               319.1             -             319.1
1974 - Two-thitrd (3)of benefits                                                                                                                    781.1            _              781.1               638.1             -             638.1
1975 - Thaee-thirds    of benefits                                                                                                                1,171.7            -            1,171.7               957.2              -            957.2
1976 - 'hree-thirds nf benefits                                                                                                                   1,171.7            -            1,171.7               957.2             -             957.2
1977 - Two-thirds of benofits for 1st 4 yeats plus .on-third nf benefite fin  2nd 4 yeats                                                           781.1          237.1          1,018.2               638.1           237.1           875.2
1978 - One-third of benefits for let 4 y.aro pins two-,hird of benefits for 2nd 4 years                                                             390.6          474.3            864.9                319.1          474.3           793.4
1979 - Three-thirds of benefit. fon  2nd 4 years                                                                                                       -           711.4            711.4                  -            711.4           711.4
1980 - Three-thirds of benefits fon  2nd 4 years                                                                                                       -           711.4            711.4                  -            711.4           711.4
1981 - Two-third of benefits fur 2nd 4 years                                                                                                           _           474.3            474.3                  _            474.3           474.3
1982 - One-third of benefits fee 2nd 4 years                                                                                                           -           237.1            237.1                               237.1           237.1
Rate of Ruetn                                                                                                                                                                24.'                                                 17%
Notes    (1)  Assumes n.  .esels rehabilitated whfic  will be over 20 years aId in 1975.
(27  Assumes only  those  vessels already surveyed will be rehabilitated.
(3)  Ass.wes that this proportion of the rehabilitation has bees effected.
(4) Nased on 2% of capital tests spread over the 4-year period.
Jane 12, 1972



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Performance Ratiosby Class of Vessel and for Fleet Beforr and After Rehabilitation
Before Rehabilitation (1970)                                     After Rehabilitation (1976)
Average                                                     Average
for                                                         for
Vessel Size (dwt):                          Fleet       500        700     1,500    2,500               Fleet        500      750       1,500   2,500
Operating Ratios
A                               155         202        147      171       149       128       57          85       58        66       54          51
B                               158         204       149       174       151       130       65         97        66        75       61          58
C                               152         198        143      168       141       125      47          71        49        55       4L          42
Return on apital
Investe3d7Negative)
A                              (6.4)      (12.4)      (6.8)    (7.8)    (5.8)    (3.9)       11.9          3.7     12.6       7.9    12.2         14.3
B                              (6.6)      (12.5)      (6.9)    (8.0)    (5.9)    (4.0)         8.6         0.7       9.0      5.1      9.0        10.8
C                              (6.2)      (12.0)      (6.4)    (7.6)    (5.5)    (3.6)       17.6          8.8     18.9      12.8    17.7         20.3
Return on Shv owners
Equity (Negat
A                             (64.1)      (92.4)    (63.8)   (68.9)   (58.8)   (49.3)         39.0         (1.9)   42.9      19.1    40.8         51.3
B                             (65.0)      (93.2)    (64.9)   (69.7)   (59.6)   (50.2)         22.5        (16.8)   24.9       5.2    24.9         34.0
C                             (62.9)      (90.9)    (62.2)   (67.7)   (57.5)   (47.8)         67.6         24.0    74.4      43.5    88.5        101.3
Interest Coverage Ratios
A                                -          _          -        _         _         _          2.9          0.9      3.1      1.9      3.0         3.5
B                                _          _          -        _         _         _          ?.l          0.2      2.2      1.2      2.2         2.7
C                                -          -          -         -        -         -          i .3         2.2     4.6       3.1      4.3         5.0
A:   Assumes a growth rate in traffic from 1969 onward of  7% (most likely).
B:   Assuwes a growth rate in traffic from 1969 onward of  5% (minimum).
C:   Assumes a growth rate in traffic from 1969 onward of 10% (maximum).
Source: Bank Staff
June 19, 1972






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR TBE REHABILITATION
OF TIIE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Comparison of Earnings Per Vessel Before and After Rehabilitation
Before Rehabilitation - 1970            (Rps millions)            After Rehabilitation - 1976
Average                                                           Average
for                                                               for
Vessel Size (dwt):                                         Fleet    500         750       1,500     2.500      3.500          Fleet    500         750       1.500      2.500      3,500
A. "Most Likely" Growth Rate in Traffic
(i.e. 77. per annum)
Revenue   (Appendix B)
Cargo                                              30.6       12.1      20.6      29.7       49.5      73.1           72.2       25.3      43.6      63.5    111.4    153.4
Passengers                                          9.9        3.9       6.7        9.6      15.9      23.6           23.2        8.0      14.0      20.5       35.9      49.2
Total Revenue                                            40.5       16.0      27.3      39.3      65.4       96.7           95-    77             77 5(    8U        ZT7    147.
Expenses (Appendix C)
Fixed Costs                                        40.0       23.2      26.9      41.6       59.4      74.4           29.0       19.0      20.3       28.5      39.4       50.0
Depreciation                                       16.5        6.6       9.4      17.9       27.7      35.0           17.3        6.6        9.4      17.9      27.7       35.0
Variable Costs                                      6.5        2.6       3.7        7.7      10.2      14.3            8.1        2.8        4.0       9.4      12.5       17.9
Total Expenses                                           63.0      32.4       40.0      67.2      97.3      123.7           54.4       28.4      33.7      55.8       79.6    102.9
Operating Profit (Loss)                                 (22.5)    (16.4)   (12.7)   (27.9)   (31.9)    (27.0)               41.0        4.9      23.9      28.2       67.7       99.7
Less Interest                                            19.8        8.0      11.3      21.4       33.2      42.0           14.1        5.4       7.7      214.6      22.5      28.1
Net Profit (Loss) Before Tax                            (42.3)    (24.4)   (24.0)   (49.3)   (65.1)    (9.0)                26.9          5                  36       45.2       71.6
B.   Minimum Growth (57. per annum)
Total Revenue (Appendix B)                               39.9       15.8      26.9      38.7       64.5      95.4            84.0      29.3      50.8       714.1    129.7    178.5
Total Expenses (Appendix C)                              63.0       32.4      40.0      67.2       97.3     123.7           54.4       28.4      33.7       55.8      79.6    102.9
Operating Profit (Loss)                                 (23.1)    (16.6)    (13.1)   (28.5)    (32.8)    (28.3)             29.6        0.9      17.1   50.1          75.6
Less Interest                                            19.8        8.0    11.3        21 4       33 420                   14.1        57           7  7         _4.2             1
Net Profit (Loss) Before Tax                            (42.9)    (24.6)    (24.4)    (49.9)   (66.0)    (70.3)             15.5       (4.5)      9.1        3.7                 17.5
C.   Maximum Growth (10%. per annum)
Total Revenue (Apppndix B)                               41.3       16.4      27.9      40.1       66.8      98.8          115.1       40.2      69.5    101.4       177.6      244.5
Total Expenses (Appendix C)                              63.0       32.4      40.0      67.2       97.3     123.7           54.4       2S.4      33.7       55.8       79.6     102.9
Operating Profit (Loss)                                 (21.7)    (16.0)    (12.1)    (27.1)   (30.5)    (24.9)              6.        1. t         6 F       1        9
Less Interest                                            19.8        8.0      11.3      21.4       33.2      42.0            14.1       5.4        7,7      14.6       22.5      28.1
Net Profit (Loss) Before Tax                            (41.5)     (24.0)       (23.4)    (48.5)   t7)    (66.9)            TT          0.. b14   5FU15    1L.                   T
-iSm
Sourre:  Bank Staff                                                                                                                                                                              X|
1'ne  1    972



INON'S: A
AFPRAISAL OF A PRUJECT F.R; THE REHAfTLTTATTInN
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Comparison and Analysis of Revenue Flows to the RLS Fleet Before and After Rehabilitation
Before Rehabilitation (1970)                                   After Rehabilitation (1976)
Vessel Sise (dwt):                                   Total       500      750   1,600    2,500    3,500             Total       600      750      1.500    2,500    3,500
Number of Vessels                                      187        67     26        33        45       16             119         30       24        20       33        12
A.     AssusinR   ostLikey"
An       oth a  of 7% ;V
Cargo Ton-Miles (millions)                           1,1487.0    210.9  139.4    254.5    578.3    303.9           2,232.0    197.0    272.0    330.0    955.0    478.0
Cargo Revenue (Rps milll,ons)2/                      5,724,9    811.9  536.6    979.9  2,226.5  1,170.0             8,593.2    758.4  1,047.2  1,270.5  3,676.8  1,840.3
Passengers (thousands)3/                               450.0      63.8   42.2      77.0    175.0      92.0           674.o      59.0      82.0    100.0    289.0    144.0
Passenger Revenue (Rps millions)4/                   1,845.0    261.7  172.9    315.8    717.6    377.0            2,763.4    2t,1.9    336.2   [.10.0  1,184.9    598..
Total Annual Revenue (Rps millions)                  7,569.9  1,073.6  709.5  1,295.7  2,94hL.   1,547.0          11,356.6  1,000.3  1,383.4  1,680.5  4,861.7  2,430.7
Average
Annual Revenue per Vessel (Rps millions)                40.5      16.0   27.3      39.3      65.4     96.7             95.4     33.3      57.6      84.o    147.3    202.6
B.     Assumin  Minimum Annual
roth Raof                                            Total
Cargo Ton-Miles (millions)                           1,460.0    207.1  136.8    249.9    567.8    298.4             1,956.0    172.0    236.0    290.0    837.0    419.0
Cargo Revenue (Rps millions)                         5,621.0    797.2  526.9    962.1  2,186.1  1,118.7            7,530.6    662.2    916.3  1,116.5  3,222.5  1,613.1
Passengers (thousands)                                 450.0      63.8   42.2      77.0    175.0      92.0            603.0     53.0      74.0      89.0    258.0    129.0
Passenger Revenue (Rps millions)                     1,845.0    261.7  172.9    315.8    717.6    377.0            2,472.3    217.3    303.4    368.9  1,057.8    528.9
Total Annual Reverue (Rps millions)                  7,466.o  1,o48.9  699.8  1,277.9  2,903.7  1,525.7           10,002.9    879.5  1,219.7  1,4181.4  4,280.3  2,112.0
Average
Annual Revenue per Vessel (Rps millions)                39.9      15.8   26.9      38.7      64.5     95.4             81.0     29.3      50.8      74.1    129.7    178.5
C.     Assimiin   Maximum Annual
Cargo Ton-Miles (millions)                           1,529.0    216.8  143.3    261.7    594.7    312.5             2,709.0    239.0    330.0    401.0  1,159.0    680.o
Cargo Revenue (Rps millions)                         5,886.7    834.8  551.8  1,007.5  2,289.6  1,203.0            10,429.6    920.0  1,270.5  1,543.8  4,462.1  2,233.0
Passengers (thousands)                                 450.0      63.8   42.2      77.0    175.0       92.0           797.0      70.0     97.0    118.0    341.0    171.0
Passenger Revenue (Rps millions)                     1,845.0    261.7  172.9    315.8    717.6    377.0             3,267.7    287.0    397.7    M83.8  1,398.1    701.1
Total Annual Revenue (Rps millions)                  7,731.7  1,096.5  724.7  1,323.3  3,007.2  1,580.0            13,697.3  1,207.2  1,668.2  2,027.6  5,860.2  2,934.1
Average
Annual Revenue per Vessel (Rps millions)                 43.3     16.4   27.9      40.1      66.8      98.8           115.1      40.2     69.5    101.4    177.6    244.5
1/ See Traffic Forecasts, Table 3.
7/ Assumes revenue at rate of Rps 3.85 per ton-mile.
3/ Estimate for 1970 from report of Indonesia Maritime Mission, June 14, 1971. Assumes growth at same rate as cargo traffic.
1/ Assumes average revenue per passenger of Rps 4,100.
Source: Bank Staff
Joas 12, 1972



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJBCT FOR THE REHABILITATION
OF THE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Comparison and Analysis of Vessels' Annual Operating Costs
Before and After Rehabilitation
(Rps millions)
Before Rehabilitation (1970)                                 After Rehabilitation (1976)
Vessel size - deadweight tons:        Average    500    750    1.500    2.500    3.500            Average    500    750    1.500    2.500    3,500
Fixed Costs
Wages and Benefits                                6.9    6.9      9.3       13.2      18.6                    6.9    6.9       9.3      13.2      18.6
Victualling                                       2.7    2.7      3.9        5.3      5.9                     2.7    2.7      3.9        5.3       5.9
Stores and Sundry                                 2.1    2.1      2.9        3.9      4.3                     2.1    2.1      2.9        3.9       4.3
Repairs and Maintenance                           5.3    7.4    13.1        19.2     23.3                     2.1    2.3      2.8        3.5       4.2
Insurance                                         2.6    3.8      7.2       11.0     14.0                     1.6    2.3      4.4        6.8       8.7
Management                                        3.6    4.0      5.2        6.8       8.3                    3.6    4.0       5.2       6.8       8.3
Total Fixed Costs                  40.0    23.2   26.9    41.6        59.4      74.4          29.0      19.0   20.3    28.5        39.4      50.0
Depreciation                       16.5      6.6    9.4    17.9       27.7      35.0          17.3       6.6    9.4    17.9        27.7      35.0
Variable Costs
Port Costs                                        1.1    1.3      1.8        2.3       2.9                    0.9    1.0       1.4       1.8       2.2
Fuel Costs in Fortl/                              0.5    0.9      1.3        1.8       2.2                    0.4    0.7       1.0       1.4       1.7
Fuel Costs at Sea2/                               1.0    1.5      4.6        6.1       9.2                    1.5    2.3       7.0       9.3      14.0
Total Variable Costs                6.5      2.6    3.7      7.7      10.2      14.3           8.1       2.8    4.0      9.4       12.5      17.9
Total Operating Costs                   63.0    32.4   40.0    67.2         97.3    123.7          54.4      28.4   33.7    55.8        79.6    102.9
Interest                           19.8     8.0   11.3    21.4        33.2      42.0          14.1       5.4    7.      L 4.c      22.5     28.1
Total Annual Costs                      82.8    40.4   51.3    88.6        130.5    165.7          o8.5      33.8   h1.      7.oh      102.1    130.o
1/ Days in port per year assumed at 260 before rehabilitation and 203 after rehabilitation.
2/ Days at sea per year assumed at 90 before rehabilitation and 137 after rehabilitation.
3/ Assumes an interest of 15% per annum before rehabilitation and 10.2% per annum after rehabilitation.
Source!  Tank Staff
June 12, 1972
to






"'ABT E 8
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE REHARILITATION
OF TIHE INTER-ISLAND FLEET
Projected Cash Flows for Vessels Rehabilitated  from January 1, 1976
(Rps Millions)
Average Vessel                                        500 Dwt Vessel
1976     1977     197$     1979     1980              1976     1977      1978     1979     1980
Cash Outflow
Fixed Costs                                           29.0    29.0       2 9.0    29.0    29.0               19.0    19.0    19./        19.0    19.0
Variable Costs                                          8.1      8.1      8.1      8.1      8.1               2,8      2.8       2.8      2.8      2.8
Operating Costs (Excluding Depreciation)              37.1    37 1    37 1    37.1    37.1                   21.8    21 8    21.8    21 8    21.8
Intere . n Loan for Rehabilitation 1/                  2.9      2.9       2,2      1.4      0,7               2.5      2.5      1_9       1_2      0.O
Repayment of Loan for Rehabilitation 2/                 -        7.2      7.2      7.Z      7.3               -        6.0       6.0      6.0      6.1
Total Cash Ouftflow                                   40.0    47.2    46.5    45.7    45,7                   24.3    30.3    29, 7    29.0    28.5
Cash Inflow
Cargo and Passenger Revenues 3!                       95.4    97.1    99.0   101.2   104.2                   33.3    33.4    33.6    34.0    34.3
Surplus (Deficitl 4/                                  55.4    49.9    52.5    55.5    49.1                    9.0      3.1      3.9       5.0      5.8
750 Dwt Vessel                                       1,500 Dwt Vessel
1976     1977     1978     1979    1980               1976      1977     1978     1979     1980
Cash Outflow
Fixed Costs                                            20.3    20.3    20.3    20.3    20.3                  28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5    28.5
Variable Costs                                          4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0                9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4      9.4
Operating Costs (Excluding Depreciation)               24.3    24.3    24.3    24.3    24.3                  37.9    37.9       37.9    37.9    37.9
Interest on Loan far Rehabilitation 1/                 2.5      2.5       1.9      1.3      0.6               2. 6     2.6      1.9       1.3      0.7
Repayment of Loan for Rehabilitation 21                 -        6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1               -         6.4      6.4      6.5      6.5
Total Cash Outflow                                    26.6     32 9    32.3    31.7    31.0                  40.5    46.9    46,2    45.7    45,l
Cash Inflow
Cargo and Passenger Revenues 3/                       57.6    59.0    60.6    62.4    64.2                   84.0    85.5    87.2    89.1    94.9
Surplus (Deficit) 4/                                  30.8    26.1    28.3    30.7    33.2                   43.5    38.6    41.0    43.4    49.8
2.500 Dwt Vessel                                      3,500 Dwt Vessel
1976    1977      1978     1979     1980              1976    1977       1978    l97S      1980
Cash Outflow
Fixed Costs                                           39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4                   50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0
Variable Costs                                         12.5    12.5    12.5       12.5    12.5               17.9      17.9    17,9      17.9    17.9
Operating Costs (Excluding Depreciation)              51.9    51.9    51.9    51.9    51.9                   67.9    67.9    67.9    67.9    67.9
Interest on Loan for Rehabilitation 1/                 4.0      4.0       2.9      2.0      1.0               6.6      6.6      5.0       3,3      1l6
Repayment of Loan for Rehabilitation 21                 -        9.8      9.8      9.9      9.9                -       16.1     16.2     16.2     16.2
Total Cash Outflow                                    55.9    65.7    64.6    63.8    62.8                   74.5    90.6    89.1    87.4    85.7
Cash Inflow
Cargo and Passenger Revenues 3!                      147.3   152.6   154.1   156.1   158.5                  202.6   200.2   213.3   227.3   226.0
Surplus (Deficit) 4/                                    91.4   86.9    89.5    92.3    95.7                 128.1   119.6   124.2   139.9   140.3
1/ Assumes i -erest rate of 10.2% ner ascou on t8e ou,tstanding balance of the loan.
2/ Assumes (a) that loan is repayable, after one year's grace, over a four-year period.
(b) that loan is reduced by amount received from scrapping unrehabilitatable ships (scrap value O Dwt x 0.4 x US$20.00).
3/ Assumes that all of each year's revenue is realized in that year.
4/ (a) Before taxes.
(b) Before any other payments of interest or capital on loans negotiated before the rehabilitation of the vessel.
Source: Pan- Staff
June 12, 1972






1100                                                        120000                                                                                                                lO 18RD 3B420R
THAI  ND 00_                                                                                                                                                        PHILIPPINES                                                                  JUNE  1972
V < _  <                                       /    ]X]                        C;N          (\       82 CS                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA CIF ZC D{-s
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOO.O 01Z JS\/.2ELM
50                                     MALY                                                                          PRON                                                                                                                       ,INDONE S (A
~~~  C                                                                               M~~~~~AJOR PORTS
SARAWAK
Bmt. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000HoIro-h.ro
KALIMANTAN
00                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Bormeo)  -oOE100 500
] \ 2 ><SzXBensk2 8 4 C $ X -                             0,                                                                 5LAW)SI<  ,i0
00                                                                1 0 0   \  \  s"6o  >  P >Pi lib <> t zy + Gs t~< ' e Q 3utu%) 215g4-F & 4  A  -S   00i                                                                                                        I
E.09000  -  -                                                                                                                                                                                                   IR A t
LEGtND                                                                                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV 
SEMNARANG POtAWM -19i.AIid byNEDE-C 8MA2  AO Fo:SA /i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P1   L-b    S-b-2 pyrd    
TMO MOO-tfo-lt   00 P 04 00. So 000                                                                                                              '                               PO-   TIMOR
WoOd Sookood booflUUoo     0~a      000      000      W0      40  500             0 ~00  2 00  300  40 o  500~                                                                                            A-f..UoOOO   00..
1000                       MILA5              1100                      t  nOMETss                         o                                                            100
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lc                                                                                                                                                                                - - -r  - -I         ---------D



