CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 318 IND
Project Agreement
(Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 318 IND
Project Agreement
(Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (hereinafter called BAPINDO), a State Development
Bank established under the Laws of the Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called
the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million five
hundred thousand dollars ($8,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, including relending to BAPINDO the rupiah
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn on account of sub-loans, but
only on condition that BAPINDO agrees to undertake certain obligations towards
the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS BAPINDO, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) BAPINDO shall through its Maritime Credit Department
carry out Part C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency; in conformity with sound economic,


﻿4
financial and shipping investment standards and practices; with qualified and
experienced management; and in accordance with the BAPINDO Act and its
Statement of Policy.
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, BAPINDO shall
establish and maintain a Maritime. Credit Department under the supervision of a
qualified managing director supported by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(c)   BAPINDO shall employ advisors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfacLory to the Association to assist BAPINDO in carrying
out Part C of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, BAPINDO shall submit Ship Rehabilitation Projects
to the Association for approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) to the
Association for approval, BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association an application,
in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of the Shipping
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Ship Rehabilitation Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent in rupiah equivalent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BAPINDO for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Shipping Enterprise and the Ship Rehabilitation Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent in rupiah equivalent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Ship Rehabilitation
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association
and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree, shall not extend beyond five years from +he
date of approval by the Association of such Ship Rehabilitation Project or of
authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
in respect of such Ship Rehabilitation Project.


﻿5
(e)   Except as the Association and BAPINDO        shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests permitted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section
shall be submitted to the Association on or before March 31, 1976.
Section 2.03. (a) BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning (i) the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit relent in rupiah equivalent to BAPINDO
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) the Shipping Enterprises; (iii) the Ship
Rehabilitation Projects; and (iv) the sub-loans.
(b)   BAPINDO shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part C of the Project and of each Ship Rehabilitation Project (including separate
income and expenditure accounts for the Maritime Credit Department) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BAPINDO and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 2.04. BAPINDO shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than four months
after the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year, and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of BAPINDO and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 2.05. (a) The Association, and BAPINDO shall cooperate fully to
ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and BAPINDO shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the progress of Part
C of the Project, the performance by BAPINDO of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of BAPINDO and any other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b)   BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of BAPINDO and its subsidiaries.


﻿6
(c)   BAPINDO and the Association shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BAPINDO
of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) BAPINDO shall exercise its rights in relation to each Ship
Rehabilitation Project financed under a sub-loan in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Association and of BAPINDO, to comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(b)   Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, BAPINDO undertakes that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby BAPINDO shall obtain, by written contract with the Shipping Enterprise
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Association and of BAPINDO, including inter alia ship mortgages or other liens,
or other security arrangements satisfactory to the Association, adequate to secure
the due service of the sub-loan, and the right of BAPINDO to: (i) require the
Shipping Enterprise to carry out the Ship Rehabilitation Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Ship Rehabilitation
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association
if the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Ship Rehabilitation Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that the Shipping Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and
that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Shipping Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all
such information as the Association or BAPINDO shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Shipping Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Shipping


﻿-7
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by such Shipping
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with BAPINDO.
Section 2.07. BAPINDO shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the various currencies used in its borrowing and
lending operations.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times the
consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "Debt" means any debt incurred by BAPINDO or any subsidiary,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by BAPINDO or by a subsidiary.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement; (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and (iii) on
deposits as and when they are received.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of rupiahs debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by BAPINDO for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "Consolidated debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries, excluding any debt
owed by BAPINDO to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to BAPINDO or to
any other subsidiary.
(e)   "Consolidated capital and surplus of BAPINDO and all its subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves
of BAPINDO and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of BAPINDO in any subsidiary, or of any such
subsidiary in BAPINDO or in any other subsidiary.


﻿8
Section 2.09. BAPINDO shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BAPINDO which, in the judgment
of the Association, would materially affect BAPINDO's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 2.10. BAPINDO shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take
all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.12. BAPINDO shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of BAPINDO under this Agreement to the extent to
which the same may be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding
upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 2.13. BAPINDO shall not amend its Statement of Policy except in
agreement with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of BAPINDO and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the date when the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms or on December 3 1, 198 1,
whichever shall be the later.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy o.- be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power, or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement, shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For BAPINDO:
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
P.O. Box 140
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Bapindo
Djakarta


﻿10
Section 4.03. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement or under
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement on behalf of or by BAPINDO,
may be taken or executed by its President, or by such person or persons as he
shall designate in writing.
(b)  BAPINDO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority of each person who will act under paragraph (a) of this Section, together
with the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto duly
authorized and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
By /s / Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative


