CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 318 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 318 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   At the request of the Borrower, the Federal Republic of Germany
has agreed to assist in the financing of the technical assistance to the Biro Klasifikasi
Indonesia required under Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(C)   At the request of the Borrower, Japan has agreed to assist in the
financing of the technical assistance program for the shipyard P. T. Pelita Bahari
included in Part A of the Project;
(D)   At the request of the Borrower, the Kingdom of the Netherlands has
agreed to assist in the financing of the regular liner service study included in Part
B of the Project;
(E)   At the request of the Borrower, the Kingdom of Norway has expressed
its intention to assist in the financing of the technical assistance program for the
shipping enterprises to be carried out under Part A of the Project;
(F)   At the request of the Borrower, the United Nations Development
Program has expressed its intention to assist in the financing of technical assistance
to BAPINDO in carrying out Part C of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications
thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the specific meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "BAPINDO" means Bank Pembangunan Indonesia.
(b)   "BAPINDO Act" means the Undang-Undang No. 21 PRP of 1960,
as amended by Undang-Undang No. 17 PRP of 1962 and Presidential Decree No. 2
of 1966 and as further amended from time to time.
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and BAPINDO, as amended from time to time.
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BAPINDO pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BAPINDO under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to a Shipping Enterprise for a Ship Rehabilitation
Project, and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan as so defined which qualifies
as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (a) of this
Agreement.
(f)   "Shipping Enterprise" means an Indonesian ship-owner to which
BAPINDO proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(g)   "Ship Rehabilitation Project" means a specific ship rehabilitation
project to be carried out by a Shipping Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a
sub-loan.


﻿5
(h)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment
policy adopted by the Board of Managing Directors and approved by the
Supervisory Board of BAPINDO on May 19, 1972 as amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Association.
(i)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which the majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by BAPINDO or by any one or more subsidiaries of BAPINDO or by
BAPINDO and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(j)   "INSA" means the Indonesian National Shipowners' Association.
(k)   "rupiah " means rupiah in currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand
dollars ($8,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of Ship Rehabilitation Projects and services required for the Project and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; and
provided further that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Ship Rehabilitation Project unless: (i)
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association
that any ship included in such Ship Rehabilitation Project shall have been
adequately repaired or re-equipped and shall have been appropriately classified;
and (ii) the sub-loan for such Ship Rehabilitation Project shall either have been
approved by the Association or shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the
Association shall have authorized withdrawal from the Credit Account.


﻿6
Section 2.03. (a) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan in an amount to
be financed under the Development Credit Agreement which, together with any
other amount or amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the same Ship
Rehabilitation Project out of the proceeds of the Credit, and not repaid, shall
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000),
the foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as determined
by the Association; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, no sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan before ten sub-loans shall
have been approved by the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association and BAPINDO shall otherwise agree and
subject to the limitation contained in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by
a Shipping Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Assoc-iation's approval
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan the application and information required by Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect
of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.02 (c)
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1976, or such other
date as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15   and  August 15    commencing   August 15, 1982   and   ending
February 15, 2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿7
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby designates BAPINDO as its representative
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted in connection with
a sub-loan under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, investment and shipping standards and practices, and the Borrower shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
BAPINDO to carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement, the BAPINDO Act and the Statement of Policy.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to BAPINDO the rupiah equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn on account of sub-loans, pursuant to a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(d)   To the extent BAPINDO's funds shall not be sufficient to carry out
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause sufficient funds to be made available
to BAPINDO for such purpose at appropriate terms.
(e)   BAPINDO shall be entitled to make sub-loans for the purpose of
financing all or any part of the cost of any Ship Rehabilitaf"on Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the improvement of
management and operations of the shipyards included in Part A.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ up to sixteen experts in up to three teams of
management and production advisors, acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿8
(b) In order to improve the management and operations of privately-owned
Shipping Enterprises, the Borrower shall emplo; and assign to INSA experienced
management consultants who, if their services are to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be acceptabla. to the Association and be employed upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Upon completion of the regular liner service study included
in Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall as soon as practicable consult with
the Association regarding the findings and recommendations arising from the study
and shall take such action required to implement such recommendations as shall
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower agrees that sub-loans shall also be available
to finance repair and re-equipment works included in eligible Ship Rehabilitation
Projects which for special reasons must be carried out outside its territories.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
promptly take all steps necessary to ensure that, until the Closing Date, no loans
or credits shall be made available by Indonesian State-owned banks other than
BAPINDO for the financing of repair or re-equipment of, including permanent
working capital for, ships which shall be suitable for, and owned by ship-owners
licensed to operate in, the Borrower's regular liner service.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, th: plans, contract documents and reports for Parts A,
B and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect the Project and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that any taxes or duties payable
as a condition to or in connection with the registration in the ships-register referred
to in Article 314 of the Borrower's commercial code of any ship to be rehabilitated
under the Project shall in the aggregate not exceed one per cent (1%) of the sales
value of such ship. For the purposes of this Section, the sales value of a ship


﻿9
shall be the sales value established in accordance with the provisions of the
Borrower's Ordinance on Transfer Duties of 1924 (S.24-291).
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by BAPINDO of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in
order to enable BAPINDO to perform such obligations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to (i) the
performance of the respective obligations of the parties under the Development
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii)
the administration, operations and financial condition of BAPINDO and its
subsidiaries, including any proposal to amend the BAPINDO Act; and (iii) any
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service


﻿10
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VH
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BAPINDO having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;


﻿II
(b)   BAPINDO shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BAPINDO or by others whereby
any of the property of BAPINDO shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(c)   the BAPINDO Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the Association, to affect materially
the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial condition of BAPINDO
or the efficiency of BAPINDO's management or personnel;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BAPINDO or for the
suspension of all or part of BAPINDO's operations;
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BAPINDO, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely and materially affect the conduct of BAPINDO's business or BAPINDO's
financial situation or the efficiency of BAPINDO's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project; and
(f) a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of BAPINDO
under the Project Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
this Agreement shall occur.
(b)   Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 (e) or (f) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and to BAPINDO.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BAPINDO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;


﻿12
(b)   the Borrower and BAPINDO have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and all conditions
precedent to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement becoming fully effective and binding
on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms have been fulfilled, subject
only to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)   BAPINDO    have   duly  engaged  the   advisors referred  to  in
Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement and such advisors have taken up their
respective posts; and
(d)   the experts referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement have
been employed.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BAPINDO and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of BAPINDO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BAPINDO
and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and BAPINDO in
accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 8.03. The date September 28, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous
Section 9.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I.    Disbursements                      7,000,000
under sub-loans
(a)   on account                                  (a) 100% of
of foreign                                  amounts disbursed
expenditures
(b)   on account                                  (b) 60% of
of local                                    amounts disbursed
expenditures                                (representing the
estimated foreign ex-
change component)
II.   Consulting and advisory            1,300,000      100% of foreign
services not financed                             expenditures
from other sources out-
side Indonesia, and
training materials
III.  Unallocated                          200,000
TOTAL        8,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Bowfower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and


﻿15
(b)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in
paragraph I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable
net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's three-year program of rehabilitation
and rationalizati)n of its inter-island marine transport system and supporting
facilities, and consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Technical Assistance
1.    A   technical assistance  program  through   INSA   to improve the
management and operations, especially in the fields of accounting and
financial control, of privately-owned Shipping Enterprises participating
under Part C of the Project.
2.    A  technical assistance program   to improve the management and
operations of the shipyards P. T. Dok Tand/ung Priok, P. T. Kapin, P. T.
Pelita Bahari and P.N. Dok Surabaja.
3.    A technical assistance program  for the staff of the Biro Klasifikasi
Indonesia to assist inter alia in the classification of the ships
rehabilitated under Part C of the Project.
Part B.     Regular Liner Service Study
A comprehensive study of the long-term development of the Borrower's
regular liner shipping services, relating service standards and ship types
and sizes to expected traffic movements in order to produce a reliable
program for the development of an effective and economic regular
liner shipping service network. The study is to make economic forecasts
and recommendations on routes, tariffs, shore facilities and services,
and the regulatory function of the Borrower.
The study is expected to be completed by December 31, 1973.
Part C.     Ship Rehabilitation
The financing through loans from BAPINDO of repairs and
re-equipment of ships which shall be suitable and required for
inter-island regular liner service, which after rehabilitation shall have
a reasonable economic life expectancy.


﻿17
The   ship  rehabilitation  program  is  expected  to   be   completed   by
September 30, 1976.
Part D.    Fleet Rationalization
A three-year program to improve the operational efficiency and
productivity of the Indonesian inter-island regular liner service by the
adjustment of shipping capacity so as to meet economically the demand
for inter-island shipping in a manner consistent with Indonesian
statutory safety and other requirements.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The words "and Ship Rehabilitation Projects" are added after the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2)   Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) are deleted and Section 6.02 (i) is
renumbered into Section 6.02 (h).
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement between the Association and BAPINDO of even
date with the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount
of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of BAPINDO
to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of
the Credit shall be cancelled."


