CIRCULATING COPY
F1LE        COPY           TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1729-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
December 10, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at November 1, 1975)
Tanzania Sh   =   US$0.12
US$1.00       =   T Sh 8.05
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at
a fixed rate of 9.66 T Sh to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is there-
fore subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to T Sh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.)
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of US$18.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a National
Maize Project. Part of the proceeds of the Credit would be relent to
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) for 20 years including five
years grace with interest at four percent per annum. TRDB would onlend
these funds at 8-1/2 percent. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa (ABEDIA)    has   approved    a loan to the United Republic of
Tanzania of US$5 million equivalent for 20 years, including five years
grace, at an interest rate of two percent per annum to support the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        The last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 22 and June 22, 1972. This was followed
by an Economic Updating Report (30-TA) distributed on December 11, 1972.
A basic economic mission is scheduled for 1976. An agricultural sector
report was issued on December 10, 1974. An industry and mining sector
report and a report on the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decentral-
ization of Government were distributed in April 1975. The Consultative
Group for East Africa met in April 1975 to discuss ihe progress and pros-
pects of the Tanzanian economy and the need for additional resources to
support the Government's development program. Country data are provided
in Annex I. Tanzania is one of the 25 least developed countries as defined
by the United Nations.
3.        The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the guiding force in Tanzania's political evolution since the 1950's.
Over the years following independence the political leadership has developed
a philosophy of egalitarian socialism which has been articulated in many
documents, most central of which is the Arusha Declaration of 1967. In
restructuring the political, economic and social life of the country the
leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching institutional
reforms. For the past decade Tanzania's social and economic policy has
been guided by three fundamental objectives; (a) the achievement of a parti-
cipatory, decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradication of
absolute poverty and progress toward greater income equality; and (c) more
rapid long-term economic growth with full participation of all regions



- 2 -
and population groups in the development process. Some of the Govern-
ment's most significant decisions have been in the area of incomes
policy; however, while considerable progress has been made toward reducing
inequality within the category of employed workers, large gaps still exist
between urban and rural standards of living.
4.        Tanzania is one of the three Partner States belonging to the
East African Community. The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation is
one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agree-
ments in existence among sovereign states. However, in practice the degree
of economic integration and cooperation among the Partner States is much
less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Political developments in
the Partner States have created tensions within the Community and impaired
the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties have been compounded
by the balance of payments crisis which currently faces all three Partner
States.
5.        Between 1968 and 1973, Tanzania's GDP increased 4.6 percent per
year in real terms. Exports of goods and services in constant prices grew
2.8 percent per year during the same period. Domestic savings were main-
tained at about 18 percent of GDP. Investment increased from 19 percent
of GDP to 23 percent with public sector investment rising to 80 percent of
the total investment in 1973. Annual price increases were moderate to low.
Current Government receipts more than doubled, but current expenditures
increased at similar rates so that budgetary savings stagnated. Although
the level of domestic savings and investment were substantial, the growth
of GDP was probably not commensurate with the investment effort. This
was largely due to the high proportion of investment that went into slow
gestation infrastructure and social services, and to the difficulties
encountered in expanding production in agriculture. The stagnation of
agricultural export volumes and very slow growth in food production were
the most worrisome problems. However, prudent domestic financial manage-
ment, and an increasing inflow of external aid on concessionary terms,
together with a rather sharp terms of trade improvement in 1973, made it
possible to maintain a high investment rate. Reserves at the end of 1973
stood at a healthy $145 million which was then the equivalent of four
months' imports. Indeed, the economy appeared in relatively good shape
before the events of the winter of 1973-74.
6.        Events occurred then which resulted in a drastic change in the
overall balance of payments of Tanzania. Import prices rose sharply and
in 1973 and 1974 rains failed in many parts of the country necessitating
substantial increases in imports of basic food items. As a result,
Tanzania's foreign exchange reserves declined by about $90 million in
1974 to a level representing about three weeks' imports and have remained
at about the same level since. Tanzania has been able to cover the 1975
foreign exchange gap by curtailing imports to the bare minimum and by
securing substantial program-type assistance including a $30 million Program
Loan (No. 1063 TA) from the Bank and drawings on the second IMF credit
tranche and the IMF special oil facility approved in August 1975.



- 3 -
7.        In order to close the gap in the longer term the Government
has begun a program of investment restructuring, improvements in the
incentive framework, administrative changes, and reduction in the rate
of growth of consumption. Under this program, the Government is reallo-
cating public investment from infrastructure development to the directly
productive sectors of agriculture, industry and mining. Actual public
investment for directly productive sectors is estimated at 41 percent
of the total in 1974-75 and it is planned to rise to 48 percent in 1975-76.
Although the Government has made substantial progress in this endeavor,
high level manpower constraints have inhibited both project preparation
and execution. The single largest economic weakness is the slow growth
of agricultural production. Several steps have been taken to increase
output. The Government has raised producer prices to levels approaching
world parity so as to provide greater incentive. The steeply progressive
export tax on coffee, which had an average rate of 30 percent, has been
reduced to an ad valorem rate of 12-1/2 percent to provide further in-
centives to farmers. The overall planning capability of the Ministry of
Agriculture is being improved and a project coordination unit to improve
implementation has been established in the Ministry. The negative impact
of villagization on output is being reduced through more careful planning.
The Government is reducing unnecessary non-development related recurrent
expenditure and is using taxation and wage/price controls to reduce the
rate of growth of private consumption. The Government's progress in
implementing policies and programs designed to close the balance of pay-
ments gap in accordance with understandings relating to the program loan
was the subject of a memorandum (see M75-687) from the Secretary to the
Executive Directors dated September 25, 1975.
8.        The program of economic restructuring initiated by the Tanzanian
Government to cope with the economic crisis will generate benefits which
will be spread out in time. Viewed negatively this means that the immediate
barometers of economic health, such as the balance of payments, will re-
main weak in the short run. The positive corollary is that Tanzania will
have a basically stronger economy at the end of the restructuring process.
The crisis acted as a catalyst in inducing significant policy shifts which
were diagnosed as necessary beforehand but which did not command urgency
until it struck. Not only did this hasten reallocation in the current
Development Budget and Annual Plan, but it is also likely to have a subs-
tantial impact on the forthcoming Third Five-Year Plan. For the long run
the most encouraging aspect of the Government's response was the demons-
tration that Tanzania retains the ability to push through necessary but
unpopular policy measures over a wide front. It is this characteristic
of a "hard state", together with the basically sound program of economic
restructuring, which holds promise for the future.
9.        The Tanzanian balance of payments will remain under severe
pressure until more of the favorable balance of payments effects of
recent policy changes can make an impact. Accordingly, Tanzania will
require additional balance of payments assistance in 1976 and 1977. A
gap of about $100 million is anticipated in 1976 after allowance for the



- 4 -
balance of the IMF second credit tranche (paragraph 6 above) has been
made. In this connection, an appraisal mission for a proposed second
Bank Program Loan recently returned from Tanzania. In addition, a con-
tinued capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange component of high
priority projects will also be required if Tanzania is to achieve its devel-
opment targets. Financing of some local expenditures will, therefore, be
justified.
10.       In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group is
Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of China.
Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The current low overall debt service ratio
of about 7 percent is expected to rise to about 11 percent by 1980 and
remain at about that level throughout the 1980's. Including a notional
one-third share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations,
the IBRD is presently holding 13 percent of Tanzania's outstanding
external debt and IDA 10 percent; the IBRD share is expected to rise to
about 23 percent in the next five years, and IDA share to rise to about
13 percent. Debt service payments to the Bank are about 13 percent of
total debt service payments; the corresponding share for IDA is about
3 percent. These two figures are projected to rise to about 25 percent
and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980. The debt service ratio of Bank.
loans to exports is expected to rise to about 2 percent by 1980. The Bank's
exposure is high because several major donors are now making their aid
available either on grant basis or very concessional terms and because as
a result of prudent debt management suppliers' credits have been kept to a
minimum. The average interest rate on loans to Tanzania outstanding at
December 31, 1974 amounted to only 2.4 percent and the average term was
22 years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
11.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.    Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 21 credits and nine Bank loans
amounting to $320.8 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of nine loans, totaling $229.8
million, which have been extended for the development of common services
operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their asso-
ciations in the East African Community. The only IFC investments in
Tanzania to date, totaling $4.7 million, were made in the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to
the Government. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as
of October 31, 1975 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
12.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72 10 out of 14 loans



- 5-
and credits made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of
the 14 Tanzania operations approved since then all but three, Urban Sites
and Services (Credit No. 495 TA), Highway Maintenance (Credit No. 507 TA)
and Education IV (Credit No. 371 TA), were for directly productive projects.
These projects are supporting both the agriculture and industrial sectors
including an Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508 TA) and
our first direct lending for an industrial project (Mwanza Textiles Loan
No. 1128 TA). In addition, a project to support fisheries development is
expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors in the
near future. A proposed forestry project, a project to support selected
industries and related estate development at Morogoro.and a proposed
second rural development project have recently been appraised in the field.
A third power project is expected to be presented tc the Executive Directors
for their consideration in the near future and a proposed water supply
project is currently being appraised in the field. In view of Tanzania's
continuing balance of payments difficulties a mission recently visited
the country to appraise a second program loan.
13.       While it should be borne in mind that over one half of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last two fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Annex II of this report
have been greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the
scarcity of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the
understandable reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative
traditional sector to adopt the new "technology" and others are undoubtedly
a reflection of the strains created in a society which is attempting a
unique traverse from one set of economic, institutional and political rules
to another. The Government has become extremely conscious of these imple-
mentation issues and is taking steps to resolve these problems. An earlier
reluctance to recruit technical assistance for planning and implementation
has been replaced by a greater willingness to utilize such assistance
whenever it is demonstrably necessary. A technical assistance project
designed to strengthen project preparation and implementation was recently
approved by the Executive Directors. At the request of the Government about
10 technical staff have been supplied by ADS and a Bank staff member has
recently been seconded to the newly established Project Implementation Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a longer term attempt to alleviate the
human resource constraints our lending is expected to increasingly emphasize
formal and non-formal training. Furthermore, a conscious attempt is being
made to develop more simple and less complex projects.
14.       The difficulties facing the East African Community Corporations
referred to in paragraph 4 above have affected the Bank's lending program
for the Community. The. East African Railways Corporation (EARC) has been
the most severely affected. As a result of long delays by the Partner
States in approving increases in tarrifs and restrictions on the inter-
state transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential spare
parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has
deteriorated considerably. In July 1974 the Partner States agreed,
with the Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate



- 6 -
the EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital. However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a
result disbursements under Loan No. 674 EA (East African Railways III)
were suspended in February 1975.
15.       A Bank mission which visited East Africa in July 1975 was able,
after meeting the Heads of State and other important officials in the
three countries, to bring about an understanding on both the short- and
long-term problems of the East African Community. On the general question
of the future of the EAC, a decision was made to review various aspects
of regional cooperation as now incorporated in the 1967 Treaty. It is
anticipated that this review would begin before the end of the year and
take 18-24 months to complete and would be undertaken by a commission
consisting of nominated representatives from each member country.   To
address the immediate financial and managerial problems, that will remain
pending the agreement on a long range reform of the Treaty, the Partner
States reached three major accords. To deal with the transfer problem,
an agreement was reached on the mechanism for the transfer of funds from
the regions to the Corporation headquarters. To ensure a workable plan
for railway decentralization, a draft Consultancy Services Agreement on
studying decentralization was adopted and will be financed under Loan
No. 674 EA (the suspension of which has been lifted). Finally, the
Partner States approved the appointment of financial consultants to
undertake a study of the assets, liabilities, debts and financial con-
dition of each of the three Corporations on a regional basis. This is
viewed as a necessary step in providing the basis for the decentralization
of the Corporations and is being financed by the UK.
16.       It is expected that this broad agreement between the Partner
States will provide a basis on which the Community can efficiently operate.
Payment for past due loans has been received and all the actions reviewed
above have been initiated. It would, however, be unrealistic to expect
that decentralization of the Community structures will now proceed smoothly
and without difficulties. There are fundamental differences in political
outlook and development strategies between the Partner States and mutual
suspicions of intent will undoubtedly continue. The newly agreed transfer
formula (paragraph 15 above) is inevitably open to misinterpretation and
goodwill will be required on all sides if it is to be successfully im-
plemented. The dangers implicit in the possibility of operating diffi-
culties growing in other Corporations is also recognized. However, a
strong desire to retain control of the situation is also evident. The
Bank's role as an "honest broker" has been accepted and endorsed by the
Partner States and this role could be used effectively to help in the
smooth transition in the Community's structure.



-7-
PART III - THE RURAL AND AGRICULTURAI SECTOR
General Background
17.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived
from the sector of which 50 percent constitutes subsistence production.
Agricultural exports which account for 80 percent of total exports,
include mainly sisal, cotton, cashewnuts and coffee. About 94 percent
of the population live in rural areas and 90 percent of the economically
active people are engaged in agriculture.
18.       Most production is from smallholdings using family labor.
Large-scale agriculture is represented by a small number of private
estates and some state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, wheat, rice
and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance and the
state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national herd, the second
largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over the 40 percent of the
country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed
along traditional lines. There is limited use of oxen for cultivation,
mainly in the western cotton areas. Major food crops in Tanzania are
maize, millet, sorghum, paddy, potatoes, cassava, bananas and beans.
These are produced predominantly by smallholders who use most of their
production for subsistence. Agricultural output has stagnated in recent
years (paragraph 5 above). Food crop production has failed to keep pace
with the expanding population, and Tanzania has become increasingly
dependent on imports of maize, rice and wheat. The deteriorating food
balance position was seriously aggravated by the poor,drought affected
harvests of 1973, and again in 1974 (paragraph 6 above) when some 440,000
tons of grain were imported.
Agricultural Development Strategy
19.       The Government recognizes that agriculture will continue to be
the main source of employment and has been trying to devise a strategy
which will bring about improvement in output, incomes and the living
conditions of the agricultural population. The major aim is to make
significant progress towards socialist organization of rural activity,
based on village cooperatives and maximization of the use of labor. State
farms fill a need for larger scale production units, but the approach to
mechanization is cautious and in general based on proven viability. Agri-
cultural production is to be increased within a framework of crop priorities
based on production possibilities, market prospects, and a desire for in-
creased self-sufficiency.
20.       Until recently priority was given to the expansion of selected
export activities including cotton, livestock, flue-cured tobacco, and
cashewnuts as well as import substitution activities such as sugar and
dairy production. However, within an overall policy framework of according



-8-
greater emphasis to the productivity of the agriculture sector (paragraph
7 above), and as a response to the drought and food crisis of 1974 when
output of maize declined by 30 percent, the Government is now giving
highest priority to self-sufficiency in food production. The Government
and TANU party have mounted a massive effort to mobilize peasants to grow
more food under the campaign slogan "farming as a matter of life and
death." In addition, the increase in producer prices of May, November
1974 and September 1975 (129 percent for maize, 70 percent for wheat, 77
percent for paddy and 132 percent for sorghum), the reform of the coffee
export tax structure, and the formation of a permanent Agricultural Price
Review Commission constitute major rationalizations of production incen-
tives in agriculture and further evidence of the Government's newly found
recognition of the importance of agricultural pricing policy. In light
of the critical economic difficulties facing the country, and in an attempt
to generate a quick production response, the Government is now placing
greater emphasis on production rather than social aspects of new rural
development projects and intends, initially, to concentrate on areas of
high agricultural potential. This change in emphasis was one of the major
recommendations of the Bank's Agriculture sector report dated December 10,
1974. Greater attention is also being given to problems of implementation
which have been especially acute in agriculture. A special project imple-
mentation unit has been established within the Ministry of Agriculture
and a substantial amount of technical assistance has been recruited. The
Government is also exploring ways of alleviating constraints which are
presently inhibiting the distribution of production inputs and the
marketing of crops. Although it is still too early to judge the indi-
cations are that these policy actions will result in a significant pro-
duction response.
Rural Organization
21.       In order to make the Government more responsive to rural needs
and better able to promote rural development, the administrative structure
and many of the functions of Government were decentralized to the 21
Regions and nearly 80 Districts in July 1972. The Regions are now
primarily responsible for promoting and coordinating development programs
within their respective areas. The relevant centralized functional minis-
tries are responsible for providing necessary technical support. Each
district and region is expected to have its own development plan and budget
and to direct all development staff and activities within its jurisdiction.
Although progress has been inevitably patchy, reflecting the local avail-
ability of the required expertise, the new structure has already demonstrated
its potential to take initiatives and to more effectively promote develop-
ment programs. It is also apparent that the lack of adequate support
from the central technical ministries, for example in the extension services
which generally lack adequate training and logistical support, is inhibiting
the effectiveness of the regional development activities.



-9 -
22.       The Arusha Declaration of 1967 identified the ujamaa village
as a means of effecting self-reliance and a community approach to devel-
opment. The Government sees villagization as the only effective way to
deliver essential economic and social services to a widely scattered
rural population. In early 1974 the Government decided to rapidly
increase the pace of villagization and it is currently estimated that
about 70 percent of the rural population, almost 9 million people, are
now villagized. Despite the crash nature of the 1974 villagization
effort, it does not appear that the short run production effects have
been as severe as some observers had feared. While production declines
can be expected almost all of the resettled farmers were evidently able
to plant their crops, indeed they were required to lo so by the
the Government. In some areas of the country, however, there has
Deen, during the 1974/75 cropping season, a substantial shift
away from cash or export crops, particularly from cotton to food crops.
Because of the emphasis on self-sufficiency in food production, 1975
has been a period of consolidation for the villagization movement. The
Government has also relaxed its emphasis on communal farming in the new
villages and farming on individual plots on "block farming" is the norm.
The Government is aware that inadequately planned and poorly coordinated
villagization has had a negative impact on agricultural production but
the decision was made to complete the process in as short time as possible
and the resettlement is now largely an accomplished fact. The long-term
potential of the new villages remains of course to be seen. Increased
demands for social as well as economic services may be anticipated, and
indeed are already in evidence. The Government's ability to respond to
these demands and to encourage the new village communities to engage in
self-help activities when the Government cannot provide the services will
be critical to the success of villagization.
Maize Production
23.       Tanzania's traditional staple maize is produced almost entirely
on a smallholder basis. It is particularly important since it is the
only food crop marketed commercially on a national scale and in the event
of general reduction in food production, unsatisfied demand for other
staples increases the demand for maize. In the context of the Government's
reordered agricultural priorities (paragraph 20 above) increased maize
production has been given prime importance in the Government's "farming
as a matter of life and death" campaign. The producer price of maize,
which has been increased by nearly 130 percent over the last two years,
now approaches import parity (81 percent). In addition and in order to
generate a comprehensive and coherent effort to expand maize production
the Government has developed a National Maize Production Program.
24.       The National Maize Production Program was initiated in 1973.
This program, executed by the regional authorities (paragraph 21 above),
with the technical support of the Ministry of Agriculture, consisted in
1973 and 1974 of the free distribution of inputs (mainly fertilizer, seed
and insecticides) to farmers in the newly-formed villages. In 1974, the



- 10 -
program was extended to 13 regions, and appears to have reached approxi-
mately 25,000 farmers or 150,000 people. The program, however, suffered
from delays in input distribution, a poorly organized and badly informed
extension service and from lack of effective management. Consequently,
the program did not achieve its aim and it appears that the increased
maize production in 1975 resulted mainly from the increase in the maize
producer price and the Government's measures to encourage an increase
in the area under maize.
25.       The Government in preparation for the 1975/76 cropping season
has taken, and is planning, a number of measures to consolidate, strengthen
and improve the effectiveness of its maize production program paying
special attention to increasing yields per area cropped. Extension
services are being strengthened through training, a clearer definition
of responsibilities and the provision of extension aids. Distribution of
farm inputs and the marketing of maize will be improved by the provision
of additinnal transport and storage facilities; steps are being taken to
expand and improve research activities; and the Government has initiated
actions designed to clarify and improve the effectiveness of its input
subsidy scheme.
26.       Under the National Maize Program, inputs were provided free in
1973 and 1974 since most participating farmers had only very limited
financial resources and all previous attempts to institute a credit
system for small-scale food crop production had failed. Support for a
subsidy scheme was a major recommendation of the recent Bank Agriculture
sector report on Tanzania (paragraph 2 above). Although the Government
has increased the producer price of maize considerably, it was concluded
that additional financial incentives were required if traditional farmers
were to be encouraged to adopt new input packages in the initial stages.
Furthermore, given the current manpower and institutional constraints in
Tanzania, it is not considered possible to assist a significant number of
farmers, and hence obtain a large production response, if inputs are pro-
vided through institutional credit. In order to ensure that subsidized
inputs are not wasted or extravagantly used by participating farmers,
the Government has fixed the level of subsidies for the current 1975/76
cropping season at 75 percent of total cost rather than at 100 percent as
was the case in the previous two years. Although this requirement for
a cash payment means that some farmers will inevitably be excluded, this
procedure is considered essential to ensure the efficient use of ferti-
lizers. In addition, while continued subsidization of certain farm
inputs remains justified subsidy levels and methods of cost recovery
have to be reviewed with the objective of gradually reducing the cost to
the Treasury (which could amount to as much as T Shs 270 million, $40
million, per year by 1980 if no progress were made in phasing out the
subsidy) and eventually eliminating the subsidies. The introduction of
the cash payment by farmers of 25 percent of input costs represents a
step in that direction. The Government intends to review the level of
subsidies each year with a view to gradually phasing them out as farmers



realize the potential of the new input packages and their incomes grow.
The Government would consult IDA as part of its maize input price
reviews (Section 3.02(a) draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       The National Maize Project has been developed as a response
both to the food crisis facing Tanzania and to some oE the recommendations
contained in the Bank's Agriculture and Rural Sector Report. In view of
the urgent need to increase maize production the project was simultaneously
prepared and appraised by the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa in
close cooperation with the Government. Negotiations for the proposed
Credit were held in Washington in late November 1975. The Tanzania dele-
gation was headed by Mr. Mushi, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture.
28.       An appraisal report entitled Tanzania National Maize Project
No.897a-TA, dated December 8, 1975, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Credit and Project Summary is provided as Annex III
to this report. The project, which forms the focus of Tanzania's 1975/76
- 1978/79 maize production program, is fully in accordance with the Govern-
ment's policies for this sector. It comprises:
(a) Provision of maize seed, fertilizers, insecticides and
herbicides to participating villages. It is expected
that participating villages would ultimately number
about 950 in 13 of the Borrower's 21 regions. In line
with the Government's policy of securing as quick a
production response as possible, and in accordance with
the conclusions of the recent Agriculture Sector Report,
participating villages would be selected on the basis
of the highest maize production potent:ial. The project
regions would include virtually all high potential maize
growing areas of Tanzania.
(b)  The strengthening of extension services through staff
training and the provision of adequate transport and
extension aids.
(c) The improvement of the distribution of farm inputs and
maize marketing through the provision of required trans-
portation and storage facilities at the village and
regional level.
(d) Assistance for maize research and for preparation of
related projects including a national agriculture
development program and the establishnent of a national
food grain reserve.



- 12 -
(e) The establishment of a Project Servicing Unit, including
support for key personnel and the provision of necessary
vehicles and a light aircraft, to be responsible for
overall project implementation.
(f) A pilot scheme to develop methods of improving oxen
utilization and for proving suitable ox drawn equipment.
29.       The Project would initially provide three standard maize pro-
duction improvement packages for all Project areas. Maize production
recommendations would be continually reviewed as information becomes
available from Project field trials and demonstrations, and as changes
occur in the price relatiohship between maize and purchased inputs.
Revised recommendations would be incorporated in Project annual work
programs (paragraph 35 below). The three maize production packages would
consist of (a) Intensive extension to improve time and density of planting
using composite seed, and improved weeding and pest control; (b) When
Package 1 had been adopted satisfactorily and village maize yields had
risen to about 1,500 kg/ha, compared with current levels of about 1100
kg/ha, fertilizers would be introduced equivalent to 50 kg/ha triple
super-phosphate, and 100 kg/ha sulphate of ammonia. Some villages in
high altitude areas would use hybrid rather than composite seed; (c) In
areas most suited to maize production, some villages would move into
Package 3 which would use the equivalent of an additional 50 kg/1a
sulphate of ammonia, and in most cases hybrid rather than composite seed.
Generally, Project villages would move from Package 1 to Package 3 in
a sequential manner. This arrangement would ensure an improvement in
husbandry standards before introducing fertilizer, and an increase in
village incomes from which purchases of fertilizer could be met. However,
as little is known about farmers' adoption behaviour, the sequence of
introduction of the Packages could be experimented with. Some villages
are already at a stage similar to Packages 2 and 3. These would be
assisted to improve further their present production levels.
30.       Senior agriculture staff from the regions concerned would give
short courses in maize agronomy and extension methods to all field
assistants and assistant field officers at their local rural training
centers (RTC). To assist in arranging suitable training courses in
maize, the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in
Mexico would provide a senior training officer for a period of about four
weeks. Courses in organization and management would be arranged for all
regional and district agricultural development officers, regional,.Pro-
ject coordinators and district supervisors. In addition, management
seminars for regional and district staff would be arranged to ensure an
exchange of views and experience between participating regions. Two
maize demonstration plots would be planted annually in each Project
village. One plot would be planted and managed by the village school,



- 13 -
while the other would be the responsibility of a progressive farmer
selected by the village committee. In both cases, the necessary
inputs and technical advice would be provided free by the Project.
31.       For the transport of the estimated project input requirements
and incremental maize production, an additional 90 or so seven and
ten-ton trucks would be required. These would be provided under
the Project. About 530 villages would be provided with stores of
about 200 tons capacity. Stores of this size would be expensive if
constructed by contractors. Consequently, the Project would provide
construction materials and technical advice, while construction would
be carried out by villagers on a self-help basis. The cost of materials
for each village store constructed in this manner would be about
US$6,000. There is a need also for additional regional storage for
maize and farm inputs. The Project would support the construction
of storage facilities for about 34,000 tons of farm inputs and 80,000
tons of maize. The precise location of the new regional storage
would be determined during project implementation..
32.       A pilot scheme to develop methods of inmproving oxen utili-
zation and for proving suitable ox-drawn equipment would be carried
out in up to twenty selected villages located in those Project regions
where oxen use is most common. Such villages would be provided with
an experienced oxen trainer for two years, and up to ten sets of ox-
drawn equipment, each including a cart, harrow, plough and cultivator.
In addition, the Project would provide oxen to four mechanized agri-
culture centers which are being established with UNDP/FAO assistance.
The animals would be used for the development anc! testing of new ox-
drawn implements, in particular a maize planter mnd interrow cultivator.
33.       Government recognizes the need to estaVlish a national
grain reserve, for which maize is the most important commodity, and
for expanding and modernizing the milling and storage facilities of
the National Milling Corporation (NMC).   The Project would provide
up to 60 man-months of consultancy services to carry out the required
pre-investment work and prepare detailed investmient proposals for
implementation of a national grain reserve program and for developing
NMC's storage and milling facilities. US$180,000 would also be provided
over a three-year period for agro-economic surveys, crop trials, land
use planning and transport and allowances for the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's planning staff and consultants. A long-term national agri-
cultural development program would be prepared which is compatible
with Tanzania's regional approach to implementing its development
effort and directed mainly towards those researc'h, extension and
investment activities that are better carried out at a national rather
than a regional level.



- 14 -
Organization
34.       The regional administrations (paragraph 21 above) would assume
responsibility for coordination of implementation activities at the local
level. They would be primarily responsible for the selection of project
villages and the provision of extension services. Each region would
appoint a Project Coordinator who would be assisted in each district by
a Project Supervisor. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness
that these personnel had been appointed (Section 6.01(d) draft Development
Credit Agreement). The National Milling Corporation (NMC), which is
responsible in Tanzania for purchasing, processing and marketing maize,
rice and wheat would, with the regional cooperative unions and primary
societies, assume responsibility for the transportation and national and
regional storage component. Village level stores would be built on a
self-help basis with materials supplied under the project.
35.       In order to coordinate overall project activities and to ensure
the necessary technical support to the regions a Project Servicing Unit
(PSU) would be established within the Crop Production Division of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture. PSU would be responsible for control-
ling project finances and procurement, providing technical support to
regional staff, organizing training programs, coordinating maize production
programs, preparing annual work programs which would in turn be approved
by the Project Steering Committee (below) and the Association (Section
3.05 draft Development Credit Agreement), and monitoring project progress.
PSU would be headed by a Project Manager and would include an Extension
Specialist, a Farm Management Specialist, a Financial Controller and a
Procurement and Distribution Officer. Appointments to these positions, all
of whom, with the exception of the Project Manager, are expected to be inter-
nationally recruited, would be made after consultation with the Association
(Schedule 2, Part El, draft Development Credit Agreement). In order to
ensure overall policy review, guidance and coordination, a Project Steering
Committee consisting of senior representatives of concerned government
agencies would be established (Section 3.04 draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Costs and Financing
36.       The total cost of the project, including taxes (which are expected
to be less than one percent of total costs), is estimated at US$38.1 million.
The foreign exchange component wculd amount to US$24.4 million or 63 percent
of total costs. Details of project cost are included in Annex III. The
proposed IDA credit of $18 million would finance 47 percent of project costs.
The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDIA) has approved a con-
tribution of $5 million,or 13 percent of total costs,towards the project on
a parallel basis. The ABEDIA Loan will be for 20 years, including five years
grace, at 2 percent per annum. It would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
that conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ABEDIA agreement had
been fulfilled (Section 6.01(b) draft Development Credit Agreement. The



- 15 -
Government and farmers would contribute $15.1 million or 40 percent of
project costs out of which $6.4 million, representing the cost of on-farm
inputs in the first year, are being met from the proceeds of a $12 million
USAID agriculture sector loan made in 1975.
Onlending and Channeling of Funds
37.       Funds for storage and transport ($7.0 million from IDA and $3.3
million from ABEDIA) would be onlent to Tanzania Rural Development Bank for
20 years, including five years of grace, at an interest of 4 percent per
annum. TRDB would onlend these funds to the National Milling Corporation,
regional cooperative unions, and village cooperatives at 8-1/2 percent
for 10 years in the case of storage facilities and for 3 years in the case
of trucks. The onlending rate is in line with that being levied for other
recently approved Bank Group supported projects in the Agriculture sector
and is one percentage point higher than the existing rate for long-term
loans charged by TRDB. The 4-1/2 percent margin that TRDB would derive
from onlending is sufficient to defray the costs of credit administration
and would provide for an accumulation of further funds for relending to
priority rural sector projects.
38.       Funds for on-farm maize inputs, consultancy services, staff
salaries, training, and equipment, materials and vehicles other than for
marketing and storage, would be retained by the Government. Maize inputs
would be sold to village cooperatives at subsidized prices (paragraph 26
above). In order to ensure the timely availability of funds, including
subsidy funds, to meet on-farm input expenditures incurred by the PSU,
a Maize Production Inputs Account, to be used exclusively to make pay-
ments for the purchase of maize production inputs under the Project,
would be established by the Borrower (Section 3.02(b) draft Development
Credit Agreement). All proceeds of the sale of maize production inputs
under the Project would be paid into the Account as well as such amounts
sufficient to enable the PSU to meet expected purchases of maize inputs
for each calendar quarter (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). It would be a condition of Credit effectiveness that
such an account had been established (Section 6.01(e) draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement
39.       Procurement of all goods, works and services costing in excess of
$120,000 and financed by the Credit and ABEDIA Loan would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's guide-
lines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or
the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. With respect to materials
for self-help village construction ($4.3 million), if in the view of the
PSU and regional autorities, construction would be facilitated by procuring
necessary materials through normal commercial channels close to the place



- 16 -
of use of such materials, they shall be so procured and the Borrower
shall then procure an equivalent additional amount (expected to be
about $1 million) through international competitive bidding (paragraph
3(b), Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement). Contracts for
goods and equipment, such as office equipment, bicycles, and services
costing less than $120,000 are, in view of their small size, not
expected to attract international interest and would be let following
competitive bidding in accordance with the Government's normal procurement
procedures,which are satisfactory. Thirteen film vans are expected
to be purchased at a special discount from UNESCO through the Audio-
Visual Institute in Dar es Salaam. Maize seed ($1.4 million) mainly
consisting of local varieties would be procured from the domestic seeds
industry. Civil works contracts for regional and National Milling
Corporation storage totalling $4.5 million would be let after inter-
national competitive bidding. For these contracts local contractors
would be allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference.
Disbursement
40.       A schedule of estimated disbursements is included in Annex
III. The Association would disburse 100 percent of foreign expenditures
on imported incremental maize production inputs (IDA would finance only
the amount of inputs which exceed the quantities of such inputs pur-
chased and delivered in the previous year) and 80 percent of total
expenditures on such items when they are locally produced, 100 percent
of foreign expenditures on imported equipment and materials, or 80 per-
cent of total expenditures when such items were locally procured;
80 percent of the construction costs of storage facilities for regional
and National Milling Corporation's storage; 100 percent of foreign ex-
penditures on consultantst services and PSU expatriate staff; and 80
percent of salaries of PSU supporting staff and regional project staff,
operating costs of project vehicles and local staff training. It is
proposed that up to $300,000 be disbursed retroactively to cover the
costs of consultancy services and project unit salaries and equipment
since July 1, 1975. These expenditures have been incurred by the
Government in view of the urgent need to increase maize production and
in an effort to minimize start-up delays.
41.       It is expected that ABEDIA would disburse 100 percent of
foreign expenditures on imported vehicles or 85 percent of total
expenditures when such items were locally produced; 90 percent of
total expenditures for the purchase, operation and maintenance of the
light aircraft; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for tarpaulins,
platform scales and safes or 85 percent of total expenditures when
such items were locally procured and 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures on overseas training of staff. Up to $200,000 of the
ABEDIA loan would be disbursed retroactively to cover the costs of



- 17 -
vehicles purchased since July 1, 1975. The Association would review and
process documentation relating to procurement and disbursement on behalf
of ABEDIA.
Benefits
42.       The project would increase maize production by about 20,000
tons in year one rising to about 195,000 tons annually at full develop-
ment in 1982. This level should be sufficient for Tanzania to attain
self-sufficiency in an average year and would imply annual net foreign
exchange savings of about $10 million. During the project period the
Government plans to establish a national maize reserve of about 90,000
tons and any project production in excess of requirements would be
channeled into this reserve. Estimated increases in average annual cash
incomes of participating farm families would amount to about 20 percent or
$32. The project's internal rate of economic return is estimated at 37
percent. The project is expected to have positive ecological effects.
The small amounts of DDT expected to be used under the project are not
expected to be harmful but the project would experiment with substitutes
as they become available.
Risks
43.       The proposed project faces a number of risks.    The project is
part of a large and widespread program necessarily involving a large number
of entities and, as such, organizational difficulties can inevitably be
expected to occur. There is some uncertainty about the extent to which
farmers would be willing to purchase fertilizers and other inputs and to
apply the recommended production methods. The technical response of
maize yields to the various input packages is also not absolutely certain
in all project areas. Furthermore, only limited experience is so far
available concerning the operation of the new villages. In designing
the project, care has been taken to minimize the impact of these potential
difficulties and to ensure maximum flexibility in the light of changing
circumstances. In order to simplify bureaucratic procedures responsibility
for procurement, coordination, planning and technical support has, as far
as possible, been centralized in the Project Servicing Unit. Furthermore,
a substantial amount of technical assistance has been assigned to the Unit
and efforts have been made to recruit key staff well in advance of project
implementation. For example, the Project Manager and his Deputy are already
in post. In addition, it would be a condition of credit effectiveness
that key Project Servicing Unit staff had been appointed (Section 6.01(c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A substantial research
element has been included in the project and it is expected that the
composition of the input packages and the technical advice given to
farmers will be constantly adapted and revised in the light of
experience. Even if incremental output from the project were 30 percent



- 18 -
below expectation, the project would still show a rate of return of 16
percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
44.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the recommendation of the
Committee referred to in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the draft resolution approving the
proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the form
previously used for this type of project.
45. Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 26, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39 and
43 of this report. Special conditions of Credit effectiveness include
the establishment and staffing of the Project Servicing Unit, the
appointment of the Regional Maize Coordinators and District Maize
Supervisors, the opening of a Maize Production Inputs Account, the
establishment of the Project Steering Committee and the fulfillment of
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ABEDIA Loan Agreement
(Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.)
46.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
47.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 10, 1975
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
Pap 1 of 3 papas
taWY DA?A -TNZa
AREA                                                 MmgnS5                                        3XIMz
91.5,087   1a4.z.nu.a..im                                              (mid-1973)                     14.7 /a   Per buof arable land
GNP PER CAPITA US$ (ATIAS BASIS) a                                .               120 !~           170 A.       310            430j /b
DEMORAPHIC'-,2
Cru   'ErFth r.te (P., thousand)            46              0                u82                         35
ruFSfdethrrate(per      thousand~                               256  ad         1                               8
Innfant mortality rate (per thousand live births)              225         26-6                  55                          3
lif  epeatany at birth (years)                                384j            13               4.9 /.        65            65   a-
Gross reproduction rate/2                                       .3 2                              . Z-a        2.41.6~
Population growth rate 472.:2                                                  3.0               3:246
Population growth rate - urban5                                                        i             L
Age structure (percent)                                          '2    d           ..'               a            O
15t                                                         50Li              s                    t        5 
65 and over ,                                                                                  1O s          .            0.9
Ago dependency ratio                                            0.8    d          91                   s         . 
Economic d,P-enAcoCY MAic /j121'11                                                                     c   j   11 
Urban praptlation as perccant of total                           4. /c.d.         7 jn.           10 L.a.       /1,2
No. of users (9 of earred ,,o-,n)            ....L
Total labor foraa (thousands)                                4.,900 4L       5,600 /4c,.0A                 1,0      '     290L
Percentage siployadin agriculture                             89 ~j            91  7j           8   c        i              7L
Paroattaga uon,eplyand                                        ...1.                                                          8 L
INGOG DISTRISU71ta
PareraT of n-atio-nal inooma rnaaived by highest 5%             .31.L                                           15Lf         28I
percent of nati-ati-boo-     tasi,ed by nigh.ut 20%             .                 003                                           67
Peroent of ntional inoama r ao~eid by lowest 20%                .5/5.                                           10 L37~t
Paroant of national banns reonived by loweut 4.0%               .                U  5.                          21. 7ot      ii 7
mSTImTOwNu    OF LAND OWINESHIP                                                                                   2
5owned by top 10% of nanro                                     ....                                            28
HEALTH AND NUTRITION2790                                                                        650
Population per physician                                     20,000 /4d      7910/             650~         1,870         L ,0    g
Population per nursing perso                                 8,771.    o     6,530   .&       3,700 ~'      1,360 &       1,110
population per hospital bedso                                   530 4g   ~      700 tfl          810   -    1,050           290 /&_g
per ospito coljon   supply as 9 of requirements                  69 Lt           73              101           103            9.L
Poe  aepita protein supply, total (grms per dsyYj1              1.   T            .                1            651.9 L
DOf whioh, animsl snd pulse                                     22 Lx           23               29            19            20   a
Deth rate 1-4. years /7......64                                                                                                   .
EDUCATION                                                          2                76                             8/            94
Adjusted   8 prisa.ry school enrollment ratio                    25              375              67L8a
Adjusted     saoiay     .hool ercllment ratio                                     3d               9L&          1.13
Tsara  f anooing provided, first and esaond level                13              13               13            12            13 L
Vocational enr oliset as 9 of sea. sahool enrollment             23               hIa              2 J1.ab      15 Io        7
Adult fl.tarcay rota 9                                                          4.19  g   4       354,,,,ad     92            8
fl pg No. of persons per room (urban)                         18't            .                               .
Peceet oocpid units withoot piped water                         ..30 /e.o                        *.8 so                      65
Anoass to a     reotetot  (as 9 of total population)            4....8                                                     130.1
Percent of rural population connected to e1eatricity            .....10                                                    31
CONSUHMPTON                                                                         6LiZ                          2
Radio- receivers Per 1000 population                                                     2 l4      1/          07/             o
Pasnger rar    o,pe  1000 PoPulation                         3.                                    P 'a.a     2L3          33.
Elec~tric pear aonsusption (kwh p.o.)                           1i5 1d           31 lb            78 Lb'       392   41Th        j5
Neasprint -osuPtion P.c. kg Per Year                            0.1 El          0.1              0.6 /fl       3.3 /    ~    2.9La
Noten,  Fig-rs re-mfer either in the latest periods or io             anon     o   niroonantal temperatue, body caligts, and
the latent yearo.   Latent periods refer in prinaiple to              distribution by age end eta of nati-na    popalatiose.
the yearn 19056-60 or 1966-70; the latent ymr    in prn           AjProtein standards (reQuirmsents) for all nountrites at esteb-
.iple to 1960 and 1970.                                               lisbed by iSDA Kaou-onm    R-eaarah Service provide for a mininaa
I lThe Per Capita aNP estimate to at maket prioro for                  alowancm of 60 greet of total protein ptr day, and 20 gram of
ycra other than 1960,calculated by the ban     convermion         aimal end pulse protein, of wbiab 10 grams should be anml.l
tochniquie as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                          protein.  Theteastandards are soseahat lmowr thantoeof7
/2  Average nanher of daughters per woman of reproductive              grame of total protein and 23 Fete of animal protein at an
age.                                                              average for the world, proposed by PAO In the@ Third World Food
zi  Populatton grosith mien ar   for the decaden ending in             Sarvey'.
1960 and 1970.                                                a   Sass etdiee have euggested that.crude deeth ratee of childrnn
/L  atio of population under 15 and 65 and over to popula-          age  1 through 1. may be used ats   first approinmation index of
lion of agos 15-6i for age dependenay ratio and to labor          malioutritioi.
force of ages 15-61. for eoononio dependenay ratio.           /8  Fernatae enrolled of marreaponding population of achool age
L FAO refer,ence  staodordn represwt phyrsiological re-             am defined far mah o0antry.
quira_ato fo rnmal activity and health, taking
aExcluding forests and pastures;      LA  1972;   IA   1957;    Id. Mainland Tanzani.;    /.   1967;   If  UN estirste, 1965-70.
Went Malaysia;    /h   1960-72;   Aj   15 gnaetted townships, 1957-67;     4I  2,000 or mer inhabitasnta;     ak  Seoul City and
-uicipolities of 5,000 or sur     ichabitsnta;    /I  African population;     /.  1969;    A~ 1973;     /-  1971;   La   33
goo.:tntd townnoips;   La   i6 gaetLted tosmnshipa;   /r   Gasetted armas of 10,000 or mare inhabil,ants;     L   1970-75 UN
stisote;    /t  Households;    La  Fatis of population under 15 and 65 and over to total-laborlorae;         /v  Number on the
register, sot all working ic the country;      /v  1971.;   /x  1961-63; ls~DaEstimate;i     Ia 1961.66;   /da, 1968;
oh Secondary -chosling in-ludee teacher-training at the third level;        /5     eiition unkowow;        _551.5 years and over;
'7i 1966;/af       195, Zan zibar;    lea   19-62-69;  /.h   Including vehicles operated tw' pollee and other govecnusotal seaurity
oriuations;     let   Regi.sterd only;    /a,j 1963;    /5k  Water piped inaida;    /L~ 10 years and over;      /5m   1962;
/5.161   -bniWr outside         Id    SUNWiti  te;    /R   Munter of roses includes rose    use d only for prof6sional or
b.niness purposes; lar 1-cbodlug light conmercia1 vehicles.
a- M yalasi  Is selected an the sbi-acive country because its population to csnparhlt in sins and its ec.onoic d-vlopsent
Os --vrei stops aosad.
R7 Septenher 16, 1975



ANOVE I
Tager20o 3 Pages
SflONOMIO fflVIDPMENP DATA
(A.mount.s In millions of U2.S. dollars)
Actual                         Projected              19 67-   1973 -   19 75 -   1981 -    17        95     18
a 973     19 74       195       1761      9        1972    .1974      1.980     19859 5                     98
NATIONAL ACCOUNT(S                                                  ___       ___      1___       ____    __-
At 1973        Prices and Exchange Rates       Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GOY
Domestic Product                       1819.2    1863.9      1952.4   2035.2    2450.1     4.9      2.5       4.6     5T.4      100.0    104.1    104.0
.,alris from Terms of Trade()                  -        -29.1       -77.6     -70.1     -95.0                                            -       -4.1    -4.0
Gross Domestic Income             lrr~~~~1=92  IuTr.s8  f    -    MMW.  I rI  'M3. 2  , 4.5    0.9       4.7       5.4      Irn-.    rm.     rum
Lmport (incl. NiFS)                           519.8     517.4       419.1     424.3     527.4     6.8    -0.5       4.7       6.5       28.6     22.4    22.4
Exorts        imot capacity)                 417.0     309.5       276.9     314.1    384.3     2.6    -25.6       4.4       7.1       22.9    14.8     16.3
Resource Gap                                   102.8    207.9       fTM i     T!7l    -.T.                                              -377    -7T      -fl
Consumption Expenditures                      1538.6   1635.4     .1597.1    1637.6    1941.2     4.8      6.3       4.0      5.3       84.6     85.2     82.4
Investment     .  (mnci. stocks)              406.6     407.3       419.8     437.6     557.1     8.4      0.2      5.8       5.6       22.4     22.4     23.7
Domestic Savings                               280.6     199.4      277.6     327.5     414.0     2.7   -28.9        8.3      4.3       15.4     14.8     17.6
National Savings                               286.8     207.1       270.3    323.9     374.1     3.4    -27.8       6.7       3.9      1.5.8    14.4     15.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
Tmports                                      il        17            =       ia       I                                                 Vi      I/)      L5
Capital goods                      125.2    135.1    185.7       168.6     191.0    329.6                                            29.4     25.7     29.3
Tntermediate goods i3.fuels)       154.4    169.4    189.2       209.1     225.8    378.2                                            36.8     31.9    33.7
Fuiels and related materials        41.3     53.1    148.5       170.4     194.9    301.1                                            11.6     26.0    26.8
of which:   Petroleum            (41.3)  (53.1)   (148.5)     (170.4)   (194.9) (301.1)                                           (11.6)   (26.0)  (28.8)
Consumption goods                   82.9    102.2    215.1       108.0      76.0    114.8                                            22.2     16.5     10.2
ToGtal Merch. TTmpor-ts (cif)     -   .     43Th     71U3        3M       6B77    1f7fl7                                           10rr     icaau    IOor-T
Exports
Primary Products ~=l. fuels)       208.6   263.6     309.8       263.9     326.3    471.0                                            79.8     75.0     69.8
Fuels and related materials         30.7     12.5     18.5        30.3      24.7     52.5                                             3.8      5.8      7.8
of which:   Petroleum            (30.7)   (12.5)   (18.5)      (20.3)    (24.7)   (52.5)                                           (3.8)    (5.8)   (7.8)
Manrufactured goods                 49.1     54.4      55.4        67.5     79.5    151.2                                            16.5     19.2     22.4
Total Merch. Exports (fob)         2T9.4    3=. 5    3UW.77        37      On3      67
Tourism and Border, Trans .e.
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1973    -100
Export Price Index                  89T.6-  100.0    142.0       135.3     149.4    192.3
Import Price Index                  86.7   100.0     155.4       173.2     182.8    239.9
Terms of Trade Index               100.2    100.0     91.4         18.1     81.8     80.2
Exports Volume Index               109.7    100.0     81.2         85.0     92.2    115.0
VALUE ADnDED HY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1973     Prices and Exchange Rates              Average AnLnual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
1967-72    1972-74    1975-80      1973     1975     1980
Agriculture                        640.6   647.7     634.1       665.8     665.8    784.7          2.6-     -70.5        33     3    9-.3    37.9    35-.6
Industry and Mining                206.6   208.7     210.8       217.1     228.0    281.1          5.0         0.6       5.3        12.7     12.3    12.7
Service                    7~~~~~~~~-L37.0  790.0  -U.34.3  .3.24. 0  .3.128  1141.6       6.1         6.4       5.4        4LA     AL       SJ..
Total                             1584.2  1646.4    1679.2      1758.9    1813.5   2207.3          4.5         3.-0      4.6       100.0    I100.0  100.0
Actual                  Est.     Budget
S?JBLIC FINJANCE                      FY12r   FY73      FY74        FY75      FY7 6                                                       As Percent of GDPY
(C-entral1 Government)                  (in mfTI3ons o17tE?-rent Tcis=lnmjrsr-                                                          _Y_7     __Y3__    -
Current Receipts,                  1859    2357      3002        3884      4007                                                      17.7     19.7    23.2
Current Expenditures               17i7    2134      2685        3694      3530                                                      16.4     17.8    20.8
Pu-idgetary Savings               1742     - 223     3717        -19-0     4777                                                       1.3     1.9      2.75
Other Public Sector 1/              241     264        .            .        .                                                        2.3     2.2
Public Sector Investment          1694     1836      1996        2301        .                                                       16.2    15.3     15.4
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual         Prelim.    Est.
As % Total Current Expend.)             FY1972   FY1973    FY1974    FIL91Al
Eduacation                                17.5    16.7        1-4.8    16.1
Other Social Services                     12.5     11.8       11.7     14.6
AgriculIture283                                   24         314        32
Other Roconomic Services )283                      5.        3t4        32
Administration and Defense418                      6.        422        61
ither418                                          41         422        61
Total Current Expenditures              ifo-o.o  Yo100.0    100o.0    100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  19755-     1973 -    1976 -  1971 -
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               197 0      1975     1970     1975
Average ICOR                                          2.9       6.7.7              43
Import Elasticity                                    1.6       -1.3       1.0      1.2
PMrginal Domestic Savings Rate                       0.1       -0.9       0.2      0.2
Marginial National Savinigs Rate                     0.2       -1.8       0.2      0.1
LABOF FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per Worker (in current Prices)
OUTPUT PE    IRD                   Is Millions          %of Total                              In U.S.Dlbllrs       Pern    of Average
19 71                19 71                                    19 71                  197 1
Agriculture                       5.3                   91                                       98                     43
Industry                         0.1                    2                                      1590                    694
Service                          0.4                    7                                      2170                      L
Total                            Tr                    oo                                       229                    100
-not applicable          - nil or negligible                 ii Parastatal contribution to net current income.
cot available         --less than half the                  2/ Averaged from calendar year.
smallest unit shown                                                                                       ECI
October 10, 1975



Ax I
Peg. 3 of 3 pagee
U2Afl 0r PADTS1      minai ASSThTAn     AND DT
teaut. i.S3       Ma    U.S. dllo   at e,rmt pAcm)
Avg. Annual
Atoal                        es timted        7b2d                                                                   oth Rat.
M2    1973        1S7          7575         7y6           77           Pro.                =6e lS@O    1S8          972-1S80
S3005! BAWENCR OF PAYlulTS
Exports (iml. NF3)                                397.5       417.0       481.0         479.9       574.4       643.0       718.7       816.2       922.1      1832.7         11.1
irPorta (incl. wYS)                               476.1       519.8       804.2         726.2       775.8       883.5       989.4      1113.1      1265.4     241.4.         13.0
.esorce alance    X-)                              -  .6     -12. S      -    r        -2.          -2r. 3     -260.       -270.6      -297 .0    -343.3      -618. 7         28.8
Intert (ret)                                      )534         10.4        -6.8        -18.7        -24.8       -30.1       -32.7       -35.6       -39.8     -66.1           34.2
Direct I-asotle.t  ouoa ),                                     -5.5         0.5        -11.2         -2.0        -2.0        -2.0        -2.0        -2.0      -2.0
Workers' Rmdttance                                   0.0        0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
t-1.7         0.7        15.7          22.4         22.4       lC.0        LL          1s.0       1i D        1C n
Eal-nc      _______ -on.                                                                                                                           -    L (4.J -93.7-205L -7  -46 _
Private Direct Tnvetment                                          .5        2.7           2.8          2.8        2.8         2.8         2.8         2.8        2.8
Official Capital -ansta                             16.0        16.0       20.0          25.0         27.5        30.3       33.3        36.6        40.3       65.0          12.5
Public MhLT Lase                                                               2/            3/          4/           ,                                            5 /
Disb,wraimits                                    110.6       88.4        95.8-'       193.7-       112.9-     111.-       133.5'      160 8j      191.4V    354.r           11.2
-Repaycents                                      -15.4       -18.3       -11.8        -22.0        -18.4       -21.1       -27.4       -30.3      -39.6      -8925
Net Disburseents         /-s-r                                *ri         n-I          i"           -                                                                          6.071c  9U.  lUr  1 301 264 6  6A0
Other M&LT Loans   /                                ...         ...        ...           ...
DLsbursesonts
-Re t   sot,
Neot oiburseiiient                                   9-7         V7         3'           27           ,           . ..                   .            ..
Uee of IMP Resources                                -           -          46.3          34.9                                                  Actul            et.
Capital Tra-cactioos 0.4.i.                         28.2      -29.3        66.2          16.6                            7/
cha-ge in Net Re- rv s-60.2                                   -20.5        91.0                     3M     AND Ds   S1RV33 C
Public Debt Oct. & Dibnrsed   335.6    416.4     565.2     789.7
GRANT AND LOAP. oO16TSN
oficiCal Grants & Qrant-like                                                                          Interet on PubL.c Debt        6.9      8.2       8.9     12.2
RePyenrta on p,daic Debt     29.0     11.4      12.7      22.0
PFblic MhLT loans                                                                                     Total Pablic Debt Service    35.8     19.6      21.6      34.2
mbRl                                               _          _          65.0          30.0         Other Debt Sersi,:e (net)
IOA   610.8                                                  28.8        61.2          34.0         Total Debt Service (net)
Other _                                            -          -           -            50.1
Other Multilateral                                 3.3        1.8         7.1           -          arden on lport harnins  (%)
o,vercoents                                       49.3       94.9       112.5         161.0
Supplier                                           -           -          -             -           Public Debt Service           9.0      4.7       4.5       7.1
Financial TIatitutioms                             -          -           -             -          Total Debt Serwis:.
Bonds                                             -           -           -             -           MS-Direct Invttl. Iro.       10.2      6.0      4.4       9.5
Public loans n1.el. i .
Tot.al. PubLie MAIDf ln                                        trre n3  -   424                      Aerwage Tersn of Public Debt
ctual Debt Ostatalfisg e De. 32.. 1974                   Tnt. as % Prier Year DOhD      2.7      2.4      2.1       2.1
WoTrWAL DM                                    3burn      MAT               eet                         Amort. ae S Prior Toer Do7D   11.1      3.4       3.1       3.9
Worl bank                                        4U.                      /;
IDA                                              63.3                    11.8                      T3!D Debt Out. & DIsbursed
Other ?kltilateral                               10.4                      1.9                          a S Public   .bt 0h0        7.2      7.9       7.3       9.7
0o-ernoents                                     389.9                    72.5                           a8 S Public Debt Service2' 3.6      11.2      13.0      16.9
Suppliers                                         0.1 
Financial loetituti-ne                           12.3                     2.3                      IDA Debt Out. & DiWbureed
bondo                                             7.9                     1.5                       r      s   Public Debt 042  q/ 14.6     13.8      13.2      9.6
Public Debts n.e.i                               13.0                     2.4                       n       9 Public Debt Servc.e   1.1      2.0       2.8       1.9
Total Public Mill Debt                          537.9                    100.0
Notioaal ace-third sham  of EAC debt             86.0
of hich:  World Bank                         (38.0)
Other                              (48.0)
TnTAT                                            - ^3 9
not applIcable                             aft aUnt                     1/~~~~~~~~~~I Parutata1 and Frivote MilT Oass..
~~.t sppli..ble                       a     staff eatimto               11~~~~~~~2 Icalades dra"c  00  rab Fund far Africa (57. 1c)
,ot aailable                                                  -   il or negligible              3/ I-olds bilrc       sad -tllteral progre      asst-e of $91.0 ad
-ut -claudod speirateiy                                     --les than half the                4/ Iccludes propose.d 0080 prog-s loss of $30.0  .
b,i ddin tatalea1e                                                 issi                  3/oiN. progra assoect-eassmnd.
I/ flP Oil feeilit' and Credit Tranche.
7/ Not inoluding  osaazl4a s share in SAC debt.
9/ IbRD sod TA Debt Service ae   of Public Debt Semics
EACPIA
octabor 10, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS AT OCTOBER 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.         Year       Borrower      Purpose                   Bank'    IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                    65.2     43.0
586 TA      1969       Tanzania      Roads                      7.0               1.9
149 TA      1969           "         Education                           5.0      0.9
217 TA      1970           "         Tobacco                             9.0      1.9
715 TA      1974       TANESCO       Power                      5.0               1.6
232 TA      1971       Tanzania      Education                           3.3      1.6
265 TA      1972           "         Roads                               6.5      3.3
287 TA      1972           "         Smallholder Tea                    10.8      5.2
371 TA      1973                     Education31                        10.3     10.0
382 TA      1973                     Livestock-                         18.5     16.6
454 TA      1974                     Cotton                             17.5     17.2
460 TA      1974                     Tanzania Investment Bank            6.0      3.3
1014 TA     1974                     Cashewnut                 21.0              13.8
495 TA      1975                     Sites and Services                  8.5      7.4
507 TA      1975                     Highway Maintenance                10.2     10.2
508 TA      1975                     Rural Development                  10.0      9.9
513 TA      1975                     Sugar                               9.0      7.3
1041 TA     1975                     Sugar2                     9.0               9.0
580 TA      1975                     Dairy-/                            10.0     10.0
1128 TA     1975                     Textile                   15.0              15.0
Total4/                                            122.2   177.6
of which has been repaid                           0.9     1.8
Amount sold                        0.1
of which has been repaid        0.1
Total now outstanding-/                            121.3   175.0
Total undisbursed                                   41.3   105.3     146.6
1/ Net of exchange adjustments
2/ Not yet effective
3/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $4.9 is undisbursed.
4/ An additional loan of $15 million (1172 TA) to Tanzania Investment Bank,
approved by the Executive Directors on October 28, was signed on November 12,
1975.   An  additional credit of $6 million for a Technical Assistance Project
was approved by the Executive Directors on November 25, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT OCTOBER 30, 1975
(US$ million)
-    Amount less cancellations
No.           Year    Borrower     Purpose                    Bank          Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                   75.0
638 EA         1969   EAHC         Harbours                   35.0              3.4
674 EA         1970   EARC         Railways                   42.4             14.4
675 EA         1970   EAPTC        Telecommunications         10.4               .1
843 EA        1972    EADB         Development Finance         8.0             4.1
865 EA         1972   EAHC         Harbors                    26.5             16.3
914 EA         1973   EAPTC        Telecommunications         32.5             11.9
Total                                         229.8             50.2
of which has been repaid                     30.9
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid        24.4
Total now held by Bank!/                      198.9
Total undisbursed                              50.2
1/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. AROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of October 31, 1975)
There are currently 18 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
As a result of the Tanzanian Government's intention to
complete its villagization program by 1976, the process has been
accelerated and a total of about 7,200 families have been moved to
villages in the tobacco complexes, bringing the number of project
farmers to 10,000. As a result of these vigorous efforts, it is
now likely that the appraisal target of 15,000 farmers will be reached
in 1976. Strict measures to enforce minimum tobacco acreages per
family are expected to contribute to increased tobacco production.
However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf have been below
anticipated levels. Improvements are required to strengthen the
extension and cooperative services. Provision of water supplies
and social infrastructure is progressing well.
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania
Tea Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of
senior staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of
TTA and a definite improvement in the control over the field activi-
ties. The completion of 956 ha of new planting during 1974/75
-/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the actions being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with
the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
brings the total project planting to 5,086 ha o-c 61% of the total
target area. A further 500 ha is planned for 1975/76 season. The
past lack of technical, administrative and financial control over
the four widely dispersed project areas is reflected in TTA's
current financial problems. A special supervision mission has
been scheduled to examine these problems and propose remedial
measures.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development
Project:  $18.5 million CL-.di  of May 23, 1073; Date of
Effectiveness - September 28, !'   ; Closing Date -
December 31, 1977
So farm implementation has been extremely slow. IDA
disbursements to date  have been limited to tec'nnical services
and it is only during the past half year that the development of
cattle ranching and marketing has started to get underway. The
meat processing component of the project was recently scaled
down by almost a third of appraisal proposals because of increases
in cost. However, overall progress should improve now that
responsibility for project implementation has been transferred to
the newly established Livestock Development Aut'hority and construc-
tion of the meat processing plants is underway.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The conditions in which the project is operating were
radically changed by the 1974 decision that farmers throughout the
district should move into villages and by relative price changes
in the producer prices for maize and cotton which occurred in 1974
and 1975. In addition, management problems have slowed project
implementation. For the 1975/76 cropping season the project is
focusing on twenty selected villages.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The lowest bids for the five processing facilities to be
constructed under the project were considerably in excess of the
appraisal estimate for the project component. Following detailed
discussions between the Government and contractor, the cost was
considerably reduced by deletion of non-essential items. Construction
of the processing facilities is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
By July 1975, progress on the project appeared to be gen-
erally satisfactory. All staff to be posted under the Project
Management Executive (PME) had been appointed. Planning of project
villages had begun through the preparation of viability reports
(VSFR's) and land-use maps based on recent aerial photographs. A
first training seminar of one month had been given to village-level
bookkeepers in a new simplified bookkeeping system. Conditions were
therefore such   that the last supervision mission could agree to
inclusion of 23 villages for project financing during the current
fiscal year, requiring investments of TSh 4.9 million for agricultural
inputs and TSh 5.6 million for social infrastructure. Progress on
this proposed investment program would depend particularly on
project organization and management. However, the institutional
arrangements following elimination of the Kigoma Cooperative Union
(KCU) still remained unsatisfactory. It is anticipated that the
supervision mission scheduled in December will be able to resolve
this issue. A preparation team, eventually to number four full-
time expatriates, was recently installed in Mwanza to prepare
integrated rural development projects for Mwanza and Shinyanga
Regions, and the existing and future information base and supporting
activities appear promising.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate field development is ahead of schedule with 2,740
acre of sugar cane planted during 1974/75 (about 500 ac over the
target) outgrowers planting of 400 ac is about 200 ac behind schedule.
Construction of the new sugar mill, financed by Dutch and Danish
loans, is on schedule and should be completed by July 1976.
Procurement of field machinery and equipment and supporting project
activities are progressing reasonably well. Due to cost escalation
of the housing and community development component, detailed cost
reviews were undertaken and the project management expects that
the anticipated cost overruns of about TSh 21.5 million (US$ 3
million) will be offset by savings on other components and by partial
lowering of standards.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 28, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Credit was declared effective on November 28, 1975.
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key personnel
and the first phase of procurement
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0
million Credit of May 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
June 19, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975     _
Most project schools are completed. Schools are adequately
furnished but not yet fully equipped. Procurement and installation
of the remaining furniture and equipment is in progress. The project
has experienced a minor overrun of $0.4 million.
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Construction on all 13 project sites is in progress, seven
project institutions are almost completed, three will be completed
by October 1975 and the remaining three by December 1975. The Govern-
ment has agreed to start construction on boarding facilities with
an estimated completion date of September 1976. All furniture and
equipment contracts have been awarded, but the four agricultural
education specialists have not yet been recruited.    Fellowship
training is satisfactory, two have already returned and taken up
their duties. Disbursements have increased substantially but as a
result of the start up problem the Closing Date of the project has been
extended for 18 months, up to December 31, 1976. A cost overrun of
about $1.6 million is expected.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Design work of all project institutions, except for the
three secondary schools eliminated because of cost overruns, will
be completed by the end of 1975. Out of 18 project institutions
construction works had started on eight sites only. All construction
work is scheduled to be completed in the beginrning of 1978. Furniture



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
and equipment lists should be completed for tender by the end of 1975.
The project unit is now working satisfactorily and a new project
coordinator has been appointed by the Government. Estimated project
cost, prepared last May by the project unit, came to about US$22
million, excluding the three secondary schools, a cost overrun of about
15%. While disbursements are expected to increase substantially it
is likely that the Closing Date will have to be extended until the
end of 1978.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Closing Date -
December 31, 1980
This Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The Textile Corporation of Tanzania (TEXCO) has appointed
the project engineers and technical advisors and tenders for major
project components have been invited. For the study to be under-
taken as part of the project, several consultants have already been
contacted by TEXCO and proposals are expected shortly.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0
million Loan of December 14, 1970 and $5.0 million
Supplementary Loan No. 712-2-TA of June 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness - March 31. 1971 and September 26, 1974;
Closing Date - June 30, 1976
Construction work for this project is nearly completed. The
project is on schedule and the first and second unit came on stream in



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
March 1975 and July 1975, respectively. A mission visited
Tanzania in April 1975 to appraise the second stage Kidatu power
project for which a loan is expected to be recommended to the
Executive Directors shortly.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After long delays in completing tender arrangements, the
contract for the Mtwara-Masasi road was made at nearly three times
the appraised cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million
loan from ADB and use of the $1.8 million balance from the Bank's
Second Highway Project (Loan No. 586-TA). Construction of this road
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Execution of road betterment works in two agricultural
areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily
in one area but is behind schedule in the other.
Preinvestment studies for Kilombero and Kilimanjaro areas
have been completed and final reports are expected in November.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Elate of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The project is one year behind schedule. Tender documents
for equipment procurement were opened in October 31, 1975 and are
currently being evaluated. The Government has been negotiating with
consultants for assistance in recruiting experts with no result so
far. Consultants submitted the draft final report of the Trucking
Industry Study, being supported under the Credit, in September 1975.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for
infrastructure construction at all seven sites have been awarded and
are expected to be completed on schedule. Other components of the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
project, i.e. training, monitoring/evaluation and nutrition
studies are progressing satisfactorily.
There are currently six projects under execution by the
East African Community.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
The suspension of this Loan was lifted on September 5, 1975.
The reasons for suspension and its lifting are discussed in paragraphs
26 and 27 of this report. It is now planned that part of the proceeds
of the Loan will be used for consultancy services to assist in the
reorganization of Railways Corporation (paragraph 15 ). Meanwhile
the Corporation is now finalizing a plan to meet its emergency
investment requirements.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position
although there have been problems in transferring funds from regional
offices to headquarters. Construction was finished in August 1975.
A postponement of the Closing Date will be necessary to allow
sufficient time to complete disbursements.
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 18,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works
under this project. Cost overruns have been experienced in some
project items. The situation is under study by the Corporation, which
will shortly issue a plan for speeding implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 843-EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all
aspects of development financing operations. The entire first loan
has now been committed by EADB.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 675-EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4
million Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
November 9, 1970; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The project is complete. The Closing Date of the Loan was
extended from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975 to enable final
payments to be made from the Loan account.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
October 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the
Posts and Telecommunicaticns Corporation due to the considerable
existing decentralization of operating authority. Deterioration of
the Corporate cash position and rate of return has been slight in
comparison to other Community Corporations and the situation was
improved by a rate increase allowed by the Community in February 1975.
All major works have been completed, except two microwave
links which, due to long lead time for delivery, will be delayed by
12 months.



Annex III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                  US$18 million equivalent
TERMS:                   Standard IDA terms
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:          National Maize Project - The provision of maize production
inputs to approximately 950 participating villages; the strengthening
of extension services through training and the provision of transport
and extension aids; the improvement of the distribution of maize inputs
and maize marketing through the provision of required transportation;
the improvement of maize research; assistance for further project
preparation; and the provision of related technical services.
COST OF PROJECT:                              Local      Foreign       Total
(US$ Million)
Incremental Farm Inputs             3.8         10.5         14.3
Project Servicing Unit              0.5          0.7          1.2
Regional Staff and Support          2.3          2.0          4.3
Transport and Storage               3.0          5.4          8.4
Training                            0.5           .4          0.9
Air Transport                        .1           .2           .3
Pilot Ox Utilization                 .1                        .1
Project Preparation Studies          .2           .5           .7
Subtotal               10.5         19.7        30.2
Physical Contingencies              0.6          0.9          1.5
Price Contingencies                 2.6          3.8          6.4
Total Project Cost                 13.7         24.4         38.1
FINANCING PLAN:      The financing plan is expected to be as follows:
(US$ Million)    Percentage
Government of Tanzania-                         11.1            29
Farmers (from 25% cash payments)                 4.0            11
Arab Bank for Economic           2/
Development in Africa (ABEDIA)-                5.0            13
IDA2/                                           18.0            47
Total                                           38.1           100
1/  Up to US$6.4 million is expected to be available from a US$12 million 1975
USAID loan to assist the Government in meeting its contribution.
2/ ABEDIA and IDA finance would be made available on a parallel financing basis.



Annex III
Page 2 of 2
RELENDING:        $7.0 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit and $3.3 million
of the ABEDIA loan for transport and storage would be relent to the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) for 20 years including five
years grace at 4 percent. TRDB would onlend these funds to project
beneficiaries at 8-1/2 percent for ten years for the construction of
storage facilities and for three years for trucks.
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                             Fiscal Year
(US$ O00's)
1976         1977          1978          1979        1980
600         3,600         4,500         5,100       4,200
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:     International competitive bidding for incremental fertilizers,
insecticides, herbicides, vehicles, platform scales, safes, aircraft,
and civil works contracts for regional and National Milling Corporation
storage facilities.  Local manufacturers wou].d be allowed a preference
of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Local
civil works contractors would be allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference.
Contracts for maize seed and any contract expected to total less than
$120,000 would be let in accordance with the Borrower's usual procure-
ment procedures. Thirteen film vans are expected to be purchased at*a
special discount from UNESCO. Materials for self-help construction of
village storage facilities could be purchased through normal commercial
channels; however, the Borrower would then be required to purchase
replenishment stocks under international competitive bidding.
CONSULTANT
SERVICES:         Project includes funds to prepare detailed investment proposals
for establishing a national grain reserve, excpanding and modernizing
storage and milling facilities of the National Milling Corporation,
and developing a national agricultural program. No consultants have
yet been employed.
RATE OF RETURN:   Overall economic rate of return is estimated at 37 percent.
APPRAISAL
REPORT:           Report No. 897a-TA dated December 8, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
MAP:              A map of Tanzania which shows the location of the proposed
project areas is attached.






U G A N D A   - -    _------L A KE-- E ----
v cT R/A              KNA3                TANZANIA
V I CT O R / A   S       hKE N Y A  NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
RWANDA    ) \/   XBuXubc        M uso m o5REGIONS                     AND  DISTRICTS
B.Aoirno  R  A  -             LIZLZJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Project areas
  R W A N D A  X /  /   Nonssoo  ; KE \i\   -- Main roads
A00E          -4--4-4-*- ~~~~Railways
'/yomir mbe ' Mwnzo                                     - + -4- TAN-ZAM railway
I"!              St t 48ihurcmulfk) 8uchrnz7(th                       Region boundaries
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District boundaries
;5  ;_Ji  ( L  (<ukirFgur2\;  r  y p        {>uLugu,u  On           - International boundaries
|B  U' R.,U  N  D  I                   -Nylik.ng.Mnul;aYc 
ib.n               llt5)~~~~~~~~~~.nr. 
'gs s ; g/ /' l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inyonga         AUut MANf\}Et YA<^,A
KB~.                                     S                       ( d0
KibefaShogee Tonga'
|ZnBen-  I ongPni
odo.~~~~~~~~~~~
17ranheb  rn  ox th^I  p do  rs:  (   \   r /  \   (_   <   X  L Bagmoyn o
AR ES SALAAM
owo                    iioo zooOroo  )   ~ Songen  M   TK   Mos
* DWE 5Ri   8       2   XMb~~~.iingo]R u v U _s$< 
0~~~~IE                             n.Glp  ;j  10 jvMbrbamcBoy  .udr  .---- 
Z2        \MA                  36A               MOZAMaIQUE I i



