CIRCULATING COPY
Report No. 897a-TA                                       JMg10 E RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
United Republic of Tanzania
Appraisal of the                                                              FILE COPY
National Maize Project
December 8, 1975
General Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
SDR  1.00                    -    Tanzania Shillings (TShs.) 9.66
SDR  1.00                    =    US  $1.20
US  $1.00                    =    Tanzania Shillings (TShs.) 8.05
TShs.  1.00                  =    US  $0.12
GOVERNNENT AND PARASTATALS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare  (ha)              =    10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer  (km)            =    0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer  (km2)            0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha.
1 kilogram  (kg)             -    2.20 pounds
1 liter  (1)                 -    0.26 U.S. gallons
1,000 kg  = 1 metric ton          0.98 long tons
1/   In October, 1975, the three East African Community currencies
were pegged to the value of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
of the International Monetary Fund. An SDR/US dollar conversion
rate of 1.2 has been assumed for purposes of this appraisal,
although the actual rate is floating.



ABBREVIATIONS
ABEDIA   =   Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
AFO      =   Assistant Field Officer
ARTI     -   Agricultural Research and Training Institute
AVI      =   Audio Visual Institute
BRALUP       Bureau of Resource Assessment and Land Use Planning,
University of Dar-es-Salaam
CAN          Calcium Ammonium Nitrate
CIMMYT   =   International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, Mexico
CUT          Cooperative Union of Tanganyika
DADO         District Agricultural Development Officer
DAP      =   Diammonium Phosphate
DDD          District Development Director
DMPS     =   District Maize Project Supervisor
EAC/MI       East African Community, Management Institute
FA           Field Assistant
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GAPEX        General Agricultural Products Export Corporation
IITA     =   International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, Nigeria
KILIMO   =   Ministry of Agriculture
MDB      =   Marketing Development Bureau
NADP         National Agricultural Development Project
NAPB     =   National Agricultural Products Board
NBC      =   National Bank of Commerce
NMC      =   National Milling Corporation
NIMP     =   National Maize Project
NPK      =   Compound Fertilizer
PMO      =   Office of the Prime Minister and Second Vice-President
PSU      =   Project Servicing Unit
RADO     =   Regional Agricultural Development Officer
RDD          Regional Development Director
RMPC     =   Regional Maize Product Coordinator
TANU     =   Tanganyika African National Union
TAT      =   Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TCA      =   Tanzania Cotton Authority
TFA      =   Tanganyika Farmers Association
TRDB     =   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TSP          Triple Superphosphate
UNDP     =   United National Development Program
USAID    =   United States Agency for International Development
VMT      =   Village Management Technician






TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ........................ .          i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION               ...................... 1..... so ..1
I1.   BACKGROUND .............................  .                       2
A.  General ......................................                2
B.  Regional Government and Administration    .......             2
C.  Villagisation and Land Tenure          ................       3
D.  The Agricultural Sector .......        ...............        4
E.  The Food Situation ..... ...... ............ .                7
F.  The Maize Production Program        .................         7
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ..... .. ......... .. ....                       8
A.  Location . ...........                                        8
B.  Land Use and Types of Farming        ................        8
C.  Rural Infrastructure ...% ...... ...............              9
IV. THE PROJECT ...................                                    11
A.  Brief Description ..         ...........................    11
B.  Detailed Features ....o............. ......... .             12
C. Project Costs .. ..............................              17
D.  Financing ............. .. ........    ............          19
E.  Procurement and Disbursement ....o...........               20
F.  Accounts and Audit ......      .....................        21
G.  Ecological and External Effects ..        ............      21
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ... o .... o     .............       22
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMERS' BENEFITS,
EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT BUDGETS .....        .............      25
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....        ..........       27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION          ...........       28
This report is based on the findings of a joint preparation-
appraisal mission which made visits to Tanzania during March, April, May
and June 1975. The mission was composed of A. Denness, R. H. Clough,
J. F. A. Russell, F. Stubenitsky and G. Ablasser (IDA); and P. Grosjean
and A. M. Wilson (Consultants).



ANNEXES
1.   Ujamaa and the Cooperative Sector
2.   Extension and Training
3.   Technology and Potential for Maize Production
4.   The National Milling Corporation (NMC)
5.   The Food Crops Sector
6.   The National Maize Program
7.   Terms of Reference for Project Staff and Consultants
8.   Project Cost Tables
9.   The Tanzania Rural Development Bank
10.   Maize Markets and Prices
11.   Farmer and Government Budgets and Benefits
12.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of IDA Funds
13.   Economic Analysis
('harts
World Bank-8466(R)        Government Organization
World Bank-8522(R)        The Ministry of Agriculture
World Bank-15244          Implementation Schedule
Maps
IBRD1O?99      Agricultural Research and Training Institutions
IBRD11872      Regions and Districts
IBRD2803R      Mean Annual Rainfall
IBRD28;4R      Potential Land Use



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       Tanzania places high priority on agricultural and rural develop-
ment to close the gap between urban incomes and those of 90% of the pop-
ulation who live in rural areas and work mainly in traditional, near-sub-
sistence agriculture. The development of collective and self-help activi-
ties through villages is emphasized. Because of poor rainfall and the dis-
ruptive effects of villagization, food production, especially the main staple
maize, fell drastically in 1973 and 1974. Grain imports costing about US$160
million were required during 1974 and 1975. The Project, over a four-year
development period, would assist Tanzania in increasing maize production
to replace imports, and would lay the foundation for the long-term develop-
ment of food crop production through improved extension services and the
introduction to farmers of modern inputs and better cultural practices.
(ii)      The Project which would improve and expand the maize production
program started by Government in 1973 would provide input and exten-
sion packages designed to increase maize production in about 950 villages
located in the best maize growing areas in 13 regions of Tanzania. It would
provide villages with subsidized maize production inputs and support maize
production demonstrations and research trials to further improve maize pro-
duction practices throughout the Project area. Additional trucks would be
provided to facilitate transport of maize and farm inputs within the 13 re-
gions. Improved storage for maize and farm inputs would be established within
Project villages and in regional centers. Extension services would be
strengthened through staff training, provision of adequate transport and
extension aids, mobile film units and additional support for the Ministry of
Agriculture's newspaper.
(iii)     A Project Servicing Unit would be established within the Ministry
of Agriculture. This unit would be responsible for input procurement and
disbursement, financial control, monitoring Project progress, preparing
annual work programs, and provision of technical assistance to regional
authorities responsible for Project implementation. A Maize Production Inputs
Account would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture, which would be
used to finance the purchase of maize production inputs and to subsid-
ize their use when necessary. Initially, the subsidy on maize production
inputs would be 75%, but Government plans to progressively reduce this as
efficiency of input use and village incomes increase. The Project would
also provide consultancy services to prepare investment proposals for ex-
panding and modernizing national grain storage and milling facilities;
establishing a national grain reserve; and for the preparation of a national
agricultural development program.



- ii -
(iv)      The Project would be implemented over a four-^rear period by
regional authorities, who would be responsible for selecting the best villages
within their regions, preparing village work programs, and ensuring the timely
delivery of inputs and their efficient use. The Project design incorporates
a flexible approach to Project implementation whereby Project villages, and
storage and transport requirements would be determined during implementation
and incorporated in regional annual work programs. These programs would be
approved by the Project Servicing Unit and incorporated into an annual national
work program which would require the approval of IDA. Policy issues would be
considered by a Project Steering Committee comprising representatives from the
Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Planning, the Prime Minister's Office,
and the Commissioner of Cooperatives.
(v)       The Project would cost US$38.1 million; its foreign exchange component
would be US$24.4 million. The proposed IDA Credit of US$18.0 million would
cover 47% of the Project's total cost. Thirteen percent of Project costs
would be covered by a loan from the Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa. The remaining 40 percent of Project costs would be covered by farmers
(11%) and the Government of Tanzania (29%). Government's share includes the
subsidy portion of the cost of farm input requirements for the first year
(US$6.4 million or 17% of Project costs) which would be financed from the
proceeds of an existing USAID loan. Funds provided under the Project for
construction of storage and purchase of trucks would be channelled through
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). TRDB would borrow funds from
Government at 4 percent interest and onlend at 8-1/2 percent. The terms
would be set out in a subsidiary Loan agreement to be agreed by IDA.
(vi)      Requirements for fertilizers and insecticides from the second year
onwards, and Project requirements for vehicles, village store construction
materials and the contracts for the construction of regional and NMC storage
would be procured through internat:ional competitive bidding, in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Farm input requirements for the first year would be
procured through the normal Goverrment of Tanzania procedures. Local
manufacturers would be allowed a pireference margin of 15 percent or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lower; local civil works contractors
would be allowed a preference margin of 7-1/2 percent. Orders for small
items such as office equipment costing less than US$120,000 and for maize
seed would be placed in accordance with normal Government procedures.
(vii)     Project incremental maize production would be about 195,000 tons
annually at full development after 1982. At the 1975 producer price of
TShs. 0.75/kg this would be worth TShs. 146 million (US$18.1 million).
'lost Project produced maize would replace imports or be absorbed into the
proposed national grain reserve. Small export surpluses would be produced
only in good seasons and absorbed in border trade. The Project would, therefore,
not generate significant export earnings, although the saving in foreign ex-
change expenditures through reducedl maize imports would be substantial. The
incomes of about 380,000 participat:ing families who are among the poorer
sections of the rural community in Tanzania, would be increased. At full
development the average increase in family income has been estimated at
US$42 annually or about 20% above current levels.



- iii -
(viii)    The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated to be
37 percent. The rate of return is high, partly because the Project would
produce maize as a substitute for expensive imports, and also because the
Project would concentrate on improving the efficiency with which resources
presently devoted to maize production are used.
(ix)      The Project has considerable risks on account of the unproven pro-
ductive nature of the villages where the Project would be implemented, and
uncertainties regarding farmers' willingness to purchase and use fertilizers
and other farm inputs. Quality of management is also critical for the success
of the Project. However, the sensitivity analysis indicates that even with
the very adverse assumption that incremental output were 30 percent below
expectation, the Project would still yield an economic rate of return of
16 percent.
(x)       Nine IDA Credits totalling US$91.1 million and two IBRD loans for
US$30 million have been approved so far for agricultural and rural development
projects in Tanzania. These include projects concerned with credit, livestock,
tea, tobacco, cotton, sugar, cashewnuts and one regional development project.
Implementation of those projects has generally been slow.
(xi)      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$18.0 million on
standard terms.






TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania's rural development strategy emphasizes the need to
increase agricultural production by mobilizing the productive capacity,
and improving the living standards of the estimated 13 million people who
live in the rural areas, and who are almost wholly engaged in traditional,
near subsistence agriculture. To implement this strategy, Government has
taken three important steps: the regional decentralization of its admin-
istrative organization; improved coordination between Government and the
Tanganyika African National Union (TANU), Tanzania's only officially recog-
nized party; and the creation of development or ujamaa villages (para. 2.08).
Although problems have arisen, especially in implementing decentralization
and villagisation policies, and the end result of the latter remains un-
clear, rural people are now able to participate more fully in the decision
making process, and are being more effectively mobilized for food production
and other aspects of national development. Unfortunately, Government's in-
tensification of its villagization program coincided with two successive
years of poor rainfall. This situation, coupled with the inevitable dis-
ruption of production caused by villagization, necessitated the import of
large quantities of grain, particularly maize. The proposed Project would
assist Tanzania to increase its maize production and become less dependent
on imports.
1.02      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agriculture sector in
Tanzania has included IDA Credits totalling US$91.1 million and IBRD Loans
for US$30 million for nine agricultural and one rural development project.
Agricultural projects include one for agricultural credit, three for live-
stock, and one each for tobacco, tea, cotton, sugar and cashewnuts. A
rural development project has been approved for the Kigoma region. Credits
have also been provided for agricultural training (1971), and feeder road
development (1972).
1.03      Project implementation has been slow in most cases, but there
has been some improvement recently. In general, management, organization
and staffing have been continuing problems. All small-holder projects
such as the cotton, tobacco, tea and rural development projects have been
affected by the sudden acceleration of the villagization program in 1973
and 1974, requiring a major reorientation of these projects and causing
significant delays. Under the completed credit project, a need was found
for improved supervision of loan records and input distribution. The first
livestock project was reasonably successful, but the second is progressing
more slowly than anticipated due to delays in preparation and approval of
ranch plans, cost overruns in construction of slaughterhouses, and changes
in project management. The tea project has encountered difficulties due to



-2-
inadequate services and lack of effective management control. The Geita
cotton project is experiencing problems due to villagization, national
emphasis on maize rather than cotton, and weak management. The Kilombero
sugar project is proceeding well, although some delays are expected due to
slow delivery of construction material and equipment. The cashew project
and the Kigoma rural development project have only recently become effective.
1.04      The proposed Project was identified in the Bank's 1974 Agricul-
tural and Rural Development Sector Study, and the credit application was
prepared by the Government, assisted by the IBRD Resident Mission in East
Africa (RMEA). This report is based on the findings of joint preparation-
appraisal missions which made visits to Tanzania during March-June 1975. The
missions were composed of A. Denness, R. H. Clough, J. F. A. Russell,
F. Stubenitsky and G. Ablasser, (IDA) and P. Grosjean and A. M. Wilson
(Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Tanzania with a total area of about 880,000 km  is2sparsely pop-
ulated with an average population density of about 16 per km . The pop-
ulation of 14.3 million is increasing at about 3% a year. Average per
capita GNP for 1973 is estimated at. US$110 per annum, but in many rural
areas the per capita income does not exceed US$40 per year. Over 90 per-
cent of the people are dependent on agriculture and 40 percent of GNP is
derived from this sector. The real growth rate of the economy was about
4-1/2% per annum between 1969 and 1974. Actual growth has been behind the
Second Five-Year Plan (1969-1974) targets, mainly due to failure of the
main agricultural crops to reach plan projections and recent adverse changes
in the country's terms of trade.
B. Regional Government and Administration
2.02      A major change in Government structure occurred in 1972, with the
decentralization of a wide range of governmental responsibilities (Chart
World Bank-8466(R)). In particular, regions were authorized to plan and im-
plement their own development progreams and allowed a high degree of autonomy
in regional administration.
2.03      The regional political hea.d is the Regional Commissioner, with the
rank of cabinet minister. He is a member of the National Assembly and TANU's
National Executive Committee. His counterpart at the district level is the
Area Commissioner who is the TANU district secretary, chairman of the District
Development and Planning Committee and a member of the District Development
Council. All commissioners are appointed by the President.



- 3 -
2.04      The regional administration is headed by the Regional Develop-
ment Director (RDD) who is assisted by a Regional Planning Officer and the
heads of the ten regional functional departments. Heads of these depart-
ments report directly to the RDD, who in turn reports to central government
through the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). At the district level the admin-
istration is headed by a District Development Director (DDD). He is assisted
by a District Planning Officer and ten district functional managers. All
important development decisions are made by a District Development and Plan-
ning Committee, chaired by the Area Commissioner, and have to be approved by
the District Development Council, chaired by the TANU district chairman.
While field staff are answerable to the DDD through the heads of their res-
pective departments, they receive technical guidance from the staff at the
regional level and through them from the Ministry of Agriculture (KILIMO).
The organizational structure of KILIMO is shown in Chart World Bank-8522(R).
2.05      The new administrative arrangements ensure improved interaction
between the political structure and the civil service, and enable villagers,
through che basic TANU unit (the ten-family cell) to play a role in deter-
mining the development process. However, problems exist. Planned staff
strengths have not been achieved, particularly at the lowest level, and
staff quality remains low. Project implementation capacity varies con-
siderably between regions and districts, and regional performance is affec-
ted by the interpretation of and relative emphasis given to aspects of
national policy by regional officials.
C. Villagization and Land Tenure
Organization of Production
2.06      Until the advent of Government's villagization program most pro-
duction was concentrated on smallholdings which were cultivated by hand
and produced family subsistence and cash crops. Most holdings (over 80%)
were less than 2 ha, and only 2.5% were 5 ha or larger. Plots tended to
be irregular but fragmentation was a serious problem only in the densely
populated areas of Kilimanjaro, Arusha and Mbeya regions.
Ujamaa and Villagization
2.07      The Arusha Declaration of 1967 and the TANU guidelines of 1971
reaffirmed Tanzania's commitment to a socialist society and identified the
ujamaa village as a means of effecting self-reliance and a community ap-
proach to development. In addition to political advantages the ujamaa
village was seen as the vehicle for providing economies of scale in de-
livering inputs and social services, which could improve the lives of
rural people. The ultimate objective is that ujamaa villages should be-
come multi-purpose cooperative societies with authority to own land and
to borrow. Government has provided considerable assistance to newly de-
veloped ujamaa villages, mainly by transporting villagers' effects, providing



- 4 -
building materials for houses, water supply schemes and other social services;
and by encouraging the development of productive activities. (Annex 1)
2.08      By early 1975 Government estimated that about 65% of the rural
population, almost 9 million people, were living in ujamaa-type villages
throughout Tanzania. Completion of the national villagization program is
expected by the end of 1976. The precise pattern of development within
each ujamaa village has been left to villages and regional authorities to
decide. Consequently, the extent of collective activity varies among
villages and the precise workings of ujamaa are still evolving. During
1974 and 1975 emphasis has shifted from the establishment of ujamaa coopera-
tives to the formation of planned or development villages. A development
village is any planned or existing village which is registered with the
Registrar of Cooperatives and has thus attained cooperative society status
with borrowing powers. Only if in such a village production is organized
primarily on a communal basis and the village has achieved economic viability
can it be declared an ujamaa village, according to a recent Government
directive.
D. The Agricultural Sector
Foreign Trade
2.09      Agriculture and livestock exports in 1974 were valued at TShs. 2,050
million. Cotton and sisal were the muajor foreign exchange earners, each ac-
counting for about 23% of the total value of agricultural exports. Other
important crops were coffee and cashew, with export shares of 17% and 10%,
respectively. Imports of agricultural commodities (food, live animals and
animal fats and oils) reached a tota:L of TShs. 1,138 million (US$159 million)
in 1974, equivalent to 21% of total imports. Important smallholder cash crops
are cotton, cashewnuts, tobacco, coffee, maize and rice.
Agricultural Services
2.10      Extension.  The agricultural extension service is organized re-
gionally and coordinated by KILIMO in Dar-es-Salaam. About 2,500 field
staff are engaged in crop work, and a further 800 in animal husbandry and
animal health programs. On average one officer is responsible for 900-
1,000 farmers (Annex 2).
2.11      So far the extension services have been ineffective in introducing
improved techniques to farmers. Major reasons have been the lack of adequate
staff, inadequate training in the more valuable techniques, and poor manage-
ment. The latter is reflected in a lack of work programing and logistic
support, frequent transfers, and problems with the administration of pay and
allowance. Refresher courses are infrequent and a recent analysis revealed
that, on average, an extension worker receives additional training only once
during his entire service.



- 5 -
2.12      Research.  Agricultural research is organized in twelve major
centers, each handling several crops or livestock. (Map IBRD10799) Priorities
are set at an annual conference under the joint chairmanship of KILIMO's
Directors of Crop Development and Livestock Development. Maize research
is carried out at the Ilonga (Morogoro) and Ukiriguru (Mwanza) stations,
and at the Agricultural Research and Training Institute in Mbeya. The
Ilonga and Ukiriguru stations have developed several successful maize
composites, of which the IC-A and UC-A are the best known and most widely
used. Maize research is being supported by a grant from US-AID under which
maize breeders and agronomists, including two seconded from the International
Wheat and Maize Improvement Center (CIMMYT), are continuing to improve exist-
ing composites and develop new composites and hybrids. Trials to improve
maize production practices and to test the use of fertilizers have been
carried out in all major maize producing areas of the country. The results
show clearly that maize yields can be significantly increased by the timely
planting of improved varieties, effective weed and insect pest control and
fertilizer use (Annex 3). Further work is required, however, for a more
detailed analysis of existing experimental results and to refine the maize
fertilizer and variety recommendations for some ecological zones and for
varying levels of maize husbandry. Also, in view of the soil acidifying
effects of continuous applications of sulphate of ammonia and its high trans-
portation cost per unit of nitrogen, trials are required to determine optimum
methods for replacing it with more concentrated and less acidifying nitrogenous
fertilizer such as diammonium phosphate and calcium nitrate (paras. 4.02 and
4.15).
Farm Mechanization
2.13      The use of oxen, tractors and improved implements has developed
only slowly in Tanzania and programs to increase it have generally been un-
successful. Tractor utilization has been poor, due to frequent breakdowns
and poor maintenance, and trained oxen made available to farmers on a grant
basis have often remained unused or underutilized. Trained instructors have
been in short supply and the use of improved low-cost implements has not
been widely demonstrated. At present, ox cultivation is common only in
Shinyanga region, but some use is also made in other western and northern
areas. Government's villagisation program and the urgent need to increase
crop production have created renewed interest in accelerating the use of
mechanization, especially oxen, to improve yields and expand cultivated
areas. However, past problems associated with the introduction of ox culti-
vation justify no more than a gradual or pilot approach limited to those areas
where oxen have traditionally been used, and ox training centers already exist
(para. 4.18).
Agricultural Marketing and Pricing
2.14      Major traded crops are marketed through state-owned or controlled
marketing boards or corporations. The National Milling Corporation (NMC)
is responsible for purchasing, processing and marketing for internal consump-
tion mai,z' rice and wheat (Annex 4). Regional cooperative unions and



-6-
primary societies act as agents of the parastatals collecting marketed crops
and selling processed products. Unions obtain working capital from the
National Bank of Commerce (NBC), and make cash payments to producers through
member primary cooperative societies.
2.15      Producer prices and parastatals' buying and selling prices are
established by the Economic Committee of the Cabinet. The former are an-
nouced in advance of a planting season and are uniform throughout the
country. Parastatals' buying prices at regional centers vary and allow for
regional differences in handling and collection costs. Selling prices are
uniform throughout the country.
2.16      Prices of production inputs are also established centrally but
because parastatals operate various input subsidy and credit schemes, prices
for selected items vary throughout the country. An input subsidization
policy was originally adopted for cash crops only in order to provide in-
centives to farmers to adopt improved practices involving the use of pur-
chased inputs. Such a policy has had the effect of lowering farmers'
resistance to purchasing inputs largely as a result of the lower required
cash outlays and, consequently, a diminished financing risk in case of crop
failure. Subsidies have also reduced the need for credit to finance such
inputs which is an important factor in view of farmers' liquidity problems
and a poorly developed rural credit system. The cost of subsidizing inputs
for cash crops has traditionally been recovered through the price mechanism
and through taxes.
2.17      Under the National Maize Program, inputs were provided free in 1973
and 1974 since most participating farmers had only very limited financial
resources and all previous attempts to institute a credit system for small-
scale food crop production had failed. Only a small fraction of the maize
input subsidy could be recovered through the price structure because of the
high cost of marketing and government's efforts to keep the rise in the
cost of basic foods to a minimum.. This subsidy thus became a growing burden
on the general budget. While continued subsidization of certain farm inputs
remains justified, subsidy levels and methods of cost recovery have to be
reviewed with the objective of gradually reducing the cost to the Treasury
and eventually eliminating the subsidies; the introduction in 1975 of
a cash payment by farmers of 25% of input costs represents a step in that
direction (para. 6.04). Government is aware of the need for a consistent
input pricing policy and the importance of keeping subsidy costs at manage-
able levels and the Marketing Development Bureau of KILIMO is carrying out
studies and assisting in the formulation of a viable long-run policy (Annex 5).
2.18      Farm inputs can be obtained relatively easily in the agricul-
turally more developed areas of Tanzania, which include Mwanza, Mbeya,
Iringa, Arusha and Kilimanjaro. Small and large-scale farmers and estates
in these regions are usually able to purchase their requirements directly
from organizations like the Tanganyika Farmers Association (TFA). Similarly
in those areas where cash crops (like coffee, tobacco, tea and cotton) have
been developed, farmers are usually well served by the crop authorities and



-7-
cooperative societies.  Outside these areas farmers experience great dif-
ficulty in obtaining inputs, and the performance of cooperative unions
and primary societies varies enormously. Scarcity of skilled manpower to
maintain accounts and manage and supervise union and cooperative affairs,
especially transport and produce handling, remains a major problem. The
cooperative movement, however, is receiving substantial assistance to over-
come these problems under a project supported by the Nordic group of coun-
tries. Further support would be provided under the Fifth Education Project
for which IDA financing has been requested.
E. The Food Situation
2.19      Major food crops in Tanzania are maize, millet and sorghum, paddy,
potatoes, cassava, bananas and beans. These are produced predominantly by
smallholders, many of whom live in newly established villages and use most
of their production for subsistence. Agricultural output has stagnated in
recent years, with real growth in GDP in the agricultural sector falling
behind population growth. Similarly, food crop production has failed to
keep pace with the expanding population, and Tanzania has become increas-
ingly dependent on imports of maize, rice and wheat.
2.20      The deteriorating food balance position was seriously aggravated
by the poor harvests obtained in 1973 and 1974, and in 1974 some 440,000
tons of grain (291,000 tons of maize) were imported, at a cost of about
TShs. 758 million (US$106 million). Maize, the traditional staple, is par-
ticularly important since it is the only food crop marketed commercially on
a national scale, and in the event of a general reduction in food crop pro-
duction, unsatisfied demand for other staple foods increases demand for maize.
Further grain imports are required in 1975 and these are expected to total
about 300,000 tons valued at TShs. 390 million (US$55 million), of which
maize would be 247,000 tons (Annex 5).
F. The Maize Production Program
2.21      The food crop failures of 1973 and 1974 have emphasized the need to
increase domestic food crop production and to establish strategic grain
reserves. First among the national objectives is a significant increase in
the output of maize. To achieve this, Government initiated in 1973, and con-
siderably expanded in 1974, a National Maize Production Program. This program,
executed by regional authorities, consisted of the free distribution of inputs,
mainly fertilizer, seed and insecticides to farmers in newly-formed villages.
In 1974 the program was extended to 13 regions, and appears to have reached
approximately 25,000 farmers, or 150,000 people. The program, however,
suffered from delays in input distribution, a poorly organized and badly
informed extension service and from lack of effective management. Consequently,
the program did not achieve its aim, and the increased maize production in



- 8 -
1975 resulted mainly from the increase in the maize producer price and Govern-
ment's measures to encourage an increase in the area under maize. The aim of
the National Maize Project is to develop and expand the Maize Production Pro-
gram, paying specific attention to increasing yields per area cropped. (Annex 6)
2.22      Seed multiplication is carried out on Government regional seed
farms, (supported by USAID), and by a number of private growers and companies
under contract to the Tanzania Seed Company. The latter is managed by the
Tanzania Wattle Company, which itself is a major seed producer, and both
receive financial and technical support from the Commonwealth Development
Corporation. Major problems are inadequate coordination of seed producers'
activities and the need to determine more accurately actual requirements of
the various composites and hybridIs for each maize producing area. In this
respect, additional expertise ancl finance are not required, but the Project
would assist the Seed Coordinating Committee to operate effectively, and
ensure an adequate supply of cert:ified seed by drawing up a quantified work
program, and introducing the necessary inspection and reporting procedures.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
3.01      The Project area would include virtually all high potential maize
growing areas of Tanzania (Annex 3). These areas are located in the fol-
lowing thirteen of the country's 21 regions: Mara, Arusha, Kilimanjaro
and Tanga in the north; Morogoro, Dodoma and Tabora in the center; Iringa,
Mbeya, Rukwa and Ruvuma in the southern highlands; and Lindi and Mtwara in
the southeast. Within these regions suitable maize producing areas have
been identified in 28 of the 41 districts. Project activities would be limited
to 950 villages, or about 50% of the total number in these districts. Maps
IBRD11872 and IBRD2803R show the regions and districts included under the
Project, and rainfall distributioni throughout Tanzania, respectively.
3.02      The northern Project areas have a bimodal rainfall regime, with
short rains in October - November, and main rains from February to May,
which is the main maize planting season for these areas. The central and
southern Project areas have a single rain season generally lasting from
November to April. November is the main planting season but this extends
into December in the more northern areas.
3.03      The land use potential map (Map IBRD2804R) gives details of soil
types. Groups 5 and 6 which include the ferruginous and ferrisoils, res-
pectively, have the highest potential; groups 4 and 7, which include the
sandier soils, and the acid leached ferralitic soils of the higher rainfall
areas, have generally low fertility and only moderate potential.
3.04      The Iringa, Morogoro, Mbeya, Ruvuma regions and the Sumbawanga
district of Rukwa region have excellent soils and rainfall conditions for



- 9 -
maize production, as also have the more fertile highland areas of Arusha,
Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions. The Mpwapwa District of Dodoma region has
soils of moderate potential while, except for certain localized areas,
the soils of Tabora, Mara, Lindi and Mtwara regions are less productive.
B. Land Use and Types of Farming
3.05      All Project participants would live in either ujamaa or develop-
ment villages. In the former, farming is either on a communal basis or in
blocks where individuals have their own holding, although normally each
family also has a subsistence plot. Development villages are made up of
scattered individual holdings but with village committees, and they will
gradually be converted to ujamaa villages with blocks cultivated either
individually or communally.
3.06      Cropping systems vary widely throughout the Project area.  Maize
is the predominant food crop, being grown in combination with various other
food and cash crops. The latter varies from tobacco in Tabora region,
cotton and sunflower in Morogoro, and pyrethrum, coffee and tea in regions
of higher elevation, while in the coastal areas coconut and cashew are
important.
3.07      Various agro-economic zones have been identified throughout the
Project area by the Bureau of Resource Assessment and Land Use Planning, but
further work is required to develop improved farming systems for these zones.
(Annex 3).   The expertise provided under the Project would begin to rectify
this situation.
C. Rural Infrastructure
Villages
3.08      Village structure in the Project area has changed significantly
under the impact of Government's villagization program and changes will con-
tinue to occur for a number of years. Facilities in these villages range
from less than the bare necessities, to schools, health centers, piped water
and other social and economic infrastructure for which Government has been
providing substantial assistance.  Village size varies from about one hundred
to more than a thousand families.  This, and the fact that the economic base
is extremely varied, makes village development planning very difficult, and
emphasizes the need for a flexible approach to deal with local conditions.
However, despite the generally low level of development, and the difficul-
ties arising from the brisk pace of the villagization program, villages are
the only practical means through which a large number of rural people can be
reached under this Project with its large geographical coverage.



- 10 -
Marketing and Input Distribution
3.09      The National Milling Corporation (NMC) purchases maize and sells
maize meal in all regions included in the Project area. In most regions,
NMC buys from cooperative unions; exceptions to this are Tanga, Mara and
Ruvuma regions where primary cooperative societies sell direct to NMC. Coop-
erative unions are the weakest link in the marketing chain, mainly because
staff salaries are too low to attract management staff of the right calibre.
It is expected that with the assistance being provided under the Nordic
Cooperative Project these problems can be alleviated. (Annex 1)
3.10      With the exception of Arusha and Tabora regions cooperatives are
not involved in the distribution of farm inputs. Where cash inputs are used,
they are generally distributed either by the Tanganyika Farmers Association
(TFA) which operates in Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Iringa and Mbeya regions, by the
Regional Trading Corporations, or by cash crop authorities. The latter obtain
financing for this purpose from the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB).
Under the maize program, inputs have been distributed by regional and district
authorities under the supervision of the Regional Development Director. These
arrangements would continue in most areas until cooperatives are able to
assume this function, or other means, possibly involving cash crop authorities,
can be developed.
3.11      The National Milling Corporation is responsible for the transporta-
tion of marketed maize in the Project area, assisted in some areas by coop-
erative unions. Although NMC owns about sixty trucks these are insufficient,
and a significant portion of the transport requirements is still being met
through the hire of trucks from small private operators. Lack of transport
caused by poor vehicle maintenance, inexperienced and indisciplined drivers,
poor road maintenance, and a chronic shortage of vehicle spares is becoming
a significant constraint to expanding food crop production, and to rural
development as a whole. There is no clear solution to these problems which
are national in scale and can only be cured in the long-term. The rural area
transport problems could be alleviated in part by the railway, which should
provide least-cost transport services in the areas served. The railway, how-
ever, is plagued by operational difficulties and a continuous shortage of
rolling stock.
3.12      Commercial grain storage facilities are largely owned by NMC and
cooperative unions. NMC's godowns and silos have a total capacity of about
260,000 tons of which about 140,000 tons are located within the Project area,
75,000 tons in Dar-es-Salaam and 45,000 tons in rural areas outside the Pro-
ject. The cooperative unions' utilizable grain storage is estimated at
75,000 tons, most of which is located within the Project area. The total
storage capacity of district and regional godowns and silos in the Project
regions available for maize and other grains is thus estimated at about
200,000 tons. In addition, cooperative societies own storage facilities
which are, however, of generally poor quality and unsuitable for storage
over periods longer than a few weeks. Losses due to inadequate storage
have been high, particularly in years with large crops, earlier than normal
rains and conditions particularly favourable to pest infestation.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project, over a four-year development period, would assist
Tanzania to increase efficiency in maize production and raise output in order
to lessen future dependence on imports. It would provide 950 selected villages
within the thirteen most important maize producing regions of the country with
maize production inputs, improved extension services, and maize demonstration
plots; improved transport and storage facilities; and establish a central Pro-
ject Servicing Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture to assist Regional Authorities
in Project implementation. Detailed investment proposals for the long-term
development of food crop production and processing and a national grain reserve
would be prepared, and assistance provided for the planning of a national
agricultural development program. A Project implementation schedule is
attached as Chart World Bank-15244. Specifically the Project would:
a)   Provide the maize seed, fertilizers, insecticides
and, on a trial basis, herbicides required over the
four-year Project period, and establish a Maize
Production Inputs Account to finance the purchase
of production inputs and their distribution;
b)   Strengthen extension services through staff
training, a clear description and arrangement of
extension staff activities and providing staff
with adequate transport and extension aids, and
with the production inputs required to arrange for
field demonstration of improved maize husbandry;
c)   Improve farm input supply and maize marketing
arrangements by:
(i) Providing transport at regional level
to ensure the timely delivery of farm
inputs and maize marketing; and
(ii) Constructing farm input and maize stores
at Project villages and at regional
locations;
d) Expand ongoing food crop adaptive research programs;
e)   Provide each Project region with a mobile film unit,
and expand the circulation of KILIMO's agricultural
newspaper;



- 12 -
f)   Implement a pilot scheme designed to develop
methods for expanding the use of oxen cultivation;
g)   Establish and staff within KILIMO a Project Ser-
vicing Unit (PSU) responsible for input procurement
and distribution, Project financial control, moni-
toring Project progress, preparing Project annual
work programs, and providing regional authorities
with the extension aids, films and technical as-
sistance required to implement the Project;
h)   Provide consultant and technical services to re-
view Government's plans and prepare detailed in-
vestment proposals for:
(i) Establishing a national grain reserve;
(ii) Expanding and modernizing the milling
and storage facilities of the National
Milling Corporation; and
i)   Assist in the planning and preparation of a national
agricultural development program.
B. Detailed Features
Maize Production Technology and Input Packages
4.02      The Project would initially provide three standard maize production
improvement packages for all Project areas. The packages would include fer-
tilizer recommendations similar to those made recently by Government's Soil
and Fertilizer Coordinating Committee. 1/ Maize production recommendations
would be continually reviewed as itformation becomes available from Project
field trials and demonstrations, and as changes occur in the price relation-
ship between maize and purchased inputs. Revised recommendations would be
incorporated in Project annual work programs (para 5.03).
4.03      The three maize production packages would be:
Package 1:     Intensive extension to improve time and density of planting
using composite seed, and improved weeding and pest control.
Package 2:     When Package 1 has been adopted satisfactorily and village
maize yields have ri:sen to about 1,500 kg/ha, fertilizer
would be introduced equivalent to 50 kg/ha triple super-
phosphate, and 100 kg/ha sulphate of ammonia. Some villages
1/   The packages also would be similar to those recommended for the IDA
assisted Kigoma Rural Development Project.



- 13 -
in high altitude areas would use hybrid rather than composite
seed.
Package 3:     In areas most suited to maize production, some villages would
move into Package 3 which would use the equivalent of an
additional 50 kg/ha sulphate of ammonia, and in most cases
hybrid rather than composite seed.
Generally, Project villages would move from Package 1 to Package 3 in a
sequential manner. This arrangement would ensure an improvement in husbandry
standards before introducing fertilizer, and an increase in village incomes
from which,.purchases of fertilizer could be met. However, as little is
known about farmers' adoption behavior, the sequence of introduction of the
Packages could be experimented with. Some villages are already at a stage
similar to Packages 2 and 3. These would be assisted to improve further
their present production levels. The use of more concentrated fertilizers
would be encouraged, especially di-ammonium phosphate and calcium nitrate to
replace sulphate of ammonia which increases soil acidity, while the long-
term aim of the research program would be to develop crop rotations involving
legumes to reduce the need for imported nitrogenous fertilizer.
4.04      Government would initially subsidize all maize inputs except herbi-
cides because of the high cost of inputs, especially fertilizer, the diffi-
culties and cost of organizing a national credit program and the limited
scope for providing added incentives to participating farmers through higher
maize producer prices (paras. 6.03-6.04). During 1975/76 the subsidy, which
would be paid by Treasury from general revenue, would be equivalent to 75%
of the farm gate cost of inputs. Project villages would pay in cash the
difference between the Government subsidy and the actual farm gate cost.
Government would review the subsidy level annually in the light of experience
gained under the Project, and with regard to changes in input and maize pro-
ducer prices, and develop a program to gradually reduce and eventually elimi-
nate the subsidy burden on Treasury. Assurances were obtained from Govern-
ment that IDA would be consulted during the annual review of subsidy levels.
4.05      Maize production inputs required for Project year 1975/76 would
be purchased by Government. 1/ These total about 16,000 tons of fertilizer,
4,000 tons of seed, and 1,800 tons of pesticide.  The returns from the sale
of all maize inputs (at subsidized prices) would be channeled into a Maize
Production Inputs Account (MPIA) which would be established for the purchase
and delivery of maize production inputs. In addition to the sales proceeds,
Government would deposit into this account sufficient funds to cover payments
for the purchase and delivery of inputs. The minimum amount to be deposited
in the account at the beginning of each calendar quarter would be equal to
the expected payments during that quarter. Total input requirements for
1975/76 and annual incremental requirements for Project years 1976/77 -
1978/79 would be financed under the Project. The establishment of MPIA
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
1/   Government could be reimbursed for the subsidy portion of total input
cost for that year from a USAID loan of July, 1975.



- 14 -
4.06      Since during the 1973/74 and 1974/75 cropping seasons maize pro-
duction inputs were distributed free, the degree to which villages would be
able and willing to purchase maize production inputs is unknown. Consequently,
should some of the inputs purchased by Government in the first year remain
unsold at the end of the 1975/76 planting, these inputs would be retained
for the next season. Incremental inputs which are provided under the Project
would only be purchased once inputs had been sold and the Maize Production
Inputs Account had been funded in the agreed manner.
Extension Services, Training and Demonstrations (Annex 2)
4.07      Short courses in maize agronomy and extension methods would be
given to all field assistants and assistant field officers at their local
rural training centers (RTC). These courses, lasting for two weeks, would
be conducted by senior agricultural staff from the regions concerned. In
the first year all staff would take one course with a refresher course every
year thereafter. All staff responsible for teaching at the RTCs would attend
a two-week course at the Ilonga Research Station. More intensive courses in
maize agronomy and extension methods would be arranged for assistant field
officers and the most progressive field assistants. These would be given at
the agricultural research and training centres. In addition, a few senior
agricultural staff would be sent overseas for intensive courses in advanced
maize agronomy.
4.08      To assist in arranging suitable training courses in maize the
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in Mexico would
provide a senior training officer for a period of about four weeks.
4.09      Courses in organization and management would be arranged for all
regional and district agricultural development officers, regional Project
coordinators and district supervisors. These courses would last three weeks
and be held at the Tanzanian Management Development Institute at Morogoro.
In addition management seminars for regional and district staff would be
arranged to ensure an exchange of views and experience between participating
regions.
4.10      Two maize demonstration plots would be planted annually in each
Project village. One plot would be planted and managed by the village
school, while the other would be the responsibility of a progressive farmer
selected by the village committee. In both cases, the necessary inputs and
technical advice would be provided free by the Project. The school demon-
stration plot would be about half a hectare in area with four equal-size
plots. Three plots would demonstrate the three production packages provided
under the Project and one the prevailing traditional system. The village
demonstration plot would replicate the package being adopted by the village.
These demonstration activities would also provide an opportunity for exten-
sion staff to gain practical experi:ence.



- 15 -
Input Supply and Maize Marketing (Annexes 4 and 6)
4.11      During the Project period, regional cooperative unions (or in
certain regions, NMC) would become increasingly involved in the distribution
of maize production inputs and the movement of maize grain. For the trans-
port of the estimated Project input requirements and incremental maize pro-
duction, an additional 44, 7-ton, and 44, 10-ton trucks would be required.
These would be provided under the Project.
4.12      There is a shortage of storage facilities in most of the newly
established villages. Under the Project about 530 villages would be pro-
vided with stores of about 200 tons capacity. Stores of this size would be
expensive if constructed by contractors. Consequently, the Project would
provide construction materials and technical advice, while construction would
be carried out by villagers on a self-help basis. The materials cost of
village stores constructed in this manner would be about US$6,000 each.
4.13      Project villages would be selected by Regional Authorities during
Project implementation, and since there is no previous experience of farmers'
ability and willingness to purchase maize production inputs it is impossible
to estimate precisely how many stores would be required and how big individ-
ual stores would be. Consequently, a lump sum for village store construc-
tion has been included, and the exact size and location of village stores
would be determined during Project implementation by Regional Authorities
with the assistance of the Project Servicing Unit. Inevitably, there would
be a time lag between identifying the need for a store and completion of
construction. To overcome this problem, and to ensure that adequate tem-
porary storage was available, the Project would supply cooperative unions
with tarpaulins which would be used by Project villages until permanent stores
were constructed.
4.14      There is a need also for additional regional storage for maize
and farm inputs.  The Project would provide for the construction of storage
facilities for about 34,000 tons of farm inputs and 80,000 tons of maize.
Similar to village storage, the precise location of the new regional storage
would only be determined during Project implementation. All Project storage
and transport requirements would be incorporated in regional annual work
programs. These work programs would be appraised by PSU and would be sub-
ject to approval by the Project Steering Committee and IDA (para. 5.03).
Crop Trials and Adaptive Research (Annex 3)
4.15      While there is sufficient experimental data to fully justify the
general use of the varieties and the amounts and types of fertilizer recom-
mended under the Project, further field research is required to determine
more optimum recommendations for the various ecological conditions existing
throughout the Project area and to find a suitable nitrogenous fertilizer to
replace sulphate of ammonia (para. 2.12). About four trials would be
established in each region every year and these would be organized by the
Research Division of KILIMO. To enable the formulation of a national adaptive



- 16 -
maize research program and to give a clearer idea of maize production con-
ditions throughout Tanzania, a dei:ailed review would be made of all aspects
of maize agronomy in the major maize growing areas of the country. The
review which would include recommendations for the future agronomic develop-
ments required to put the maize industry on a sound- long-term footing would
be carried out by a consultant agronomist especially recruited for the pur-
pose. Terms of reference for the review are detailed in Annex 7.
Mobile Film Units and Agricultural Newspaper (Annex 2)
4.16      The Project would provide a mobile film unit for each of the 13
Project regions. Provision would also be made for the purchase and produc-
tion of suitable films on maize production.
4.17      KILIMO publishes a monthly agricultural newspaper (Ukulima wa
Kisasa) although few copies are distributed in the newly established villages.
The Project would increase the number of copies printed and arrange for their
distribution in all Project villages. Articles on maize production would be
incorporated in the paper. Maize production leaflets would also be prepared
and distributed.
Oxen Pilot Scheme (Annex 6)
4.18      A pilot scheme to develop methods of improving oxen utilization and
for proving suitable ox-drawn equipment would be carried out in up to twenty
selected villages located in those Project regions where oxen use is most
common. Selected villages would be required to own a minimum of ten pairs
of oxen. Such villages would be provided with an experienced oxen trainer
for two years, and up to ten sets of ox-drawn equipment, each including a
cart, harrow, plough and cultivator. The equipment would be provided free
with the proviso that it would be withdrawn if farmers failed to participate
effectively in Project activities. In addition, the Project would provide
oxen to four mechanized agriculture centers which are being established
with UNDP/FAO assistance. The animals would be used for the development and
testing of new ox-drawn implements, in particular a maize planter and
interrow cultivator.
Project Servicing Unit (PSU)
4.19      Regional authorities would implement the Project at regional and
district level. To assist them a PSU would be established within the Crop
Production Division of KILIMO. PSUr would be headed by a Project Manager and
would include the following key staff: Extension Specialist, Farm Manage-
ment Specialist, Financial Controller, and Procurement and Distribution
Officer. It would be responsible for controlling Project finances, procuring
and distributing maize production inputs and other Project-related materials
and equipment, coordinating regional maize production plans, preparing annual
Project work programs, providing regional authorities with extension aids, and
monitoring Project progress. The Project would meet the full costs of estab-
lishing and operating PSU, including the cost of purchasing and operating a



- 17 -
light aircraft, which would provide the essential communication link between
the Unit and the 13 Project regions. Terms of reference for the PSU are
included in Annex 7.
Pre-investment Studies
4.20      Government recognizes the need to establish a national grain re-
serve, for which maize is the most important commodity, and for expanding
and modernizing the milling and storage facilities of NMC. The Project would
provide up to 60 man-months of consultancy services to carry out the required
pre-investment work and prepare detailed investment proposals for a national
grain reserve and for developing NMC's storage and milling facilities. Terms
of reference for the pre-investment studies are included in Annex 7.
Planning and Preparation of a National Agricultural Development Program
4.21      The Project would provide US$180,000 over a three-year period for
agro-economic surveys, crop trials, land use planning and transport and
allowances for KILIMO planning staff and consultants. A long-term national
agricultural development program would be prepared which is compatible with
Tanzania's regional approach to implementing its development effort and
directed mainly towards those research, extension and investment activities
that are better carried out at a national rather than a regional level.
A preparation program is presently being prepared with RMEA assistance.
C. Project Costs
4.22      Detailed Project cost estimates, based on July, 1975 prices which
have been adjusted to take account of the October, 1975 devaluation of the
Tanzanian currency, are presented in Annex 8 and summarized below:



- 18 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
--(TShs. millions)---   ---(US$ millions)----           %
Farm Inputs           30.8      84.6   115.4  3.822  10.508   14.330          73
Project Servicing
Unit                 4.6       5.3      9.9  0.566   0.667    1.233        54
Regional Staff and
Support             18.0      16.2    34.2  2.237   2.008    4.245         47
Storage and
Transport           24.1      43.8    67.9  2.989   5.440    8.429         65
Training               4.5       3.0      7.5  0.569   0.369    0.938        39
Air Transport          0.6       1.8      2.4  0.084   0.221    0.305         72
Pilot Ox Utiliza-
tion                 0.6       0.1     0.7  0.069   0.015    0.084         18
Project Prepara-
tion Studies         1.3       4.2     5.5  0.152   0.527    0.679         78
Subtotal   84.5    159.0   243.5 10.488  19.755   30.243           65
Physical Contin-
gencies              5.2       7.0    12.2  0.643   0.871    1.514         57
Price Contingencies  21.0       30.3    51.3  2.611   3.769    6.380         59
Total Project
Cost          110.7    196.3   307.0 13.742  24.395   38.137          64
Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 10% for all Project
components except farm inputs, the pilot ox utilization scheme and project
preparation studies, for which no physical contingencies have been allowed.
Estimated input quantities are at maximum levels at which inputs could be
usefully employed under the Project. Price contingencies have been included
at the following annual rates: vehicles, equipment and general for 1975/76
- 1978/79 respectively:  11%, 9%, 8% and 8%; the foreign cost of buildings
and civil works: 15%, 13%, 12% and 12%; and the local cost of buildings and
civil works: 22.5%, 19%, 16.5% and 15% (Annex 8, Appendix 1). Local taxes,
principallv including income taxes on earnings of local staff and some fuel
taxes, are estimated to represent less than one percent of total Project cost.



- 19 -
D. Financing
4.23      Financing of the Project would be as follows:
Sources of Financing                      Total Project Costs
US$
(Millions)     %
Government of Tanzania 1/                   11.1         29
Farmers                                      4.0         11
Arab Bank for Economic Develop-
ment in Africa (ABEDIA)                     5.0        13
IDA                                         18.0         47
Total             38.1        100
1/   Of which up to US$6.4 million is being made available to finance part
of the cost of inputs in Year 1, from a US$12 million USAID loan to
Tanzania's agriculture sector, thus reducing Government's share to
12% of total costs.
4.24      Under the proposed financing arrangements the cost of inputs in the
first Project year would be financed by Government (US$6.4 million) and farmers
(US$2.1 million). Of the remaining Project costs, Government would pay US$4.7
million, farmers US$1.9 million, ABEDIA US$5.0 million and IDA US$ 18.0 million.
The ABEDIA loan, which would finance expenditures for all project vehicles, the
light aircraft, village equipment and overseas training, would be at 2% annual
interest over 20 years, with a 5-year grace period. The fulfillment of the
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loan agreement between ABEDIA
and Government would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. The
ABEDIA/IDA contributions together would finance approximately $16 million of
foreign exchange expenditures and US$7 million of local costs.
4.25      Funds for storage and transport would be channeled by Government
to TRDB (Annex 9) at 4% annual interest, over 20 years, with a 5-year grace
period. TRDB loans would be at 8-1/2% annual interest over 10 years for the
construction of storage facilities and at 8-1/2% annual interest over 3 years
for vehicles. These rates would be in line with TPDB's current standard terms
for short-term loans and one percentage point above for medium and long-term
loans. Should Government wish to make Project funds available to private
transport owners for the purchase of lorries, such funds would be channeled
through the National Bank of Commerce, through its wholly-owned subsidiary
KARADHA Co. Ltd. The same terms as for TRDB would be applicable. Subsidiary



- 20 -
loan agreements would be drawn up governing the terms under which Government
provided funds to lending institutions. A loan agreement between Government
and TRDB would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
4.26      PSU's procurement of Project incremental fertilizer, insecticides,
herbicides, vehicles, motor cycles, platform scales, safes, aircraft, village
store construction materials and the contracts for the construction of regional
and NMC storage (US$21 million) would be by international competitive bidding,
following IDA guidelines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference
margin of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Local
civil works contractors would have a 7-1/2% preference margin. All maize seed,
and office equipment, bicycles, tarpaulins and small miscellaneous items costing
less than US$120,000 per contract would be procured locally in accordance
with normal Government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. The required
maize seed, mainly local varieties, would be supplied by the domestic seed
industry. Thirteen fully equipped film vans would be obtained at special
discount from UNESCO through the kudio-visual Institute in Dar-es-Salaam.
Assurances were obtained during credit negotiations that PSU would bulk
orders for vehicles and other equiLpment wherever possible; that draft tender
documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of US$300,000 would be
submitted to IDA for approval before invitations are issued: that bid analysis
and recommendation for award woulel be submitted to IDA for comment before
contracts are awarded; and that all other procurement would follow standard
Government procedures which are satisfactory.
4.27      Against appropriate documentation, IDA would disburse:
(i) For incremental maize production inputs required in Project
Years 2 to 4, including inputs for research trials and
demonstration plots:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures if directly imported;
(b)  80% of total expenditures if locally procured;
(ii)  For equipment and materials:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures if directly imported;
(b)  80% of total expenditures if locally procured;
(iii)  80% of the cost of constructing regional and NMC storage as well
as offices for Project Servicing Unit staff;
(iv) 100% of the foreign expenaditures of consultancy services,
including PSU staff;



- 21 -
(v) 80% of the cost of local training; local PSU and regional
staff salaries; and the cost of operation and maintenance of
PSU and regional vehicles, excluding lorries.
Documentation for expenditures under (v) above would not be submitted to IDA
for review, but would be retained by the Borrower and be available for ins-
pection by IDA during Project supervision. A schedule of quarterly disburse-
ments is in Annex 12. Any surplus funds would be subject to cancellation.
4.28      For the crop season 1975/76 retroactive financing would be required
for the items detailed in Annex 8, Table 12.   These items have a total esti-
mated cost of TShs. 4.2 million (US$0.5 million) of which TShs. 2.1 million
(US$0.3 million) would be eligible for disbursement by IDA and TShs. 1.5
million (US$0.2 million) for disbursement by ABEDIA.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.29      Government would maintain separate accounts for maize production
inputs and for disbursements through the Project Servicing Unit which would
be audited by the Auditor General. TRDB and NMC would also maintain separate
accounts for subloans under the Project. The TRDB and NMC accounts would be
audited by the Tanzania Audit Corporation or any other independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and the accounts and auditors' reports would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. Auditing of
the regional and village cooperatives is the responsibility of the Prime
Ministers Office; all audited cooperative accounts would be available for
examination by IDA.
G. Ecological and External Effects
4.30      The Project would have a favorable effect on the ecology, in as much
as soil fertility would be improved and erosion controlled by better husbandry,
crop rotation and fertilizers. However, as part of the input package, the
Project would recommend the use of relatively small amounts of DDT 5% powder
(10 kg.ha) against stalkborer and DDT 25% liquid against army worm for about
10% of the Project area. While DDT is the most effective and economic known
control of the two pests, the Project would experiment with other control
methods as they become available. Although the use of DDT has been prohibited
in some industrialized countries, there is no evidence to suggest that the
proposed quantities would have any harmful effects in the Project area.



- 22 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Project organization which would be based entirely on Government's
existing administrative structure would be as follows:
National level
5.02      A Project Servicing Urnit (PSU) would be established in the Crop
Production Division of KILIMO. Experienced staff would be appointed to PSU,
including a Project Manager, a Financial Controller, and specialists in
extention, farm management, and procurement and distribution. Only if
suitably qualified Tanzanians could not be made available, these positions
would be filled with internationally recruited staff. Appointments to the
above positions would be made in consultation with IDA. It would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness that staff in those positions, with the
exception of the farm management specialist, have taken up their duties.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, in case the farm manage-
ment specialist could not be recruited by April, 1976 alternative arrangements
to carry out the functions of that specialist satisfactory to IDA would be
made until such time as the post could be filled.
5.03      PSU would have the following key functions:
(a)  Project Planning and Cioordination:  The maize production
targets for each region have been established with the aim of
attaining self-sufficiency in regions where this is economically
justified and increas:ing surplus maize from those regions which
are particularly suited to production and reasonably close to
consuming areas. Within these guidelines, a detailed work
program would be prepared annually for each region and district.
The PSU in conjunction with regional Project coordinators would
consolidate the regional plans into an overall national plan.
This national plan would be reviewed annually by the Project
Steering Committee anc. submitted to IDA for approval (para. 5.10).
(b) Financial Administration and Procurement of Inputs: PSU would
be responsible for the administration of Project funds and for
operating the Maize Production Inputs Account. Inputs would be
purchased at their full market price and sold to farmers through
the regional cooperative unions or regional authorities at
subsidized prices. Inputs would be sold in accordance with
Government policy which, at present, provides for uniform prices
throughout the Project area. Government is aware that uniform
producer prices would distort resource allocation in the long-run
and is keeping its pricing policies under constant review. The
Inputs Account would receive sufficient payments from Government
to meet the difference between the full cost of farm inputs,
including transport, and the subsidized sale price to farmers.
PSU would keep separate accounts for maize production inputs
transactions and its other operations.



- 23 -
(c)  Technical Support for the Regions:  PSU would provide technical
support to agricultural staff in the regions under the Project.
This would include assistance with training programs for exten-
sion staff, production of leaflets on maize production methods,
organization of demonstration plots and film shows.
(d)  Transport and Storage:  PSU would arrange the distribution of
farm inputs to regional cooperative unions or other agencies as
appropriate. PSU would not operate its own transport for this
purpose but would use the railways and transport companies. PSU
would also play a major role in helping to prepare plans for
development of storage and transport in the regions and
approving expenditure for this purpose. It would arrange
for assistance to be provided to villages to aid in village
storage construction.
(e) Project Evaluation: An important aspect of Project implementa-
tion would be the continuous improvement of maize production
technology and the development of improved farming systems. The
Project field research program, village demonstration activities
and maize production statistics would provide valuable data for
this purpose. PSU would have responsibility for collecting
appropriate statistics, through crop sampling and other evalua-
tion means; for continually monitoring Project progress; and
for revising Project plans as appropriate. PSU would be assisted
in this task by USAID supported staff.
Regional Level
5.04      Within each region the Project would be administered through the
regional government administration with its chain of command going from the
regional headquarters through the districts, divisions and wards down to the
villages. In each region the regional authorities would appoint a Project
coordinator who would be assisted in each district by a Project supervisor
(Annex 7). Appointment of staff in those positions would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
5.05      A farm management officer would be appointed in each regional
headquarters. He would liaise closely with the farm management specialist
assisting PSU (para 5.02). He would be responsible for monitoring Project
progress, estimating input use, maize yields and production in Project vil-
lages and analyzing the results achieved on demonstration plots and trials.
Also, he would advise on the most appropriate production techniques for the
Project within the framework of local farming systems.
5.06      PSU would generally supply regional cooperative unions with maize
production inputs, for onward distribution to village primary cooperatives.
However, the establishment of the cooperative arrangements would take time,
and until they are satisfactorily introduced inputs would continue to be



- 24 -
supplied through existing parastatal organizations, including cash crop
authorities and regional authorities. Project villages would buy inputs on
a cash basis at subsidized prices. PSU would be reimbursed the cost of in-
puts by the respective distributing agency in the regions as they are sold.
5.07      Arrangements for the purchase of maize from Project villages, and
for financing such purchases would continue essentially as at present. In
most regions the primary cooperative societies would purchase maize at the
village level, acting as agents of the regional cooperative union, who in
turn would act as agent for NMC. The cooperative unions would arrange for
maize to be transported from villages to regional NMC depots. The National
Bank of Commerce would continue to advance funds to cooperative unions, which
in turn would provide financing to primary societies. Farmers would be paid
cash on delivery at the official price. In regions where the cooperative
system is unable to market maize efficiently, the NMC would purchase directly
from Project villages.
Village Level
5.08      The village would be the basic development unit.  Within each
village, either a newly established village cooperative society or an older
multi-village primary cooperative would be responsible for distributing
village requirements of seeds, fertilizers and insecticides and for the
marketing of surplus maize.
5.09      The Project would provide one resident extension worker or village
farm manager to each Project village. This would be difficult to achieve in
some areas, and initially some villages would have to share staff. The vil-
lage structure would make communication much easier for extension staff.
Villagers would cultivate at least part of their maize in communal plots or
in blocks of individual plots, thus facilitating contact with groups of
farmers.
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
5.10      To provide the inter-ministerial coordination required for policy
decision making and for the approval of Project annual work programs, a Pro-
ject Steering Committee would be established under the chairmanship of the
Principal Secretary, KILIMO, and with members from the Prime Minister's
Office and the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and the Commissioner for
Rural Development. The Project Mxnager would be secretary of PSC. Establishment
of PSC would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Staffing
5.11      The Project Manager, a Tanzanian, and deputy Project Manager (Agri-
cultural Development Service) were appointed in July 1975, and staff for the
remaining key PSU staff positions are being recruited. Other Project staff,
including regional coordinators, regional farm management officers, and



- 25 -
district supervisors would be selected from the existing cadre. In order
to achieve a staffing of one extension worker per Project village, an addi-
tional 140 and 100 field extension staff, respectively, would be recruited
in 1976/77 and 1977/78, mainly from Standard 12 school leavers of which
sufficient numbers would be available. Thirteen mobile film unit teams,
consisting of a driver/mechanic and projectionist/narrator, would be recruited
by the Project, and their training undertaken by the Audio-Visual Institute
in Dar-es-Salaam.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMERS' BENEFITS
EFFECTS ON GOVERNMENT BUDGETS
Yield and Production
6.01      Average maize yield in Tanzania are very low at about 750 kg/ha,
although the range of yields is very large. The Project, which would include
only the better maize producing areas, assumes a base yield of 1,100 kg/ha,
increasing to 1,500 kg/ha for Package 1; 2,200 kg/ha for Package 2; and
2,700 kg/ha for Package 3. The higher yield levels are already being ob-
tained by progressive farmers in high potential areas. The assumed yields
for all Project villages would increase from an average of 1,370 kg/ha with-
out the Project to 2,050 kg/ha at full development. The Project would in-
crease maize production by about 20,000 tons in year 1 rising to about
195,000 tons at full development in 1982. Full development is not expected
before 1982 because of an assumed three-year time lag between aDplication of
a certain input Package and the full realization of its yield potential.
Markets and Prices (Annex 10)
6.02      The Project would assist Tanzania to become more efficient in
producing maize and substitute for imports which in 1974 and 1975 totalled
about 291,000 tons (TShs. 360 million or US$50 million), and 247,000 tons
(TShs. 301 million or US$42 million), respectively. During the Project
period Government plans to establish a national maize reserve of about
90.000 tons and any Project production in excess of current requirements
would be channelled into this reserve. Once the national reserve is estab-
lished, Government policy would be to aim at maize production levels of about
self-sufficiency. It would be assisted in this task by a strengthened Marketing
Development Bureau which would be responsible for reviewing producer prices,
and providing crop pricing recommendations. However, because of production
fluctuations due to climate, it is inevitable that small maize surpluses
would occur in some seasons which would be absorbed in border trade or added
to the reserve.
6.!)3     According to projections prepared by the Economic Analysis and
Projections Department of the World Bank, the international maize price
(current terms: f.o.b. Gulf Ports) is expected to increase from US$128/ton
(TShs. 1,030) in 1975 to US$154/ton (TShs. 1,240) bv 1980.  The farm gate



- 26 -
equivalent of these prices in Tanzania (import parity) is approximately
TShs. 1,113/ton (US$138) for 1975 and TShs. 1,290/ton (US$160) for 1980.
Actual farm gate prices for the 1974/75 season are TShs. 750/ton (US$93)
and for 1975/76, TShs. 800/ton (US$99). Considering the sharp increases
in producer maize prices in Tanzania in recent years (from TShs. 300/ton, or
about 42% of import parity in 1973/74, to 73% in 1975/76), the unfavourable
impact further increases would have with respect to the relative profitability
of growing other crops, and the low estimated export parity price of Tanzanian
maize of TShs. 550/ton in 1975, the domestic producer price for maize appears
adequate at present. However, progressively higher producer prices relative
to import parity would be justified from 1976/77 onwards if there is an
indication that production targets are not going to be reached with present
price levels.
Input Subsidy, Government Budget and Foreign Exchange
6.04      The current subsidy level of 75% is intended to bring about a more
economic use of inputs compared with the two preceding years when inputs were
subsidized 100%, and still permit the target number of farmers to participate
in the Project. The subsidy is justified in view of the high cost of inputs
and because it is presently not feasible to provide sufficient incentives to
farmers through such alternative means as credit or higher producer prices
(Annex 5). Assuming that the 75% subsidy level would be maintained through-
out the Project period, the cumulative cost of the subsidy is estimated at
TShs. 289.7 million (US$36.0 million) by the end of 1978/79: if the subsidy
level were then reduced to 60% the following four years and to 40% thereafter,
the cumulative cost over the ten-year period 1975/76 - 1984/85 would be about
TShs. 797 million (US$99 million). A reduction in the subsidy level should
be possible as Project village incomes increase and with the anticipated fall
in world fertilizer prices. It is Government policy to review future subsidy
levels and options of recovery of the cost of the subsidy annually with a
view to a progressive reduction in the budgetary burden.
6.05      With the proposed financing arrangements (para. 4.24) and the as-
sumed future Government input subsidy policy (para. 6.04), the Project's
overall negative impact on the Government budget would be a cumulative
TShs. 281.6 million (US$35.0 million) by end of 1978/79, and TShs. 915 mil-
lion (US$114 million) by 1984/85. This burden, which would be eased through
contributions from a USAID loan of an estimated TShs. 52 million (US$6.4 mil-
lion), would not be larger than the burden resulting from continued importa-
tion of maize in the absence of the anticipated production from the Project.
6.06      The foreign exchange impact of the Project would be favorable, in
spite of continuing fertilizer imports. The foreign exchange content of
input costs would be TShs. 282 million (US$35.1 million) for the four-year
period ending 1978/79, and TShs. 988 million (US$123 million) for the ten-
year period ending 1984/85. Including the foreign exchange content of maize
inputs and all other Project related costs, the cumulative outflow of foreign
exchange over the ten-year period would be TShs. 1,194 million (US$148 million).
Against these outflows are foreign exchange savings due to decreased maize



- 27 -
imports. Over the ten-year period, gross foreign exchange savings from
Project maize production would be about TShs. 1,931 million (US$240 million),
and total gross savings from maize production plus inflows of external
financing TShs. 2,116 million (US$263 million); the net savings would be
TShs. 922 million (US$115 million).
Farmer Benefits (Annex 11)
6.07      Farm budgets for the three improved husbandry packages (para. 4.03
and Annex 3) show that, at full development, farmer margins would be increased
by 36%, 87% and 129%, respectively, over expected levels without the Project
within three years of application of the packages. These margins would be
sufficiently attractive to encourage farmer participation.
6.08      Assuming that the Project maize area per farm family would be
0.75 ha, the average increase in farmer income at full development, including
the value of additional subsistence production, would be TShs. 342 (US$42)
per family in 1975 prices. The estimated incremental cash income would be
TShs. 228 (US$28). On a per capita basis these increases would be TShs. 68
(US$8) and TShs. 46 (US$6) respectively. This compares with the present
estimated rural per capita GNP of TShs. 350 (US$43) (Annex 11, para. 16).
Although the Project would not benefit the poorest segment of the rural
population, the present incomes of Project beneficiaries would generally be
below the average of rural incomes in Tanzania.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
(Annex 13)
7.01      The primary direct benefits of the Project would be increased pro-
duction of maize and a resultant reduction of grain imports.
7.02      The Project's interal economic rate of return is estimated to be
37% over a 20 year period. Project costs except the costs of the oxen
utilization scheme and of NADP project preparation, and 50% of the cost of
the storage and milling consultants were included in the calculation. No
cost was attributed to family labour since the Project would assist only
those farmers already growing maize, and only a small increment of presently
under-employed family labour would be required under the Project. The costs
of maize production inputs and value of Project incremental maize output are
based on recent World Bank projections. Project incremental maize production
is valued at import parity up to 1980, since self-sufficiency would not be
reached before then.  From 1981 onwards Tanzania would aim to maintain self-
sufficiency and a national maize reserve of about 90,000 tons and since small
annual surpluses are assumed to alternate with small annual deticits, Project
incremental production is valued mid-way bet-ween imnort and export parity.
Foreign exchange costs and benefits are va'ued at TShs. 1G = US$1.00 to re-
flect the economic costs of foreign exchange to Tanzania: if foreign exchange
were valued at the prevailing exchange -ate of TShs. 8.05 = US$1.00, the
economic rate of return would he 30M.



- 28 -
7.03      The risks most likely to effect the Project's economic rate of
return are the uncertainty about the extent to which farmers would be willing
to purchase fertilizers and other inputs and to apply the recommended pro-
duction methods. Only limited experience has been gained so far with the
new village system and there is some doubt about how well this will work,
especially where communal methods of production are emphasized. To the extent
possible, these risks have been minimized by designing the Project flexibly so
as to be able to utilize new experience gained during implementation and to
eliminate those activities not yielding the expected results. Nevertheless,
even if incremental output from the Project were 30 percent below expectation,
the Project would still show a rate of return of 16 percent.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Inputs would be sold for cash at subsidized prices. The
rate of subsidy would be reviewed from time to time in
consultation with IDA (para. 4.04);
(b)  The Maize Production Inputs Account would be funded in
the agreed manner (para. 4.05);
(c)  All remaining new appointments and subsequent appointments
to replace senior staff in the Project Servicing Unit
would be made in consultation with IDA (para. 5.02);
8.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit that:
(a)  The Maize Production Inputs Account had been established
(para. 4.05);
(b)  The conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
loan agreement between ABEDIA and Government had been
fulfilled (para. 4.24);
(c)  A subsidiary loan agreement between TRDB and Government,
satisfactory to IDA, had been executed (para. 4.25);
(d) All remaining key staff of the Project Servicing Unit,
except the Farm Management Specialist, had been appointed
and had taken up their duties (para. 5.02);



- 29 -
(e) The regional Project Coordinators and district Project
Supervisors had been appointed (para. 5.04);
(f) The Project Steering Committee had been established
(para. 5.10).
8.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$18 million on
standard IDA terms.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
UJAMAA AND THE COOPERATIVE SECTOR
A. Cooperative Structure
Introduction
1.        Cooperatives exist in large numbers throughout Tanzania.  By the
end of 1973, there were 2,200 registered cooperatives, including the Coopera-
tive Union of Tanganyika, the Savings and Credit League, 25 cooperative unions,
1,518 cooperative marketing societies, 265 cooperative production and market-
ing societies, 314 savings and credit societies, and 78 cooperative consumer
societies. 1/ The existing cooperative structure is in the process of change.
The present 25 cooperative unions are to be consolidated and reduced to 20,
one for each region.
2.        The history of cooperative movement in Tanzania goes back to the
voluntary "growers associations" of the 1920s. In 1932 the first agricultural
cooperatives were registered in the Kilimanjaro area to promote coffee as a cash
crop for peasant farmers. The movement soon became popular and spread quickly
to other areas where commercial peasant farming was relatively advanced. By
1952, there were 172 registered societies and by 1961 the number had increased
to 857. Thus, cooperatives grew up spontaneously in the regions of Moshi,
Arusha, Bukoba, Mwanza, Ruvuma, Rungwe&and Iringa. Shortly after independence,
the Government decided that the cooperative movement should be made an integral
part of the political structure and, consequently, that cooperatives should
be established in all parts of the country where they were previously absent.
In subsequent years, the Government exercised an increasing degree of super-
vision and control. For example, Government now sets many of the financial
margins within which the cooperatives have to operate; controls the hiring
and firing of all union officials with a salary above TShs. 650 a month;
controls all cooperative education;thas assumed virtually all responsibilities
for inspection of cooperative societies; has transferred to the unions special
tasks previously performed by the private sector; and has moved to link in-
extricably the cooperative movement with ujamaa village development.
1/ Updated from annexes of the Kigoma (Cooperatives) and Geita (Ujamaa)
Reports with assistance from the "Nordic Cooperative Assistance to
Tanzania" Team.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        In addition, Government has appointed the executive committees of
Coast, Dodoma and Mbeya regions, and the General Managers of Arusha and Coast
Regional Cooperative Unions are appointed civil servants. Latest developments
in the area of Government intervention include the liquidation of the Kigoma
Regional Cooperative Union, and the dismissal of all senior officials of the
Tanga Regional Cooperative Union, for reasons of inefficiency and gross mis-
management.
4.        The cooperative movement has thus evolved from a spontaneous effort
designed to provide the benefits inherent in economies of scale to its member
farmers, into a program initiated, supervised and controlled by Government.
Increasingly, the cooperative structure is being used to further Government's
political and socio-economic goals.
5.        The principal responsibility of the cooperative unions, apart from
various consumer, financial, transport and other services they might perform,
is to move the marketable surplus of virtually all scheduled crops in all
regions of the country from the primary societies to the appropriate
marketing boards. Affiliated primary societies, in turn, assist the unions
in this task by acting as their collecting agents. The cooperatives have
been assigned sole buying rights for most crops. However, agricultural pro-
duction has sometimes suffered from such monopolistic practices, because
the cooperativea have often suffered from poor management, petty corruption
and low marketing efficiency. Problems arise, in particular, from an acute
shortage of management and accounting skills, an absence of personal account-
ability within the system, and the frequent allocation by Government of un-
realistic costings and margins.
Legislation, Organization, and Supervision
6.        The first Cooperative Societies Ordinance, stipulating the legal
basis for all cooperatives, was enacted in 1932. It was subsequently re-
placed by the Cooperative Societies Ordinance of 1968. A further supplement
is expected soon, with the aim of specifying the processes and criteria by
which villages are to become multi-purpose primary cooperative societies.
Two stages would be distinguished:
i)   a fully-registered multi-purpose cooperative society,
with complete legal independence and status, and with
limited liability; and
ii)   full control of the major means of production in the
village by the cooperative society; the village would
then be a true Ujamaa.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        The cooperative structure in Tanzania consists of an apex organiza-
tion, the Cooperative Union of Tanganyika (CUT), regional cooperative unions,
and constituent primary cooperative societies. CUT's functions as a repre-
sentative of the cooperative movement -- exercised by agreement with the unions,
not by law -- appear to have been eroded in recent years. CUT has provided
and does still provide advisory, educational and legal services to the country's
cooperatives. However, many of its functions have been transferred to the
Government. For example, CUT's education wing, the Cooperative Education
Center, has been absorbed by the Cooperative College at Moshi and many of its
legal and advisory activities appear to be shifting to the Prime Minister's
Office.
8.        Following the Government reorganization of July 1971, the Rural
Development Division, headed by the Commissioner for Rural Development, 1/
was established to deal with matters relating to cooperatives. Subsequently,
this division was changed to the "Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Depart-
ment" (see Chart 1). This central cadre is supported in each of the 20
regional administrative governments by an ujamaa and cooperative functional
manager and his staff. Regional staff consists of ujamaa and cooperative
development trainees, assistants and officers, all of whom provide advice,
supervision and inspection to ujamaa villages and cooperative societies, both
from headquarters and in the field. The Commissioner of Rural Development
also serves as the Registrar of Cooperatives, who is responsible for the
registration of all cooperatives. At the regional level, the Regional Develop-
ment Directors have recently been named Assistant Registrars of Cooperatives and
have been charged with registration of all multipurpose cooperative societies
within their respective regions. Other institutions dealing with the coopera-
tives include the Unified Cooperative Service Commission, and the Audit and
Supervision Fund. The former is charged with the recruitment, appointment
(including promotions and transfers) and termination of all cooperative
personnel earning TShs. 650 per month or more. The latter is responsible
for the audit and supervision of the financial records and the preparation
of financial statements of all registered cooperatives.
9.        The Audit and Supervision Fund currently has a network of 12 zonal
offices distributed throughout the country, which it plans to expand into
20 regional offices. Total staff consists of 125 personnel of which only
9 are qualified accountants. Approximately 10 percent of the staff is
expatriate, projected to be phased out by June 1976, as qualified Tanzanian
staff become available following the necessary training at either the Coopera-
tive College at Moshi or the Institute of Development Management at Morogoro.
1/   The Commissioner is head of the Ujamaa and Cooperative Development
Department which is not within the Prime Minister's Office (PMO)
but has the status of an extra-ministerial department.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Only about 50 staff members are currently qualified to audit and supervise
the financial accounts of primary societies. Each staff member could audit
approximately 10 societies per month if the accounts were properly maintained,
but most societies are insolvent and their books in total disarray, requiring
the accounts to be reconstructed before they can be audited. To simplify and
standardise accounting practices at the society level, a simplified, uniform
book-keeping system for ujamaa vi:Llages is in the final stages of preparation.
In summary, problems of audit and supervision of the cooperatives can be
expected to persist throughout the country during-the-next five years.
Financial accounts of both primary societies and cooperative unions are
rarely prepared adequately for audit and supervision. Moreover, neither the
quality nor quantity of staff of the Audit and Supervision Fund is sufficient
to respond satisfactorily to the large task required.
Education and Traipnin
10.       The extensive network of ujamaa villages and cooperatives, and the
supporting programs and institutions, draw upon a large number and variety of
personnel, all of whom require training and education. The only national
institutions qualified to provide such services are the Cooperative College
at Moshi and the Institute of Development Management at Morogoro. The
Cooperative College currently offers diploma, final inspectors, and induction
courses to a total of 272 students. The Institute of Development Management
presently has 240 students enrolled in a four-year diploma accountancy course,
to be doubled upon completion of building construction. In addition, rural
training centers, coorespondence courses, and regional education programs
contribute to education and training at the local level.
11.       Past efforts have, however, only begun to address the pressing needs
to train and educate staff of the primary cooperative societies, the coopera-
tive unions, and the Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Department. The ujamaa
and cooperative education plan (1973 - 1979), therefore, proposes to establish
over the niext two years five more zonal cooperative colleges as branches of the
Cooperative College at Moshi. The zonal colleges will each have an eventual
capacity of 150 students, will each require at least six teachers, and will
provide courses for primary societies' secretaries, basic and final manage-
ment and administration, and basic and final inspectors. Between 1U93/74 and
1978/79 it is estimated that 6,900 staff and leaders of ujamaa villages and
6,300 of other primary societies will be trained. In addition, training for
approximately 650 union accountants and assistants and 1,100 senior and
junior bookkeepers is projected over the period.
12.       Substantial cooperative technical assistance is currently being
provided by the five Nordic countries, under the "Cooperative Assistance to
Tanzania" project. Of the 26 experts now assigned under an agreement origin-
ally signed in 1968, six are working within the Ujamaa and Cooperative Devel-
opment Department and the Cooperative Union of Tanganyika to establish sys-
tems for wholesaling and transport, credit financing, management accounting,



ANNEX 1
Page 5
promotion and supervision and consumer and retail activities. Another 11
experts are working on the specific problems of 11 regional cooperative unions,
and the remainder are working in the Cooperative College, of which five are
stationed in Moshi and three in the regions. It is intended that the systems
developed at the center (transport and primary society bookkeeping systems
are near completion) will be both integrated into the cooperative college
curriculum and incorporated within the operations of the cooperative unions.
B. The Ujamaa Village Program
13.       Tanzania's socialist development policy is aimed at the simulta-
neous achievement of economic growth and an egalitarian society through an
increasing emphasis on agriculture and rural development. In recent years
this rural development strategy has focussed on the establishment of co-
operatives or ujamaa villages throughout the country. The immediate ob-
jectives are social and political: to foster a sense of self-reliance
through self-help, to achieve equality of income, and to raise rural incomes
in order to close the rural-urban gap and reduce the flow of people to the
major twowns. Government recognises, hcwever, that to be successful in these
spheres, the strategy must be economicallv viable, and cooperative production
-- only possible with the new social ;ittzitude -- is set as the final goal.
The formation of ujamaa villages through resettlement, which is one of the
more conspicuous features of the execution of the policy, is important in
relatively sparsely populated rural areas of Tanzania. However, cooperative
production can take place without any resettlement and, particularly in the
most densely populated areas, will probably also be developed on that basis.
14.       Recently, the definition of in ujamaa village has been changed and
the term is now reserved for those villages that have reached full control
of the major means of production.  Newly-formeci villages would be immediately
registered as primary societies (pare 6).
15.       The Commissioner of 1'Jamaa & Cooperative Development is charged
with the responsibility of developing the ujamaa ideals, and of evaluating
the program. There is close coordtnation with TANU and the executive
Ministries. The standardization of reporting and assessment of economic
performance ;s still poor but these problems are receiving close attention.
Technical support is given by various Ministries, especially the Ministry
of Agriculture.
16.       It is difficult to gauge progress with ujamaa in quantative terms,
because this is marked by the acceptance of a cooperative attitude to working
and living, as well as by economic success in production. The latter is
only now being evaluated by the Tanzanians. A count of ujamaa villages and
the population involved in them is some guide to progress, but village



ANNEX 1
Page 6
formation is reported in three stages and the first, unspecific stage, which
dominates the statistics, tends to be over-estimated inspite of efforts to
improve reporting. Figures of population in villages may also be high due
to double counting. It is, however, now estimated that, by mid-1975, some
5,000 villages had been established, with a population of between 3 - 5 mil-
lion. The final number of villages may be in the 7 - 10,000 range.
17.       Until recently, three stages in ujamaa development were distinguished:
(a) A formative stage during which resettled villagers require
financial aid for activities such as bush clearing, access
road construction, and purchase of initial equipment. In
practice, they often also need food, as they cannot
always produce sufficient initially. At this stage the
Regional Development Funds are the major source of
assistance. Villages that are members of primary marketing
cooperatives also receive the same servicing facilities as
individual members.
(b) An intermediate stage in which the village members learn to
live and work together, putting increasingly more of their
work effort into commercial crops and development activities.
At this stage the village adopts a workable constitution,
and when it has become economically viable it registers as an
Agricultural Association. Credit may then be obtained from
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB).
(c) The final mature stage is reached when the ujamaa village
registers with the Registrar of Cooperatives. It may
become a full multi-purpose cooperative society, and would
have adequate security to attract commercial credit.
The assessment of when this stage is reached is carried out
by the local Cooperative Officer, Agricultural Officer and
TANU secretary.
18.       Legislation now before Parliament proposes slightly different classi-
fication, which would bring registration as a cooperative forward to the
formative stage, and reserve 'Ujamaa' status for the mature stage.
19.       Progress with ujamaa village formation varies considerably by region.
The differences reflect both the variety of motives for the formation of
villages, and the social and geographical conditions of the area. The great-
est development has been close to the boundry with Mozambique where the
dominant motivation has been defence. Elsewhere the largest number of
villages are in areas which have limited involvement in the cash economy, are
sparsely populated, and have a harsh environment. These include Dodoma and
Kigoma where there has been a concentration of planning effort and technical



ANNEX 1
Page 7
assistance. It is in these areas where the concept of physical movement into
concentrated villages (probably located on a reliable water supply), and the
introduction of new crops (necessitating rather intensive technical guidance,
modern inputs and credit) is a particularly appropriate approach. Because of
the real need for services and little individual investment in their present
situation these areas accept ujamaa most readily.
20.       Progress in numbers has been noticeably slow in other areas,
namely: (i) the densely populated highland areas where individually-owned
land is under coffee, tea or bananas (such as in Kilimanjaro, Bukoba and
Rungwe districts) and where ujamaa will be based on cooperative work on
existing crops and is unlikely to involve any resettlement; and (ii) the
generally less densely populated areas with established cash crops such
as cotton, tobacco, and cashew. These are drier regions than the highlands,
with more extensive cultivation and marked seasonal peak labor requirements
(traditionally met by hiring). Technical and social problems seem partic-iiarly
likely in the cotton area around Lake Victoria, including Geita, where an
individualistic attitude, typical of first-generation settlers, exists. An
unhurried approach to ujamaa seems especially appropriate in these areas.
21.       The economic justification for communal farming rests on th'z greater
production arising from economies of scale and division of labor, aae the more
economical (and therefore increased per capita) provision of Gover"ment
services such as extension advice, water supplies, schools and dispensaries.
The case for economies of scale is based on (i) sharing bulk oreers of inputs
and group marketing; (ii) making more efficient use of labor and hand or
powered implements, enabling a greater area to be cultivated; (iii) allowing
specialization of function, such as herding and tool repair in the village;
and (iv) enabling wider access to technical advice. The channelling of
agricultural credit is assumed to be facilitated by cohesive ujamaa units,
as can the economic distribution of packages of inputs supported by extension
services. Potentially, ujamaa villages would extend the coverage of coopera-
tive marketing organizations, but until they reach a sufficient size to pro-
vide marketing services economically, Ujamaa villages would be members of
existing cooperative societies. A further argument in favor of ujamaa villages
is that a group of farmers will accept ar. Jnnovation to which individuals are
indifferent: the validity of this argument has yet to be proved. Also, there
is a lack of empirical evidence on where economies of scale are achieveable
in commercial production, and the optimum scale of different farming operations
in not known. However, it is clear that radical changes are needed in farm
management as village production becomes increasingly communal and is carried
out on a larger scale. A well-trailed extension service, familiar with or
trained in decision making on larg farms, then becomes a necessity.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
22.       These management changes will be particularly required for crops
like tobacco with a high management requirement, and crops such as cotton
which have a high pay-off from timely operations, and are typically included
in a rotation with food crops. The application of ujamaa principles to cotton
growing, particularly with mechanization, calls for major changes in farm
management techniques. These would include new rotations, introduction of
minimum tillage techniques, intensification of cultivation by use of sprays
and fertilizers, and possibly changes in picking and sorting. Mechanization
needs to follow intensification and a reorganization of land-holdings. It
cannot economically be imposed on the existing low-yield system.
23.       Difficulties within villages-- which are likely to be a continuing
concern -- are the lack of leadership and management skills among village
members, and problems of measuring the individual's share of communal pro-
duction. The former can be helped by planning, training, and assistance from
extension services. The most important factor is to ensure that ujamaa
villages develop from the desire of the people and at a pace at which they
can absorb the new ideas and techniques essential for viable communal produc-
tion.
TANU
24.       The mobilizing force in ujamaa development has been the political
party TANU (Tanganyika African National Union). Organized down to cells of
ten families, TANU reaches the grassroots of the rural areas, and in its
pyramid structure rising through village development committees and ward
organizations provides a hierarchy for chanelling both policy decisions and
local opinions. At the village Level it provides a forum within which a
group of farmers can debate possible cooperation through which technical and
planning advice (e.g. on site selection, crops, planting areas) can be
channelled, and through which farmers' problems and wishes can be passed to
the party and Government.
25.       The unpaid leader of the 10-family cell, known as the 'Balozi', is
a TANU member elected by party members of the cell. It is his job to keep
records of the cell membership, collect dues from party members, and pass
on political and policy informatz~on to the cell. He is also to keep the
party leadership and -- through 1ANU -- the Government informed on local
problems. The Balozi tries to settle local disputes which otherwise
would go to the courts. The position is primarily political, but with
Party and development matters so closely linked, the Balozi obviously fills
an economic role as well. A Balozi may become the chairman of an Ujamaa
village formed in his area only l.f the villagers consider his technical
knowledge adequate for the post. Although the 10-cell system has not been
working uniformly well, partly because the duties of the Balozi have become
overburdensome, it does provide an effective two-way channel for information
available.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
C. Training Program for Cooperatives
26.       As pointed out in Section A, the responsibility for mobilizing the
people, once settled in villages, (which are also primary societies) falls
on the cooperative movement which unfortunately has many problems. Some of
these problems have been created recently, as a result of the Government's
social development policy. Personnel within the cooperative movement are
not prepared, by experience or training, for their tasks, and this explains
the attention Government is now giving to technical assistance and training.
27.       The training requirements have been identified at all levels of
the cooperative movement, and concern mostly management and accounting, al-
though such areas as marketing, storage and transport management also
lack properly trained staff. The Nordic Group is assisting Government with
the formulation of an overall cooperative development plan, the identification
of specific training requirements, and with technical assistance at regional
level. The project has been in operation for seven years and at present
comprises 26 Nordic personnel. The Project Coordinator is attached to the
Prime Minister's Office and the specialist staff and management technicians
of the project assist with the work of the Ujamaa and Cooperatives Development
Department at headquarters and regional level. In addition eight staff are
attached to the Cooperative College at Moshi which provides the training for
the staff of the College.
28.       At the regional level, the Nordic Group has developed accounting
systems for transport and storage, and they have provided for technical
assistance to introduce these systems. In addition, they have provided for
limited numbers of staff as advisers to management. The progress of this
assistance program is slow, and cooperative unions still have a long way to
go before they would be able to perform their functions efficiently.
29.       The National Maize Project, would, in the execution of its develop-
ment activities, make full use of the regional cooperative unions for storage
of inputs and their distribution to villages, and for collection and storage
of maize. In order to perform these functions effectively, and at low cost,
the cooperative unions would need technical assistance in marketing, account-
ing and transport management.
30.       Detailed requirements have been drawn up, in cooperation with the
Nordic Group; they are presented in Appendix 1 to this Annex. The proposal
estimates that 8 expatriates would be needed, in addition to vehicles and
accounting machines; 4-year costs would be approximately US$2.0 million.
31.       Although this assistance would be of great significance to the
successful execution of the Project, the component has not been included
for the following reasons. Firstly, training of, and technIcal assistance



ANNEX 1
Page 10
to the cooperative movement would place an intolerable burden on Project
Management, who would be occupied full-time with the agricultural components.
Secondly, the high expatriate staff component could be better provided on
a bilateral (grant) basis. However, there is a real danger of complicating
the integrated improvement and development approach of the Nordic Team by a
proliferation of agencies and/or projects operating in the same field.
32.       At the village level, the Project would rely on the ability of
village secretaries. Their tasks would include ordering inputs and their
storage, storing maize and arranging for timely evacuation, applying for
storage construction credit, and in general proper accounting of all NMP
related activities. Their task would also include distribution of inputs
and receipt of produce to be marketed together with all necessary records in
villages, where farming is done on an individual rather than a communal basis.
33.       It is recognized that, in general, village secretaries are not able
to perform these functions effectively, and that additional training is re-
quired. Such training is all the more urgent, now that the entire rural
population would be villagised by 1976, and now that practically all agri-
cultural development would be based and centered on these villages.
34.       The 5th Education Project, proposed for World Bank financing, would
address itself to the re-training of cooperative staff at village level. The
education project would train Village Management Technicians (VMT) who each
would be assigned 5 villages, whilst living in one of them. These VMT's
would be trained primarily in cooperative organization and marketing,
management-oriented bookkeeping, economics, and mechanical and construction
topics; training periods would be for 5-14 weeks. The VMT is expected to
introduce accounting systems, developed with assistance from the Nordic Group,
at village level, and to give individual village secretaries on-the-job train-
ing. The education project would start its VMT training program early 1976,
and the first graduates would be available for posting in mid-1976. It has
been agreed that VMT's would be posted on a priority basis to wards with NMP
villages, so that the National Maize Project might be the first to benefit
from this training program.
D. Cooperative Marketing
35.       Marketing for virtually all food and cash crops in Tanzania is the
monopoly of parastatals and cooperatives. Many small-scale producers are
members of cooperative societies, which were originally developed as market-
ing units for coffee, tobacco, cotton and cashew nuts. In addition, they
took on the marketing of surplus food production on behalf of their members.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
36.       In most regions the primary societies market crops through a
regional cooperative union which acts as agent for the parastatal organiza-
tion responsible for the particular crop. Usually, the cooperative union
arranges the transport of produce from the villages to the regional centres,
where it is delivered to the parastatal concerned. Frequently, the coopera-
tive union operates its own transport fleet for this puprose. In some
regions, however, where the regional cooperative union is not too effective,
the primary societies may deliver crops directly to the parastatal without
going through the union.
37.       Official policy does not encourage private traders and/or
transporters to engage in marketing and transport of farm produce, be it
food or cash crops. The consequent lack of competition and the forced
pace of development of cooperatives (paras 20-22) and parastatals have
created serious inefficiency problems for these organizations. There has
been a tendency for the Government to re-organize and re-name parastatals
at frequent intervals in an attempt to overcome some of these difficulties.
The poor state of organization of several regional cooperative unions and
very many small primary societies is a serious constraint to agricultural
development. However, the Government is engaged in a major program for
cooperative development and training with assistance from the Nordic
countries (para 27).
38.       In the more developed agricultural areas of Tanzania farmers have
had relatively little difficulty in obtaining farm inputs. Larger-scale
farmers have been able to obtain supplies themselves from organizations
like the Tanganyika Farmers Association (TFA) in the main towns. Likewise,
in areas where a prosperous small-scale agriculture had been developed on the
basis of high value export crops like coffee, tobacco and cotton, farmers
have been well-served by cooperative societies and crop authorities.  How-
ever, the majority of small-scale farmers in Tanzania are not so well served.
39.       Most cooperative unions and primary societies have c.nfined them-
selves to marketing farmers' surplus food crop production anc have not made
a serious effort to supply inputs to farmers.  Part y for thi3 reason,
regional authorities in the main maize growing areas have undertaken a maize
production program for the last two years under which they supp'lied fertilizers,
seeds, insectivides and, sometimes, machinery services to selected villages.
Given that all villages will be registered as cooperative societies, that
they will all be affiliated to regional cooperative unions, and that they will
all be responsible for marketing farmers produce, it seems logical that farm
inputs should also be supplied to farmers through the cooperative system.
Thus preference will always be given to loaning lorries provided under the
Project to regional cooperative unions, as well as for them to control the
additional regional storage. As all "villages" will be multipurpose coopera-
tives, the village stores will naturallv belong to the village society.
October 13, 1975



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
UJAMAA AND THE COOPERATIVE SECTOR
PROPOSAL FOR ASSISTANCE TO REGIONAL
COOPERATIVE UNIONS
1.        The Nordic Project for ('ooperative Assistance (N-PCAT) to Tanzania
has suggested a program of assist.nce to regional cooperatice unions, 1/
which would enable these unions to effectively discharge their functions
and responsibilities. The follow:Lng is a summary of these proposals.
2.        All the 14 unions in the 13 regions would be included in the
assistance proposals made below, even though the National Hilling Corpora-
tion (NMC) is currently undertak:ing the maize services, normally carried
out by the regional cooperative unions, in 5 of the regions covered by
the Scheme. The unions' functions most directly affected by the NHP would
be agricultural marketing, input .nd crop transport and accounting, all of
which need assistance.
Marketing
3.        Four agricultural marketing experts would be needed to assist the
unions in their marketing operations. One expert each would be stationed
in Mtwara, Mbeya, Dodoma and Mosh:i, and would cover the other unions in
the NMP as indicated by the four groups of regions in para. 1, footnote 1.
The qualifications of the experts would include training in economics and
accounting and experience in marketing. The main tasks of the experts
would be:
i)   To assist management of the unions in the planning
and operation of all marketing activities;
ii)   To supervise the keeping of marketing accounts and
records;
1/   The 13 regions affected by the NMP have been grouped, and the proposed
centre of technical assistance for each group is underlined, as follows:
1.  Mtwara, Lindi, Ruvuma; 2.  Mbeya, Rukwa, Iringa; 3. Central, Tabora,
Morogoro; 4. Kilimanjaro, Tanga, Arusha, Mara.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
iii)   To cooperate with officials of the Ministry of
Agriculture in making local and regional crop estimates
prior to and during the crop season;
iv)   To assist union officials in coordination of
activities with the National Milling Corporation
on tha regional level; and
v)   To assist with the implementation of cooperative
marketing systems, as developed by the Agricultural
Marketing Section in the Prime Minister's Office and
the Cooperative Union of Tanganyika.
Transport
4.        Four transport experts would be needed to assist the unions in their
transport operations. Since such experts are difficult to obtain, flexibilitv
should be exercised in deciding on the type and extent of qualifications re-
Suired. The main tasks of the experts would be:
i)   To assist in transport management, including
allocation and service of vehicles, manpower
organization and administrative routines;
ii)   To supervise the keeping o- transport accounts
and records, as developed by the Nordic-PCAT:
iii)    To introduce economic analyses with reference to
freight rate structure, costs and long-term
budgeting;
iv)   To assist in conducting training zourses for
union transport officers; and
v)   To assist the Transport Section -i the Prime
Minister's Office and the Cooperative Union of
Tanganyika in the implementat.an of cooperative
transport systems.
Accounting
5.        A uniform accountancy system, presently beirg -inalized with
Nordic-PCAT assistance, would be well suited for mechanization. A pilot
scheme with mechanized bookkeeping equipment, involving some 70 simple and
robust machines, would be undertaken in one union. If successful, the
mechanized accounting system would be introduced in all 14 cooperative
unions.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 3
Costs
6.        Estimated costs for such a 4-year assistance program would be
around US$2 million, broken down as follows:
Total
Unit Cost     Number      Years   Cost
(US$)
A.   Staff
Marketing Experts    US$35,000/year        4          4    560,000
Transport Experts    US$40,000/year       4           4    640,000
B.   Material
4-Wheel Drive
Vehicles           US$ 7,500/each       4           1     30,000
Accounting Machines  US$ 5,000/each-       70         1    350,000
C.   Miscellaneous
Vehicle Operations   US$ 0.20/km for
30,000 km        4           4     96,000
Training, Teaching
Materials                               -           1     50,000
1,726,000
Contingencies                         274,000
Total                               2,000.000



NATiONt1L nrZE PROJECT
UJAIQA AND COOPERATIVE DEVELOIUT DEPARTMENT
ICONISSIONER
oBjECTrVES   Provide central government policy and technical leadership to
ujamaa and cooperative development.
WUJOR TASKS:
- Overall administration of the Department.
- Act as Pl'Os senior expert on ujsmaa and Cooperative issus.
- Perform duties as Registrar.
- Administer and review law relatiny to ujamee and Cooperative societies.
- Work with the Comisatemer for Regional Planning and Control.
- Work with the Director of the DDC Project Team.
- Ensure that concerned parties are regularly briefed in ujeasa and
cooperative issues.
- Maintain working relationships with other institutions.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT & RESEARCH SECTION             AUDIT AND INSPECTION SECTION             MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE SECTION                             CARDE DEVELOPMNT SECTION
MAJOR TASKS               -                   MAJOR TASKS                             MAJOR TASKS                                      MAJOR TASKS
Translate policy direction provided         - Define procedures on legal            - Assist and strengthen specialised              - Advise Manpower Dev. Division and regions on staff
by the President, Prime Minister              aspects of registration of              activities (e.g., smallacale in-                 required
a.d TAN)l into operational proced-            ujamac villages and co-opera-           dustries, savings and credit,                  - Recomend schemes of service and raise related policy
ures for implementation by the                tive societies, and provide             building and construction, retail                issues
regions and other ministries                  technical support for Regis-            and wholesale, agricultural and                - Develop & recommnend policies on secondment of cadre
Monitor the implementation of                  trar function                          livestock) by                                    officers to movement
policy in the regions through the           - Maintain register                         Developing staniard accounting               - Forecast cadre manpower req ,ir-ne"ts X propose plans
planning process and by maintaining         - Advise Registrar on dissolu-              and management systems appro-                  to meet them
current knowledge                             tion of cooperative societies             priate for each type of                      - Propose annual manpower development plan for cadre
Analyse ujamaa and cooperaLive           - Act as central point of contact           activity                                     - Plan career dev. of key cadre officers
section of annual performance              for Chief Accountant, Audit and           Developing manuals that describe             - Submit request for allocation of school leavers and
report and cou=enting through              Supervision Fund, and work                how to start up and organize                   graduates to Manpower Development Division
the Principal Secretary to the             closely with tonal auditors to            each activity                                - Assist Unified Coop. Services Commission in staffing
Planning and Control Department            ensure societies and unions are   - Provide a management advisory team                   cooperatives
for action                                 audited on time and audit re-          to assist individual villages and                   Seconding staff as necessary
Developing annual planning                 cosmendations followed up              societies                                           Assisting in recruitment of people from overseas
guidelines for the regions and           - Spot-check regional unios'           - Act as liaison point at centre for                  Advising on submissions to high level manpower allo-
ensuring they are transmitted,             financial and management perfor-    individual villages and societies                      cation coamittee
working through the Principal              mance in consultation with ROD    - Inform Policy Development and                      - Prepare training programses for regions' use
Secretary                                  and advise Registrar on action         Research Section of major problema             - Manage training of cadre staff in PID
Providing assistance in plan               required                               with policy implications                        - Nominate cadre officers for training at higher education
preparation, as required                 - Process CUT's and SCULT's            - Prepare educational publicity                     institutions locally & colleges overseas
Monitoring progress & problems             estimate for approval by Regi-         material                                        - Act as parent Minist. for NICE
through quarterly reports,                 strar and analyse their final        - Assist UCSC determine manag nt                 - Work vith CUT and Unif. Coops. Service Com. to ensure
reports of Zonal Offiders and              accounts                               structure at union level, includ-                   Cadre and movement training programs are compatible
reports from Audit & Inspection          - Maintain copies of approved esti-   ing staff calibre requirements                         Funds necessary for ujaisa training are available
& Management Asst. Sections                 sates of unions                     - Work vith NICE on introduction of                  lMovement training programs are effective
Develop ujamaa & cooperative posi-          - Inform Policy Development and           new mmgemnt systems  in teaching               - Propose transfers of cadre officers
tion in rural development decisions           Research Section of major prob-                                                        - Carry out annual promotion exercise
Identify emerging policy issues &             lems with policy implications                                                          - Maintain full and current records of cadre officers
recommend the steps required to             - Advise Management Assistance
resolve them                                  Section on need for system de-
Fotmslate & propose longer term               sign or changes
Dev. strategies for consideration
by the Commissioner, PS, PM & TANU
Research specific problems & issues
as agreed by the Coimissioner
Maintain statistics on ujamaa and
cooperative dev. & analyze trends
annually
Source: "The Nordic Cooperative Assistance to Tanzania" Team
Septemher 3, 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TAN 2ANIA
NATIONAL M0.IZE PROJECT
EXTENSION & TRAINING
I. EXTENSION
A. Background
1.        The extension service is centered on the newly-formed villages,
and the ultimate aim is to have one extension worker, a Field Assistant (FA),
for each village who would operate as Farm Manager of that village. It will
take some years to reach this national objective; but for Project villages
provision is made to recruit the requisite additional staff. At ward level
an AFO is responsible for supervision of agricultural activities, and he in
turn is supervised by the District Agricultural Development Officer (DADO).
The DADO normally has between 3 to 4 wards in his district, and his total
staff varies between 15 and 60 people (Table 1).
2.        The Regional Agricultural. Development Officer (RADO) fulfills more
of a service role, since all extension staff are operating in the districts,
and are as such responsible to the DADO. However, the RADO influences the
agricultural development activities of the DADO's through regular meetings,
visits, and discussion and approval, of work programs. He himself is respon-
sible to the Regional Development Officer (RDO), who comes under the Prime
Minister's Office, and the RADO only receives technical support and advice
from Ministry Headquarters.
3.        The Ministry of Agriculture (KILIMO) in Dar-es-Salaam is mainly a
policy making body with technical staff who assist but do not direct regions
in the preparation of annual work programs and their execution (see Chart
World Bank 8522 (R)). In addition, KILIMO is responsible for the national
research program, agricultural training and identification and preparation
of national agricultural projects, which are, however, executed by regional
authorities and/or parastatal organizations.
4.        Staffing in Project regicns is shown in Table 1; the figures are
the latest available to KILIMO but only reflect the 1974 position. At present
staff are inadequate in both number and training, and are poorly supervised,
which is partly due to the chronic shortage of transport at all levels.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. The Maize Project
5.        Improving the quality of the agricultural extension services would
be critically important for successful implementation of the National Maize
Project. The new village system would facilitate this, since the villagers
would live together and contact with groups would be easier. Upgrading of
extension staff and improving their mobility would be an important component
of the NMP, and is discussed in paras. 20-34.
6.        Ideally, each village would have a resident extension worker (FA),
although during the initial Project years some villages would have to share
an extension worker. These staff would ensure that well-run maize demonstra-
tion plots were established in every village (one on farmers' fields and one
at the school), and that farmers attended regular field days at these plots.
Inputs for the demonstration plots would be supplied free under the Project,
and yield data would be used in monitoring Project progress. These demonstra-
tions would be half a hectare in size, and include the village's recommended
package, and the next one to be reached.
7.        The Project would also provide funds and transport for the Research
Department to establish maize variety/agronomy trials at about four villages
in each region, thereby expanding their ongoing program. Information from
these trials would be collected by the Regional Farm Management Officers to
be appointed under the Project. This would be used to continually improve
the production recommendations made under the Project, a task assigned to
the Farm Management Section in PSU.
8.        Leaflets on improved maize production would be distributed in every
village, while mobile film units would show films on maize production at
regular intervals in Project village, (para. 16).
9.        In each region a senior member of the agricultural staff would be
appointed as full-time Regional Maize Project Coordinator (RMPC). He would
be responsible for drawing up Project work programs and coordinating the
Project within the region and with the Project Servicing Unit. In each dis-
trict a field officer would be appointed as the full time Project supervisor;
his title would be District Maize Project Supervisor (DMPS).
10.       Each Regional MPC and District MPS would be supplied with a vehicle.
Assistant Field Officers responsible for supervision of village level staff
would receive financial assistance for purchase and upkeep of motorcycles; a
similar program would be extended for bicycles for field assistants at the
village level.
11.       A Farm Management Officer to the Project would be appointed in
each region; his title would be Regional Farm Management Officer (RFMO). He



ANNEX 2
Page 3
would ensure that the farming methods recommended under the Project were
appropriate within the context of the local farming systems. He would also
help to monitor Project progress, and be in close liaison with the Farm
Management Section of PSU in Dar-es-Salaam.
C. Communications
12.       Various communication media have been tried to keep the farmer in-
formed of new agricultural techniques and inputs, and to refresh him on hus-
bandry details of established crops and/or livestock but existing coverage
is insufficient. The Project would strenthen the existing visual and audio-
visual programs, by expanding the printing and distribution of KILIMO's monthly
agricultural newspaper, and by providing Mobile Film Units.
13.       KILIMO publishes a monthly agricultural newsletter in Swahili under
the title Ukulima wa Kisasa (Modern Farming), first published in 1955. The
paper covers the following major subjects:
i)    Agricultural and veterinary practices.
ii)    Nutrition and home economics.
iii)    Agricultural activities in villages.
iv)    Entertainment and sports.
The average number of copies is 27,000 per month, which are distributed via
Regional Agricultural Development Officers, parastatals and cooperatives. A
readership survey of several years ago indicated that each copy is read by
about 5 people. Even so, it is clear that the majority of farmers never see
a copy of Ukulima wa Kisasa. It also appears that very few copies reach the
newly established villages.
14.       The Project would, therefore, provide financing for an increased
production of the paper, which is at present partly subsidized by Government.
Most of these additional copies would be distributed for sale to Project
villages, through the RMPC's and DMPS's. The cost per copy, a proposed
TShs.0/50 against the present TShs.0/30, finances around one-third of printing
costs. 1/
15.       PSU would contribute to Ukulima wa Kisasa articles on maize hus-
bandry, fertilizer application, etc., as well as on farm management in general.
Leaflets and/or pamphlets on these topics can also be printed at the paper's
offset printing machines, thus reducing present under-utilization of equipment.
1/  NMP would finance the subsidized portion of printing costs of copies
printed in addition to the current 27,000/month, which by Year 4 would
total an extra 26,000 copies.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
16.       Experience has shown that films are an excellent media for mobilizing
the interest of rural people in improving agriculture. A few mobile film
units exist, but are insufficient to permit regular visits to the large number
of existing villages. Furthermore, an improved mix of films is required. Con-
sequently, the Project would provide a new mobile film unit for each of the
thirteen Project regions. Each unit would be staffed with a driver, a pro-
jectionist and a commentator, who wotuld be trained in Dar-es-Salaam at the
Audio Visual Institute (AVI). Finance would also be provided for the hire
and/or purchase, of suitable films. Special requirements, i.e. agricultural
films in the Tanzania context, would be produced by AVI, and the Project would
finance the production of one such film per year. AVI has a modest collection
of films which can be hired at no charge. However, with the limited selection
available and the intention to increase viewer interest by screening a variety
of films, it would be necessary to buy such films for which funds would be
provided.
II. TRAINING
17.       Training under NMP would be restricted to agriculture and manage-
ment; although there is a need for training in the cooperative sector,
these requirements are being met through the activities of the Nordic Group
and the 5th Education Project, which is proposed for IDA financing (Annex
1). Provision has also been made for seminars of senior staff at regional
and district level.
A. Agriculture
18.       The training envisaged for agricultural staff consists of:
(i)    Agronomy and extension course:  for APO and FA
(ii)    Interphase course:  for AFO and FA
(iii) Maize production course: for diploma and degree holders
(iv)    Degree courses:  for degree holders.
Agronomy and Extension Course
19.       The object of the course is to upgrade all field extension staff --
Assistant Field Officer (AFO) and Field Assistant (FA) -- who would be
responsible for day-to-day contact with farmers in Project villages. The
course would consist of an agronomic section, which would emphasize husbandry
and correct fertilizer application; a demonstration section, where layout
and importance of the demonstration plots would be taught; and an extension



ANNEX 2
Page 5
section, which would cover methods of communicating with farmers. The curri-
culum would be put together by KILIMO staff in the Training Division, by the
seconded CIMMYT Adviser and by staff at the Ilonga Research Station. For
the communication aspect assistance would be sought from the Audio Visual
Institute (Dar-es-Salaam) and the University of Dar-es-Salaam.
20.       The trainers of the Agronomy & Extension course (and subsequent
refresher courses) would be experienced agricultural officers from the 13
regions of the Project. They would receive a 14-day course at the Ilonga
Research Station.
21.       The Project would attempt to train all field staff in villages
affected by the Project in Year 1, before the start of the 1975/76 season.
Some 540 villages would be reached in Year 1, increasing to 950 by Year 4 of
the Project. It is estimated that 50% of the villages have one extension
worker each, whereas in the remainder one extension agent covers 2 villages.
This would give a total of 405 FA and AFO to be trained in Year 1. All AFO
at ward level, who supervise the village staff, would also need to attend
this course: on average there are 10-12 villages to one ward level AFO.
Many villages will not be included in the Project and, therefore, each AFO
may only be responsible for five to six Project villages, and, hence, around
95 would need to be trained. Thus, in Year 1 a total of 500 FA and AFO
would participate in the Agronomy & Extension Course (Table 2).
22.       Using a ratio of 15-20 students per course, some 26 courses would
have to be organized in the 13 regions. Trainers for these courses -- senior
agricultural officers in the regions -- would be trained at the Ilonga Research
Station. There would be one trainer per region, with the exception of Iringa
and Mbeya, who would have 2 trainers each due to the large number of students
to be trained. In each of the subsequent years (Project years 1976/77,
1977/78 and 1978/79) a total of 110 AFO and FA would be trained, to reach
staff in new villages covered by the Project; these numbers include ward-level
AFO's.
23.       The aim of the Project is to reach an establishment of one extension
worker per village. Therefore, new staff would be recruited, mostly Standard-
12 school-leavers, who would be given a 3-month training course. Provision
has been made for 140 trainees in Year 2, and another 100 in Year 3; courses
of this type are already being organized by KILIMO, but the Project would
provide for financing of this training program.
24.       The Project would also organize annual refresher courses for all
field staff; during these 12-day courses any new developments in maize
agronomy could be covered, the experience of the previous season reviewed, and
emphasis would be given on extens:Lon methods. The senior agricultural staff
in charge of the Agronomy and Extension course would also teach the refresher
courses.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Interphase Course
25.       This course would last one entire growing season, and be given at
the maize research stations. Extension agents (AFO and FA) would come for
2-3 weeks at the start of the season, and would be trained in phase 1 (land
preparation and planting) of the maize calendar. They would then go back to
their villages to implement this knowledge, after which they would return to
the research station for training in phase 2, which would include weeding,
and the application of top dressing and pesticides. Finally, the third period
would comprise yield estimation, harvesting and marketing and some training
on the economics of maize production.
26.       The "interphase" approach, which has been successfully tried in
other countries, has several advantages:
(i)   The agent is not completely taken off-duty;
(ii)    There is an immediate follow-up in practice of the teaching
and demonstration at the research station; and
(iii)    There is an immediate interaction between extension and
research.
27.       This type of course could take a maximum of 15 students per research
station; included in the program would be the Ilonga Research Station (Kilosa),
the Ukiriguru Research Station (Ukiriguru) and the Agricultural and Research
Training Institute (ARTI) at Mbeya. Thus 45 students could be trained per
season, for a 4-year Project total of 180 extension staff. CIMMYT has agreed
to make a Senior Training Officer available to organize this type of training
in Tanzania.
28.       Trainers for the 1st year's interphase course would be recruited
from research staff at the above mentioned research stations. In subsequent
years certificate and diploma holders who had successfully graduated from the
CIMMYT or IITA courses (para. 29) would be able to assume full teaching
responsibility.
Maize Production Course
29.       A few well-qualified degree holders would be sent to Mexico (CIMMYT)
or Nigeria (IITA) for a season (5 months) course of intensive maize production.
These students would then become the trainers of extension agents for the
interphase course.
30.       In addition, graduates would be employed on maize research stations,
particularly Ilonga, Ukiriguru and Mbeya. KILIMO has produced a staffing
plan, aimed at providing the technical manpower to make Tanzania self-sufficient
in maize production research. This national staff development plan emphasizes
production-oriented research, and the IITA/CIMMYT courses would be the first



ANNEX 2
Page 7
stage of this program. Consequently, the NMP would provide training funds
for 21 intensive maize production courses, to be taken at IITA (Ibadan,
Nigeria) or at CIMMYT (Mexico). Since the IITA is concentrating on maize and
legumes, and also on the adopticin of improved maize varieties to African
conditions, most students would go to IITA.
Degree Training
31.       The manpower analysis referred to above (para. 30) also points to
the need for B.Sc. and M.Sc. degree holders. The Project would assist in
providing some of these staff, by financing training, as follows:
1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    Total
B.Sc. (2 years)                      3           3           2           1         9
M.Sc. (2 years)                      1           2           3           3         9
32.       In the past, most degree training has been undertaken in American
or European universities, which renders more difficult the transition to
Tanzania, and the application of the training to tropical agriculture. There-
fore, the NMP would provide financing only for degree courses taken at African
universities.
B. MIanagement
33.       NMP would be implemented at the regional level by regional and dis-
trict agricultural staff (RADO and DADO) and by Project-appointed Regional
Coordinators and District Supervisors. These staff, though usually well-trained
in agriculture, have had little cr no management training and, thus, they are
not always able to effectively organize and supervise their staff.
34.       Consequently, the Project envisages the organization and financing
of a management training course (some 3 weeks) for RADO's (13), DADO's (28),
Regional Coordinators (13) and District Supervisors (28). These 82 staff
could not be trained all at once; some 45 would be taken in in the first half
of 1976, and another 45 in the latter half of 1976, with 10-day refresher
courses to begin early 1977. The training of 90 staff takes into account
transfers.
35.       The management course, which would consist of case-studies and
demonstrations, in addition to lectures, would be organized and given by
the Tanzanian Management Development Institute at Morogoro.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
36.       In addition, the Project would provide financing for regular
seminars, to be convened by the Project manager. The purpose of these
meetings would be to discuss NMP work programs and to develop solutions to
problems of implementation.
October 13, 1975



ANINU 2
TANZANIA                                                                                Table 1
3ATIONAL MAHXZ PROJECT
ErMnD u uosSTAFF                   - Plow AND
DISIRICT  173e 11COk  M
Region/DlxtritC   Agrictul-  riald  Ai t nt  Filil       totel                RegignfDintrict                         Arictl-        pield        Aeeietant        FilId         Total
FIed         Field         P.1           Toa                 Neie tttt-    ua                                        f la              lad
..i  zf,_  offi.  L.  St                                                      0            OffL                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aaaitetae  Staff
Officer       Officer       Offer        AsetAtt         Staff                                                        Officer               OfficerA.
R.gisoal Staff                                 3              2            7              -            12               Regionol Stff                                 1             4             16             14             35
District Staff - Ar-earo0                      -              4           19             8            31                DLacrit Staff - Kiltro                       -             1               5              8            14
HlD ag*                    -              3           12            10            25                                    KiloecO                  -             3              20             21            44
Mboloc                     -              2           10            13            27                                    Mhi*fg.                  -             I              1i             10            22
MHduli                     -              2            5             3            10                                    HorogorIo                1             3              16            1             38
Toa.l                                  3             13           53            36           105                         Total                               2            12             68              71           153
Joco.---                                                                                                                Mcvar
qrgio-al S-ff                                  2              a            6             9             25               Roional Staff                                1              3             13               9            26
Xit-riot Staff - D7ds                          -              7           48            11            66                Ditrikt Staff - rSaaai0                      I             1              14             18             34
itodoa                     -              2           30            19            51                                     Hr -te                  -             4              10             18            32
Mgoap.,a                   -              7            9             9            45                                    Naal.                    -              3             11             14            28
Total                                  2             24          113            48           187                         Total                               2            11             48              59           120
tRalocal Staff                                 1              3            7              1            12               Regioal Staff                                 -             3              2               -             5
Datrlict Staff   Inioga0                       -              4           21            28            53                Diatrict Staff - Hp nda                      -              3             13             11            27
Hufi.dio                   -              4           15            16            35                                    Sonba gac                1             2              16             12            31
Ojonibc                    -              6           21            35            62                         Total                               I             a             31              23            63
To-aI                                  1             17           64            80           162
Ruv
f-egioal staff                               1             4             12               5            22
Raglo-al Staff                                 I              a            8              2            19               Dietrict Staff - Mbirpg                      -              1             22              9            32
Merri- t Staff -Mfhai                          1              4           32            71           108                                    S."...a                  1              1             27             12            41
fore                       -              6           29            34            69                                    Tondoro                  -             2             24               9            35
Ro.b0                      -              1            S            16            25                          Total                              2             8              85             35           130
Total                                  2             19           77           123           221
Tabora
Li-di                                                                                                                        Regioral Stff                                I             1              13              S            23
itotiocol Staff    4  4    -loDi.trict Staff - NM9g                                                    -             6             20              14            40
Macriot Staff - Kilaw                          -              2            9             9             20                                   Tbor                     -              2             23             12             37
Llndil                     -              3           14            19            36                                    Urboc              (rely ford diatriot;  ea.ff i-ccidad order
NahinRg-.N                 1              2           15            12            30                                                        Tabor-  District)
Total                                                1            42            40            94                         Total                               1              9            56              34           100
'fDa-                                                                                                                   Tape
RegLoral Stff                                  2              4            4              1            11               Regional Stoff                                1             4             19              10            14
co t-i   Staff - Chuny                         -              2           14             9            25                Di-trict Staff - Handei                      -              1             16             24            41
fyrla                                     1            a             3            12                                    forego.                  _              I             11             14            26
Sbryat                     -              3           25            15            43                                    Lu.hoto*                 _             7              54             it            72
irlotic                    -              2           1!            17            30                                    *zheaa                                 2              23             24            49
R ngre                     -              3           13            20            36                                    PanRgni                  -             1               5              8            14
rOr-1                                 2             15           75            65            157            Kl           Total                               1            16            128              91           236
I/  Ar-rr   ir iodi-ta NM  Dierricat.
otporo-r.o- ov3llebl5 for thit Ragios.
sopc;r'cr 3, 2971.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
TRAINING OF EXTENSION FIELD STAFF
No. of
Field Staff                                                        Courses
No. of     50% of Villages,    50% of Villages,                 Ward Level        Total to      (15-20
Villages     1 Field Staff         1 Field Staff                 AFO, One per.  be Trained   Students
Region            Year 1            Each            for 2 Villa&es       Total    5-6 Villages    in Year 1   per Course)
Arusha             68                34                   17              51            11             62             3
Dodoma             19                10                    5              15             3             18.           1
Iringa             88                44                   22             66.            19-            85            4
Kilimanjaro        36                18.                   9              27             9             36            2
Lindi              31                16,                   8              24             5             29            2
Mara               34                17                    8.             25.            6.            31             2
Mbeya              60                30.,                 15              45            10             55             3
Morogoro           46                23,                  12              354            7             42             2
Mtwara             42                21                   10,             31.   6.-                    37             2
Rukwa              24                12                    6,             18-            4             22,            1
Ruvuma             24                12                    6              18^.           4             22            1
Tabora             26                13                    6              19             4             23            1
Tanga              42                20                   11              31             7             38.           2
TOTAL       540                270                 135             405             95            500           26
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAI, MAIZE PROJECT
TECHNOLOGY AND POTENTIAL FOR MAIZE PRODUCTION
Introduction
1.        Maize is the most important cereal crop in Tanzania and the staple
food of much of the rural population. Varying estimates place the area under
maize at 0.8 to 1.2 million ha with average yields of about 700 kg/ha. The
crop is grown in all regions of Tanzania, but in some areas conditions are
marginal. The bulk of production comes from Arusha, Tanga, Dodoma, Iringa,
Mbeya and Tabora Regions; other regions of increasing importance include
Kilimanjaro, Morogoro, Ruvuma, Rukwa, Lindi, Mtwara and Mara. Table 1 of
Annex 5 indicates the relative importance of maize as a food crop in Tanzania,
while Table 2 of Annex 5 shows marketed production from 1966 to 1973.
2.        With only an estimated 25% of total production marketed, maize is
primarily a subsistence crop. Cultural practices are often poor, resulting
in the low national average yielcl estimate of 750 kg/ha. Yields, however,
vary widely throughout the country and from season to season with a range of
600 kg to 1,800 kg/ha. Under good husbandry in suitable areas yields of up
to 5,000 kg/ha are obtained, and the potential for yield improvement is,
therefore, very good. Furthermore, given the wide adaptability of maize,
the crop is better suited to Tanzania's variable conditions than any other
cereal. However, because Tanzania has such an extremely varied environment,
and although on-going basic research work has provided sufficient data for
formulating maize packages for irmediate use, their application to particular
areas would be refined as more production data becomes available.
Maize Areas
3.        In Tanzania, generally, the yield of maize has been found to increase
with higher altitude and more rainfall, with a longer growing season and with
moderate temperatures. Top yields of maize can be expected from areas with
over 1,000 mm of rainfall well distributed throughout the growing season on
a fertile soil. Good crops can normally be produced with over 750 mm of rain-
fall, but below this level of precipitation, and especially if distribution
is poor within the season, yields will be reduced and crop failures can be
expected. The altitude is also a key determinant in the length of the growing
season, which increases with elevation, and maize breeders have evolved
varieties suited to four broad altitudinal zones, as well as for varying rain-
fall characteristics. The zones, and general guidelines on the number of days
to reach maturity, are shown below:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Altitude Zones and Length of Growing Season
Altitude             Days from Planting        Days from Tasselling
in meters               to Tasselling              to Maturity
Below 300                 44 - 55                    50 - 60
300 - 900                 55 - 75                   60 - 70
900 - 1,800               85 - 115                   70 - 80
Over 1,800               115 - 125                   80 - 90
4.        Considerable research on maize breeding has been done within
Tanzania at the Ukiriguru (Mwanza Region) and Ilonga (Morogoro Region)
Research Stations, and by staff of the East African Agricultural and Forestry
Research Organization. Varieties have also been introduced from Kenya, Zambia
and elsewhere. Ukiriguru and Ilonga have both produced composites now in
general supply for farmers, while Kenya hybrids are favored for the higher
altitudes where they produce better results than composites. In more marginal
areas, the short-season Kenyan Katumani Composite has been introduced. Table
1 summarizes the 1970-72 findings of research variety trials on the effects of
altitude. Further varieties are now being evolved and tested by the research
stations for possible introduction in two or three years' time. Present indi-
cations are that these new varieties will give substantial yield improvement,
and they include a short-season variety, for use in areas where returns from
maize are at present marginal.
5.        In selecting areas suitable for the Project, emphasis has been placed
on those regions and districts that are environmentally most suited to maize
production. However, areas which might be regarded as having intermediate
potential but where maize is still a major crop have also been included to
ensure that these areas reach at least self-sufficiency in maize production,
and that field research is carried out in areas faced with climatic problems
in certain seasons. At the same time, other areas which are only marginally
suited to maize growing, given present technology, have been excluded from the
Project.
6.        Although published physical resource data in Tanzania is limited,
the Bureau of Resource Assessment and Land Use Planning (BRALUP) of Dar-es-
Salaam University has published a paper on the Agro-Economic Zones of Tanzania,
which is supported by a more detailed series of publications for different
geographic regions of the country (see Bibliography). A further BRALUP publi-
cation summarizes mainly in map-form rainfall and evaporation data. From
these sources, it has been possible to derive Table 2, which shows into which
rainfall and altitude zones the majority of the selected Project districts
fall. The highest potential maize areas are those of the Southern Highlands



ANNEX 3
Page 3
in Iringa, Mbeya and Ruvuma Regions, the higher elevations of Arusha and
Kilimanjaro Regions, and the Usambara Highlands in Tanga Region. The remainder
of the Project area has a medium potential for maize, including the inter-
mediate elevation and rainfall areas of Central, (Morogoro, Dodoma, Tabora),
Northern (Mara, Arusha) and North Eastern (Kilimanjaro, Tanga) Tanzania, and
the high rainfall coastal and hinterland areas of the South East (Mtwara,
Lindi). Table 2 also shows that only five districts in Arusha, Tabora,
Dodoma and Rukwa Regions have areas where annual rainfall is below 750 mm, and
villages falling within these areas of the districts will be excluded from
the Project. However, since these districts are all important maize growing
areas, it is regarded as vital to study the problems of maize growing in areas
of lower production potential, often only slightly above 750 mm average rain-
fall, and make recommendations for yield improvement or changes in cropping
patterns.
Research
7.        Considerable research on maize production has been carried out in
Tanzania, based on a comprehensive network of research stations and substations.
There are now nine agricultural research institutes and twenty three agri-
cultural experimental stations in the eighteen identified ecological zones
of Tanzania (Map IBRD 10799). Recently, KILIMO's research activities have
been internally reviewed, and a new system of Crop Research Coordinating
Conmmittees introduced to streamline and more effectively coordinate national
research activities.
8.        The present maize research program is evolved through the Maize
Research Coordinating Committee, and has the following major elements:
i)   Maize variety trials to evaluate present and new varieties
at 24 locations;
ii)   Introduction and progency testing of new varieties;
iii)   Village research trials in all maize growing regions
combining varieties, fertilizer use and the cultural
practices;
iv)   Cultural practice trials on seedbed preparation, time
of planting, spacing, weed control and use of herbicides;
and
v)   Fertilizer trials.
Cultural Practices
9.        A good knowledge exists of recommended cultural practices in
most ecological areas and more attention to these alone could produce
considerably higher yields, even without using fertilizer. At present



ANNEX 3
Page 4
prices, it is generally not economic to use fertilizer without improved
practices. Thus, the first package recommended under the Project (para.
21) concentrates on improving cultural practices, combined with improved
seed, and pesticides to control stalk borer, which are relatively cheap,
easy to use, and technically proven.
Improved Seed
10.       For the higher altitudes, hybrids developed in Kenya are generally
recommended, and these are being produced locally for the Tanzania Seed
Company. For medium and lower altitudes, the Ukiriguru and Ilonga composites
have been developed locally, and are being multiplied on Government seed farms
and also by individuals or companies under contract to the Tanzania Seed
Company. For low-rainfall areas, the Kenya Katumani Composite is recommended,
and is being multiplied on a Government seed farm at Arusha. The Government
is receiving USAID assistance to its seed multiplication program, and the
Tanzania Wattle Company (TANWAT) is the major company involved with seed
production outside Government seed farms. TANWAT is partially financed and
receives technical assistance, including some resident staff, from the
Commonwealth Development Corporation, and TANWAT is also the managing agent
of the Tanzania Seed Company. On the research side, the Government receives
assistance from two international research organizations, CIMMYT in Mexico
and IITA in Nigeria, and with this technical assistance with the breeding
program promising new varieties are at present under trial.
11.       Despite this external support for breeding and seed multiplication,
the existing National Seed Production Committee has not proved fully effective
in coordinating seed production to meet national requirements. It is essen-
tial for an executive subcommittee of the main committee to define precisely
national requirements, and then to ensure that seed production from all sources
is geared to meet the demand. Thus for maize, as also for other crops, a
specific seed production program must be evolved and closely monitored with
an effective inspectorate for assisting private growers. Government and
regional seed farms and assuring the maintenance of correct standards. Prices
paid to growers also need review to ensure the additional effort required to
produce seed is sufficiently rewarded. An essential element of the proposed
Project would thus be the effective coordination of all parties involved in
seed supply.
12.       Although composite seed can be retained for use over two or three
seasons, it has been decided to replace composite seed annually under the
Project, for reasons of a slight genetic yield loss, an even greater germina-
tion loss due to poor storage, and a yield increase of up to 10% from con-
tinuous improvemenit achieved each year in the composite selection carried out
at the Ilonga Research Station. It would take one or two years before
composite seed production has increased to Project requirements. In the
early years of the Project, when some composite seed would have to be re-
tained, a seed dressing, sinuthion, would be nade available under the Project
for use by villagers, to protect the seed in store from insect pests.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Fertilizer Use
13.       In many areas of Tanzania more than one essential element is lacking
in the soil, and fertilizer must be applied to obtain optimum yields.
Generally speaking, nitrogen and phosphorus are required together (and their
interaction is often important), while in some areas potassium is also
essential if yields are to be raised above subsistence levels. Fertilizers,
however, are relatively expensive and in view of the poor husbandry standards
and low average yields throughout Tanzania, and the inadequacy of information
on which to base localized fertilizer recommendations, the Project would
initially broadly follow the recommendations of the Government Soil and
Fertilizer Use Coordinating Committee. These recommendations for Project
districts are summarized below:
Recommended Fertilizer Rates for Project
Districts
N  P  K            N  P  K           N  P  K              N  P  K
30-30-0            30-20-10          20-20-0              10-10-0
150 Kg/ha SA and  150 Kg/ha SA       100 Kg/ha SA         50 Kg/ha SA
65 Kg/ha TSP       50 Kg/ha TSP,    44 Kg/ha TSP          25 Kg/ha TSP
24 Kg/ha M.
Potash
Tarime              Njombe           Iringa               Arumeru (part)
Serengeti           Mufindi          Morogoro (part)      Tabora
Songea          Kilosa                Urambo
Mahenge         Mbeya                 Mpwapwa
Morogoro (part) Sumbawanga (part)   Sumbawanga (part)
Nachingwea      Mbozi
(part)
Newala          Lindi
Mtwara           Rombo
Masasi          Arumeru (part)
Hanang
Nbulu
Korogwe
Lushoto
Source:   Draft Handbook for Fertilizer Use in Maize
in Tanzania.  Ministry of Agriculture 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
14.       Much higher optimum rates are listed for the better areas, but the
draft handbook stresses the high cost of such packages. For instance, at
present fertilizer prices (revised from 1974 publication) it would cost
TShs. 1,900 to apply a recommended optimum application of N9OP60K20 per
hectare and require at least an additional 2,400 kg/ha yield increase to
break even on the extra cost. Such a yield increase is unrealistic for
farmers just being introduced to improved practices, and hence the lower
rates shown in the above list have been recommended. These rates are broadly
in line with the modest fertilizer recommendations in the Project packages
discussed in para. 20, which comprise 100 kg/ha SA and 50 kg/ha TSP in
Package 2, and 150 kg/ha SA and 50 kg/ha TSP in Package 3.
15.       The benefits of the modest rates recommended by Government and
utilized in the proposed Project are supported by results of a series of
trials on farmers' fields in ten districts of Northern Tanzania that are
documented in the EAAFRO Journal for 1969. Compound fertilizers used in
the trials were Diammonium Phosphate (18N-47P), a 25N-10P Compound, and a
20N-20P-10K Compound. In every trial the application rate was only 112
kg/ha (100 lbs per acre). The response levels indicate yield increases in
the range of 300 - 500 kgs for the more marginal areas, which would not be
included in the Project, and from 600 - 1,300 kgs for higher potential areas,
in some instances reaching 1,800 -1,900 kgs per hectare (Table 3).
16.       Using yield data from Project village demonstration plots, yield
surveys of Project farmers' field and further research trials, fertilizer
recommendations for the differing ecological conditions existing within the
Project area would be developed during the course of the Project. Attention
to this aspect would be a key responsibility of Project Servicing Unit
staff and the regional farm management officers, who would also draw on the
assistance of all those engaged in maize agronomy in the country. Dependent
on economic considerations, it seems possible that at elevations above 1,500
meters, where yield potential is greatest, a higher rate of fertilizer
application could be recommended for the more successful villages. Evidence
supporting this is available from six maize experiments conducted at six
off-station locations in Mbeya Region by Dr. Mattson and Mr. H. Zuberi in the
1974-75 season. The data presented in Table 4 show a significant increase
in returns, when the level of N is increased from 50 to 100 kg/ha, using
unsubsidized prices. Further experimentation during the 1975/76 season will
assist in determining the need for any changes in the recommendations. In
addition to further technical assistance from CIMMYT, the Project also pro-
vides for the service of an experienced maize agronomist to review existing
maize agronomy in different areas of Tanzania, and make recommendations for
its long-term improvement (Terms of Reference are given in Annex 7).
17.       Present fertilizer recommendations are based on using Triple
Superphosphate (TSP) as the phosphorous source, and initially Sulphate
of Ammonia (SA) for nitrogen. Both are produced by the Tanzania Fertilizer
Company (TFC) at Tanga. In view of SA's soil acidifying effect, and the



ANNEX 3
Page 7
high cost of transportation per unit of nitrogen, a more suitable form of
nitrogen, such as CAN or Urea combined with the use of Diammonium Phosphate
(DAP), would be investigated under the Project. The TFC factory could be
modified to produce DAP but, until this is done, DAP requirements would be
imported.
Pesticides and Herbicides
18.       The major pest affecting maize in Tanzania is stalk borer, and the
use of 5% DDT (powder) as a preventative measure is included in the recom-
mendations for all areas in the Project. Research is ongoing in neighbouring
countries to replace DDT by an equally suitable and cheap insecticide; once
a recommended alternative is available it would be adopted. Localized out-
breaks of army worm are another problem, and provision is made under the
Project for their control by 25% DDT (liquid) on up to 10% of the Project
area.
19.       Since each farmer under the Project is only assumed to grow an
average 0.75 to 1 hectare of maize, he would have sufficient labour for
adequate weeding. However, as maize is only part of his farm program, and
as some more successful maize growing villages might wish to increase the
acreage under maize, the Project would arrange for two percent of the area
to receive a herbicide - Gesaprim is at present recommended - on a pilot
basis. Villagers using Gesaprim would be expected to bear the full cost to
ensure that its use releases labour at a true economic cost. Weeding is
undoubtedly a constraint on the size of holding for many farmers, and the
effectiveness of the herbicide has been well demonstrated on research trials
and by some villages, where Gesaprim has already been introduced.
The Project Technical Packages
20.       The national average yield for maize is estimated at 750 kg per ha.
However, since the Project would concentrate its efforts only in the better
maize growing areas, it is assumed that average Project area yields are about
1,100 kg/ha; this level has been used as the yield without the Project. In
view of the present low husbandry standards, the initial extension effort
would be concentrated on improving husbandry methods including early planting,
correct spacing and timely weeding. The initial stage (Package 1) couples
this with the use of improved seed and herbicides. Once this stage has been
mastered, farmers would move on to Packages 2 and 3 which incorporate modest
increases in fertilizer use.
21.       The Project packages are as follows:
(i) Package 1: Farmers using this package would receive
improved composite seed and insecticides, mainly 5%
DDT for stalk borer control as a blanket recommendation,
and also some 25% DDT to combat incidences of army worm
outbreaks, provided on the basis of requirements for 10%



ANNEX 3
Page 8
of the cropped area. These inputs coupled with the use
of improved practices advocated by the strengthened
extension services, would be expected to raise average
yields to 1,500 kg/ha (36 percent) over a three- to four-year
period.
(ii) Package 2: Inputs for this package would include those
in Package 1 together with modest use of fertilizer
(50 kg/ha of TSP and 100 kg/ha of SA). The SA would be
applied half at planting time, and half as a top dressing.
The expected yield from this stage would be 2,200 kg/ha,
which would further increase yields by 700 kg/ha. At
higher altitudes hybrid rather than composite seed would
be used.
(iii) Package 3: In the more favored growing areas with
rainfall over 1,000 mm, a third stage would be introduced
adding one additional 50 kg bag of Sulphate of Ammonia,
or its nutrient equivalent. The nitrogen would be applied
half as a basal and half as a top dressing. The eventual
yield increase for this stage is placed at 2,700 kg/ha, in
part attributable to the increased fertilizer use and in
part to restricting this stage to only the best growing areas.
22.       Although Package 1 realizes a 400 kg/ha yield increase, it is
envisaged that all villages would move to Package 2 over a two- to five-year
period. The yield increase could not be maintained in Package 1 on a con-
tinuous basis, and the advance to Package 2 is necessary to maintain fertility,
as well as to further raise yields.
Other Technical Improvements
23.       In addition to the various forms of assistance discussed under
extension and training in Annex 2, the Project would support technical
innovation in the following ways:
i)   By making additional funds available to the Research Section
of the Ministry of Agriculture to expand their network of
village trials from the existing 34 up to 52 trials per
season.  These village naize trials include a variety trial
to compare local and recommended varieties with new ones; a
fertilizer trial; a management trial incorporating various
cultural practices including herbicide use; and also a research
management block to demonstrate existing recommendations;
ii)   By making additional funds available to the Research Section
for conducting rotational maize trials with legumes as well
as intercropping trials with the object of reducing the
dependence upon imported nitrogen. In this sphere the findings



ANNEX 3
Page 9
of the complementary FAO/UNDP Assistance to Crop Production
Project would provide an important input (Annex 7); and
iii)   By providing consultancy funds for a maize agronomist to
review existing agronomic recommendations for maize for the
various areas under the Project and make recommendations for
the long-term improvement of maize agronomy. It is anticipated
that the consultant would be in the field for four months in
Year 1, and a further two in the second year after more data is
available on which to review recommendations.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
BIBLIOGRAPHY
References                                                                Date
1.   Agro-Economic Zones of Tanzania, BRALUP Res. Paper 25                1973
2.   Agro-Economic Zones of:
i)   N.E. Tanzania                   BRALUP Res. Report 13           1971
ii)   Southern Highlands              BRALUP Res. Report 22           1971
iii)   Kigoma and Tabora Regions       BRALUP Res. Report 46           1971
iv)   Dodoma and Singida Regions    BRALUP Res. Report 47             1971
v)   Coast and Morogoro Regions    BRALUP Res. Report 48             1971
vi)   Southern Tanzania               BRALUP Res. Report 49           1971
3.   Rainfall and Evaporation in Tanzania, BRALUP Res. Paper 24           1973
4.   National Agricultural Research Program 1974-75, Ministry
of Agriculture             1974
5.   Response of Maize to Application of Compound Fertilizers
on Farmers Fields in Ten Districts of Tanzania,
Anderson, EAAFRO Journal, January 1969
6.   A Handbook for Fertilizer Use in Maize in Tanzania,
Draft Edition, Cusani-Visconti and Samki, Ministry
of Agriculture                  1974
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
RESEARCH MAIZE YIELDS IN 2A1ZANIA.
BY ALTITWI AID VARIETt. 19-070-1971/72
1/           1/
Altitude          Nae of         Composite       Adjusted    Adjusted         LocatiormTested
Range            Vait            rHybrid          Yed        ils   o
(meters)          Variety        orAll Sites  50% (Bags/                      1970  1971  1972
(bags/acre)    acre)
Ilonga Coup        Coup            12.2        15.8              4    4       2
Ilonga Coup A      Coup            13.9        17.8              4    7       2
Below 300       H 512              Hybrid           12.4        15.1             -    3        2
H 511              Hybrid          11.0         14.3             -    3       -
SR 52              Hybrid          13.8        17.6              -    3       -
H 632              Hybrid           12.0        15.4             4    7       2
Ilonga Comp        Coup            15.4        19.4              7    1       2
Ilonga Coup A      Coup            15.1        19.6              7    8       1
300-900         H 512              Hybrid           14.2        18.2             -    4        2
H 511              Hybrid           13.0       16.1              -    5       -
SR 52              Hbrid           16.7        17.0              -    4       -
H 632              Hybrid           14.5        20.3             7    9       2
Ukiriguru Comp    Comp              17.7        26.5            12   13       5
H 611              Hybrid           18.9        25.2            12    5       5
900-1800        H 632              Hybrid           17.9        23.3            12   13       5
H 512              Hybrid           20.5        25.0             -    6       5
H 511              Hybrid           25.7        27.4             -    6       -
SR 52              Hybrid          21.6        27.8              -    6       -
Ilonga Comp A      Coup              9.9        -                3    4       3
2/     Iloaga Coup         CoUp             9.6         -                3    3       4
900-1800        Katuabili          Coup             10.0         -               -    -       3
H 512              Hybrid            9.3         -               -    2       3
Low             SR 52              Hybrid            8.4         -               -    2        -
rainfall       M 6                Coup              7.7         -               -    -       3
Katummni Comp B   Coup               6.6         -               -    -       3
H 613              Hybrid           28.3        34.4             -    3       2
H 611              Hybrid           25.9        32.8             -    3       2
Above 1800      Ukiriguru Comp    Comp              23.4        26.5             -    5        2
H 512              Hybrid           23.3        28.1             -    3       2
H 511              Hybrid           24.1        31.1             -    3       -
H 632              Hybrid           22.5        24.8             -    5       2
1/ Figures are adjusted for seasonal variations according to yield by standard
varieties.   Yields are expressed as 90 kg bags of shelled grain.  Differ-
ences between yields are not necessarily statistically significant.
2/ Sites selected from several altitudes, all with low rainfall.
September 3, 1975.



TANZANIA                                                                               AMNEX 3
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT                                                                         Table 2
MAJOR ALTITUDE AND ANNUAL RAINFALL ZONES OF PRDJECT DISTRICTS
Altitude        Over 1,800 metres                 900-1800  netres             300-900 metres                        Under 300 metres
PROJECT               PROJECT            Annual         1,000mm     750-  >750mo      1,000mm      750-         750  (1, 000m     750    >7501   (1,0OOOmM         750        >  750mm
REGION                DISTRICT            Rainfall                1, 'OODC1,00000                                               1,0001ma         l,000                       _ __
ARUSNIA               Arumeru                             X                               X         X       X
Hanang                                       X                -                   I     _X
Mbulu                            __  _ _    _ _ _               _ _ _  _     X     I_             __
KILIMANJARO           Moshi                               X                               X         X      I                         _
Rombo                            _X                                X         X                                   _
TANGA                  __hez    __ _                     ..                               X                              X                               X
Korogwe                            X                               X         X_
Lusboto                            X                                            _X  X 
MOROGORO              Kilosa                                                              X         X                       _
Morogoro  _       __X
DODOMA                 _____ _____ ____ _____  __Mabenge    X       =X
TABORA                Tabora               _                                                                _                      X          X
UramboX
IRINGA                _r_I      _                         X                              XX         x      _I  _--_---_
Mufindi                            X                               X         X                        _ 
MBEYA                 Mbeya_             _       _     __ X__ _  _ __XX
Mbozi                                                              X, _ 
LINDI                 Nachingwea _                                                                                       X_X_X
MTWARA                M__asi                                                                                             X         X _
Mtwara                                                                                            x , =-?  _  _X X_
RUVUMA                Song_ea                             X                               X                                           _
MARA                  Sumbawanga                          X                  _           _X                 X               _
Serengeti                                                          I         X
Recommended Seed
Dy Zone                          Hybrid      Hybrild     -        ybrid     UCA      IX          IC        IC        Katumant    IC           IC             _
632         632                 632             Katumani
UCA                 UCA      IC                                        [C
N. B.                 At least 10% of the District area  ust fall within the zone cited for inclusion of that zone to be Marked on the table.
Villages in those parts of Districts vith annmul rainfall below 750im will be excluded frem the project.
Source:               Agro-Economic Zones of Tanzania and Rainfall Data - BHALUP, 1973.
September 3, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MEAN Y1TLDS AND RESPONSES OF MAIZE GRAIN FOR LOCALITIES IN EIGHT DISTRICTS OF TANZANIA, 1966
District             Locality                    No. of               Yield (Kg/Hectare)                                   Mean Responses
Trials      Unfertilized    Fertilized       Mean                  Kg/Ha               Per Cent
DODOMA               Matambulu                       6          590            1,025           307                   435                   73.8
Nkungu                         5          309               665          488                    355                  114.9
Mndemu                         3          610               855          733                    245                   40-3
Makulu                         6           399              790          595                    391                   98.0
Mean for District             20          478               834          656                    356                   74.6
MBULU                Hareabi I                      12        3,421            3,865         3,643                   444                   13.0
Hareabi II                     8        1,579             1,926        1,753                    346                   21.9
Kainam                         6        2,611             3,402        3,007                    791                   30-3
Endabash                       6        2,883             4,228        3,556                  i,345                   46.7
Mbulu town                     4        3,708             4,349        4,029                    641                   17.3
Mean for District             36        2,841             3,555        3,198                    714                   25.6
SOUTH                Uru                            7         2,014            2,794        2,405                    779                   38.7
KILIMANJARO          Machame                         9        3,216            4,143         3,680                   927                   28.8
Kibongoto                      7        2,847             4,236        3,542                  1,389                   48.8
Masama                         4        3,i64             4,561        4,i6_                    79                    21.2
Old Moshi                      8        1,590             1,887        1,739                    297                   18.7
Central Hai                    8        2,094             2,949        2,522                    855                   40.8
Mwika                          6        2,762             3,726        3,244                    964                   25.9
West Vunjo                     6        2,316             3,092        2,704                    776                   53.5
Mean for District             55        2,576             3,424        3,000                    847                   32.9
ARUSHA               District                        6        1,905            2,677         2,291                   772                   40.6
EAST
KILIMANJARO          Keni and Mkuu                   5          657            1,528         1,093                   871                  132.3
MUHEZA-              Muheza                         11        1,961            2,799        2,380                    839                   42.8
KOROGWE              Korogwe                         4        1,397            1,999         1,698                   602                   43.0
Mombo                          7        1,037             1,451        1,244                    414                   39.9
Mean for District             22        1,464             2,083        1,773                    619                   42.3
LUSHOTO              Mtae                           7         1,767            2,235        2,001                    469                   26.5
Mgwashi                        7        2,652             4,608        3,631                  1,956                   73.8
Ubiri                          7          919             1,470        1,195                    550                   59.9
Bumbuli                        7        2,390             3,129        2,760                    739                   30.9
Soni                           5        3,946             5,748        4,847                  1,803                   45.7
Balangani                      6        2,054             3,124        2,590                  1,071                   52.1
Manga                          4        2,088             2,430        2,760                  1,342                   64.3 
Mean for District             43        2,260             3,392        2,826                  1,133                   50.1        
TANGA                Pon6we                         11        1,537            2,516        2,027                    979                   6.7
Maramba                        4        1,323             2,122        1,723                    799                   60.4
Kigombe/Mtangata               7        1,330             1,995        1,662                    666                   50.1
Mean for District             22        1,397             2,211        1,804                    814                   58.3
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
YIELDS AND RETURNS FROM SIX OFF-STATION MAIZE
FERTILIZER TRIALS, MBEYA REGION, 1974-75
1/                 2/
Yield         N         P 05         Fertilizer Cost    Value of Grain    Net Return
Kg/ha      Kg/ha       Kg/ha               TShs.               TShs.            TShs.
1,620          0           0                   0               1,215            1,215
3,000        50            0                 607               2,250            1,643
5,100       100            0               1,214               3,825            2,611
1,790         0           25                 147               1,343            1,196
2,560        50           25                 754               1,920            1,164
4,530       100           25               1,361               3,398            2,037
1,830          0          50                 294               1,373            1,079
3,310        50           50                 901               2,483            1,582
5,730       100           50              1,508                4,298            2,790
1/  Unsubsidised prices.  Cost of N = TShs. 12/49 per kg;
P205 = TShs. 5/87 per kg.
2/ Value of grain at TShs. -/75/kg.
November 20, 1975.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TAIZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
THE NATIONAL MILLI]NG CORPORATION (NMC)
A. Historical Background
1.        The National Milling Corporation (NMC) was established in February
1968 to bring under one management. the grain milling organizations nationalized
immediately after, and in accordarnce with, the Arusha Declaration of 1967.
Under the National Milling Corporation Act of Parliament (Act No. 19 of 1968),
ownership of the corporation has been vested in the Government of the United
Republic of Tanzania, in order to allow the State control over the major means
of production in the food processing industry. At the time of the takeover,
NMC became responsible for 12 grain milling establishments with an overall
annual milling capacity of about 196,000 tons of grain. In subsequent years,
NMC acquired cassava flour mills, poultry and animal feed concerns, canning
firms producing a variety of products like jam, fruit juices, squashes, and
a wine bottling plant.
2.        During the 1968-1973 period, NMC acted exclusively as a processing
concern, buying the raw material it needed from the former National Agricul-
tural Products Board (NAPB), another State organization responsible for the
marketing of food crops, vegetable oil produce and cashew nuts. When NAPB
was dismantled in 1973, NMC took over the overall responsibility for food
crop marketing in addition to processing. Although the legislation to that
effect is still in the process of being approved by Parliament, NMC can now
be considered for all practical purposes as a food crop marketing board
responsible for the marketing of grain and certain other food crops.
B. Organization and Management
3.        NMC with headquarters in Dar-es-Salaam and operating through 14
branches throughout the country, is organized into seven Divisions responsible
for Administration; Finance and Planning; Buying; Marketing; Technical and
Production; Audit; and Personnel and Training. Each branch is directed by
a Branch Manager who is assisted by members of the functional Divisions re-
porting through him to their respective Division Heads. NMC employs about
1,200 staff out of which about 100 are professional level administrators,
accountants or engineers.
4.        NMC management is vested in a Board of eight Directors, including
the Chairman, all appointed by, and answerable to, the Minister for Agricul-
ture. Each Director is appointed for a renewable term of two years. The
powers and obligations of the Board and the General Manager are detailed in
the Regulations issued on the 5th February 1968 by the Minister of Agriculture
under Section 5(7) of the NMC Act of 1968.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
C. Storage and Milling Facilities
Storage
5.        NMC estimates its own grain storage capacity to consist of godowns
with a capacity of about 200,000 tons and silos with a capacity of 60,000
tons. In addition, there are 11 godowns with a total capacity of 44,000 tons
to store finished products (Table 1). While the godowns are scattered over
21 locations throughout the country, the silos, established with SIDA assis-
tance, are located near mills in Iringa, Arusha and Dar-es-Salaam. NMC also
has access through rental to godowns owned primarily by cooperative unions.
Of a total estimated capacity of such facilities of 149,000 tons, 1/ about
75,000 tons can be used by NMC for grain storage. Capacity utilization in
a normal production year has reportedly been around 50% for cooperative
storage, 80% for NMC godowns and 80-100% for silos. There is considerable
additional storage capacity owned by primary cooperative societies but this
is generally used only for transient storage of grains and is not suitable
for NMC use. With a yearly commercial consumption of about 380,000 tons of
the three major cereals, NMC's combined grain storage capacity of 335,000
tons represents a growing national bottleneck. Local storage problems are
particularly common resulting from the suboptimal geographical distribution
of godowns. As an interim measure NMC, in early 1975, acquired 400 tarpaulins
which provide temporary cover for about 120,000 tons of bagged grain.
6.        NMC has prepared an investment program for the third Five-Year
(1975-79) Development Plan which by 1980 would establish an additional godown
capacity of 425,000 tons and silo capacity of 340,000 tons at a cost of
about TShs. 344 million. Related staff housing and ancillary facilities
would require another TShs. 26 million. With this additional investment,
NMC would have approximately 1 million tons of storage capacity by 1980.
However, it was estimated in the Agriculture and Rural Development Sector
Survey (Vol. III, Table 22) that the total volume of food crops handled by
NMC in 1980 would be only about 700,000 t and the present expansion plans would
thus seem excessive. Funds are included, therefore, in the present Project
for only a fraction of estimated requirements, namely, some 34,000 t at
regional level for production inputs and about 80,000 t for grains; in
addition, consultancy services would be financed to evaluate the national
storage situation and prepare investment proposals. Swedish financial
assistance will continue to be available for the silo expansion program, but
no other funds have so far been committed for NMC storage.
1/   As reported by NMC, a survey in mid-1974 conducted by MDB indicated
existing union storage capacity of about 200,000 tons.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Milling
7.        NMC has presently in operation or under construction eight maize
mills, nine paddy mills and twc wheat mills with individual 24-hour milling
capacities ranging from 10 to 250 tons. All facilities under construction
will be completed in time to accommodate the 1975/76 harvest. The total
annual milling capacity will have increased from 196,000 tons in 1968 to
317,000 tons by 1976.  The breakdown by grains is as follows:
1968             1976
(1000 tons)
Maize                                        68               118
Paddy                                        54               110
Wheat                                        74                89
Total       196              317
NMC has also been subcontracting some of its milling to small private mills.
This practice is expected to be discontinued eventually as those mills are
in poor repair and because it is not favored by Government policy.
8.        Future expansion plans call for additions in maize milling capacity
of 110,000 tons by 1977 and another 100,000 tons by 1980, and of 25,000 tons
(3 mills) in wheat milling capacity, possibly by 1977. At an average current
cost of TShs.300 per ton of maize milling capacity, the required investment
would total TShs.64 million. The cost of the planned wheat milling capacity
expansion is estimated at TShs. 12 million. The current maize milling expan-
sion program, already reflected in the above capacity figures, is costing
TShs.18 million. The NMP Project would finance the preparation of investment
proposals for the expansion of the milling sector but not actual investments.
D. Operations and Activities
9.        Under its establishment Act (1968), NMC was to carry out the fol-
lowing functions:
(a) To conduct the business of:
(i)    Manufacturers and processors of such agricultural
and other products as the Board may from time to time
decide;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(ii)    Importers, exporters, wholesale dealers and retailers
of such merchandise as the Board may from time to time
decide;
(b) To conduct its business in an efficient manner and in accordance
with the best mercantile traditions.
10.       In 1968, NMC was set to become the technological center for the
food processing industry in the country. The additional responsibilities
entrusted to NMC since the 1973 organization include the fixing, in agreement
with the Ministry of Agriculture, of producer prices for the main food crops,
and overall arrangements with cooperative unions, farmer associations and
private traders for the purchase, transport and distribution of the marketable
food crop production. NMC owns a fleet of 60 lorries and hires additional
transport as required. Currently, NMC's predominant activities are the
trading and processing of maize, wheat and paddy.
11.       In 1972/73, which can be considered as a normal year from the
climatological point of view, the total production of maize in Tanzania was
estimated at about 813,000 tons out of which about 210,000 tons, or 25%, were
marketed. NAPB/NMC purchased 106,000 tons, i.e. 50% of the estimated marketed
production. On average over the period 1968-1972 NAPB/NMC handled 60% of
the marketed production. Over the period 1969-1974, the annual tonnage of
maize milled by NMC increased from 58,000 tons to 98,000 tons. It is esti-
mated that about 55% of Tanzania's wheat production is marketed with NMC
handling nearly all of the marketed surplus. NMC increased its processing of
wheat from 57,600 tons in 1969/70 to 66,800 tons in 1971/72, then reduced it
to 62,400 tons in 1972/73 and further to 49,600 tons in 1973/74 as domestic
wheat production declined. Sales of wheat flour amounted to 40,900 tons in
1969/70 and 50,500 tons in 1973/74 with imported flour augmenting domestic
supplies in the latter year. The volume of paddy processed increased from
18,300 tons in 1969/70 to 48,300 tons in 1972/73 and declined to 37,600 tons
in 1973/74. Including imports, rice sales increased steadily from 11,700 tons
in 1969/70 to 40,100 tons in 1973/74.
12.       Other activities of NMC include the milling of cassava and the
production of about 25,000 tons of poultry feeds per year. The Food Canning
Division, which has been expanding rapidly, processes primarily mangoes, pine-
apples, oranges, pickles, tomatoes and materials for jams. Wine production
was started in 1970 and reached 60,000 bottles in 1973. Table 2 summarizes
the sale value of NMC products over the period 1969-73. The total gross
sale value increased from TShs132.9 million in 1969/70 to TShs.1,906 million
in 1972/73, an annual increase of about 14%. On average, wheat has repre-
sented about 40% on NMC turnover, maize some 30% and rice about 20%.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
E. Financial Resources and Results
Financial Statements 1/
13.       The balance sheets and profit and loss accounts for the period
1969-73 are shown in Tables 3 and 4. Out of an authorized capital of
TShs.35 million, Government has paid-in TShs.7.5 million as share capital.
Long-term loans in 1969 amounted to TShs.23.8 million. The annual interest
charges on long-term loans has averaged 6.3% over the period 1969-73 and the
average annual repayment of pr:incipal has amounted to TShs.2.15 million, i.e.
9%.
14.       The return to the capital used has evolved in the following manner:
1969/70     1970/71      1971/72     1972/73
----(TShs. '000)--______-_____
Net Profit                 13,301       14,342       9,985        5,025
Capital                    37,363      43,871       44,656       46,196
Ratio                       35.5%        32.6%       22.3%        10.8%
The very high value of the ratio at the beginning of the period seems to in-
dicate either that the balance sheet value of fixed-assets was undervalued
or that sale prices of produce were very high compared to cost of raw materials.
The 1972/73 figure for used capital may more accurately reflect the market
value of such assets, and the return of 10.8% over used capital in that year
more correctly represents the economic return on capital.
15.       NMC has been depreciating its assets at an average rate of 8.7% over
the period, implying an overall average life of 11-1/2 years for the fixed
assets which is adequate. As indicated below, NMC has created TShs.27.5
million of new fixed assets over the period considered, representing 61% of
the total fixed assets by the end of 1973.
1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73
_________--(TShs. '000)---------
Fixed Assets (FA) at the
beginning of FY                  29,618      29,111     35,371      39,798
Depreciation                       2,546       2,581       2,737      3,845
Disposal                               28         78         -          -
Annual Addition                     2,067      8,919       7,164      9,385
Brought Forward                   29,111      35,371     39,798      45,338
Depreciation as a % of
Initial FA                        8.5%        8.8%       7.7%        9.6%
1/   The 1973/74 financial statements had not been finalized as of June 30, 1975.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
16.       During these years, the liquidity ratio of NMC has evolved as
follows:
1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73
______-_--- (TShs. '000)------------
Debtors                               7,507      10,401      9,977      10,089
Cash 1/                               4,818      19,332     16,516      21,027
12,325     29,733     26,493      31,116
Current Liabilities 2/               17,732      20,955     28,367      28,792
Liquidity Ratio                       0.70        1.42       0.93        1.08
(Liquidity Ratio Including
Saleable Stocks)                    (1.64)      (2.15)     (1.96)      (1.57)
1/   Including prepaid expenses.
2/   Excluding reserve for current bad debts.
On average, the ratio would seem to have been very low by accepted standards.
However, in view of the magnitude of stocks for sale and their quickly realisable
nature, the relatively low liquidity ratios do not reflect a strained
liquidity situation.
17.       The financial analysis of NMC accounts shows first that these
accounts are well kept: they indicate in detail the costs and returns of
each branch and activities, and show clearly the progressive build-up and
eventual consolidation in the Profit & Loss accounts and balance sheets. These
accounts further show that NMC has been soundly managed over the period for
which audited accounts are available.
The 1974 Trading Accounts
18.       Because of the domestic shortfall in production in 1974, NMC had
to import the equivalent of 440,000 tons of grains, out of which 291,000 tons,
or 66% was maize.  The total cost of these imports was TShs.758 million
(US$105 million). While importing at the relatively high grain prices pre-
vailing on the world market in 1974, NMC was bound by Government policy to
keep the resale price at the pre-1974 official levels, thus incurring heavy
losses. In late 1974 Government allowed an increase of grain retail prices



ANNEX 4
Page 7
together with increased producer prices for maize, wheat and paddy. The
following table summarizes the situation at the end of 1974; further details
are in Table 5.
Sembe     Flour      Rice
(TShs./ton)------
Average NMC Cost of Grain for Sale
in 1974                                  1,502      1,644      4,348
Fixed NMC Selling Price                      772       969      1 ,262
Loss per ton                                 730       675      3,086
Loss as a % of the Cost                       49%       41%        71%
19.       NMC purchases were made possible through an overdraft with the
National Bank of Commerce and the required foreign exchange was made available
by the Central Bank. At the end of 1974, the overdraft amounted to TShs.601
million (US$84.2 million), partly represented by a 154,000 ton stock whose
value at the 1974 resale price was TShs.144 million (US$20.2 million). The
net deficit of NMC was thus TShs.457 million (US$64 million) as of December
31, 1974. In early 1975, the resale price increase authorized by Government
allowed NMC to adjust its stock value to TShs.348 million (US$48.7 million),
hence reducing its net deficit to TShs.253 million (US$35.4 million). The
Government pledged to reimburse this deficit to NMC, and the Treasury had
already paid TShs.100 million (U3$14 million) by the middle of March 1975,
leaving an unpaid deficit of TShs.153 million (US$21.4 million) at that time.
It appears, therefore, that NMC could have reimbursed its current overdraft
for 1974 imports when having sold the stock inventoried as of December 31,
1974. Additional losses are being incurred, however, on 1975 imports, which
had reached a level of 243,000 t by July 1975.
F. Conclusions
20.       Generally, NMC is well organized and its management has been dis-
charging its obligations successfully. Since 1973 however, the new tasks
imposed on NMC have over-stretched management's capacity, which has not been
reinforced adequately to cope with the increased responsibilities. In
addition to its new functions, NlM[C has had to face the grain shortage situation
of 1974 (which it did successfully), but indications are that this has been
at a certain cost in the timeliness of less immediately important functions
like the finalization of annual accounts, or the implementation of new invest-
ments. It is unlikely that NMC will be able to pursue this enlarged activity
on a sustained basis without a significant reinforcement of its senior staff,
and possibly a certain reorganization which should define precisely the res-
ponsibilities in the milling and the marketing sector. It is hoped that the



ANNEX 4
Page 8
new legislation now being reviewed by Government to establish NMC's marketing
functions would allow for the overall need of reinforcing NMC capacity. A
speedy resolution between NMC and the Treasury of the financial problems re-
sulting from the unprofitable import grain trade is essential for the continued
viability of NMC.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
GODOWN CAPACITY OF THE NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION, JANUARY 1975
(Tons)
Godown Capacity for
Location'                               Raw Materials    Finished Products
Arusha                                     20,000              14,000
Moshi                                     14,500                    -
Iringa (Mlandege)                         16,300               10,000
Iringa                                     2,000                    -
Mikumi                                      2,000                   -
Dodoma                                     24,000                 200
Mpanda                                      5,454                   -
Musoma                                      4,500                   -
Singida                                    4,500                    -
Mwanza                                      4,500                   -
Manyoni                                     4,500
Changombe Plot 35                         32,500                    -
Changombe Plot 33                           2,800               2,700
Changombe Plot  5                          4,300                    -
Canning Division                           5,900                2,100
Pugu Road                                   9,800               6,500
Kurasini                                    7,000               7,000
Rwanda                                        500                 500
John Corner                                     -                 400
Kyela                                          50                  50
Morogoro                                        -                 500
Tabora                                    20,000                    -
Kigoma                                    15,000                    -
TOTAL                               200.104              43,950
Source: National Milling Corporation.
September 3, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
SALES SUMMARY OF THE NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION, 1969/70 - 1972/73
(Amounts in TShs. '000)
1969/70            1970/71            1971/72             1972/73
Product           Amount      %      Amount      %       Amount      _      Amount       %
Wheat             53,040      40     59,816      44      68,057      42      69,107      36
Maize             44,741      34     40,207      30      48,914      30      50.342      26
Rice              25,738      19     22,992      17      30,922      19      51,408      27
Cassava              214       -          22      -           -       -           -       -
Animal Feeds       6,424       5       9,136       7     10,075       7      14,133       8
Canning            2,457       2      3,093       2       3,525       2       5,205       3
Spices/Chall         244       -         110      -          39       -           1       -
Wine                   5       -         147      -         238       -         385       -
TOTAL       132,863    100    135,523    100    161,770    100    190,581    100
Source:  National Milling Corporation.
(Dp
September 3, 1975.                                                                             l r-



ANNEX 4
Table 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
THE NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
BALAVCE SHEETS, 1969170 - 1972/73
(TSbs ' 000)
1969/70      1970/71      1971/72       1972/73
A. ASSETS
Fixed Assets Consisting of
- Land and Building                       16,780        n.a.        18,649        19,241
- Plants, Machinery and Tools             11,432        n.a.        19,529        16,400
- Motor Vehicles                             445        n.a.         1,126         2,026
- Furniture, Equipment, Sundry               455        n.a.           741           772
Work in Progress                           n.a.         6,659          753         6,899
Fixed Assets by the End of FY             29,112        35,371      39,798         45,338
Investments and Deposits                   8,251        8,500        4,858           858
Current Assets                            29,032       34,690       45,609        45,277
Sundry Debtors                             7,507        6,550        9,977        10,089
Advances to N.A.P.B.                         -          3,851          -             -
Closing Stock                             16,707       15,358       29,093        14,161
Cash                                       2,703        3,891          205        15,544
Pre-paid Expenses and Taxes                2,115        5,o4o        6,334         5.4R3
TOTAL ASSETS                       66,395       78,561       90,265        91,473
B. LIABILITIES
Long Term Liabilities                      35,827      36,264       34,165        31.651
Long Term Capital - Store                  7,500        7,500        7,500          7,500
- Loans                 23,800       21,265       19,566         17,352
General Reserves                           3,827        6,799        6,799          6,799
Special Reserves                             700          700          300           -
Current Liabilities                       17,977       21,101       28.513        28,921
Corporation Tax                            5,617        8,917        9,712         7,514
Tax Provision                              5,320        5,737        3,994         2,010
Sundry Creditors                           4,984        5,290        4,792        18,468
Accrued Charges                            1,811        1,011        1,058           800
Reserve for Current Bad Debts                245          146          146           129
Bank Overdraft                               -            -          8,811           -
Balance of P/L Appropriation Account      12,591       21,196       27,587        30,901
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  66,395       78,561       90,265        91,473
Source: National Milling Corporation
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
THE NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENTS, 1969/70 - 1972/73
(TShs. '000)
1969/70        1970/71          1971/72         1972/73
A.  PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS
Income
Sales of Produce             132,863         135,524         161,769         190,581
Miscellaneous Revenue           1,031             921           1,003           1,650
TOTAL INCOME            133,894         136,445         162,772         192,231
Expenditures
Overhead Expenses
Technical Department            240             229             390             511
Marketing Department            795          1,121           1,135            1,494
Personnel Department            326            362             376             580
Administration               2,419           2,624           3,233           4,020
Unused Facilities               353             258             172             260
Stock Adjustment                  -             (44)            (61)              -
Total Overhead
Expenses              4,133           4,550           5,245           6,865
Financial Charges
Long-Term Loans              1,517           1,373           1,239            1,109
Short-Term Borrowings             -              -                -               -
Total Financial         1,517           1,373           1,239           1,109
Charges
Cost of Sales              114,943         116,180         146,303         179,233
TOTAL EXPENDITURES   120,593          122,103         152,787         187,207
Profit (Loss) Before
Corporation Tax             13,301          14,342           9,985           5.024
B.  PROFIT AND LOSS APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT
Debit
Balance brought Forward         4,900         12,591          21,196           27,587
Current Year Profit           13,301          14,342           9,985            5,024
Transferred from Special
Resources                       410             700             700             300
TOTAL DEBIT              18,611          27,633          31,881          32,911
Credit
Provision for Corporation
Tax                          5,320           5,737           3,994            2,010
Transferred to Special
Resources                       700             700             300               -
To Balance Sheet              12,591           21,196          27,587          30,901
TOTAL CREDIT             18,611          27,633          31,R81          32,911
Source:  National Milling Corporation.
September 3, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
THE NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
FINANCIAL GRAIN TRADING ACCOUNTS, DECEMBER 31, 1974
Unit          Maize       Wheat       Wheat      Rice        Paddy       Total             Remarks
Flour
(1) Opening Stock (March 1974)             Ton                --                          -                             -
(2) Imports Over 1974                      Ton            291,141     46,484      22,248     72,60o 4                432,477
(3) Local Purchases                        Ton             22,482     11,533         -          -       23,821        57,836
(4) Total Availability                     Ton            313,623     58,017      22,248     72,604     23,821       490,313       (1) + 2) + (3)
(5) Consumption                            Ton            235,060     35,486      22,248     42,673         695      336,162
(6) Closing Stock                          Ton             78,563     22,531         -       29,931     23,126       154,151       (4) - (5)
(7) Value of Imports at Cost               TSh'OOO        433,013     81,885      43,528    301,512         -        859,938
(8) Value of Local Purchases at Cost       TSh'OOO         16,828      9,210         -          -        19,973       46,011
(9) Value of Available grains at Cost       TSh'OOO       449.841     91095       43,528    301,512      19,973      905,949       (7) 4 (8)
(10) Overhead FrnensesI                      mTh'OO         12,309      2,493       1,191      8,251         547       24,791
(ii) Itnterest Charge  .i                   TSh'O00          8,884      1,799         86o      5,955         394       17,892
(12) Total Cost of Grain for Sale            TSh'OOO       471,034     95,387      45,579    315,718      20,914      948,632       (9) + (10) + (11)
(13) Average Cost of Grain for Sale          TSh/ton        (1,502)    (1,644)    (2,049)    (4,348)        (878)      (1,935)      (12) + (4)
(14) Sales Proceeds                          TSh'OOO       181,415      34,395     39,587     91,600         722      347,719
(15) Average Selling Price                   TSh/ton          (772)       (969)    (1,779)    (2,147)    (1,039)       (1,034)      (14) + (5)
(16) Stock Value at 1974 Selling Price       TSh'OO0        60,650      21,832       -        64,262      24,028       170,772      (6) x (15)
(17) 1974 Sales and Stocks as of 31.12.74   TSh'O00        242,065      56,078     39,587    155,862      24,750      518,491       (14) + (16)
(18) Deficit as of 31.12.74                  TSh'OOO                    39,309      5,99             386              430,141       (17) - (12)
(19) New Selling Price                       TSh/ton        (1,240)    (2,219)        _        (4,600)    (2,729)          -
(20) New Value of Stock as of 31.12.74       TSh'OOO        97,418      49,996        _      137,683      63,111  /   348,208       (19) x (6)
(21) New Val0e of Stock plus Sales           TSh'OOO       278,833      84,391     39,587    229,283      63,833      695,927       (20) + (i4)
(22) Deficit with the New Stock Value 3      TSh'OOO       192,201         S        5,9       86,435        29        252,705L/    (21) - (12)
j Proportionally allocated among each type of grain.
As agreed with Government in early 1975.
3/ To be subsidized by Treasury.                                                                                                                       t,
/ According to NMC records, the NMC stock value of paddy has not been increased to reflect the new stock value of price.
If this is so, the deficit paddy remains as Tshs. 3,836,000 (line 18) and the total Government subsidy would
increase to TShs 291,788,000 out of which TShs 100 million has already been paid in.
Source: National Milling Corporation.
September 3rd, 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
THE FOOD CROPS SECTOR
Food Crop Production
1.        Food crops production in Tanzania is largely in the hands of small-
scale producers, many of whom live in newly formed villages; most production
is for subsistence. The major food crops are maize, millet, sorghum, paddy,
beans, cassava, potatoes and bananas. Maize and cassava are the most important,
contributing an estimated 28% and 20%, respectively, of total calories con-
sumed. These are followed by millet and sorghum which supply 7% of calories,
and plantains and bananas which provide almost 7%. Maize is also the single
most important source of protein. 1/
2.        Table 1 shows that, for the major food crops, the proportion of
total production which was marketed was usually between 25% and 40%, and
that, for many crops, smallholders produced 90% to 100% of total production.
Wheat is the only food crop where the bulk of production comes from large-
scale producers.
3.        Agricultural production has grown only slowly in recent years and
average crop yields are still very low. In real terms, GDP in the agricultural
sector grew at a rate of 1.9% per annum between 1969 and 1974, significantly
below the estimated 3% growth rate in population. During this period of
stagnant production, Tanzania has become increasingly dependent on imported
food, whereas it used to be self-sufficient. Table 2 shows the quantities
of maize, rice and wheat purchased from farmers by the National Milling
Corporation (or its predecessors) since 1966, compared with the amounts of
grain sold in Tanzania. For maize, the data indicates that there has been
no apparent upward trend in commercial maize purchases, but that there has
been a significant increase in maize sales. A broadly similar position is
apparent for rice and wheat although Tanzania was not self-sufficient in wheat
at any time during the period 1966-73.
4.        The deteriorating position illustrated in Table 2 was greatly
aggravated by the very poor harvests of 1973 and 1974. Large and expensive
grain imports were required in 1974 to avoid famine: in all some 440,000 t
of grain were purchased abroad, of which 291,141 t was maize. The c.i.f.
cost of these imports has been calculated at TShs.758 million (US$106.2
million) (Table 3). Further imports were required in 1975: Table 4 shows
1/   From World Bank, Tanzania Agricultural and Rural Development Sector
Study, Washington, 1974, Statistical Annex, Table 18.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
that commitments by June, 1975 totalled 290,725 t of grain, of which 247,264 t,
or 85%, was maize. The c.i.f. cost of these imports amounted to TShs.390
million (US$54.7 million). This situation could not have occurred at a more
unfortunate time on account of the very high grain prices, and the very
difficult balance of payments position in Tanzania. Dependence on imported
grains will lessen considerably, however, after harvest of the 1974/75 crop
which was expected to be good.
5.        For most food products there is a strong case for Tanzania pursuing
a policy aimed at self-sufficiency plus a comfortable margin for safety. The
advantages and disadvantages of eventually producing export surpluses have
to be considered on a crop by crop basis, but are difficult to assess because
of the wide divergence between import and export parity prices. The uncer-
tainties about future world market prices, and the fact that the official
exchange rate is considered to be overvalued, further complicates the issue.
Among the most serious internal obstacles in the formulation and implementation
of a national food crop policy have been the lack of adequate statistics, and
absence of a reliable crop forecasting system.
Food Crop Marketing
6.        Most of Tanzania's major food crops are marketed through a single
channel system, dominated by cooperatives and parastatal organizations. Many
farmers are members of primary cooperative societies, of which there are about
1,300 agricultural ones; they were originally developed in order to market
export crops such as coffee, tobacco, cotton and cashew nuts, and they are
best organized in the areas where these products are grown. However, these
societies also market surplus food crops on behalf of their members. Following
the continuing widespread villagization program in Tanzania it is Government's
intention that each new village will become a registered primary cooperative
society, although few have been registered yet. When the villagization program
has been completed there will probably be around 10,000 primary cooperatives
(i.e. village) societies.
7.        In most regions the primary cooperative societies market their cash
and surplus food crops through a regional cooperative union which acts as agent
for the parastatal organization responsible for the crop in question. Usually,
the cooperative union arranges the transport of produce from the villages to the
regional centers; frequently, it operates its own transport fleet for this
purpose. In some regions, however, where the regional cooperative union is
not too effective, the primary soc:Leties may deliver crops directly to the
parastatal without going through the union.
8.        The National Milling Corporation (NMC) is the most important para-
statal concerned with food crop marketing.  It handles a wide range of crops,
including maize, wheat, rice, sorghum, beans and cassava. Groundnuts are
the responsibility of the General Agricultural Products Export Corporation



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(GAPEX), while sugar is the responsibility of the Sugar Development Corporation
(SDC). These parastatals are responsible for marketing, transport and storage
at the regional and national levels, and for arranging necessary imports or
exports. For certain food crops, such as bananas and vegetables, cooperative
unions and parastatals are not involved, and trade is dominated by small private
traders mostly operating in local markets. Even for those products which are
handled by parastatals, a significant proportion of the trade is undertaken
through informal local markets by private traders. In the case of certain
export crops, including tobacco, cotton, cashewnuts and tea, crop authorities
have been established which, in addition to having responsibility for crop
marketing, are also involved in production through supplying farm inputs to
villages and providing (and financing) extension staff.
9.        Official policy in recent years has not encouraged private traders
or transporters to engage in marketing farm produce. The consequent lack of
competition, and the forced pace of development of cooperatives and parastatals,
have created serious problems of inefficiency for these organizations. There
has been a tendency to reorganize and rename parastatals at frequent intervals
in an attempt to overcome some of these difficulties. The poor state of
organization and management of several regional cooperative unions, and very
many small, poorly organized and supervised, primary societies is a serious
constraint to agricultural development. However, the Government is engaged
in a major program for cooperative development and training, with assistance
from the Nordic countries (Annex 1).
10.       Serious problems have also been encountered with both rail and road
transport and with storage of farm produce and farm inputs. The well known
financial and organizational difficulties of the railways are of profound
significance for economic development in Tanzania. The distances involved in
transporting inputs to farmers, and produce to markets are often large, and
the cost of transport by road is usually very much greater than by rail. Road
transport has also experienced difficulties, partly on account of shortage of
vehicles, but probably more so because of poor vehicle maintenance, lack of
spare parts and official discouragement of private transporters.
11.       Lack of storage space from the village to the national level has
created further problems, and these have been compounded by the absence of an
effective crop forecasting system. Tanzania has not been able to store an
adequate reserve of foodgrains and when shortages have occurred they have not
been anticipated sufficiently far in advance. Thus, the country only narrowly
avoided serious famine in the early part of 1974 when the effects of the poor
1973 harvest were first felt. At the village level very little improved
storage is available and, consequently, serious losses are involved in storing
grain, both through exposure to the weather and from pest infestations.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
The Distribution of Farm Inputs
12.       There is enormous scope for increasing yields of most food crops
in Tanzania through the adoption of improved methods of husbandry, the use
of modern inputs such as fertilizers, seeds, insecticides and, in certain
cases, mechanization. However, it is critically important that these inputs
are available in convenient locations, and at the right time. In the more
agriculturally developed areas of Tanzania, farmers have had relatively little
difficulty in obtaining farm inputs. Large-scale farmers have been able to
obtain supplies themselves from organizations like the Tanganyika Farmers
Association (TFA) which has branches in the main towns. Likewise, in areas
where a prosperous small-scale agriculture had been developed on the basis of
high-value export crops like coffee, tobacco and cotton, farmers have been
well served by cooperative societies and crop authorities. However, the
majority of small-scale farmers in Tanzania are not so well served. Most of
these farmers concentrate on production of food crops, sell very little sur-
plus and have correspondingly low cash incomes. Consequently, they are served
by poorly developed marketing systems. Supplies of inputs are usually available
only in distant centers, and the difficulties of transport and raising the
required cash for payment are a deterrent for most farmers.
13.       Even where supplies of farm inputs have been arranged, difficulties
with transport and storage, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures have often
caused serious delays. Lack of maintenance facilities and spare parts for
tractors have meant that equipment: was idle for extended periods. Parastatal
organizations, cooperatives and regional authorities have at times misjudged
farmers' requirements, overordered supplies and finished up with large unsold
stocks.
14.       Most cooperative unions and primary societies have confined them-
selves to marketing farmers' surplus food crop production and have not made
a serious effort to supply inputs to farmers. Partly for this reason, regional
authorities in the main growing areas have undertaken a maize production
program under which they supplied free fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, and
sometimes machinery services, to selected villages. Given that all villages
will be registered as cooperative societies, affiliated to regional cooperative
unions, and that they will all be responsible for marketing farmers' produce,
it is desirable that farm inputs should also be supplied to farmers through
the cooperative system.
Agricultural Pricing Policies
15.       Prices for many food crops are fixed by the Government at farm,
wholesale and retail levels, and price control is therefore an important policy
tool which has a profound effect on the pace of agricultural development. It
also used to influence the pattern of income distribution, and to generate
revenue through export taxes on products such as cotton, coffee, sisal and
tobacco. Decisions on pricing policy are usually taken at a very high level



ANNEX 5
Page 5
in Government, often by the Economic Committee of the Cabinet with advice from
the Ministry of Agriculture. The Marketing Development Bureau, a UNDP-supported
project within the Ministry of Agriculture, provides advice on pricing policy;
this organization is being further strengthened to enable establishment of a
regular price review system.
16.       For most food crops Government-fixed prices are uniform throughout
the country. Given the large distances involved, and the difficulty and expense
of transport, this policy may be expected to lead to serious misallocation
of resources in the long-run and could place a financial burden on parastatal
organizations like the NMC. The financial position of the NMC has also been
seriously upset because it has been obliged to import very expensive grain
recently and sell this at controlled lower prices within Tanzania (Annex 4,
para. 18).
17.       For these reasons, the NMC presently operates on a very wide margin
between its buying and selling prices which stimulates blackmarket trading.
The fixed nature of trading margins for food crops under which cooperative
unions and cooperative societies operate also causes problems. For societies
or unions with a large volume of business these margins may be more than
adequate, but for organizations with a low turnover the income from the
fixed markup is in many cases inadequate to cover their costs.
18.       Over the past several years domestic agricultural prices in Tanzania
had been allowed to slip increasingly below world market levels. This trend
accelerated sharply in 1973/74 when world market prices rose to record levels
creating a large price disparity for most products, including grains. Low
producer prices which characterized Government's agricultural pricing policies
until the crop failures of 1974, had been an important factor causing sluggish
growth in agricultural production. In November 1974, however, significant
increases were announced for the farm gate price of maize which increased from
TShs.0.35/kg to TShs.0.75/kg. This increase should have a beneficial effect
on production.
19.       Part of these price increases has already been passed on to consumers
but further upward adjustments in consumer prices, hence a widening of the
producer-consumer price spread, would aggravate the problem of blackmarket
activity and may not be desirable unless controls in the marketing system
can be tightened. In fact, in its June, 1975 price announcement, Government
has lowered some consumer prices, notably for rice, partly to reduce the
official trading margin and because the global supply picture has improved
somewhat. The prices of maize and maize products were not changed, however.
The Pricing and Financing of Farm Inputs
20.       Agricultural inputs in Tanzania were generally sold at full cost
in the past and the main users were commercially oriented larger farmers who
either had sufficient financial resources of their own or had access to



ANNEX 5
Page 6
commercial credit.  With Government's strong emphasis on development of
smallholder production, ways have to be found to make modern inputs available
to small farmers who are generaiLly unaccustomed to the use of such inputs and
do not have the resources to buy them. Some progressive small farmers have
been using inputs for some years, but for the production of cash crops only.
These inputs were acquired on commercial terms.
21.       Various attempts at financing inputs used by small farmers have
already been made. Several successive aggricultural financing institutions
were set up to provide credits though not especially or exclusively to smaller
farmers (Annex 9). The repayment record has been unsatisfactory and all pre-
decessors of the present institution, the Tanzania Rural Development Bank
(TRDB), failed for this reason. Selected schemes by TRDB to provide credit
to smallholders have also been unsuccessful and neither the TRDB nor the National
Bank of Commerce (NBC) are presently financing inputs to individual smallholders.
The official channel being developed for such credit is from TRDB through the
cooperative system. The record so far has been encouraging, only in those
cases where relatively strict discipline has been imposed upon cooperative
societies by cash crop authorities acting as the link between TRDB and the
societies. Credit is generally recovered through the marketing system. But
cooperative, parastatal or group credit schemes, based purely on smallholder
food crop production, are considered unworkable in Tanzania at this time.
22.       Inputs provided for cash crops such as tea, tobacco and cotton are
provided at highly subsidized terms, though not completely free, and the
subsidies are recovered by the respective crop authorities from the producers
of these crops through the price mechanism. Recognising the difficulties
associated with operating credit schemes for smallholder food crop production
on the one hand and the need to encourage increased production of food crops
on the other, Government embarked on a subsidy program in 1973/74 to increase
smallholder maize production. For two consecutive seasons, production inputs
were provided free under the national maize program to smallholder growers in
designated areas; the program was financed out of the recurrent national
budget.
23.       Continuation of the subsidy program for maize is justified on
several grounds. There is only limited scope for providing added incentives
to farmers to use modern inputs by raising producer maize prices since these
have already been increased from TShs. 0.30/kg in 1973/74, or 42% of import
parity, to an announced TShs. 0.80/kg in 1975/76, or 73% of import parity. 1/
Since prices of other crops competing for farmers' resources have not gone
up as rapidly, less effort is being; devoted to those crops, some of which
are of vital national importance as earners of foreign exchange. Moreover,
it may not be in the long-term national interest for domestic maize prices
to move too closely to import parity because, resulting from the very large
1/   Before the devaluation of the ranzanian Shilling in October, 1975
the domestic maize price represented 81% of import parity.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
acreage under maize, Tanzania could, within a few years with above-average
growing conditions, temporarily move into a surplus position. With the estimated
export parity price of Tanzanian maize of TShs. 0.55/kg already being far
below present producer prices, any surpluses which could not be stored could
only be disposed of through export at considerable financial loss to the
country. Some scope for increased producer prices does exist, however, should
it become apparent after the 1975/76 cropping season that production targets are
not going to be reached with present price levels. But even with higher maize
prices, farmers, in the absence of a viable credit system, could not finance
the purchase of costly production inputs, nor would they be inclined at this
stage of development to bear exclusively the large financial risk associated
with cash inputs, and input subsidies would have to remain an essential ele-
ment in the promotion of smallholder maize production.
24.       Partly to make its subsidy policy more consistent, but largely
because it is felt that free distribution of expensive inputs does not ensure
their economic use, Government is discontinuing the distribution of free inputs
with the 1975/76 crop season. The subsidy rate for that season has been set at
75% of the farm gate cost of inputs. This relatively high degree of subsidi-
zation is necessary to attract a sufficiently large number of farmers, who
generally face a severe cash constraint, to participate in the National Maize
Project. The 75% level is still experimental in the sense that little is known
about the reactions of those farmers already having received maize inputs to
changes in input prices since the majority so far had not had to pay cash.
The Government, therefore, intends to keep the subsidy level under close re-
view and introduce changes as needed to reconcile the conflicting financial
implications of its objectives of providing sufficient incentives to maize
producers and keeping the budgetary burden resulting from its subsidization
policy to a minimum.
25.       The degree of input subsidization and of cost recovery, and the
method of implementation will continue to vary from crop to crop but efforts
are being launched with UNDP/FAO assistance to progress towards a consistent
national policy of input pricing. That policy will also be concerned with
aspects other than subsidization, as, for example, the concurrent decision
to provide subsidized inputs to maize producers at uniform prices throughout
the country, which is at variance with the practice of cash crop authorities
which take actual transport costs into account, and would be a step backwards
from an economic point of view if it were to set the pattern for all input
pricing in the future.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
CROP PRODUCTION 1/
Annual      Annual
Harvested    Estimated    Marketed    Marketed         Growth,      Growth,
Crop                    Production   Smallholder  Production  Propor-          Harvested   Marketed
1972      Proportion   1972/1973    tion          Production  Production
1972                                1965-1968   1965-1968
to 1969-1972  to 1969-72
('000 tons)      (%)        ('000 tons)  (%)             (%)          (%)
Maize                        881            7;           227         26            3.1          5.7
Millet                       128           100            56         44            0.5         20.0
Sorghum                      191           100            38         20            2.7          5.5
Wheat                         98            25'           62         63           17.3          6.8
Paddy                        171            9'i           72         42           11.6         19.3
Beans                        153            95,           46         30            4.1          2.8
Cassava                      793           1oC           181         23           11.8          8.4
Irish Potato                 113           100            52         46           30.0         32.0
Sweet Potato                 234            98            92         39            0.1            0
Groundnuts                    29            98             5         17          - 8.1        - 7.4
Sesame                         8            98             6         75          - 1.0        - 4.5
Castor Seed                   17           n.a.           13         76          - 2.8        - 1.5
Bananas                    1,206            95           229         19            3.3          0.3
1/ Considerable uncertainty surrounds the food crop estimates,
particularly harvested production.
Source: Tanzania Agricultural and Rural Development Sector Study.
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
COMMERCIAL PURCHASES AND SALES OF GRAINS
BY GRAIN MARKETING PARASTATALS IN TANZANIA,
THREE YEAR MOVING AVERAGES, 1966-73
('000 Tons)
MAIZE                        RICE                     WHEAT
3-year Moving            Local          Sales        Local        Sales       Local         Sales 1/
Average                               Sae_aesSlsl
Centered on:           Purchases                   Purchases                Purchases
1966                   90              83          20           n.a.        31          n.a.
1967                   96              81          19            19         30           69
1968                  115              87          25            22         28           62
1969                   95             102          31            24         27           60
1970                  122             115          44            28         30           54
1971                   94             133          47            37        42            70
1972                  114             140          48            49        50            72
1973                   75             181          40            57         47           90
1/  Sales data for wheat do not appear consistent.   Estimates of total
supplies (local production plus net imports) available for consumption
have been used instead.
Source: Marketing Development Bureau Estimates.
September 3, 1975.



ANNEXU 5
Table 3
TANZUNIA
NATIONAL SITZE PROJECT
THE GRAIN 7MPCT SITUATION. 1974
T~  %  f Tt.1    Purobeas Price Inclding               NnWrn.           S               Total            mNC Into
Ton..       Curr eny    Aeonnt per   Total        Tranort,N
Ton                  Port e-dlIna      .......
TOD  ___________ _ (Tsh. '000)-------------                 (Tsh/To)
MSIZE IMPORT5
From: Argentina                                           38,967         1.3         US0.         170.12    47,910         3,303          3,666         54,879               1,403
Kenya                                               18,831           6         K.Sho.       895.00     17,020        1,273          1,779          19,072              1,013
M lei                                                5,794           2         M K.          143.17     7,028          627            547           8,202              1,416
Zabia                                               71,644          25         US0.         116.68    60,027        27,851          6,680          94,558              1,320
USA                                                128,381          44         SS.$         213.45    197,395       10,521         12,814         220,730              1,719
Chin                                                14,024           5        US.$          160.00     16,201        1,352          1,324         18,877               1,346
YoRSolaai-                                          13,500           5         US.$         158.00     14,283        1,231          1,181          16,695              1,237
Total Malo.                     291,141  (74)  10)         US1.          171.67    359,864      46,158         27,991        434,013               1,487
A-erage Coot per Ton (TSb..)                                                                            1,236          155             96           1,487              1,487
WHPAT IMPORTS: Aoetralia                                  46,484        1O(         US0.         226.07     73,561        3,229          5,096          81,885              1,762
WHEAT FLOUR IMPORTS: Holland                              9,931          45         vS.$         221.50    16,023           729            750          17,502              1,762
Garesy (Fed. Rep.)                  12,317          55         US.$          266.46     23,735       1,389            897          26,021              2.113
Total Flour                      22,248         100         US.$          246,49     39,758       2,118          1,647          43,523              1,956
(Wheat Sqoivalent)              (29,663) (8)                US.5         235.99
Aver-8. Coat per Tom of Wheat (TShe.)                                                                   1,583           69            110           1,762              1,762
Average Coat per Too of Floor (TSh..)                                                                   1,787           95             74           1,956              1,956
RICE DPORTS:
From  Chie                                                20,080          28         Stg.         193.13    65,984         2.330          1,552         69,866               3,478
egypt                                                5,488           0         US1.         590.20     23,474        1,107            411          24,992              4,554
P2kistan                                             1 663           2         us.$         564.00      6,781          160            113           7,054              4,242
ThaiSnd                                             26,173          36         US1$         588.00    112,333        4,582          1,955         118,870              4,542
Vene-enla                                            9,000          12         US.$          523.00    33,960        1,500            750          36,210              4,023
Carr-ib-n                                           10,200          14         US.$         573.00    42,300         1,500            750          44,550              4,368
Totel Rioc:                      72,604 (18)    100         U.            3 41 12   284,532      11,179          5,531         301,542              4,153
Average Coat per Too (TShe.)                                                               ____         3.923          154             76           4.153              4.153
TOTAL GRAIN DEPORTS             439.892 (100)               US.$          239,30    758,015      61,684         49,265         860,963               1,955
Sorce     o Notil Milling Corporetion
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
GRAIN IMPORTS, 1975 COMMITMENTS
Volume         % of        Purchase  Price          Arrival
Total        Per Ton    Total           Date
(C and F)
(Tons)                      (TShs/Ton) (TShs'OOO)
Maize Imports
From: Argentina                15,864         6.4         1,151        18,263        March
Malawi                    5,100  )      6.2         1,155         3,580       January
12,300  )                  1,780       21,889        February
U.S.A.                   36,728  )                  1,350        49,573       February
38,554  )                  1,324       51,057        March
39,618  )                  1,212       48,oo5        April
49,400  )    87.4          1,070       52,849        May
33,550                     1,083       36,335        June
18,150                     1,099       19,939        July
Total Maize            247,264      1(0.0          1,219      301,490
Wheat Imports
From: Australia                29,197       100.0         1,270        37,082        n.a.
Rice Imports
From: Thailand                 14,264       100.0         3,627        51,737.       n.a.
TOTAL GRAINS           290,725                                390,309
1 The information in this table dates from June 1975.
Source: National Milling Corporation.
September 3, 1975.



MNZEX 6
Page 1
"ANZA NTA
NATIONAIL MAIZE PROJECT
THE NATIONAL MAIZE PROGRAM
Introduction
1.        The Tanzanian National Maize Program was launched in the 1973/74
season to increase maize production and reduce imports after the poor 1972/73
crop.  The program was designed mainly to assist newly formed ujamaa villages,
and funds were made available to the thirteen regions involved for the purchase
and free distribution of improved seed, fertilizer, pesticides, herbicides
and tractor ser-vices, Unfortunately, further drought problems in the
1973/74 season necessitated additional massive maize imports (Annex 5).  As
a result, a strong political drive under the title "Kilimo Cha Kufa na Kupona"
(Life or Death Harvest) was initiated to give added impetus to the program
during the 1974/75 season. The program received a strong positive response
in the rural areas and, coupled with favorable climatic conditions, good
results (though still very difficult to quantify) are anticipated from the
present crop year (1974/1975).
2.        Although the program has now run for two years, its results have
been limited by a number of consiraints, which the proposed Project would
help resolve. These constraints include late delivery of inputs, insufficient
certifiea seed, lack. of research data on which to base recommendations, few
village demonstrations and poor supervision and motivation of extension
staff (partly due to lack of transport), management problems with some
marketing cooperatives, and problems associated with the rapid villagisation
program. Furthermore, while the free distribution of inputs provided signif-
icant finanicial help to new villages, it led to wasteful use of inputs and
did not develop an appreciation of their costs and benefits.  An evaluation
of real progress was difficult due to the absence of reliable data on numbers
of villages involved in the program, their size by district and region and
on actual maize acreages and yields.
3.        The National laize Project (NMP) would build on the impetus created
and experience gained during the first two seasons of Government's program.
Key production problems would be tackled by a strengthened extension service,
an expanded program of field demonstrations and adaptive research, improved
seed availab t11ty and better organised and timely input supply.  On the
marketing side, the situation would be assisted by improved organization
and increased transport and storage facilities. To encourage villages to



ANNEX 6
Page 2
appreciate the true value of production inputs they would be required to
make a cash payment (initially 25%) on all inputs received (full cost for
herbicides), contribute to the building of village stores on a self-help
basis, and pay for the materials used through a loan. A real element of
self-reliance would be introduced and at the same time, Government would
be relieved of some of the financial burden which for the existing program
it bears entirely.
4.        In keeping with its socialist policy, Government wishes to improve
the incomes and living standards of as many of its subsistence farmers as
possible at the same time, rather than only assisting the few most progres-
sive farmers, which would worsen income distribution at the village level.
Consequently, each of the three maize production packages discussed in
Annex 3, would be applied to an entire village rather than on an individual
basis. There would probably be an economic cost to this strategy in the
short-term but, in the long-run, many more farmers would participate in.
producing the required production increases and a wider, but lower and more
equitable increase in village income levels would result.
Project Phasing
5.        The number of villages entering the Project each year, and the
numbers receiving each maize production package are shown below:
Project Village Phasing
Traditional    Package   Package   Package       Total
Methods            1         2         3       Villages
___________   -______           _______    in    Project
Year 0              483          200        240        27         246
Year 1             410           195        312        33         540
Year 2              296          228        373        53         654
Year 3              157          261        439        93         793
Year 4               -           295        522       133         950
6.        Table 1 shows the number of villages taking up each production package
by district and region, for the pre-Project year and for the four years of
the Project. The pre-Project situation is based on the amount of fertilizer
actually distributed by the maize program. For Project planning purposes
it is assumed that on average each Project village would have from 300 to
400 members, and would grow 300 hectares of maize each. Thus, each villager
would be expected to grow between 0.75 and 1.00 hectare of maize under the



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Project. However, the situation with regard to population and area under
cultivation in Project villages will need careful evaluation during the
first year of the Project to refine present assumptions, and to prepare
annual work programs.
Input Supply
7.        Table 2 shows the annual input requirements together with the
incremental annual requirements to be financed under the Project. Because
of the benefits to be obtained from replacing composite seed each year,
the table allows for full annual replacement of all seed. It may, however,
take two years to gear up seed production to the required level; provision
is therefore made to finance seed dressing for protection against insect
pests for those villages that retain their own composite seed from one year
to the next.
Seed Supply
8.        The Project Servicing Unit (PSU) would liaise with the Ministry
of Agriculture's Input Supply Section of the Crop Production Division and
the Tanzanian Seed Company to ensure that sufficient seed is available for
the Project. At present the Tanzania Seed Company, through its contract
outgrowers, together with Government and regional seed farms supplies
national requirements, supplemented by imports where necessary. However,
it is intended that Tanzania should become self-sufficient in maize seed
as soon as possible. A more careful analysis of national requirements is
now required against which to plan a suitable production program, and this
is being undertaken by the National Seed Coordinating Committee. Furthermore,
Government would review its seed pricing policy and ensure that the maize
seed producer price is sufficient to encourage adequate production. Table 3
indicates the seed position in Year 1, and the sources from which it will
be obtained.
Fertilizer and Pesticides
9.        Part of the national fertilizer requirements are produced at the
Tanga fertilizer factory, and t'he balance is imported. Project incremental
requirements of fertilizer and pesticides financed by IDA would be provided
through international competitive bidding procedures. The type of fertilizers
used would be varied in accordance with research and Project experience,
and new recommendations included in the annual work programs.
Yield Assumptions and Incremental Production
10.       The following yield and production assumptions have been made for
villagers with their varying maize production packages, based on each
village growing on average 300 hectares of maize under the Project.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Project Yields and Production Per Village
Yield - Kgs/Ha.           Production per Village (tons)
Without Project  At Maturity   Without Project   At Maturity
Traditional    1,100                1,100             330              330
Package 1       1,300               1,500             390              450
Package 2       1,850               2,200             555              660
Package 3       2,450               2,700             735              810
11.       Full yield increases from each production package would be attained
over a three- to four-year period, and full Project development would not
be attained until the end of Year 7. The Project incremental production
shown below has been calculated on the basis of the yield levels and numbers
of villages with each package in Year 0 and Year 7 given above and in
Table 1.
Project Incremental Production
Without Project                        Year 7
Yield  Production               Yield  Production
Villages (Tons)    (Tons)       Villages  (Tons)   (Tons)
Traditional        483    330    159,390             -        -          -
Package 1          200    390       78,000          295      450    132,750
Package 2          240    555    133,200            522      660    344,520
Package 3           27    735       19,845          133      810    107,730
390,435                          585,000
Incremental Production                                              194,565
12.       Assuming a gradual improvement in yields, the calculation of
incremental production during the life of the Project is based on taking
the overall increment over the Project period and assigning a 10% achieve-
ment in Year 1, and a further 15% over each of the next six years to reach
the full 100% of the increment in Year 7. The aggregate annual incremental
increases calculated by this method are given below, while incremental totals
by region, arrived at by this method, are given in Table 4.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Incremental Project Production, By Project Year
Year           Percentage of Total Increment         Incremental Production
(Tons)
1                         10                              19,500
2                         25                              48,600
3                         40                              77,600
4                         55                             107,000
5                         70                             136,200
6                         85                             165,400
7                        100                             194,600
Transport
13.       The Project would assist the need for intra-regional transport
requirements by providing additional trucks for moving marketed surpluses
from village stores to regional godowns or mills. Seven and ten-ton trucks
would be financed on a loan basis through TRDB to regional cooperative
unions, or other companies or Individuals with which regional authorities
may contract to collect the marketed maize and distribute inputs to village
level. In calculating transport requirements the Project would cater for
all Project incremental production. Table 5 shows how the numbers of vehicles
to be purchased are derived. It is assumed that 75% of the incremental maize
production in Project villages would be marketed, and that only two-thirds
of this would be marketed through official channels, the remainder being
sold locally or to private traders. Vehicles would have a three-month
period in which to move maize from village stores to regional godowns or to
mills, and each vehicle would make, on average, 75 trips within this period.
The actual allocation of vehicles to regions would be decided against sub-
stantiated needs and would be included in the annual work programs. To
facilitate supervision of subloans made under the Project, the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank would receive two 4-wheel drive vehicles.
Storage
14.       The Project would increase storage capacity at village level by
making available materials to villages through TRDB loans for their con-
struction on a self-help basis. It is envisaged that all villages reaching
Package 2 and 3 under the Project would construct such stores, with an allow-
ance for 20% of villages already having adequate storage. Some 530 stores
would thus be constructed during the life of the Project.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
15.       A further provision is made for 34,000 tons of input supply storage
at regional level; the siting of such stores would be decided on the basis
of a full inventory of existing storage by region, and would be incorporated
in the Project's annual work programs.
16.       The Project would also provide funds to retain consultants to
prepare detailed investment proposals for grain storage, including provision
for the proposed National Grain Reserve, and milling. The basis for this
work would be a thorough review of the Ministry of Agriculture's report
analysing the present status of grain production, which recommends setting
up a National Grain Reserve, and the 5-year development program proposals of
the National Milling Corporation for improving storage facilities, modernising
existing grain mills and increasing milling capacity. In view of the imme-
diate need for additional storage, Stage 1 of the consultants' recommendations,
to be prepared within six months of inception, would include detailed invest-
ment proposals for the immediate construction of about 80,000 tons of
additional grain storage at those sites, where the need is most essential
in the framework of a national grain storage plan. The Project provides
US$3 million (TShs. 24.2 million) for the construction of this storage in
Years 2 to 4 of the Project.
Oxen Cultivation
17.       Oxen cultivation occurs throughout the Shinyanga region and in some
districts of Iringa, Mbeya, Arusha, Mwanza and Mara regions. The use of oxen
is limited almost entirely to ploughing with a single furrow plough. Very
few ox carts exist in spite of the demand for village level transport, and
other implements such as tool bars, barrows, planters and cultivators have
yet to be extended to villages.
18.       Various studies undertaken both in Tanzania and elsewhere indicate
that introduction of oxen is not without problems. In areas where a high
population density has resulted in competition for land, oxen are often weak
at the start of the cultivation season due to underfeeding, whereas the animals
are in their best condition at the end of the growing season. Diseases,
especially tsetse fly, limit the potential for ox cultivation; other dis-
advantages are the slowness of the animals, the difficulty of breaking up
new land or heavy soils, and the fact that certain operations are impossible
with oxen. In addition, control over oxen must be good so as to result in
precise cultivation. The advantages of ox cultivation for small farmers are
the low operating costs, the relatively small financial outlay and risk, the
ease of replacement by home breeding and the multipurpose nature of the animal
which, in addition to draft power, provides manure and ultimately meat.
19.       Government has established a number of ox training centers and has
distributed oxen to villages. The program has not been successful, mostly
due to limited training of oxen and poor selection of farmer trainees. Oxen
are trained onlv for ploughing, whereas they should also be taught other
activities, such as ridging, weeding and threshing, and hauling. Farmers



ANNEX 6
Page 7
also are not properly prepared to assume responsibility for the animals, and
lack animal husbandry training. Death rates of oxen have been high, which
has also discouraged farmer participation. Government has instituted a pro-
gram whereby oxen are contributed free of charge to ujamaa villages; un-
fortunately, however, lack of training and the absence of responsibility
have led to misuse of the animals. In spite of the problems and past failures
it is clear that the use of ox cultivation could play an important role in
increasing yields in the areas under cultivation. Furthermore, ox power
should not be considered in isolation since with the establishment of new
villages opportunities are developing for integrating the use of oxen with
tractors. Tractors could be used to carry out land preparation in large
blocks and oxen on individual plots and for family transport.
20.       To assist in identifying suitable methods for increasing the use
of tractors Government, with UNDP/FAO assistance, is establishing four
mechanized farming centers, each of about 1,000 acres. Initially it was
intended that the main work of these centers would be to demonstrate the
use of tractors and systems of minimum tillage. However, it is clear that
similar investigations should be carried out using oxen. While an adequate
range of ox drawn implements is available, funds are required to purchase 20
oxen for each of the four stations. These would be used for testing and
developing new ox drawn implements, especially a maize planter and interrow
cultivator, since these would enable improved fertilizer placement, most
important of all weeding. Furthermore, the pace of the villagization program
and the increasing need for more timely cultivation of larger areas justify
further attempts to develop the use of oxen at the village level. However,
in view of past failures such attempts are only justified on a pilot scheme
which would intensify training and supervision in a few select villages where
farmers already have some experience in handling oxen and have demonstrated
a willingness to participate in such a scheme.
December 1, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF VILLAGES UNDER DIFFERENT PACKAGES
Pre-Project Year-                      Project Year 1                      Project Year 2                        Project Year 3                       Prolect Year 4
Package                             Package                              Package                              Package                              Package
Region               District            I       II      III    Total        I       II      III    Total         I       II      III    Total         I       II      III      Total       I       II      III    Total
ARUSHA               Arumeru             7        9        2       18        7       12         2       21        8       15        4       27         9       17        7       33        10       20       10       40
Hanang             8       13        2       23         8       16        2       26        9       19        4       32        12       22         7       41       14       26        10       50
Mbulu              7        9        2        18        7       12        2       21        8       15         4       27        9       17         7       33       10       20        10       40
KILIMANJARO          Rombo               7        7        2       16        7        9        2       18         8       11        4       23         9       13        7       29        10       15       10       35
Moshi              7        7        2       16         7        9        2       18        8       11        4        23        9       13         7       29       10       15        10       35
TANGA                Muheza              5        6        -       11        5        8        -       13         7        9        -       16         7       11        -       18         8       13        -       21
Korogwe            5        9        -       14         5       12        -       17        7       15        -        22        7       17         -       24        8       20         -       28
Lushoto            4        6        -       10         4        8        -       12-       4        9        -        13        6       11         -       17        7       13         -       20
MOROGORO             Morogoro            7        8        -       15        7       11        -       18         8       12        -       20         9       14        -       23        10       17        -       27
Kilosa             7        8        -       15         7       11        -       18        8       12        -        20        9       14         -       23       10       17         -       27
Hahenge            3        5        -        8         3        7        -       10        4        8        -       12         6       10         -       16        7       12         -       19
DODOMA               Ipwapwa             9        8        -       17        9       iO        -       19        11       12        -       23         9       14        -       23        10       17        -       27
TABORA               Tabora              5        7        -       12        5        9        -       14         7       11        -       18         7       13        -       20         8       15        -       23
Urambo             5        5        -       10         5        7        -       12        7        8        -       15         8       10         -       18        9       13         -       22
IRINGA               Iringa            13        13        3       29       13       16        3       32       13        16        5       34       16        19        9       44       18        23       15       56
Mufindi           10        8        4       22         8       11        5       24       11       14        7       32        12       16       12        40       14       19       17        50
Niombe            14       10        4       28        13       13        6       32       13       17        8        38       19       20        14       53       21       24        19       64
MBEYA                Mbeya              12        9        4       25       11       12        6       29        11       15        8       34        13       17       14       44        15       20       19       54
Mbozi             12       17        -       29        11       20        -       31       11       22        -        33       13       26         -       39       15       32         -       47
LINDI                Lindi               4        7        -       11        4        9        -       13         5       11        -       16         6       13        -       19         7       15        -       22
Nachingwea         7        8        -       15         7       11        -       18        8       13        -        21        9       15         -       24       10       18         -       28
MTWARA               Mtwara              5        6        -       11        5        8        -       13         7        9        -       16         7       11        -       18         8       13        -       21
Newala             5        6        -       11         5        8        -       13        7        9        -        16        7       11         -       18        8       13         -       21
rasasi             7        7        -       14         7        9        -       16        8       12        -        20        8       14         -       22        9       17         -       26
RUVUMA               Songea              8       10        2       20        8       13        3       24         9       17        5       31        11       21        9       41        12       25       13       50
RUKWA                Sumbawanga          8       13        -       21        8       16        -       24         9       19        -       28       11        22        -       33        12       26        -       38
MARA                 Tarime              5       10        -       15        5       13        -       18         7       16        -       23         7       19        -       26         8       22        -       30
Serengeti          4        9        -       13        4       12         -       16        5       16        -       21         6       19         -       25        7       22        -        29
TOTAL                            200      240       27      467      195      312        33      540      228      373       53      654       261      439        93      793      295      522      133      950
1/  Ministry of Agriculture Planning Division's estimate of villages with various packages in pre-project year, 1974/75.
September 3, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF INPUT REQUIREMENTS BY VOLUME
(Tons)
Seed                                Fertilizer                            DDT                Seed iJ             Herbicide |
Composite      H Hybrid         TSP         SA          NPK              5%               25%      Dressing
(Liters)                           (Kg).
A. TOTAL REQUIREMENTS
Year O 2/                 2,948           555            3,615      7,575       1,230            1,401           56,040       _:7                 10,00
Year 1                    3,330           720            4,695      9,825       1,500           1,620            64,800       0.7                 12,960
Year 2                    3,953           953            5,760     12,195       2,010           1,962           78,480        0.7                 15,696
Year 3                    4,620         1,328            7,170     15,525       2,640           2,379            95,160       0.5                 19,032
Year 4                    5,385         1,740            8,820     19,335       3,315            2,850          114,000       o.4                 22,800
B. PROJECT INCREMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
Year 1                    3,330           720            4,695      9,825       1,500           1,620           64,800         -                  12,960
Year 2                      623           233            1,065      2,370         510              342           13,680       0.7                  2,736
Year 3                      667           375            1,410      3,330         630             417            16.680        -,336
Yea-I                       765           41:            i,6bo      3,blO         675             471            18,840        -                   3,768
TOTAL       5,385         1,740            8,820     19,335       3,315           2,850           114,000       0.7                 22,800
The figures shown for Composite Seed permit replacement of seed every year, in practice this may not be feasible in early years, and seed
dressing for retained seed is also included.
To be used on a pilot basis on 2% of the project area.
/ Theoretical allocation of package input in Year 0, only approximately correct for fertilizer and pesticides, but not seed.
Full requirements in Year 1 regarded as Incremental, and included in project totals.
November 12, 1975.
Ht19
e.x



TANZXAN
NATIOMNL MAIZE PROJECT
ESTIMATED MIAZE SEED SUPPLY POSITION FOR 1975/76 SEASO  (JUNE 1975)
I/                 2/
Composite              Hybrld
Volume  Type           Volume Type
3/                               (Tons)                  (Tons)
A. STOCKS                                                             140   ZHI
522   613
217   632
B. MAJOR SUPPLIERS
4/
TANWAT (Njombe)                           250    UCA              300   613
325   632
5/
DA8AGA (Iringa)                           150    UCA
ARUSHA Govt, Seed Farm 6/                 135    UCA
HZIISA Govt. Seed Fars 6/                 950    ICA
C.  IMPORTS 7/                                                        200   512
600   632
D.  SUWMY OF A + B + C                         535    UCA             140   ZNH
822   613
950    ICA             200   512
1,142   632
Subtotal        1,485                  2,304
8/
E. OTHER SOURCES
HACHINGWEA FARM (NAFCO)                   430    n.a.
URM4BO FARtM (TAT) 9'                     270    n.a.
ARUSHA Regional Farm                      100  (Katumani)
MOROGORO - University                     350    ICA
Prison Fare                    360    ICA
SHINYANGA Regional Farm                    40    n.a.
F.  SUMLARY OF E                               100  (Katumani)
710    ICA
740    n.a.
Subtotal        1,550
TOTAL           3.035                  2,304
1/  Composites:  ICA Ilonga Compaite A, UCA - Ukiriguru Composite A.
2/  Hybrids:  Zambian Hybrid I (ZHI);  Fx-Kenya Hybrids:  512, h13, 632.
3/ Are held by Tai%zania Farmers Associatino, (TFA) or Tanzania Seed Company (TSC).
4/  TANWAT: Tanzania Wattle Company under contract to TSC.
5| DA8A(A: A Government Seed Farm.
6/ These two government need farms receive USAID asststance.
7/ Already ordered by TFA from Kenya Seed Company.
-8 These supplies were uncertain as to both quantity and quality in June 1975.
9/ TAT: Tobacco Authority of Tanzania which runs farm in conjunction with
Ministry of Agriculture.
September 3, 1975.



TAIZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
INCREMENTAL PROJECT MAIZE PRODUCTION BY REGION
Village Numbers                                                                           Production
Reglon               Tradi-        PsckYear 0                          Year 4 & Onrde,                   Totl                           Incremental 5/                     Total, 4/
TrAdi- I/  -- -PaLckastes 27        -r-,r7                    Year           Annual           Annual           Total            Year 7 and
tional       I        II      III    Total       I        II       III    Total      Year            Year I         Year 2-7          Year 7           Onvards
----------------------------(-000 Tons)----------____________________
ARUSHA                71        22       31         6      59        34      66        30      130        53,625         2,954            4,430           29,535           83,160
KILIMANJARO           38        JA       14         4      32        20      30        20       70        28,710         1,629            2,444           16,290           45,000
TANCA                 34        14       21         -      35        23      46         -      69         28,335         1,238            1,856           12,375           40,710
MOROCORO              35         17      21         -      38        27      46         -       73        29,835         1,268            1,901           12,675           42,510
DODOl.                10         9        8         -      17        10      17         -      27         11,250           447              671            4,470           15,720
TAB0RA                23         10      12         -      22        17      28         -       45        18,150            798           1,197            7,980           26,130
IRINGA                91        37       31       11       79        53      66        51     170         69,750         3,897           5,846            38,970          108,720
MBEYA                 47         24      26         4      54        30       52       19      101        42,240         2,097            3,146           20,970           63,210
LINDI                 24         11      15         -      26        17       33        -       50        20,535           890            1,334            8,895           29,430
MTWARA                32         17      19         -      36        25      43         -       68        27,735         1,190            1,784           11,895            39,630
RUVUMA                30          8      10         2      20        12       25       13       50        20,040         1,239            1,859           12,390            32,430
RUKWA                 17          8      13         -      21        12       26        -       38         15,945           662             992            6,615            22,560
MARA                  31          9      19         -      28        15      44         -       59        24,285         1,151            1,726           11,505            35,790
TOTAL         483        200      240        27     467      295      522       133     950        390,435        19,460          29,186           194,565          585,000
1/  These are villages eventually included in Project, but which were at Traditional level in Year 0.                                                                                ,>
2/  Based on yields per hectare in Year 0 for Traditional of 1,100 Kg;  Package 1: 1,300 Kg;  Package 2: 1,850 Kg;  Package 3: 2,450 Kg.                                             e
3/ Based on yields per hectare at maturity (Year 7 onwards) for Package 1: 1,500 Kg; Package 2: 2,200 Kg; Package 3: 2,700 Kg.
4/ Production figures are based on 300 hectares of maize per village.
5/  Annual increments of l3o in Year 1 and 15% in Years 2-7 of the total incremental increase in production over the 7 year period.
September 3, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ADDITIONAL TRANSPORT REQUIREMENTS
Year          Incremental   Incremental   Incremental   Cumulative   Vehicles Required4/   Purchases Required
Yield 1/      Surplus2/      Surplus 3/   Transport    7-ton        10-ton     7-ton        10-ton
for NMC      Equivalent
-------------------  Tons  ---------------------         ------------  Number  --------------
1             20,000         15,000        10,000         10,000        8           8          8             8
2             30,000         22,500        15,000         25,000       20          20         12            12
3             30,000         22,500        15,000         40,000       32          32         12            12
X             30,000         22,500        15,000         55,000       44          44         12            12
TOTAL          110,000         82,500         55,000
1/ Figures for incremental yield rounded up to nearest 10,000 tons.
2/ Assumes 75% of incremental production will be marketed.
3/ Assumes that 33% of marketed production will be sold locally or through private traders.
4/ Based on transportable surplus being moved from village level to regional/district godowns
or mills within 3 months.
September 3, 1975.
(D3
D Ml
F'  Ch



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT STAFF AND CONSULTANTS
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.   The Project Servicing Unit: (PSU) .....     ................   1
B.   The Project Steering Committee (PSC) ....     .............   9
C.   Regional Project Staff ...............................  10
D.   Consultancy on Maize Agronomy ........................  11
E.   Pre-Investment Studies of Grain Storage and Milling       11
A. The Project Servicing Unit (PSU)
1.        PSU would be establis'hed within KILIMO, as part of the Crop Pro-
duction Division.  The Project Manager would be responsible to the Principal
Secretary, KILIMO, through the Director, Crop Production Division. PSU would
be responsible for:
-    overall Project implementation, coordination and
supervision;
-    controlling Project fiinances;
-    provision of technical. and administrative support
to regional staff;
-    procuring and distributing maize production inputs
to Project regions.
-    appraising regional maize production programs;
-    preparing Project annual work programs;
-    providing regional authorities with extension aids,
films and technical assistance;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
-    organising extension and management training and
refresher courses for staff;
-    administering the Crop Production Fund; and
-    monitoring Project progress.
2.        The PSU would be staffed with the following senior staff:
(a)  Project Manager,
(b)  Deputy Project Manager/Extension Specialist,
(c)  Financial Controller,
(d)  Procurement and Distribution Officer,
(e)  Farm Management Specialist.
3.        PSU staff qualifications and responsibilities would be as follows:
(a)  Project Manager:
Qualifications
The Project Manager should be a graduate of agriculture or agricultural
economics, with:
i)   experience in practical agriculture, and demonstrated
managerial capacity;
ii)   capacity for organising staff and ability to maintain
good relations with Government, regional and cooperative
union officials; and
iii)   ability to write clear and concise reports on Project
implementation.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Responsibilities
responsible to the Principal Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture, through the Director, Crop Production;
responsible for Project execution and implementation
of all development objectives;
liaison with other departments of Ministry of
Agriculture, other Government ministries and regional
authorities;
liaison with cooperative unions at regional level;
liaison with agricultural training and research institutions;
liaison with Marketing Development Bureau and National Milling
Corporation;
liaison with parastatals and U.N. Agencies (FAO);
responsible for personnel management, administration and
staff recruitment;
executive secretary of Steering Committee;
preparation of annual Project work programs after consultation
with regional and Ministry staff;
control of the Maize Production Inputs Account, through
the financial controller;
authorised signatory for Credit withdrawal applications;
authorised signatory for procurement and disbursement
forms, as prepared by the Procurement & Disbursement Officer
of the Project; and
submission of quarterlr progress reports to IDA.
(b) Deputy Project Manager - Extension Specialist



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Qualifications
The Deputy Project Manager/Extension Specialist should be a graduate in
agriculture, with:
i)   substantial experience in tropical agriculture
and extension methods;
ii)   experience in managing agricultural projects;
iii)   ability to organise and maintain good relations with
staff at Government and regional level, and cooperative
union level; and
iv)   experience in the formulation and evaluation of crop
production projects.
Responsibilities
-    deputize for Project Manager as and when required, and
generally to assist him in the execution of his responsibilities;
-    be responsible for extension activities, including:
i)   training of extension staff;
ii)   preparation of extension material;
iii) publication of leaflets;
iv)   publication of articles in Ukulima wa Kisasa;
v)   preparation of radio programs; and
vi) preparation of agricultural films.
-    liaison with extension organisations in regions;
-    organisation of Mobile Film Unit Services;
-    liaison with research and training institutions for
agricultural extension staff, in particular regarding
research trials, demonstrations and curriculum development;



ANNEX 7
Page 5
-    liaison with the Farm Management Specialist and regional
farm management officers to develop a suitable evaluation
and recording system.;
-    liaison with regional farm management officers on maize
marketing and crop reporting;
-    development and implementation of new extension techniques;
-    assist the Project Manager in the preparation of annual
work programs;
-    make recommendations or any changes in seed, fertilizer and
pesticide input requirements, and collate input requirements
by district/region for annual procurement; and
-    represent the Project as a member of the maize and legume
research and seed committees in KILIMO.
(c) Financial Controller
Qualifications
The Financial Controller should be a graduate of Business Administration
and Accounting, or equivalent, with:
i)   experience in independent bookkeeping and preparation
of accounts, and in managing an accounting unit;
ii)   ability to adapt accounting systems to Project needs;
iii)   ability to extract from accounts information for managerial
use; and
iv)   experience in drawing up procurement and disbursement accounts.
Responsibilities
-    responsible to the Project Manager;
-    responsibile for management and control of Project funds;
-    organisation of accounting procedures, and up-to-date
maintenance of Project accounts according to acceptable
accounting procedures;



ANNEX 7
Page 6
derivation of accounting indicators for use in Project
management;
responsible for all financial administrative procedures;
recruiting accounting staff;
advising Procurement and Distribution Officer on financial
aspects of procurement documentation;
preparing credit disbursement documentation;
responsible for accounting of the Maize Production Inputs Account;
preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements
as required by IDA; and
keeping Project Manager informed of deviations in budget.
(d)  Procurement and Distribution Officer
Qualifications
The Procurement & Distribution Officer should have training and proper
experience in administration and accounting, with:
i)   experience in tendering and procurement of goods;
ii)   experience in organising procurement and distribution
of goods;
iii)   ability to coordinate transport facilities;
iv)   ability to administer distribution of farm inputs.
Responsibilities
-    responsible to Project Manager;
-    responsible for procurement of all Project requirements,
including farm inputs, the aircraft, transport, office
supplies and equipment;
-    organising distribution of farm inputs to regional level;



ANNEX 7
Page 7
assisting with distribution of farm inputs at regional
level, i.e. to villages;
identifying storage requirements at village and regional
level;
assisting with credit applications for construction material
for village and storage;
preparing annual statements on distribution of inputs such
as quantity, location, timeliness of availability, storage etc.
(e)  Farm Management Specialist
Qualifications
The Farm Management Special:Lst should be a graduate of agriculture or
agricultural economics, with:
i)   experience in tropical agriculture;
ii)   experience in laying down and evaluating trials and
demonstrations;
iii)   experience in crop sampling procedures;
iv)   ability to analyse farml data, and devise farm plans
and farming systems;
v)   ability to communicate with agricultural extension and
research personnel.
Responsibilities
-    responsible to the Project Manager;
-    analysis of the village maize trial and demonstration
results, and formulation of revised husbandry and/or
input packages, on a regional basis;
-    monitoring farmers' adoption rates, and yield responses
through crop sampling;



ANNEX 7
Page 8
formulation of ecology-specific input packages, including
seed varieties;
review of farming systems in the Project regions with
alternative recommendations for improvement;
-    analysing the short and long-term economic and financial
stability of maize production;
-    liaison and guidance to Farm Management Officers at
Regional level;
-    classifying the various maize production areas in the Project
according to input requirements and yield potential and, at a
later stage, in non-Project regions of Tanzania.
B. The Project Steering Committee (PSC)
4.        The PSC would be established to resolve all policy issues, to
ensure close liaison between Ministries concerned, especially between Regional
Development Directors and KILIMO PSU staff, and to approve annual work programs.
It would consist of the following personnel:
Principal Secretary, KILIMO;
Representative of the Prime Minister's Office;
Representative of the Ministry of Finance and Planning;
Commissioner for Rural Development;
National Maize Project Manager (Secretary).
The PSC would appoint its own Chairman, and the Project Manager would
be its executive secretary. Ministerial representatives would be of sufficient
seniority to represent their ministries effectively in an executive capacity.
5.        The need for the PSC arises from a number of different ministries
being intimately involved in the Project, the key importance of maize in
the national economy and the number of major policy issues involved, which
include maize pricing, organisation of cooperatives and ujamaa villages,
levels of subsidy, nature of target population and effects on regional
development balance and strategy. Furthermore, because of the unavailability
of accurate base line data in a time of rapid change in the rural scene,
and the need to adapt rapidly to changing circumstances the Project has
considerable flexibility in the allocation of its investments, which
requires the preparation of annual work programs. These programs would
be prepared by the PSU in conjunction with KILIMO and regional staff and be
subject to IDA and PSC approval.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
6.        The PSC would need to meet at least twice a year, probably even
quarterly. A pre-condition for disbursement of Project funds would be IDA
agreement on annual work programs, which would be given by supervision staff
of the World Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) in Nairobi.
Furthermore, an RMEA staff member would attend the meetings at which annual
work programs are discussed, with observer status and to give IDA's views
on the proposed program.
C. Regional Project Staff
7.        KILIMO staff at the regional level and below, who would be engaged
full-time on Project activities, would be a Regional Maize Project Coordi-
nator (RMPC), a Regional Farm Management Officer (RFMO) and a District
Maize Project Supervisor (DMPS).
8.        The Regional Maize Project Coordinator would be a graduate Principal
Agricultural Officer, and wouldl have the following duties:
-    Responsible for implementation of all maize Project
activities to the RDD through the RADO;
-    assisting regional staff in selection of villages to
be included in the program, and their appropriate
package level;
-    liaising with the PSL and regional cooperatives on
distribution of inputs, transport, marketing and
storage requirements;
-    organizing extension programs, training and refresher
courses;
-    liaising with the Research Section on selection of
sites for trials;
-    supervising mobile film unit activities, and distributing
extension aid materials to districts;
-    advising DMPS on their work programs, and
-    preparing a quarterly progress report on Project performance.
9.        The District Maize Project Supervisor would be a Senior Field
Officer, and would have the following duties:
-    responsible for implementation of all maize Project
activities in the District to the DDO through the DADO;



ANNEX 7
Page 10
assisting district staff in selection of program villages
to be submitted to regional level for approval;
supervising AFO's at ward level in their Project extension
activities (which will only form part of an AFO's duties as
they will have villages also which are not included in the
Project), and FA's at village level, who should be involved
in Project work on a full-time basis;
drawing up extension work programs and distributing extension
aids to field staff;
selecting staff to attend training and refresher courses
at regional level;
ensuring field staff select suitable sites and farmer groups
for demonstrations, and record data accurately;
liaising with regional authorities and cooperatives on input
distribution and marketing, and selecting villages for the
execution of input storage; and
submitting monthly reports on Project progress to the RMPC.
10.       The Regional Farm Management Officer would be of Senior Field
Officer grade, and would have the following duties:
-    responsible administratively to the RADO through the
RMPC, and technically to the farm management specialist
in the PSU;
*    -    collecting, collating and summarizing the yield data
from Project demonstrations and village research trials,
and for estimating total maize production from Project
villages;
-    the preparation of farm and village budgets for maize,
and for other enterprises included in Project village
farming systems, and the development of improved farm
systems;
-    calculation of input requirements by village;
-    advising Project extension staff and village secretaries
(in liaison with village management technicians) on record
keeping and farm management economics: and
-    submitting monthly reports on progress to the RADO. and
quarterly ones to the PSU.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
D. Consultancy on Maize Agronomy
I1.       An experienced maize agronomist would be required for visits
totalling six months over the first two years of the Project and his terms
of reference would be as follows:
-    to critically review existing maize agronomy recommendations
for the varying ecological areas in the Project, and to
make recommendations for their improvment in the light of
field visits, discussions with technical staff involved and
all relevant literature;
-    to make recommendations on the layout of village trials
and demonstrations;
-    to review the present maize breeding and research program
in the light of the long-term development of the Tanzanian
maize industry;
-    to examine the potential for improved rotations or inter-
cropping with legumes, to lessen the dependance on imported
fertilizer; and
-    to provide an interim report after the first year; and a
final report after visits in the second year.
E. Pre-Investment Studies of Grain Storage and Milling
Background
12.       Grain production in Tanzania has recently been very much below
requirements. There have been local shortages, national stocks have been
low, and large grain importations have been necessary. The Government has
taken a number of steps to overcome these difficulties: The producer price
of maize and other grains has been increased substantially. There has been
a major national campaign to increase food production, and maize production
will be significantly stepped up under the expanded National Maize Project.
The increased volume of food production will require that storage facilities
be improved. Recent experience has also emphasized the need to maintain an
adequate reserve of grain to cater for emergencies, in addition to the
ordinary grain stocks kept for commercial reasons. Grain milling require-
ments will increase also because of the increased volume of consumption and
the need to replace old mills with more modern equipment capable of producing
more refined products.
13.       The National Milling Corporation (NMC) has prepared an outline five-
year development program covering the period 1975/76 to 1979/80. This in-
cludes proposals for improving storage, staff housing, office accommodation



ANNEX 7
Page 12
and transport.  The Marketing Development Bureau in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture has also prepared a proposal for developing a national grain reserve. 1/
Consultants are required to review these plans and prepare detailed invest-
ment proposals for establishing a national grain reserve and developing grain
storage and the milling industry.
Objectives
14.       The objective of the studies would be:
(a) To identify Tanzania's grain storage and grain milling
requirements for maize, wheat and rice up to 1985. The
storage requirements would include storage required for
normal commercial purposes and for establishing a national
grain reserve;
(b) To examine NMC's and other major existing grain storage
and milling facilities to see the extent to which they
fall short of the requirements identified in (a);
(c)  To propose the additional grain storage and milling facilities
that would be required to meet 1985 requirements, and to
suggest methods for improving the efficiency with which
existing facilities are used;
(d) To identify and prepare detailed plans for the highest
priority storage developments included under (c) which
could be constructed with the funds allocated for that
purpose under the National Maize Project;
(e)  To prepare investment proposals for grain storage and
milling in a form suitable for attracting financial
support from an aid agency covering the developments
proposed under (c) but excluding those to be financed
under the National Maize Project.
Scope of Consultancy Services
15.       The consultant's work program would be carried out in three stages,
as follows:
Stage 1:  Preparation of an Outline Development Plan to meet
Tanzania's Grain Storage and Milling Requirements
up to 1985;
Stage 2:  Preparation of Detailed Specifications and Tender
Documents for High Priority Storage Developments
to be financed under the National Maize Project;
I/   Ministry of Agriculture, A Strategic Grain Reserve Program for Tanzania.
Marketing Development Bureau, November, 1974.



ANNEX 7
Page 13
Stage 3: Preparation of Investment Proposals for Grain
Storage and Milling designed to meet requirements
identified in Stage 1 which were not financed under
Stage 2.
16.       Consultants would be required to complete Stage I and obtain Govern-
ment approval for the proposals conitained therein before proceeding to Stages
2 or 3.
Responsibilities of Government, NMC and Consultants
17.       The consultants would be appointed by and be responsible to the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry and NMC would ensure that all relevant
information is made available to the consultants and that they will be given
access to NMC's storage and milling facilities to enable them to examine
their condition and operational performance.
18.       The consultants would work according to these terms of reference
and would be guided by a steering committee. This committee would be chaired
by the Ministry of Agriculture and include representatives from the Ministry
of Finance and Planning, NMC, and the Project Manager of the National Maize
Project. The steering committee would ensure that the consultants understood
their terms of reference and would act as a channel for securing Government
approval for the Stage 1 development proposals. For each of the three
stages the consultants would be expected to discuss with the steering
committee:
(a) Their interim findings approximately half way through their
work period, and
(b) Their draft final report at the end of the period.
Detailed Terms of Reference
19.       Stage 1 of the consultant's work program should be completed in
not more than three months and would be submitted to the steering committee
in order to obtain Government approval for the outline storage and milling
development plan before any detailed work was undertaken in Stages 2 and 3.
2u.       Stage 1.  The consultants shall:
(a) Survey existing storage and milling facilities in the main
producing and consuming centers. This would include all of
the installations under the control of NMC, but would not
include minor mills and stores in villages. This survey
should identify the storage and milling capacity at each
location and should examine their operational efficiency.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
(b) Study all of the available information and forecasts of
production and consumption of maize, wheat and rice (including
their milled products) up to 1980.
(c) Prepare for each of the three crops, and where appropriate
their milled products, forecasts for each year up to 1985 of:
Production
Total Volume of Local Production Marketed
Volume of Local Production Marketed through NMC
Volume of Imports and/or Exports
Consumption of Grain and the Principal Milled
Products
Storage Requirements, Including Adequate Provision
for a National Reserve.
In making forecasts of requirements for milled grain products
the consultants should seek guidance from the steering committee
concerning the extent to which Government wishes to encourage
the consumption of the more refined but less nutritious
products such as Sembe Grade 1.
(d) Study the present system of organization in the grain milling
and storage industry and make recommendations tor any changes
which are appropriate.
(e) Given the storage and milling requirements identified in (c)
above and the nature of the existing facilities identified
in (a), prepare an outline development plan for grain storage
and milling designed to meet 1985 requirements including
provision for establishing and operating a national grain
reserve. This plan should:
(i) Be based on a storage and milling system where the
different individual components are designed to fit
in with the overall requirements of the system, the
capacity of the transport system, and the storage
capacity at farm or village level;
(ii) Propose the quantity and type of new storage and milling
or modernization required, by location. Justification
should be given for the type of improvement proposed.
If proposals are made to establish bulk handling/storage
facilities, particular care should be exercised to ensure
that these are justified. These should include estimated
reduction in storage losses;



ANNEX 7
Page 15
(iii)  Give complete cost estimates for the proposed developments;
(iv) Identify the highest priority storage developments which
should be constructed with the funds made available for
this purpose under the National Maize Project. Under
this project a total of US$3 million has been provided
and it is expected that this would be sufficient to cover
the cost of approximately 80,000 tons of conventional
bag storage, spread over several locations throughout
Tanzania;
(v) Suggest appropriate staff training schemes to help improve
the efficiency oF grain storage and milling in Tanzania.
(f)  Propose detailed term: of reference for Stages 2 and 3 as
outlined below.
21.       Stage 2.  This stage would be completed within two months after
the Government has agreed to the Stage 1 outline proposed, and would include:
(a)  Preparation of detailed engineering plans for the high
priority storage of about 80,000 tons at the locations
and with the terms of reference proposed in Stage 1. The
cost of the investment would be covered by funds amounting
to US$3 million provided under the Maize Project;
(b)  Preparation of tender documents for the proposed investment
when the proposals have been approved by Governmentand
review and evaluation of bids received;
(c)  The consultants may also be required subsequently to super-
vise construction.
22.       Stage 3.  This stage would be completed within six months and
would include:
Outline design, cost estimates, economic and financial
evaluation of a proposed storage and milling project in
a way suitable for submission to an international aid
agency for financial support. This would be based on
the outline plan prepared in Stage 1 but excluding develop-
ments included in Stage 2.
December 1, 1915



ANNEX 8
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
CONTENTS
TABLE
1.       Summary of Project Costs
2.       Project Servicing Unit - Capital Costs
3.       Project Servicing Unit - Recurrent Costs
4.       Project-financed Regional Support Services - Capital Costs
5.       Project-financed Regional Support Services - Recurrent Costs
6.       Transport and Storage
7.       Training
8.       Air Transport
9.       Pilot Ox Utilizsation Scheme
10.       Project Preparation and Consultancy Services
11.       Incremental Inputs
12.       Cost Element Qualifying for Retroactive Financing
Appendix 1. Contingencies



TANZANIA
NATIONAr-n! =PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(TShs. '000)
Foreign  Exchange                        Percent
Reference      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       TOTAL           %         Amount        TOTAL         Distribution
~1*2I1t   us $          of Baseline
'000             Costs
A. BASELINE COSTS
1   Incremental Inputs                           Table 11       66,922        13,501       16,944       17,986      115,353         73         84,593       14,330              48
2   Project Servicing Unit
(i) Capital Costs                          Table 2         1,517          -            -            -          1,517         65            984           188              4
(ii) Recurrent Costs                        Table 3         1,834        2,200        2,188        2,188        8,410         52          4,384         1,045
3.Regional Staff and Support
3 i  Capital Costs                         Table 4         6,458          506          412           90        7,466         94          7,011           927)            14
(ii) Recurrent Costs                        Table 5         3,299        7,182        8,046        8,180       26,707         34           9,150        3,318)
4.  Transport and Storage                         Table 6        15,142       19,119       21,790       11,802       67,853         65         43,790        8,429              28
5.  Training                                      Table 7         1,361        2,201        2,166        1,826        7,554         39          2,973          938               3
6.  Air Transport                                 Table 8         1,080          458          458          458        2,454         72          1,781          305               1
7.  Pilot Ox Utilization Scheme                   Table 9            56          432          192          -            680         18            120           84              (.)
8. Project Preparation & Consultancy
Services                                   Table 10        2,442        2,293          605          122        5,462         78          4,242           679              2
Subtotal                                   100.111       47,892       52,801       42,652      243,456         65        159,028       30,243             100
B. CONTINGENCIES
1.  Physical              *                                       3,062       3,167        3,507         2,455      12,191          57          7,009        1,514               5
2.  Price                                                         4,371       9,693       18,609        18,682      51,355          59         30,344        6,380              21
Subtotal                                     7,433       12,860       22,116        21,137      63,546         59         37,353        7,894              26
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               107,544      60,752       74,917        63,789    307,002          64        196,381        38,137             126
December 1, 1975
g- |



ANNEX 8
Table 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
PROJECT SERVICING UNIT - CAPITAL COSTS
(TShs. '000)
Unit Cost    No.   Totali/   Foreign Exchange
A.  VEHICLES                               TShs.                            %      Amount
Range Rover                            65,00O/       1       65        95        62
Cars, 15/1600 cc Saloons               55,000        2      110        96       106
4-Wheel Drive, Station Wagon           78,000        1       78        96        75
4-Wheel Drive, Long Wheel Base!_       67,000        2      134        96       129
Lorry, 7 ton                          123,000        1      123        96       118
Subtotal                                   510        96      490
B. OFFICE EQUIPMENT
Desks                                   1,500       23       35         -         -
Tables                                  1,000        5         5        -         _
Chairs                                    500       50       25         -         -
Bookcases                                 200       16        3         -         -
Filing Cabinets, 3 Drawer               1,290       28       36        25         9
Photocopier                            11,100        1       11        90        10
Duplicator                              4,500        1         5       90         4
Typewriters                             2,800       10       28        90        25
Desk Calculators                        4,500        4       18        90        16
Hand Calculators                        1,700        2         3       90         3
Air Conditioners                        4,500        6       27        90        24
Other Furnishing                       11,000        -       11        30         3
Subtotal                                   207       45        94
C.  CONSTRUCTION OF OFFICES
Office Buildin  /                    800,000        1       800       50       400
Subtotal A,B  & C                        1,517       65      984
Physical Contingencies, 107l5-                        145       65       94
Subtotal                                 1,662       65    1,078
Price Contingencies5/ 6/                              100       65       65
TOTAL                                    1,762       65    1,143
1/ All purchased in Near 1.
2/ Purchased for preparation in 1974.
3/ One of these vehicles is for use by the CIMMYT Trainer to be
stationed at Ilonga.
4/ Building size and construction standard to be determined by PSU.
5/ Excluding Range Rover purchased in 1974 (footnote 2).
6/ See Appendix 1.
November 25, 1975



TAY0512Ah 12 A532
AATIONAL !tRIZB PRkOTECT
52216Cr RVIOCIN  UN11T  I- EECUBRJ3.T CDST5
Unit CoSt       0N..     Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      TOTAL    FSreign Erxhare,
TSs2.                                                                                        A Awouot
A.  STAF SALO7E M     /
i;o.Jeot Manager                                        40,C000         3         40          40         140           40         160         -       -
Deputy Project Manager (ortte-ioo Specialint) 2J    325,ooo             1        325         325         325         325        1,300        74      962
finre,ieia Controller ?J                               325,000         1         325         325        325          325        1,300       74       962
Proecrtent & Distribution Officer                      325,000         1         325         325        325          325        1,300       74       962
Fa.  Masa9e..nt Spoeialis&  J                          325,000          1        325         327         325         325        1,300        74      962
Amcuntant Grade 1                                        0,00                     s 20        20          20          20           Bo
Avri-ewe-a1 Of3ficer                                    25,000         2          s0          So          50          50          200
Agrioutural3  R-onetiat 3/                              25,000          1         25          25          25          25          100
A..latant Pr,oure,ent Officer                           18,02          I         13          l8          18          13           72         _
Statiatical AsAoltant  '                                114,400        1          1S          1S         1S           15           60
Ace,  nto A-Ietant                                       9,000          1          9           9           9           9           36         -       -
Seeretarl.e  4/                                         8,ooo          3          214         24         24           24           96
TyplSts                                                  6,0oo         6          36          56          36          36          144
Filing Clerk                                             5,300         1           6           6          6            6           24
Storekeeper                                              7,200         1           7           7          7            7           28
Dri-era                                                  5,800         7          41          41          41          41          i164
measeng,er                                               4,400         2           9           9           9           9           56
Sobtotal                            32      (I 600)      1,600      1,600        1,600       (6,400)       60  (3,343)
1,360 /                                         6,160         6o   3,709
3.  9E2ICL  18 8   OSTS
Car at 12,000 o phyr *nnu                          1.08 P.hr           2          22          26         26           26          100        65       65
b4 W.2. Vebfle At 18,000 km per annum              1.60 p.kmo          3          70          86         86           86          328        65      213
4 w1.0. vehicle at 18,000 kn per annum             2.16 P.eX           1          39          39         39           39          156        65      101
Lorry at 18,0o0 4  per  a-u,                       3.524 P.km          1          51          58         58           58          22            1_46
Subtotal                             7         182         209         209         209          8o9         65      3
C.  03FC  OfP3AT9IDG  OSTS
ao.6e Rent  71                                    3,000/- p...         5         126        10         180          180         666          -
82rt of Store and Yard                            2,500!- p. =.        1          24          30          30          30         1114          -
laint/Replacement n-d OMf        Flip.  t 2.51; p.a.  9,000                        6          23          23          23           75         50      58
maint/Repl.acemnt offic, SIrnituer At 108 p.a. 115000                              2          12          12          12           38        10        4
Stationery                                        2,1/. p-. -                     21          25         25           25           96        50       48
Pootage and Telephona                             2,700/- y  m.                   25          32          32          32          121        5       60
Treele Alloonce  /J                                                               60          73         73           73          279
Allo,mooce for  .8IMKf Trtreor                                                    25          12         -            .            37
Elcbriolty                                           535/- P- m.                   3           4           4           4           12 
S-btotal                                       292 61      391        374          379        1.441         10     120
Subtotal A S C                               L,634       2,200      2,188        2,188        8,410         52   4,384
vhyaimal Cootingencets, 101O
2ubtnta.1                                    2,017       2,420      2,407        2,407        9,251         52   4,822
Price                                                 12tnzaia     Z  387   _626         867        2,001         52   1 041
TOTAL                                     2,136      2,807       3,033        3,274      11,2S2         52   5,863
L Local staff are costed at ba.it salary, eVpatri.tfa inClude all paasagea and a11   nca.
2 xpatr,ite Poets
T These etaff will worK in close liasior t1ith 7egiontaL 520'2 it   fa.aoaaR-e ent ad    fl atio  Et Ida
For Project Meaager, Deputy Projeet   ger  -a,  Finencial Controller. 
As aal staff Vill not be tn post at start of Year 1, a. 15% taTig is .taoued.
/  60  re,duction3 have been  ad.e in Year 1 cost0 as not f2711, operational all yet,2
eouae rent, (or to cover mortEage pay,eote if lcooe- purcha-cd) for hvovts  for Ctoiect Ilatager, DoPuty Project Manager, Fin=tial Ceetroller,
Procurement Officer and Fars 4magaaeet SpecisaiAt.
/  Profesioa1  13.ff (4) 122  ni41Dtc at 100/-, Drivers 500 night. at 50/-, expntr2ote allocevce included io sslaries.
O/ Oee Appendix 1.
Deceubea 1, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
PROJECT-FINANCED REGIONAL STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES - CAPITAL COSTS
(TShs.'000)
Unit Cost     Number     Year 1    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      TOTAL     Forfign Exchange
TShs.                                                                                  Amount
A. VEHICLES
4-Wheel Drive, Long Wheel Base -/                   67,000        49        3,283        -          -          -         3,283      96       3,152
4-Wheel Drive, Short Wheel Base2                    50,4o0        13          655                              -           655      96        629
Film Vans 4-WD, Fully Equipped-/                   i1,ooo         13        1,482        -          -          -         1,482      96       1,423
Motor Cycles-/                                       6,700       19o  (100)  670         (50) 335  (40) 268    -         1,273      96       1,222
Bicycles-/                                             540       950  (400)   216       (250) 135 (200) 108   (100) 54     513      70         359
Subtotal                                       6,306            470       376          54   7,206      94      6,785
B. OTHER EQUIPMENT
Duplicators                                          2,700        13           35        -          -          -            35      90          32
Typewriters                                          3,300        13            43       -          -          -            43       90         39
Films                                                1,400       130           74              36        36         36     182       85        155
Subtotal                                         152             36        36          36     260      87        226
Subtotal A & B                                 6,458            506        412         90   7,466      94      7,011
Physical Contingencies, 10%                              646             51         41          9     747      94        701
Subtotal                                       7,104            557       453          99   8,213      94      7,712
Price Contingencies                                     426             89       118          36     669      94        629
TOTAL                                       7,530            646       571         135   5,552      94      X,341
1/ For Regional Coordinators (13), District Supervisors (28) and Research Section (8).
2/ For Regional Farm Management Officers.
3/ To be supplied by special discount from UNESCO through Audio-Visual Institute.
4/ For AFO's to be purchased by individuals with government loans. Numbers in brackets by year.
5/ For Field Assistants purchased by individuals with government loans. Numbers in brackets by year.
6/ See Appendix 1.
November 12, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
PROJECT-FINANCED REGIONAL STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES - RECURRENT COSTS
(TShs.'000)
Unit Cost          No.         Year 1          Year 2         Year 3       Year 4       TOTAL      Foreign Exchange
TShs.                                                       _                                              Amount
A. SALARIES
Regional Project Coordinator                  25,000             13          244             325             325          325         1,219
Regional Farm Management Officer              20,000             13          195             260             260          260            975
District Supervisors (Field Officers)         15,600             28           328            437             437          437         i.6659
Instructor (Film Vans)                        15,600             13           51             203             203         203            6o0
Technician (Film Vans)                        10,000             13           33             130             130          130           423
Field Assistant   /                            6,00D           240            -              840           1,440       1,440          3,720
Typists                                        6,000             13           58              78              78           78           292
Drivers                                        5,800             75          109             435             435          435         1,414
Subtotal                                       1,018           2,708           3,308       3,308         10,342       -
B. VEHICLE RUNNING COSTS
4 W.D. Vehicles at 18,000 km p.a. 3/           1.60 p.km         62          893           1,786           1,786       1,786          6,251      65      4,063
Film Vans at 18,000 km  p.a.                   2.40 p.km         13          140             562             562         562          1,826      65      1,187
Motor Cycles at 7,200 kIo p.a.                 o.45 p.km        190          250             486             616         616          1,968      65      1,279
Bicycles at TShs. 7.70 per month               7.70 p. m        950           28              60              79           8,           255      20         51
Subtotal                                       1,311          2,894           3,043        3,052         10,300     64       6,580
C. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Maint/Replacement of Office and Film
Equipment at 25%       260,000             -            20              65              65          65            215      55        118
Stationary/Visual Aids                         1,600/- p.m.      13          187             250             250         250            937      55        515
Postage/Telephone/Electricity                    600/- p.m.      13           70              94              94           94           352      -           _
Travel Allowance - Field Staff at 120
nights           25/- p.night  63            142             189            189          189            709     -           -
Travel Allowance - Drivers at 120 nights          15/- p.night  62            28             112             112         112            364      -
Travel Allowance - Film Van Staff at
250 nights         25/- p.night  26            41             162            162          162            527      -          _
Travel Allowance - Film Van Drivers at
250 nights         15/- p.night  13            12              49             49           49            159     -
Film Production                               25,000/- each    1 p.year       25              25              25          25            100      -          -
Hire of Films                                  2,000/- p.unit   13            13              26              26          26             91      30         27
Assistance to "Ukulima wa Kisasa"  /             -               -            85             123             162         200            570      55        313
Inputs for 1/2 Ha Demonstration Plots            220/- each    2 p.village
+25% extra   297             360             436         523          1,616      83      1,341
Inputs for 1/2 Ha Village Research Trials        970/-          52            50              50             50           50            200     13 166
Additional Research Trials(incl.labor)         5,000/-           15           -               75              75          75            225      40         90
Subtotal                                       970           1,580           1,695       1,820          6,065      42      2,570
Subtotal A B C                               3 299           7 182           B,o46       8,18          26,707      34      9,150
Physical Contingencies, 10%                               3,029          7,189           8,056        8,18          26,70      34       9,150 9
Subtotal                                     3 2              ,0               -2,7                                 4     l,
Price Contingencies                                       3,218           1,264          B,3l        329        _ L 022       34      10:06o
TOTAL                                     3,847           9,164          11,152      12,237         36,400      34     12,452
2   All staff for 9 months in Year 1, Film Vans Staff and Drivers and vehicle running costs for 3 months.
2/ Additional Field Assistants trained for 3 months in Year 2 and 3 to build up field strength.
3/ Includes vehicle rental fees in Year 1.
/  Subsidizing increasing circulation by 11,000 copies in Year 1, 16,000 in Year 2, 21,000 in Year 3 and 26,000 in Year 4.
5/ See Appendix 1.
November 12. 1079



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
TRANSPORT AND STORAGE
(TShs. '000)
Unit                                                                                       Foreign Exchange
Cost         No.         Year 1      Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        TOTAL           o      Amount
TShs.                                                                                                 Aon
A.  TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMENT
Four-Wheel Drive Station Wagon  1/                       78,000        2            156         -             -            -            156          96          150
Ten-Ton Lorries 2/                                      207,000       44         1,650        2,486         2,486        2,486        9,108           96      8,744
Seven-Ton Lorries 2/                                    123,000       44           981        1,477         1,477        1,477        5,412          96       5,196
Tarpaulins 3/                                             1,56o     8oo            780          468           -            -          1,248          90       1,123
Platform Scales 4/                                        3,360     950          1,815          383           466          527        3,191          96       3,o64
Safes 4/                                                  2,240     950          1,210          255           311          352        2,128          96       2.043
Subtotal                                                            6,592       5,069          4,740        4,842       21,243          96     20,320
Physical Contingencies lo%                                            659         507            474          4864       2,124          96      2,039
Subtotal                                                            7,251       5,576         5,214        5,32b        23,367          96     22,359
Price Contingencies  5/                                               435          822         1.356       1,917        4,600           96      4,416
Total                                                           7,686        6,4681        6,570        7,243       27,967           96     26,775
B.  STORAGE
Construction Elements
- Village Storage Sheds (1,500 sq. ft.) 6       30.01-/sq. ft.        530        6,750        6,750         6,750        3,600       23,850          65      15,503
- Regional Storage j                             235/-/ton        34,000         1,800        2,8oo         2,800          590        7,990           35      2,797
Stage 1 of Investment Proposals for NMC                           34,                          ,500         7,500        2,770       14,770           35      5,170
Subtotal                                                            8,550      14,o5o        17,050        6,96o       46,610           50     23,470
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                           855       1,405         1,705           696       4,661           50      2.347
Subtotal                                                            9,405      15,455        1b,755        7,656       51,271           50     25,817
Price Contingencies 2/                                                899       4,364          9,002       5,244        19,509          50      9,755
Total                                                           10,304      19,819        27,757        12,900      70,780           50     35,572
TOTAL A & B                                                     17,990      26,287        34,327        20,143      98,747          60      62,347
1/  For Tanzanfa Rural Development Bank.
2/ Allocated in annual work programs according to need, see Annex 6, Table 3 for calculation of requirements.                                                         - 
3/  For use in villages prior to store construction.
4/  Provided for each village in Project on TRDB loan.
5/See Appendix 1.                                                                                                                                                   .o
6/  To be built in all villages in Project reaching Packages 2 & 3, except for 20% already having stores.
7/  Input storage to be built according to justified need agreed in annual work programs.
8/  Investment proposals would include first  stage to finance NMC's immediate needs for increased storage with an allocathn of US $3.0 million.
9/ For annual percentages see civil works schedule in Appendix 1.
December 1, 1975



TARZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
TRAINING COSTS
(TShs. '000 
Course        Cost per            Year 1                    Year 2                  Year 3                  Year 4              Total     Foreign Exchange
Duration      Student        Students    Costs      Students         Costs   Students        Costs   Students       Costs       Costs        6       Amount
TShs.
A. AGRICUILTURET
Agronomy And Extension
Curriculum                                                                         5                          5                                                        10         10          1
Training of Trainers l/                19 days        1,OO/-           15         15         15              15         15           15        15           15          60        10          6
Training or Trainers 2/                12 days          550/-         500        275        110              6o        110          6o        l1            60        455         10 4o
Training New Staff 2                    3 months      2,000/-          -          -         14o             s6o        100         400         -             -         960        10         9b
Refresher Course                       12 days          550/_     -               -         500             275        750         415        960          530      1,220         10        122
Interphase h
Curriculum                                                                         5                          5                                                        10         10          1
Training of Trainers                   60 days        3,250/-          6c        195         60             195         6n         195         So          195        700         10          8
Refresher of Same                      12 days           550/-         -          -          60              30        120           60       iBo           90        180         10          2
Maize Production 2/
IITA/CIMMYT Courses                     6 months     40,200             6        241          6             241          6         241          6          241        964        100       964
Degree Courses i
B.Sc,                                   2 years       85,000            3        255          3             255          2         170          1           85        765        100       765
M.Sc.                                   2 years       85,000            1         85          2             170          3         255          3          255        765        100       765
B.  MANAGEMENT V/
Curriculum Development                               lo,0oO/-                     10                                                                                   10         15          1
Training Course at EA/MI                3 weeks       5,000/-          45       225          45             225         15          75         15           75       6So          15        90
Refresher - annual                    10 days         2,500/-          -          -          45             115         90         230         90          230        575         15         86
Senior Staff Seminars and Meetings    1 week            500/-         lO0         50        10              50        100          50        100           50        200         10        20
Subtotal                                                  1,361                      2,20'                  2,166                  1,826       7,554         39     2,973
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                       136                        220                    217                     183        756         39        297
Subtotal                                                  1,497                      2,421                  2,383                  2,009       8,310         39     3,270
Price Contingencies  3/                                            90                        387                     620                    723      1,820         39        710
TOTAL                                                   1,587                      2,808                  3,003                  2,732      10,130         39     3,98O
Fifteen senior field officers, one fram each region and two from Iringa and Mbeya.
For calculation of numbers see Annex 2 on Training.
N    See Appendix 1.
November 12, 1975
CD-5
CD



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
AIR TRANSPORT
(TShs. '000)
Unit Cost         No.     Year 1-/      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      TOTAL      Foreign Exchange
TShs.                                                                               %         Amount
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Seneca II Aircraft                            850,000            1       850             -           -           -         850      96          816
B. RECURRENT COSTS
215,000                   108            215         215         215        753       65         489
Pilot Salary, Allowance, Housing                ---
Insurance @ 6% p.a.                            45,600 p.a.                23             46          46          46        161       -           -
Landing Fees and Nav. Charges                    3,000 p.a.                 2             3           3           3         11        -           -
Allowance for Check III                          8,000 p.a.                 4              8          8           8         28       70           20
Operating Costs @ 50 hrs. per month                310 p. hr.             93            186         186         186        651       70         456
Subtotal                                                      230            458         458         458     1,604       60          965
Subtotal A & B                                              1,080            458        458         458      2,454       72        1,781
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                           1O8             46          46          46        246      72          178
Subtotal                                                    1,188            504        504         504      2,700       72        1,959
Price Contingencies g                                                  71             81         131         181        464      72          334
TOTAL                                                   1,259            585         635         685      3,164       72        2,293
1/ Available for 6 months in Year 1.                                                                                                                     1 
2/  See Appendix 1.
November 12, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
PILOT OX UTILIZATION SCHEME
(TShs. '000)
Unit Cost      Number      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      TOTAL      Foreign Exchange
TShs.                                                                               %         Amount
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Sets of Equipment               1,200 1/       200         -           240         -            -         240        50         120
Oxen 2/                           700            80        56           -          -             -         56        -
B. RECURRENT COSTS
Ox Trainers                     9,600 per 3/   20          -            192       192           -          384         -          -
year
Total A  B                                         56          432        192           -         680        18         120
Price Contingencies 4/                                     3           69         50           -         122        18          22
TOTAL                                              59          501        242           -         802        18         142
1/  Carts, TShs. 600;  ploughs, harrows and cultivators TShs. 200 each.
2/ For four mechanized agriculture centers, to be used for experimentation with and testing of equipment.
3/  Includes salaries and field allowances.
4/  See Appendix 1.                                                                                                                      X X
October 6, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATION AND CONSULTANCY SERVICES
(TShs. '000)
Year 0     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      TOTAL      Foreign Exchange
%        Amount
A.  Project Preparation                                          149          -          -          -           -           149      60          89
B.  Investment Proposals for Storage & Milling                    -         1,610      1,610        -           -        3,220       85       2,737
C.  Consultant Agronomist 3/ -                                                200        200       122         122          644      85         547
D.  National Agricultural Developm-ent Progran                                483        483       483          -         1,449      60         869
TOTAL                    149        2,293      2,293       605        122        5,462       78       4,242
1/ US $30,000 for Project preparation (including 4-WD vehicle now costed under Central Unit).
2/ 5 man-years @ $80,000 each over a 2-year period.
3/  1 man for 6 months @ $80,000, 4 months in year 1, 2 months in year 2.
4/  us$60,ooo for each of first 3 Project years.
November 12, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
INCREMENTAL INPUTS
(TShs.'000)
Unit Cost       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      TOTAL      Foreign Exchange
TShs.                                                                     %         Amount
1/
A.  FERTILIZER
Triple Superphosphate 2                                               17,418        2,822       3,541       3,944    27,725       82       22,735
Sulphatq of Ammonia 3/                                                26,046       5,020        6,467       6,519    44,052       82       36,123
NPK   -                                                                4,980        1,610       1,846       1,795    10,231       82        8,389
Subtotal                                   48,444       9,452      11,854      12,258    82,008       82       67,247
B.  OTHER INPUTS
Composite Seed                                       2,855/- p. ton   9.507        1,77Q        1,904.      2,184    15,374       J1        5,381
Hybrid Seed                                          4,620/- p. ton   3,326         1,076       1,733       1,903      8,038      50        4,019
5% DDT                                               2,740/- p. ton   4,439           937       1,143       1,291      7,810      80        6,248
25% DDT                                                 12/- p. ltr.    778           164         200         226      1,368      80        1,094
Seed Dressing                                        4,380/- p. ton        -            3          -           -           3      80            2
Herbicide                                               33/- p. kg.       428          90         110         124        752      80          602
Subtotal                                   18,478       4,049       5,090       5,728    33,345       52       17,346
Total A + B                                66,922      13,501      16,944       17,986   115,353       73      84,593
Price Contingencies -/                                2,008       2,160       4,405       6,475    15,048       73       10,985
TOTAL                                      68,930      15,661      21,349      24,461   130,401        73      95,578
1/  The volume of inputs is given in Annex 6, Table 2.   The inputs for the first year will be financed by the Government of Tanzania,
partly with a USAID loan, while later years will be financed by IDA/IBRD. Fertilizer prices for 1975 are based on the Tanga Factory
prices while for later years, prices are based on the IBRD price projections.
2/  Prices:  Year 1, 3,710/-;  Year 2, 2,650/-;  Year 3, 2,511/-;  Year 4, 2,390/-.
3/  Prices:  Year 1, 2,651/-;  Year 2, 2,118/-;  Year 3, 1,942/-;  Year 4, 1,711/-.
4/  Prices:  Year 1, 3,320/-;  Year 2, 3,156/-;  Year 3, 2,930/-;  Year 4, 2,659/-.  These were derived                                                 H
from the TSP and S/A prices using the respective nutrient contents.                                                                       X 
5/  Three percent in Year 1 since most inputs had been purchased early in the year; for Years 2 - 4 see Appendix 1.                                       A
b   X
November 12, 1975.



ANNEX 8
Table 12
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
COST ELEMENT QUALIFYING FOR RETROACTIVE FINANCING
(TShs. '000)
Reference           Disbursable Amount
Table No.     Cost  IDA        ABEDIA
A.  Project Preparation Expenses prior July 1, 1975           10        149                 89
B.  Project Servicing Unit
Vehicles (2 Cars & 4 four-WD Vehicles)                     2        440               422
All Office Equipment                                       2        242   205
Salaries!/                                                 3        630   470
Operating Expenses of Vehicles                             3         80    64
Subtotal                                                    1,392   73!S
C.  Regional Staff & Support
Vehicles (Four-WD Vehicles and Vehicle Rentals,
Motorcycles & Cycles)                                   4      1,000                9 60
Office Ejyipment                                           4         90    81
Salaries-.-                                                5        430   344
Operating Expenses of Vehicles                             5        550   440
Subtotal                                                    2,070   865
D. Training
All Year 1 Local Courses (except Management)               7        560   448
TOTAL                                                     4,171  2052       1,471
1/ Includes 6 months' salary for all Central Unit less 30%.
2/ Full salaries for all staff (except Film Van Staff) for 3 months.
N.B. Disbursements against the items qualifying for retroactive financing would
be in accordance with agreed IDA/Government cost sharing procedures.
Noven.ber 25 1975



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
NA_IONAL MAIZE PROJECT
CONTINGENCIES
The Project Time Frame
1.       All calculations and phasing in the appraisal report are based
on a 12-month period running from July 1st to June 30th. The project
schedule is as follows :
Project Year            Gregorian Equivalent
1                         1975/76
2                         1976/77
3                         1977/78
4                         1978/79
All baseline costs are up-to-date as of July 1st, 1975.   Unit prices have
been adjusted, however, to take into account the October, 1975 devaluation
of the Tanzanian Shilling.
Physical Contingencies*
2.       A 10% contingency has been allowed for all Project costs except the
pilot ox utilization scheme, project preparation and consultancy services,
and incremental inputs.
Price Contingencies
3.       These have been applied to all Project costs, in accordance with
Bank guidelines on the international inflation pattern and on projected
escalation of the local cost of zivil works in Tanzania. The basis for the
figures used is as follows:



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
Projected Annual Rates of Cost Escalation
Equipment &                   Civil  Works
Calendar Year                        General          Foreign Cost         Local Cost
1975                                  12.Q%              16.0%               25.0%
1976                                  10.0%             14.0%                20.0%
1977                                   8.0%             12.0%                18.0%
1978                                   8.0%              12.0%               15.0%
1979                                   8.0%              12.0%               15.0%
Project Year
1975/76                               11.0%             15.0%                22.5%
1976/77                                9.0%              13.0%               19.0%
1977/78                                8.0%              12.0%               16.5%
1978/79                                8.0%             12.0%                15.0%
4.      The following compounded contingency percentages have thus been added
to baseline costs:l/
Price  Contingencies
Equipment &                Civil  Works
General         Foreign Cost       Local Cost
1975/76                                6%               8%                   11%
1976/77                               16%              22%                   34%
1977/78                               26%              38%                   58%
1978/79                               36%              54%                   83%
In practice this has meant that contingencies in all tables follow the per-
centage schedule for "Equipment and General", except for Table 6 where for
village, regional and national storage contingencies have been calculated
according to the percentage schedule for Civil Works.
1/  The mid-year rule has been applied in calculating the compounded percentages.
November 12, 1975.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK TRDB
General
1.        The Tanzania Rural Development Bank was created by the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank Act, 1971 with the following objectives: (a)
to provide medium- and long-term Finance for rural development; (b) to provide
technical assistance and advice for promoting rural development; (c) to ad-
minister such special funds as may from time to time be placed at its disposal;
(d) to finance the purchase of agricultural inputs; and (e) to undertake such
other activities as may be necessary or advantageous for furthering the fore-
going objectives. IDA approved the creation of TRDB through an amending
agreement (April 28, 1971).
2.        Several rural credit measures had been adopted by Government before
the TRDB Act was passed. Among them were measures authorizing the establishment
of the Land Bank of Tanganyika (19'47-1961), the Agricultural Credit Agency
(1962-1964), and the National Development Credit Agency (1964-1971).
3.        TRDB inherited some assets and liabilities as well as certain opera-
tions from the National Development Credit Agency (NDCA), including IDA credits
80-TA (US$5 million, general agricultural credit) and 217-TA (US$6 million,
flue-cured tobacco). Bad debts worth about TShs.31 million (US$4,350,000)
were not transferred to TRDB. Nearly all of NDCA's staff were absorbed into
TRDB and most of them retained their previous assignments.
Organization and Management
4.        The management of TRDB is vested in a Board of Directors, including
a chairman and managing director appointed by the President of the Republic,
and eight other directors appointed by the Minister of Finance and chosen
from among persons with knowledge and experience of economic and financial
matters, rural development, agricUlture, small-scale industries, ujamaa
villages or cooperatives. The General Manager who is appointed by the Minister
of Finance for a term of five years, manages the Bank through its five Depart-
ments and various committees. TRDE has its head office in Dar-es-Salaam and
20 regional offices.
5.        There are four Departments:  Development, Finance, Administration
and Operations. The regional offices represent the Bank at the regional
level and provide technical assistance in project development and implementation.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
6.        The regional offices are generally manned by a Regional Representative
and a Credit Supervisor. While the Regional Representative is concerned pri-
marily with development work, including provision of technical guidance, it
is difficult for one Credit Supervisor to attend to his various items of work
effectively, particularly the collection of Bank loans (para. 15). TRDB should
consider augmenting the number of credit supervisors, as appropriate, so that
one credit supervisor does not have more than, say, 15 to 20 societies under
his charge. TRDB has just recruited 18 credit supervisors who are expected
to be posted at regional offices after a three-week orientation training
course.
7.        There is also a need to augment staff in the Operations Department
at head office to deal with loan proposals expeditiously (para. 12).
Capital Structure
8.        TRDB has an authorized capital of TShs.300 million, divided into
300 equal shares, the Government being the sole shareholder. As of June 30,
1974, its paid-up capital stood at TShs.113.2 million consisting of 98
fully paid and one partly paid shares. General reserves amounted to slightly
over TShs.2 million. Other TRDB resources comprised IDA and other inter-
national project funds aggregating TShs.235 million (authorized to TRDB),
short-term deposits of about TShs.2 million, Government loans of over
TShs.50 million, National Bank of Commerce overdrafts of TShs.3 million, and
Ujamaa village bonds of TShs.10 million.
Loan Policy and Procedure
9.        TRDB makes short- and medium-term loans up to five years and
long-term loans up to 15 years. Eligible borrowers comprise cooperative
unions and societies, district development corporations, ujamaa villages
and registered associations, corporations and individuals, and any other
borrower falling within the scope of any agreement under which TRDB has
borrowed funds. Project loans should be technically and financially viable
and should be consistent with national economic development priorities. TRDB
secures its loans by either a first mortgage and movable property or value
security at 75% of the appraised value of property. Short-term loans are
generally made at 8-1/2% interest per annum, while medium- and long-term
loans carry interest at 7-1/2% per annum. There is also an application fee
of TShs.5 to TShs.500 depending upon the loan amount. The Bank does not
undertake any foreign exchange risks.
10.       Upon receipt of a loan proposal from an eligible borrower, the
Regional Representative of TRDB makes a preliminary appraisal following a
visit to the Project area and submits the proposal with his report to the
Regional Advisory Committee (RAC) for consideration. The proposal with the
RAC's recommendations is then sent to the head office of TRDB for consideration7>
After the proposal is reviewed as to its technical and economic feasibility,
the management/loan committee considers it for approval.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
11.       In accordance with Bank policy, TRDB's Board recently delegated
limited authority, subject to review, to the RACS (since designated as
Regional Loan Committees) to sanction loan proposals up to a maximum ceiling
of TShs.50,000 per project and per borrower. At head office, the management
(Chairman and Managing Director) considers loan proposals for new projects
for amounts of TShs.50,000 to TShs.500,000 and up to TShs.one million for
ongoing projects, while all loan proposals exceeding the above amounts are
considered by TRDB's Loan Committee, consisting of one Director, the Chair-
man and the Bank's Secretary.
12.       As of June 30, 1974, TRDB had on hand 96 loan proposals for amounts
totalling TShs.55 million awaiting consideration. The majority of the pro-
posals had been pending for over six months at the head office and regional
offices.
Loan Operations
13.       The following table shows the development and diversification of
TRDB's loan operations since 1972:
(TShs. million)
1972     1973      1974
Seasonal Inputs                21.0      62.0      85.9
Crop Establishment               0.9     24.5      12.8
Rural Transporation              6.6      8.6      30.4
Farm Machinery                   1.0      2.0       1.3
Storage                          5.3      1.9       0.4
Commercial Ventures              0.5       -        2.7
Fisheries Project                 -       0.9       1.3
Livestock                        0.5      7.8      25.8
Total     35.8    107.6    160.6
The number of loans approved by TRDB over the three-year period increased
from 91 in 1972 to 103 in 1973 and to 229 in 1974. During this period, loans
for development of agriculture accounted for 65% of all loans approved by
TRDB. Further, consistent with the nation's long-term aim for rural develop-
ment through the creation of cooperative agriculture, agricultural loans
through cooperatives were of the order of TShs.92.2 million out of the total
loans of TShs.160.6 million approved by TRDB as of June 30, 1974.



ANN   9
Page 4
Overdue Loans
14.       The accumulation of overdues has been a constant feature of TRDB's
operations over the last three years and as of June 30, 1974, these amounted
to TShs.31.1 million (principal) and TShs.4.4 million (interest) and formed
about 21% and 74% of TShs.148 million (principal) and TShs.6 million (interest),
respectively, outstanding and due on that date. If arrear loans are considered
in relation to the amounts which fall due for recovery during the period ended
on June 30, each year, the overdue percentages would be much higher. Out of
TShs.35.6 million of arrear loans (principal and interest) as of June 30, 1974,
TShs.29.4 million related to DNCA loans taken over by TRDB. The overdues in
respect of the new loans extended by TRDB itself totalled TShs.6.2 million
and formed a little over 5% of the Bank's new loans outstanding as of June 30,
1974.
15.       While a portion of the Bank's overdues can be attributed to the
country's drought conditions during 1973, the main reason for this continuing
feature is TRDB's weak machinery for supervision (credit supervisors) over
the utilization of loans, follow-up of project implementation, recovery drive
during harvest seasons and prompt action - legal or otherwise - against
willful defaulters (para. 6).
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
16.       TRDB is at present making an ad hoc provision of 1% of new loans
disbursed each year towards bad and doubtful debts.
Interest Rate
17.       TRDB pays interest on loans from Government, including loans under
IDA and other international credits, at 3-1/2% - 4% per annum. On short-term
deposits it pays 5% interest per annum, while the rate is 7% per annum on
National Bank of Commerce overdrafts. On the special ujamaa village bonds,
the interest rate is 3% per annum. TRDB charges 8-1/2% interest per annum
on its short-term loans and 7-1/2% per annum on medium- and long-term loans.
TRDB's interest spread is generally 5%. Interest rates of TRDB compare
favorably with those charged by the National Bank of Commerce (normal 8% per
annum) on working capital loans and the Tanzania Investment Bank (7-1/2% -
9-1/2%) on term loans.
Account and Audit
18.       TRDB has adopted a mechanized accounting system.  Audit of its
accounts was performed by the Tanzania Audit Corporation which had already
completed the audit for the year ending June 30, 1974. TRDB would be re-
quired to submit to IDA its audited annual accounts not later than six months
after the close of its financial year.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Financial Position
19.       TRDB's net profit increased from TShs.152,000 in 1972 to TShs.372,000
in 1973 and to TShs.946,000 in J1974. The increase is due to a steep increase
in the Bank's lending operations, the outstandings of which increased from
TShs.92 million in 1972 to TShs.115 million in 1973 and to TShs.154 million
in 1974. TRDB's net earnings were, however, affected by an increase in
arrear interest which as of June 30, 1974 amounted to TShs.4 million. Further,
as against TShs.36 million arrear loans as of June 30, 1974, TRDB's provision
for bad and doubtful debts stood at TShs.14 million.
Project Participation
20.       TRDB would act as the channel for financing improved storage and
additional transport under the National Maize Project. The following would
be provided for this purpose under the Project:
TShs. '000
530 village Stores                            34,701
Platform Scales and Safes for
Village Stores                            6,733
34,000 tons Regional Storage for
Farm Inputs                              11,932
Tarpaulins for Temporary Storage                1,506
Stage One Storage Proposal for NMC             24,150
88 Lorries for Regional Transport              19,544
Total          98,566
Funds for the village stores, platform scales and safes would be lent to the
village primary societies. Those required for regional farm input stores,
tarpaulins and vehicles would normally be provided to regional cooperative
unions, while funds for grain storage would be provided to the National
Milling Corporation. TRDB would receive Project funds from Government at
four per cent interest per annum for a term of 20 years with a five-year
grace period. TRDB would onlend funds for storage at 8-1/2 per cent per
annum with repayment over 10 years, while for vehicles, the interest rate
would be 8-1/2 per cent with repayment over three years.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 10
Page   1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MAIZE MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Domestic Production
1.        As the most important staple food crop in Tanzania, maize is
grown wherever climatic conditions permit. Smallholder or village produc-
tion predominates and only a small fraction of total output originates
from private large-scale commercial farms or parastatal estates. There are
no accurate estimates of the country's annual output. Since 1966/67 the
Ministry of Agriculture (KILIMO) has produced crop reports which are based
on visual estimates made by field staff. The accuracy of these reports is
unknown but their validity has been frequently disputed. For example,
KILIMO's statistics did not signal any of the recent shortages in national
grain supplies and, as late as November 1973, projected a very favourable
picture for maize, wheat and paddy production for the crop year 1972/73,
even though crops had then been harvested. Official estimates of harvested
and marketed maize production are summarized in Table 1.
2.        The data in Table 1 indicate that annual fluctuations in maize
production have been large. Production has also been nearly stagnant. In
recent years producers have been discouraged by low fixed prices, while
drought in 1973 and 1974 seriously upset production. The villagisation
program has also had some disruptive effects in the last few years. Over
the eight-year period 1966-73, the marketed portion of production has been
estimated to average 22% of total harvested production. Parastatal marketing
organisations handled about 65% of the total amount marketed. In inter-
preting the data of Table 1, some confusion can arise because of the defini-
tion of the reporting periods. NMC purchases for a given year, say 1973/74,
refer to its buying season (July 1, 1973 to June 30, 1974); however, crops
bought during that season were harvested primarily before July 1, 1973, i.e.
during the 1972/73 cropping season. The comparisons made in the table have
been made in a way which permits the most legitimate comparison, although
this is still not completely accurate.
3.        While every region in Tanzania produces maize, commercial surpluses
are concentrated in a few regions. Data for the 1970/71 - 1973/74 period,
presented in Table 2, indicate that, during this period, Arusha, Dodoma,
Iringa and Kilimanjaro regions produced 38% of national output, but supplied
84% of NMC purchases. The figures also indicate that Tanga region had one of
the most rapid increases in production, although these data are suspect.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
B. Domestic Demand
4.        Accurate data are not available for maize consumption.  The 1974
Agricultural Sector Study 1/ shows an annual per capita consumption of maize
of 57 kg for 1972 and a projected consumption of 61 kg per person for 1980.
This implies that maize provided 28% of total national calory intake in
1972, although the estimates are not particularly relevant in assessing
nutritional standards, since the importance of maize in the diet varies
tremendously from location to location. The consumption figures were derived
on the basis of an estimated 1972 harvested production of 881,000 tons,
imports of 138,000 tons and wastage and other uses of 131,000 tons. The
sector study estimated that the total domestic utilization of maize would
increase from 1,019 thousand tons in 1972 to 1,338 thousand tons in 1980,
assuming no changes in relative consumer prices. Recent price changes
suggest, however, that the 1980 estimate should be reduced to slightly under
1,300,000 tons 2/ including all uses and waste.
5.        Estimating consumptiont is difficult because a large proportion
of domestic production, estimated at about 80%, represents subsistence
consumption which does not enter trade. The second complicating factor is
that part of maize production enters trade through unofficial channels.
C. The Maize Trade
Internal Trade
6.        There are three channels of internal trade:
(a) Direct sales by producers to final consumers within
the producing region;
(b)  Illegal sales by producers to middlemen or buyers
outside the producing :region; and
(c) Commercial sales to NMI' through the cooperative societies
and unions.
1/   From World Bank, Tanzania Agricultural and Rural Sector Study,
Washington 1974, Vol. III, Table 20.
2/   This figure is in agreement with the official MDB/Devplan
Projection for 1980 of a range of 1,286,000 - 1,309,000 tons.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
7.        Direct sales are a normal phenomenon, and take place in most of
the rural areas on a small scale. Illegal sales result from large differ-
entials between officially controlled retail and producer prices. The
Government's policy of having uniform prices throughout Tanzania tends to
exaggerate this effect. Black-market sales, thought to account for a
significant proportion of total sales, have been particularly seriouAsin
years like 1973 and 1974 when the official producer prices of maize were
low and black-market prices were very high because of shortages.
8.        The summary of NMC's maize purchase in Table 1 shows the erratic
pattern of local maize purchases, which fluctuated between 42,000 and
185,000 tons during the 1966/67 - 1973/74 period. This is in contrast to
NMC's sales of sembe (maize meal) and maize which increased relatively
smoothly from 104,000 tons in 1968/69 to 242,000 tons in 1973/74, as shown
below:
NMC Commercial Disappearance of Maize and Sembe
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973174
-----------('000 tons)-------------------
Maize and Maize
Equivalent of Sembe      104.5    123.4    116.6    160.0    134.0    242.4
Source:   MDB and NMC
9.        Information on the regional breakdown of such sales is not readily
available. However, the Marketing Development Bureau has attempted to
estimate the regional distribution of sales in 1972 on the basis of urban
population in the regions. Another indicator for regional commercial demand
is requirements as estimated by regional cooperative unions. The two
independent estimates for 1972 are shown in Table 3.
10.       Average monthly commercial requirements of maize have ranged from
10,000 to 15,000 tons for the country as a whole until the effects of the
drought become apparent early in 1974. Commercial demand then began to
rise and reached about 30,000 tons per month for the period March to July
1974. It then declined to about 17,000 tons by September but increased
again to 25,000 tons per month by October 1974. Since then it has declined
to more normal levels. Significantly, as commercial demand eased in 1974,
famine relief requirements increased and reached 10,000 tons for the month
of October 1974. Requests for famine relief received by NMC for the period
July 1973, to October 1974, summarized in Table 4, totaled 139,386 tons.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
External Trade in Maize
11.       As a result of local shortfalls in production, import requirements
rose to unprecedented levels in 1974 (Table 5) and continued at high levels
into 1975. Data on imports and exports for the years 1969 - 1974 are given
below:
Imports        Exports                  Net Trade /1
--------(tons)------
Year                                         (tons)        (TShs. Million)
1969       23,135         28,252             5,117              (1.8)
1970       23,329         23,339                 10              1.3
1971       21,231         27,149             5,918               6.6
1972      134,019           -             (134,019)            (64.5)
1973       18,427           -             ( 18,427)            ( 9.9)
1974/2    291,141           -             (291,141)           (359.9)
1975/2    247,264           -             (247,264)           (301.5)
/1   Figures in parenthesis indLcate net imports or trade deficits.
/2   Provisional NMC figures.
12.       In late 1974, NMC's maize import program for 1975 was pegged around
300,000 tons, but has since been reduced and shipments are now expected to
total 247,000 tons of maize.
D. Maize Prices and Marketing Margins
Prices
13.       Until the 1973/74 buying season, Government policy was to announce
the buying price for maize in the regional buying centres. The regional
cooperative unions then deducted their marketing costs to arrive at the
price payable to producers. Since marketing costs varied among unions,
prices received by farmers also varied from region to region. In 1972/73,
for example, producer prices ranged from TShs. 0.20 per kg in Tanga, Mtwara
and Lindi regions to TShs. 0.31 per kg in Mara region.
14.       A system of fixed uniform producer prices was adopted for the
1973/74 season which has been maintained since then. Prices are announced
far enough in advance for farmers to adjust their planting decisions.
For the 1973/74 season, producer prices were set at TShs. 0.35 and 0.30 per
kg., respectively, for "priority" and "other" maize growing areas. For the



ANNEX 10
Page 5
following year, the announced price was a uniform TShs. 0.50 per kg. When
it became apparent early on the 1974/75 buying season that insufficient
supplies were forthcoming (6,500 tons during first three months), producer
prices were increased to TShs. 0.75 per kg in November 1974. The Government
is considering a further increase for the 1975/76 season. Average producer
prices or announced prices for maize for the period 1968/69 - 1974/75 are
presented in Table 6.
15.       Consumer prices of maize meal likewise were increased from TShs.
1.40 per kg to TShs. 2.00 per kg in November 1974. Retail prices are uniform
throughout the country except in remote areas where Regional Commissioners
may allow a transport surcharge to be added.
16.       The triggering factor for these sharp increases in producer and
consumer prices for maize were very high prices in the world market which
affected the domestic price structure as imports began to mount in 1974.
Prices paid by Tanzania for imported maize remained stable between 1969 and
1973, then more than doubled in 1974, as shown below.
Maize Import
Year                                      Prices in TShs./Ton/1
1969                                           562
1970                                           566
1971                                           504
1972                                           481
1973                                           537
1974                                         1,236
1975                                         1,219
/1   C.i.f. prices at port of entry.
Source:   Computed from East African Customs & Excise Department,
Annual Trade Reports, and NMC.
Between 1975 and 1980 world market prices of maize are expected to rise
more slowly than the prices of all traded goods combined. Assuming similar
sources of supply as in 1974, import prices for maize facing Tanzania are
forecast around TShs. 1,760 per ton by 1980.
Margins
17.       With the existence of the one-channel marketing system, consisting
of the cooperative movement and NMC, and as a result of Government's
objectives to provide incentive prices to producers on the one hand, and
to keep the cost of food to consumers low on the other, serious stresses
have occurred in the pricing structure of maize. These problems have
become more severe in recent months since little or no control can be
exerted over some of the cost elements in the marketing system.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
18.       During the 1973/74 marketing season the prices per ton fixed for
maize were:
-    Producers: TShs. 350 (priority areas) and TShs. 300 (other areas)
-    NMC - into store: TShs. 390
-    NMC - out of store: T'Shs. 461
The margins which these prices allowed were clearly not adequate, as
cooperative marketing costs in the preceding 1972/73 season already ranged
from TShs. 98 to 223 per ton.  Margins on other crops financed some of the
incurred losses.
19.       The maize price structure, based on the revised 1974/75 producer
prices, is shown in Table 7. Cooperative union marketing costs of TShs.
261 per ton are now fully covered by the price structure. The NMC marketing
margin which was previously also not adequate to cover its own costs, has
been increased to TShs. 165 per ton. In addition, the price structure
permits NMC to make an additional surplus of TShs. 64/00 per ton of maize
and pay indirect costs of TShs. 51/19 per ton. The latter include provision
for an animal feed subsidy and provision for reserves.  They are, therefore,
in effect a further surplus in the maize price structure.
20.       NMC's operating costs .nd margins in the production of maize meal
are shown in Table 8. These also are based on the revised price structure
introduced in November 1974 and show the position for both locally produced
and imported maize. For locally grown maize the present price structure
permits NMC to make an operating surplus of about TShs. 222 per ton of maize
meal (the normal margin of TShs. 83/79 and the "extra margin" of TShs. 138/64).
For imported maize NMC still makes a deficit based on the cost of recently
imported maize. This deficit amounts to about TShs 31 per ton (the normal
margin of TShs. 96/61 less the negative "extra margin" of TShs. 127/90).
Thus the present price structure for maize and maize meal should permit NMC
to operate without loss, unless it is very heavily dependant on imported
maize or its operating costs continue to escalate at a high rate.
21.       While the present price structure for maize and maize meal is con-
sidered to be satisfactory, NMC incurred very large losses before the new
price structure was introduced at the end of 1974. These losses arose
primarily because of the large voLume of expensive maize imports. Recent
cash flow projections for the NMC indicated that it would take at least
until the middle of 1976 to recoup the earlier losses from the present price
structure.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
22.       The National Maize Project would involve selling subsidised
inputs to maize farmers and the question arises whether part of the subsidy
could be recovered through the price structure. As indicated above (para
21) this would not be possible until after the middle of 1976. Even then,
it is doubtful whether this should be attempted. The present price structure
for maize and maize meal incorporates a large differential between the
producer price of maize and the retail price of maize meal. This differ-
ential would encourage illegal maize marketing and a reduction in supplies
to NMC. Given the present high costs of marketing maize, measures designed
to recover part of the cost of input subsidies from the price structure would
tend to maintain or even increase the margin between producer and retail
prices and therefore be self-defeating.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MAIZE PRODUCTION, HARVESTED AND MARKETED
Crop Year         Total Harvested             Marketed Production    NAPB/NMC Purchases
Production                       As a % of                 As a % of
Volume  ilarvested        Volume  Marketed
Production                Production
('000 t)               ('000 t)  (M)            ('000 t)   (%)
1966/67                   739                    147       20             113        77
1967/68                   551                    105       19             104        99
1968/69                   638                    163       26             128        79
1969/70                   488                     76       16              54        71
1970/71                   719                    255       35             185        73
1971/72                   622                    179       29              43        24
1972/73                   883                    114       13              96        84
1973/74                   887                    176       20              68        39
Source: KILIMO/NAPB/NMC as quoted in Market Development Bureau documents.
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 10
TANZANIA                                  Table 2
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
REGIONAL MAIZE PRODUCTION AND COMMERCIAL PURCHASES
1970/71-1973/74   j
('000 tons)
Region             1970/71              1971/72             1972/73             1973/74
Harv-   NAPB        Harv-   NAPB        Harv-   NAPB        Harv-  NAPB
ested   Pur-        ested   Pur-        ested   Pur-        ested  Pur-
Prod.   chases      Prod.   chases      Prod.   chases      Prod.  chases
Arusha           110      42.5        6o        7.6        6o      17.2       48       6.9
Coast              2       -           2         -          2       -          2        -
Dodoma            67      56.4        65       15.6       120      52.2       90      55.9
Iringa            90      43.2        72       7.7         90      8.2        68     10.3
Kigoma            26       0.1        27         -         28       -         10        -
Kilimanjaro       28      15.1        28        2.9        4o      11.8       30       5.9
Mara              25       7.6        13        1.0        23       2.5       4o      2.0
Mbeya             67       2.4        62        0.2        62       2.0       61       1.8
Morogoro          30       6.3        65        3.9        25       9.0       30       5.4
Mtwara            12       -          19         -         31       -         35        -
Mwanza            74       1.1        30         -         31       0.2       15       0.3
Ruvuma            29       1.4        51        1.4        44       0.5       31        -
Shinyanga         36       0.1         5         -         59       -         79        -
Singida           27       5.4        19        1.0        25       0.7       30      1.6
Tabora            30       1.3        30        0.1        80       0.4       95      0.1
Tanga             65       0.7        70        o.8       16o       -        170        -
West Lake           3      -           4         -                  -          3        -
TOTAL        719    183.6        622      42.2        883    ';4.7       887     68.2
j  NAPB/NMC purchases in this table are those reported by the organizations'
marketing branches and are at variance with totals in the audited accounts
shown in the previous table.
Source:  KILIMO/NAPB/NMC/MDB
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ESTIMATED NATIONAL MAIZE REQUIREMENTS, 1972
Region                    Urban                  Estimated                 Stated
Population               NMC Sales                  Cooperative
Requirements
('000 Persons)                        ('000 tons)
Arusha                57.9                     10.7                       21.6
Coast               396.7                     73.2                        49.2
Dodoma                31.3                      5.8                        0.7
Iringa               33.0                      6.1                         4.9
Kigoma                24.5                      4.5                        1.0
Kilimanjaro           37.9                      7.0                        3.4
Mara                  22.4                      4.1                        o.6
Mbeya                 16.7                      3.1                        2.5
Morogoro              33.3                      6.1                       18.9
Mtwara                23.6                      4.4                        1.9
Mwanza/Shinyanga      46.2                      9.6                        3.0
Ruvuma               10.6                      2.0                         0.3
Singida              15.0                      2.8                         0.3
Tabora               24.6                       4.5                        1.3
Tanga                77.0                     14.2                        16.o
West Lake            10.1                       1.9                        3.0
TOTAL            860.8                    16o.o                      128.6
Source: MDB
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 10
Table 4
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZEMPROJECT
FAMINE RELIEF REQUIREMENTS FOR MAIZE,
JULY 1973 - OCTOBER 1974
Region                                Requirements
(Tons)
Coast                                         245
Dodoma                                     92,111
Iringa                                        472
Kilimaniaro                                   898
Mbeya                                       2,Q41
Morogoro                                   29,690
Mwanza                                      3,852
Shinyanga                                   3,673
Singida                                     2,448
Tabora                                      1,224
Tanga                                       2,732
TOTAL         139,386
Source: National Milling Corporation.
September 3, 1975.



or AAIOftNA
MAIZE TRADING AND MILLING ACCTWI'ITIS OF            IN06IO    LTEN, .4969/70 - 197/714
Unit                  1969/70                  1970/71                   1971/72                   1972/73                   1i73/74
Purchases &/
Local                                  Tons                  54,000                   185,000                    42,312                   1o6,39D                    73,468
Abroad                                 Tons                  47.000                      -2000                                             7Q.           _____2
Total Purchases                        Tons                 101 000                   185  i,12 
Raw Material Used                          Tons                  57,o59                    58, 333                   70,718                     69,114 )                l06;0,
to produce Sembe                       Tons                  51,568                    50,890                    6o,037                    59,918                    914,559
to produce Maize Bran g/               Tons                   6,307                     7,513                    10,681                      9,222                    9,586
Averege Extraftion Rate
Sembe                                   '                        89                        87                        85                         87                       89
Maize Bran                             9                         11                         13                       15                         1                        11
Sales of Sembe                             Tons                  53,687                    54,152                    60,259                     62,8l                    97,651
Sales of Maize Bran                        Tons                   5,714                     6,698                     8,974                     8,8w                      9,880
Proceeds of Maize Produce Sales            TShs. '000             44,741                   40,207                    48,914                     50,341                     na.
Cost of Maize Produce Sales                TShs. '000            41,956                     36,981                   48,115                     48,51 "                   n.a.
Average Selling Price of Sembe /           TShs./kg              0.830                     0.742                     0.812                      0.80c                     n.a.
Average Gross Margin on Sembe              TShs./kg              0.CS2                     0.080                     0.013                      0.02 ,                    n. a.
Margin as a % of Selling Price             *                     6.3                       10.8                      1.6                        3.6                       n. a.
Increase of Maize Milling by NW,           Tons                   _                        444                       12,385                    (1,578)                   36,945
over Previous Year                     %                                               0 Q.76                    21.23                     -2.23                     33 43
Increase of Sembe Sales                    Tons_                                           4.65                      61.07                     2.638                      n.a.
over Previous Year                                                                    0o.86                      n.27                      .4.37                      n.e.
/ Before 1973/74 purchases were made by NAPB for distribution of mize to NtW for milling and to retlers for
sale. Figures given here show NAPB purchases and imports. See TansAnia ThDSS, Vol. 1U Table 2.11 1A Vol.11I
Table 16.
i/ Including stock adjustments.
3] Assuming no resale value for maize bran.
Source:   National Milling Corporation
September 3, 1975.
F'



ANNEX 10
Table 6
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MAIZE PRODUCER PRICES
(TSlis. per Ton)
Crop Year                                   Producer Price
1968/69                                          265
1969170                                          275
1970/71                                          250
1971/72                                          242
1972/73                                          2-6b
-I/
1973/74                                          300/350
2/
1974/75                                          500(750)
11  In non-priority and priority areas, respectively.
2/ As first announced and later revised.
Source: Bureau of Statistics and MDB.
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX "LO
Table 7
TANZANIA
NATION"AL MAIZE PROJECT
PRICE STRUCTURE OF LOCALLY PROCURED
MAIZE, DECEMBER 1974
TShslton       Percent
A. PRODUCER PRICE                                     750.00          60
B. UNION COSTS
Direct Union Costs                                 201.15          16
Local Transport                                    100.00
Bank's Interest                                     10.94
Cash Interest                                        0.62
Stored Crop Insurance                                0.94
Shrinkage                                           30.00
Bags and Twines                                     58.65
Indirect Union Costs                                60.00          5
Union Levy                                          20.00
Society Levy                                        40.00
Total Union Costs                            261.15          21
(per bag)                                 (22.71)
Into NMC Field Store Cost (A + B)               1,011.15          82
C. NMC COSTS
Direct Costs                                       113.66           9
Agents                                               4.60
Storage                                             12.07
Branch Costs                                        17.80
Insurance                                            1.31
Bank Interest                                       15.57
Shrinkage                                           10.11
Fumigation                                           1.15
O.H. Costs                                          22.30
Transport to Coast                                  28.75
Indirect-Costs                                      51.19           4
Animal Feed Subsidy                                 20.00
Import Cess Reserves                                 8.90
Capital Reserves Fund                               22.29
Total NMC Costs                              164.85          13
(per bag)                                 (14.33)
Total Costs at NMC Mill Gate (A   B   C)         1,176.00          95
(per bag)                       (102.26)
Additional Cess or Surplus Available to NMC         64.00           5
Accounting Cost at Mill Gate                     1,240.00         100
Source: National Milling Corporation.
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX 10
Table 8
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
THE COSTS OF PRODUCING MAIZE MEAL
(EWBE), DECEMBER, 1974
Locally
Procured          Imported
Maize             Maize
------ (TShs./ton)-----
NMC Production Cost of Sembe in Bulk
Extraction Rate: 92%; 1,000 kg of Sembe               1/          1/
Requires 1,087 kg of Maize                  1,374.88-           1,616.37-
Less 13 Empty Bags                               (13.00)            (13.00)
Processing Costs                                100.00              100.00
Less Credit for 80 kg of Bran at TShs. 0.27/kg (21.60)              (21.60)
Total Cost of 1,000 kg of Sembe          1,440.28            1,681.77
NMC Production Cost of Sembe in Bags of
80 kg
Packing Material per ton                         37.50               37.50
Administrative Costs at 5%                       73.88               85.20
Financial Charges at 0.4%                         5.91                6.82
NMC Margin at 5.67%                              83.79               96.61
1,000 kg of Sembe                             1,440.28             1,681.77
Ex-NMC Cost of Bagged Sembe                   1,641.36             1.907.90
3./
Extra Margini-                                  138.64              (127.90)
Cost to Wholesalers                           1,780.00            1,780.00
Wholesale Margin at 4%                           71.85               71.85
Cost to Retailers                             1,851.85            1,851.85
Retailer Margin at 8%                           148.15              148.15
Retail Price per ton                          2,000.00            2,000.00
1/  1.087 x TShs. 1,240/ton of locally produced maize (Annex 10, Table 7).
2/ 1.087 x TShs. 1,487/ton of imported Maize (Annex 5, Table 3).
31 Balance between NMC cost and retailing cost at the government fixed
retailing price.
Source: National Milling Corporation.
September 3, 1975.



ANNEX I 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
FARMER AND GOVERNMENT BUDGETS AND BENEFITS
A. Maize Budgets
1.        Three improved maize production packages would be introduced under
the Project as described in Annex 3. Inputs required would be sold at sub-
sidized prices; 1975 prices and subsidy rates are shown in Table 1. Fertilizer
would be by far the most expensive input, mainly because of the very large
price increases of the last two years. The subsidized fertilizer prices shown
in Table 1 are similar to the full market prices of two or three years ago.
World Bank projections show declining international fertilizer prices over
the next few years, but since Tanzania has its own fertilizer factory about
50% of fertilizer costs are local costs which would probably continue to rise.
2.        Per hectare maize budgets for each of the three improved packages
are shown in Table 2. These are based on the 1975 producer price for maize
and the subsidized input prices shown in Table 1. For Package 1 (P-1) the
maize yield is expected to be 400 kg/ha higher than the traditional level
and this increment would be worth TShs. 300 at the 1975 producer price. The
incremental cost of inputs in P-1 is only TShs. 11/ha, since the inputs in
this package are limited to improved seed and insecticide. P-1 therefore
produces a TShs. 289/ha higher margin than traditional methods, an increase
of 36%. This should be financially attractive to farmers, since it enables
them to obtain a significantly increased return with a very small cash outlay.
3.        Maize production package 2 (P-2) is the same as P-1, except for the
use of fertilizer, at the relatively low level of one 50 kg bag/ha of TSP,
and two 50 kg bags/ha of SA. These inputs would produce a yield of 2,200
kg/ha of maize, an increase of 700 kg over P-1, and of 1,100 kg over yield
levels obtainable with traditionaL methods.
4.        Incremental production per ha with P-2 above that of P-1 would be
worth TShs. 525, while incremental inputs would cost TShs. 112. Thus, the
ratio of incremental output value to incremental costs would be 4.7, which
would still be financially attractive to farmers. However, the financial
risk of P-2 is higher than of P-1 because of the magnitude of unsubsidized
inputs.  Tnis would not create serious difficulties if farmers progressed
from P-1 to P-2 as envisaged by the Project, because the higher income earned
from P-1 would help finance the input costs in P-2, while the better husbandry
standards adopted in the earlier stage would lessen the risk of an inadequate



ANNEX 11
Page 2
response being obtained to the fertilizer used in P-2. It would be necessary
to guard against farmers progressing too rapidly into the Packages which
involved higher levels of inlput use.  This would be particularly important
in view of the Government's intention that all farmers in Project villages
should be treated alike and adopt the same production package.
5.        Package 3 (P-3) is the same as P-2, except that it involves the use
of an extra bag of SA per ha and that it would be confined to the best villages
in the best maize growing areas. Farmers in this stage would also normally
use hybrid rather than composite seed. The yield in this package would be
2,700 kg/ha, some 500 kg/ha higher than in P-2. The margin in P-3 would
be TShs. 339 (22%) more than in P-2; and the incremental output value to
cost ratio of 10.4 would be a financially strong incentive.
6.        In Table 3 maize budgets have been calculated in exactly the same
way as in Table 2, except that inputs have been valued at their full, un-
subsidized prices. The figures show that P-1 would still be very attractive
to farmers, whereas for P-2 and P-3 the returns to higher input costs would
not be attractive, although these would still be positive. Thus, the incre-
mental output value to cost ratio would be 4.7 for P-1, but only l.b and 1.7
for P-2 and P-3, respectively, as compared to traditional methods.
7.        The comparison of maize budgets presented in Tables 2 and 3 shows
that:
i)   The packages, at present producer prices, would only be
attractive to farmers if inputs were subsidized;
ii)   Package 1 would give the highest incremental margin; and
iii)   Package 2 would give the lowest incremental margin.
8.        The figures bear out the argument advanced in Annex 3, that
improvements in husbandry, and use of better seed would be most attractive
to farmers and the nation, by making more productive the farmers' present
labor and investmenits, without requiring high additional cash outlays.
However, it was also pointed out in Annex 3, that a farmer, no matter how
well he applied P-1, could not expect to obtain a yield of 1,500 kg/ha on a
continuous basis. Soils would become depleted, and P-2, incorporating modest
use of fertilizers, is really aimed at maintaining soil fertility, while at
the same time raising yields. The inevitable decline in yields under continued
application of P-I is not reflected in the incremental return calculations;
for this reason P-2 shows up as a less attractive alternative to both P-1 and
P-3.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
B. The National Budget
9.        Project financing would be provided as follows:
Government 29%       -          TShs. 89.3 million
Farmers 11%          -          TShs. 32.6 million
ABEDIA 13%           -          TShs. 4U.3 million
IDA 47%              -        TShs. 144.9 mill-ion
These costs, calculated over a 4-year period, include only incremental
(year-to-year) input requirements; farmers and Government are also contri-
buting, respectively, 25% and 75% to the non-incremental costs of inputs
which would amount to an additional TShs. 255.9 million (US$31.8 million).
10.       From year 5 onwards the cost of continuing Project operations
would be borne by Government. Recurring costs of inputs, mostly fertilizers,
would be financed by farmers and Government. The cash flow projection
(Table 4) assumes a subsidy of 75% for years 1-4, 60% for years 5-8, and 40%
for years 9-10, but these arrangements would be reviewed annually. At the
same time, Treasury would receive repayment of TRDB loans and only modest
amounts of additional tax revenue, mainly income tax on local staff salaries
and fuel taxes.
11.       Government's net cumulative cash outflow during the first 4 years
of the Project would amount to TShs. 281.6 million (US$35.0 million), whereas
the 10-year net outflow has been calculated at TShs. 915 million, equivalent
to US$113.7 million. The reason for this unfavorable development is Govern-
ment's decision to subsidize farm inputs, of which the subsidy on fertilizer
is the most important. (para. 15). Without the subsidy payments on maize
inputs, the net cash outflow would be quite modest: some TShs. 118 million
(US$14.7 million) for the 10-year period.
C. Foreign Exchange Budget
12.       The Project would enable Tanzania to reach maize self-sufficiency
by 1980. The benefits of the Project have therefore been valued at import
parity prices until 1980, and at a average of import and export parity prices
thereafter (Annex 13). Consequently, and in spite of large and continuing
imports of fertilizer, the Project would have a significant positive impact
on the country's foreign exchange position (Table 5).



ANNEX 11
Page 4
13.       The foreign exchange component of all Project costs is calculated
at TShs. 196.4 million (US$24.4 million), 94% of which would be covered by
the proposed lending from ABEDIA and IDA, totalling TShs. 185.2 million or
US$23.0 million.  Foreign exchange saved through incremental maize production
of the Project (TShs. 222.0 million or US$27.6 million) would, over the same
period, more than offset foreign exchange outflows resulting from purchase
of recurring inputs (TShs. 186.8 million or US$23.2 million). Consequently,
already after 4 years the foreign exchange impact would be positive, an
estimated TShs. 21.8 million (US$2.7 million). Thereafter the net annual
foreign exchange savings would increase from TShs. 59 million in Year 5 of
the Project to TShs. 215 million in Year 10. (US$7.3 million and 26.7 mil-
lion, respectively). The Project would reach full production in Year 8,
and this explains part of the increase in foreign exchange savings.
D. Maize Production Inputs Account (MPIA)
14.       The MPIA would be established by Government to facilitate the
purchasing and selling of maize production inputs under the National Maize
Project (Annex 7). During the first Project Year the initial, and thereafter
the year-to-year incremental use of inputs would be regarded as Project costs,
and financed by Government/farmers (year 1) and IDA (years 2-4). The total
amount for inputs so provided is TShs. 130.4 million (US$16.2 million). The
recurring inputs for the 4-year Project period -- TShs. 255.9 million or
US$31.F million -- would be financed by farmers (25%) and Government (75%).
15.       Table 6 shows that during the first 4 years Government's gross
contribution to the MPIA would amount to TShs. 289.7 million (US$36.0 million).
Due to financial support from IDA, and because farmers pay 25% for inputs
used, the net contribution by Government would be only TShs. 228.3 million
(US$28.4 million). Thereafter, Government subventions to the MPIA would be
TShs. 81 million in year 5, and TShs. 76 million in year 10 of the Project
(US$10.1 million and 9.4 million, respectively), assuming a reduction in the
subsidy rate to 60X in years 5-8 and to 40Z thereafter. Over 10 years the
net total amount of payments due from Government would come to TShs. 735
million (US$91.3 million). 1/ Farmer contributions would amount to TShs. 557
million (US$69.2 million) over the same 10-year period.
E. Farmer Benefits
16.       The gross value to farmers of annual incremental production at full
Project development, expressed in 1975 prices, is estimated at TShs. 146 million
1/   In July, 1975 Tanzania received an Agricultural Sector Loan from USAID
from which up to US>6.4 million can be drawn to help finance Government's
share in the cost of inputs in the first Project year. The projections
in para. 15 do not reflect the USAID contribution.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
(US$18.1 million). The total cost of incremental inputs at full development
would be TShs. 19.6 million. Assuming a value of replaced traditional maize
seeds of TShs. 3.7 million, net incremental input costs would be TShs. 15.8
million (US$2.0 million). The annual aggregate net farm value of incremen-
tal maize production would thus be TShs. 130.1 million (US$16.1 million).
With a total of 380,000 beneficiary families, the incremental value of
production per family would be TShs. 342 (US$42) and the incremental cash
income TShs. 228 (US$28) in 1975 prices. On a per capita basis, these
increases would be TShs. 68 (US$8) and TShs. 46 (US$6), respectively. By
comparison, the average 1975 rural per capita GNP in Tanzania is estimated at
TShs. 350 (US$43).
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
INPUT PRICES AND SUBSIDIES AT FARM GATE, 1975 PRICES
Subsidized      Percent
Input                   Unit            Full Cost         Price         Subsidy
Traditional Maize
Seed                 TShs./kg           -/75               -/75            -
Composite Seed         TShs./kg            2/86              1/05           63.
Hybrid Seed            TShs./kg            4/62              1/15           75
5% DDT                 TShs./kg            2/74              -/55           80
25% DDT               TShs./liter        12/00               3/00           75
Herbicide             TShs./kg.           33/00             33/00
Triple Superphosphate    TShs./          185/50             46/00
50 kg bag                                           75
Sulphate of Ammonia       TShs./
50 kg bag        132/50             33/00           75
November 12, 1975.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MATZE BUDGETS WITH SUBSIDIZFD INPUTS AT 1975 FARI GATE PRICES
(T--,-. pt-r Ha)
Traditional    Package   Package    Package
Methods  -                 II         III
Yield: kg/ha                                    1,100          1,500     2,200       2,700
Gross Return at TShs.750 per Ton                  825          1,125     1,650       2,025
Input Costs:
- Seed at 25 kg/ha                                21             26        26          29
- 5* DDT at 10 kg/ha                                              6 h                   6
- One bag of TSP                                                  -        46          46
- Two bags of S/A in Package II                            -               66          -
- Three bags of S/A in Package III                                -        -           99
Total Input Costs                                  21             32        144        180
Gross Margin                                      804          1,093      1,506      J,845
Increment in Margin Above
Traditional                                                      289       702       1,041
(36*)     (87g)      (l2pg)
Increment in Margin Above
Previous Package                                                 289       413         359
(36%)     (38*)       (22*)
Incremental Value : Cost Ratio
Above Traditional                                                27.3        6.7       7.5
Incremental Value : Cost Ratio
Above Previous Package                                           27.3       4.7      o10.4
Note:  Some farmers in Package II may use hybrid seed rather than composite
while some in Package III may use composite rather than hybrid.  Some
farmers may also use 25% DDT to control army worm or herbicides on a
pilot scale. A few farmers may also use an NPK compound fertilizer
instead of TSP and S/A.  These items have not been taken account of
in the buidgets shown here.
ilovember 12, 1975.



AtNEX 11
Table 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MAIZE BUDGETS WITH UNSUBSIDIZED INPUTS AT 1975 FARM GATE PRICES
(TShs.per Ha)
Traditional  Package    Package    Package
Methods       I           II        III
Yields : kg/ha                            1,100         1,500      2,200      2,700
Gross Return at Tshs.750 per ton            825         1,125      1,650      2,025
Input Costs:
- Seed at 25 kg/ha                          35            72          72       115
- 5% DDT at 10 kg/ha                        -             27          27        27
- TSP at one bag/ha                         -             -          186       186
- Two bags/ha of S/A                        -             -          265        -
- Three bags/ha of S/A                      -             -          -         398
Total Input Costs                           35             99         550       726
Gross Margin                               790          1,026       1,100     1,299
Increment in Margin                          -            236        310        509
Above Traditional                            -            (30%)       (39%)     (64%)
Increment in Margin                          -            236          74       199
Above Previous Package                                    (30%)        (7%)     (18%)
Incremental Value : Cost Ratio               -            4.7         1.6       1.7
Above Traditional                            -
Incremental Value : Cost Ratio               -            4.7         1.2       2.1
Above Previous Package
November 12, 1975.



TANZAPiIA
NATIOUIAL KMITZE P'8OJICI'
JOOFE r T CASTI I'LOW
(TShs. '030)
Total                                                                                  Total
Years            1            2            3            4         Project        5            6           7             8           9           10        10-Year
(4 Years)                                                                                Period
OUTFLOW
Input (Incremental to Preceding Year)                 68,930        15,661      21,349       24,461      130,401        -            -           -              -          -            -          130,401
Project Costs (Exel. Inputs)                          38,614        45,091      53,568       39,328      176,601     27,900       19,100       20,100        21,000      38,200       24,900       327,801
Total Project Costs                                  107,544        60,752      74,917       63,789      307,002     27,900       19,100       20,100        21,000      38,200       24,900       458,202
Recurring Inputs                                        -           65,498       83,866     106,536      255,900    135,744      144,439      154,624       165,734      176,845     189,807    1,223,093
Total Costs, inel. Recurring Items                   107,544       126,250      158,783     170, 325     562,902    163,644      163,539      174,724       186,734     215,045      214,707    1,681,295
(incl. Price Contingencies) i/
Servicing ABEDIA Credit  /                               -             -                                                            1,289       1,976         2,67?        3,458        3,458       12,853
S3-1cilng IDA Credit                                     l1o           411          799       1,087        2,397       1,087       1,087        1,087         1,087        1,087       1,087         8,919
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                107,644       126,661     159,582      171,412      565,299    164,731      165,915      177,787       190,493     219,590      219,252    1,703,067
INFLOW
ABEOIA                                                 15,000        8,000        8,100        9,150      40,250         -            -           -            -            -            -          40,250
IDA                                                    13,300       41,500       51,700      38,400      144,900         -           -            -            -            -           -          144,900
Farmers
- Inputs (Incremental)                       17,232         3,915       5,337        6,115       32,599        -            -            -           -            -            -           32,599
- Recurring Inputs                              -          16,375      20,967       26,634       63,976     54,298       57,776        61,850      66,294      106,107      113,884       524,185
Taxes                                                     -            420          730          840       1,990         940       1,050         1,160        1,260        1,370        1,470        9,240
Repayment of Transport & Storage Loarns 3j                -            -            -            -           -           -          1,949        4,825        8,581       10,785       10,785       36,925
Subtotal                       45,532        70,210       86,834      81,139      283,715      55,239      60,775        67,835       76,135      118,262      126,139      788,099
Government (Treasury Obligation)                       62,112       56,451       72,748       90,273     281,584    109,493       105,140       109,952     114,358      101,328       93,113      914,968
TOTAL INFLOWS                  107,644      126,661      159,582      171,41S     565,299     164,731      165,915      177,787      190,493      219,590      219,252    1,703,067
Price Contingencies are based on assumed annual rates of inflation of ll' in Year 1, 9- in Year 2, 8p1 in Years 3 - 4, and 7% in Years 5 - 10.
Terms of the ABEDIA credit:  repayment over 20 years, 5 years grace, 2% annual interest.
3/  Funds onlent to TRDB:  repayment over 20 years, 5 years grace, 4%  (From Annex 8, Table 6).
December 1, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE OUTFLOWS AND INFLOWS 2
(TShs. '000)
Total                                                                                    Total
Project Years                         Project            1           2            3            4        Project         5            6            7            8             9         10         10-Year
(4 Years)                                                                                  Period
OUTFLOW
A - Foreign Exchange Component of:
Incremental Inputs 2/                                   50,319       11,433       15,585       18,241       95,578         -            -            -            -              -         -          95,578
Other Project Costs 2/                                  22;010       25,702       30,534      22,417       100,663       15,345      10,505       11,055      11,550        21,010      13,695       183,823
Total Project Costs
(incl. contingencies)                                  72,329       37,135       46,119      40,658       196,241       15,345      10,505      11,055       11,550        21,010      13,695       279,401
Recurring Inputs i/                                         -        47,814       61,222       77,771      186,807       99,093    105,444       112,876     120,986       129,097    138,559        892,862
B - Debt Service
ABEDIA                                                      -           -            -           -             -           -          1,289        1,976        2,672         3,458       3,458       12,853
IDA                                                         100         411          799        1,087        2,397        1,087       1,087        1,087        1,087         1,087      1,087         8,919
Subtotal             72,429       85,360      108,140      119,516      385,445      115,525    118,325       126,994      136,295       154,652    156,799      1,194,035
C - Net Foreign Exchange Savings & Earnings                 (44,129)      (8,530)     23,380       51,034       21,755        59,145    114,975      130,696      188,065       192,498    214,731        921.865
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                     28,300       76,830      131,520     170,550       407,200      174,670    233,300       257,690     324,360       347,150    371,530    2,115,900
INFLOW
D - ABEDIA                                                   15,000       8,000        8,100        9,150        40,250         _     -           -                  -             -           -          40,250
E - IDA                                                      13,300      41,500       51,700       38,400       144,900         -          -            -            -             -           -          144,900
Subtotal             28,300      49,500       59,800       47,550       185,150                           -            -           -                             185,150
F - Foreign Exchange Value Maize Production 5/                  -         27,330       71,720     123,000       222,050      174,670    233,300    257,690       324,360       347,150    371,530      1,930,750
TOTAL INFLOWS 6]                   28,300       76,830      131,520      170,550       407,200     174,670    233,300    257,690        324,360       347,150    371,530       2,115,900
All figures are expressed in current value terms (see Annex 11, Table 4, Footnote 1).
Taken from Annex 8, Table 11: at 73 % foreign exchange content.
21  Taken from Annex 8, Table 1: at 57 % foreign exchange content.   From year 5 onwards taken
from Annex 11, Table 4, at 55 % foreign exchange content.
i/ From Annex 11, Table 4: at 73 % foreign exchange content.
|/ Valued at import parity prices for years 1 - 5;  thereafter 50% of incremental production at import parity.
For rationale see Annex 14. The import and export parity prices were taken from IBRD projections, and expressed
in Tanzania shillings at the official exchange rate. No allowances were made in these prices for internal
transport or port handling costs.
i/  Does not include any portion of USAID Agricultural Sector Loan available to Government for financing of up to 75%
of production inputs in Year 1.
December 1, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MAIZE PRODUCTION INPUTS ACCOUNT
(TShs . '0007)
Total                                                                                 Total
Years          1           2            3            4        Project       5            6            7            8           9          10        lO Year
(4 Years)                                                                              Period
Input Requirements (Sales) j
Recurring                                                                    65,498       83,866     106,536      255,900     135,744      144,439     154,624      165,734     176,845    189,807      1,223,093
Incremental                                                     68,930       15,661       21,349      24,461      130,401                     -                        -           -          -           130,401
Total                68,930       81,159      105,215     130,997      386,301      135,744     144,439     154,624      165,734     176,845    189,807      1,353,494
Recovery of Funds
i) Farmers i/                                                   17,232       20,290       26,304     32,749        96,575      54,298       57,776      61,850       66,294     106,107    113,884        556,784
of which: Recurring                                            ()        (16.375)    (20967)   (76,634)       (63,976)    (5'4,212)    (57,776)    (61,850)    (bb,294)   (106,107)  (113,884)       (524,185)
inremental                                        (17,232)      (3,915)      (5,337)    (6,115)      (32,599)      (-)          ()          ()           ()          (')        ()           (32,599)
ii) Government 3/                                                51,698       60,869       78,911     98,248       289,726      81,446       86,663      92,774       99,440      70,738     75,923        796,710
of which: Recurring                                           ()          (49,123)    (62,899)   (79,902)     (191,924)    (81,446)    (86,663)    (92,774)    (99,440)    (70,738)   (75,923)        (698,908)
Incremental                                       (51,698)     (11,746)    (16,012)   (18,346)       (97,802)      (-)          (-)         (-)          (.)         ()         (.)         (97,802)
Total               68,930        81,159     105,215    130,997       386,301      135,744     144,439     154,624      165,734     176,845    189,807      1,353,494
From Annex 11, Table 4.
Of the cost of inputs used farmers have been assumed to pay during Years 1 - 4, 25%; Years 5 - 8, 40%; Years 9 - 10, 60%.
Of the cost of inputs used Government has been assumed to pay during Years 1 - 4, 75%, Years 5 - 8, 60%; Years 9 - 10, 40%.
Note:  IDA would provide financing as follows:                          -          15,661      21,349     24,461         61,471                    -           -            -            -          -           61,471
Government's contribution to MPIA:                              51,698         60,869      78,911     98,248        289,726      81,446      86,663      92,774       99,490      70,738      75,923       796,710
Ret Government Outflow (Input Subsidy):                          51,698        45,208      57,562     73,787        228,255      81,446      86,663      92,774       99,440       70,738     75,923       735,239
Nowember 12, 1975.



ANNEX 12
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT OF IDA FUNDS
(US $'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                       Disbursement                  Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter End                       in Quarter                    at End of Quarter
1976
September
December
March  1/
June   2/                               600                             600
1977
September                               800                          1,400
December                                900                          2,300
March                                   900                          3,200
June                                  1,000.                         4,200
1978
September                             1,000                          5,200
December                              1,100                          6,300
March                                 1,200.                         7,500
June                                  1,200                          8,700
1979
September                             1,300                         10,000
December                              1,300                         11,300
March                                 1,300                         12,600
June                                  1,200                         13,800
1980
September                             1,100                         14,900
December 3/                           1,100                         16,000
March                                 1,000                         17,000
June                                  1,000                         18,000
1/ Estimated quarter of signing of credit agreement.
_I Estimated quarter of credit effectiveness.
3/ Estimated quarter of project completion.
_Mbcr 3, 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Project incremental costs and benefits are summarized in Table 1.
These are expressed in constant value terms (base = 1975 prices) and are
based on the maize production and input use data described in Annex 6 and
the Project cost data in Annex B.
2.        In the calculation of economic Project costs and benefits foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at a rate of US$1 = TShs. 10 to reflect the
economic cost of foreign exchange to Tanzania. Project costs include the
full cost of farm inputs and have been adjusted to eliminate taxes.
3.        The Project would increase maize yields per hectare, but not the
area under cultivation. The improved production techniques to be introduced
under the Project would require some additional labour input, but it has been
assumed that this would be provided by the previously under-employed farmers
and their families and no cost has been attributed to it.
4.        Project incremental production estimates are based on realistic
assumptions about yields and rates of input use (Annex 3). Prices used for
fertilizers and maize have been based on the World Bank commodity price
forecast, with appropriate adjustments for transport and handling charges.
Yearly price forecasts have been taken into account until 1980; thereafter,
prices have been assumed to remain at 1980 levels. The calculations are
shown in Tables 2 to 5.
5.        It also has been assumed that Tanzania would not achieve self-
sufficiency in maize production until 1980.  Incremental maize production
from the Project, therefore, has been valued on the basis of import parity
(i.e. priced highly) up to 1980. From 1981 onwards it has been assumed that
Tanzania would be self-sufficient in maize, with an adequate margin for safety,
but would not attempt to produce significant export surpluses of maize.
Export surpluses would be produced from time to time, however, when harvests
were good. To account for such an alternating surplus/deficit situation,
incremental maize production has been valued midway between the export and
import parity prices from 1981 ornwards. As the prices calculated on the basis
of import parity (Table 2) are roughly twice those based on export parity
(Table 3), mainly due to Tanzania's inability to import large quantities from
neighbouring countries, this assutmption has a significant effect on the internal
economic rate of return of the Project.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
6.        Maize and farm inputs have been valued at the farm or village
level. Incremental Project costs for N4MC storage and for transport have not
been included in the economic analysis, therefore. The assumption is that
the economic costs of transport and storage are reflected in the price
structure beyond the farm level. However, the costs of village and coopera-
tive storage have been included. The following assumptions have been made
about the costs for Project preparation and consultancy services (Annex 8,
Table 10). The full costs for Project preparation and the consultant agro-
nomist have been included. The costs associated with preparation of a
national agricultural development program have been excluded, while only
one-half of the costs for the consultancy services for maize milling and
storage have been included. Apart from these exceptions, all of the Project
cost items shown in the cost tables (Annex 8) have been included in the
economic analysis.
7.        The data in Table 1 indicate that the Project would produce an
internal economic rate of return of 37 percent. At the official exchange
rate, the rate of return would be 30 percent. This high rate of return
is largely attributable to two factors:
a)   The Project would produce maize as a substitute for imported
maize, which would be expensive, especially during the early
Project years when world food prices are expected to remain
high; and
b)   The Project would produce significantly increased amounts of
maize with the investment of relatively small amounts of
additional resources, as it would aim at increasing production
from existing areas of maize through teaching farmers how to
adopt better production methods, and utilizing the resources
presently devoted to maize production more efficiently.
8.        Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to examine the effect of changes
in the output and cost assumptions. This indicated that if output were re-
duced by 10 percent and costs increased by 10 percent the rate of return
would be 25 percent. If costs remained unchanged but output were reduced
by 20 percent the rate of return would fall to 24 percent. Even with the
very adverse assumption of a 30 percent reduction in output, the rate of
return would still be 16 percent. While the Project could be considered
technically sound, there would be uncertainty about whether farmers would
purchase inputs in the quantities expected and adopt the improved production
packages successfully. Nevertheless, despite these uncertainities, the
sensitivity analysis indicates that the Project would still show an adequate
rate of return even if incremental production were much lower than expected.
9.        The Project would produce some benefits which have not been included
in the economic analysis. The training programs for extension staff, the
mobile film units, and the improvements in efficiency of the extension ser-
vices would be beneficial for agriculture generally throughout the Project



ANNEX 13
Page 3
regions. Likewise, the improved storage facilities and better transport
would have more widespread benefits; village stores, for example, would be
useful for all village farm inputs and produce, not just for maize. The
regional crop trials and the work of the Regional Farm Management Officers
in studying farming systems would help to lay the foundations for agricul-
tural development generally, while the Project Servicing Unit might at a
later date have more widespread functions than dealing with maize alone.
Another important benefit is increased food security, especially since
world market supplies are no longer reliable and terms of trade have been
particularly unfavorable when Tanzania had to face an emergency.
December 1, 1975



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
(TShs. '000) J
Incremental Costs3
Regional             Project                                                                        Net
Incrementa1              Farm              Staff, Vehicles    Servicing                                        ,            Total           Incremental
Year           Benefits /              Inputst            & Equipment           Unit2/             Training           StorageQ'            Costs             Benefits
1                  -                 13,456               16,893               6,133              1,637               10,691             48,810             (48,810)
2               25,194               26,542               10,019               4,619              2,648               11,942              55,770             (30,576)
3              60,847                43,418               10,440               3,547              2,606               11,942             71,953             (11,106)
4               97,155               59,944               10,289               3,547              2,197                5,240             81,217              15,938
5              130,754               57,780               18,143               2,923              1,003                2,002             81,851              48,903
6              118,085               57,518               10,208               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,707             45,378
7              143,402               57,518               10,081               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,580             70,822
8              168,718               57,518                9,647               1,976              1,003                2,002             72,146              96,572
9              168,718               57,518               18,143               4,073              1,003                2,002             82,739              85,979
10              168,718               57,518               10,208               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,707             96,011
11              168,718               57,518               10,081               1,976              1,003                2,002             72,580              96,138
12              168,718                57,518               9,647               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,146             96,572
13              168,718               57,518               18,143               2,923              1,003                2,002              81,589              87,129
14              168,718               57,518               10,208               1,976              1,003                2,002             72,707              96,011
15              168,718                57,518              10,081               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,580              96,138
16              168,718               57,518                9,647               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,146              96,572
17              168,718               57,518               18,143               4,073              1,003                2,002              82,739             85,979
18              168,718               57,518               18,208               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,707             96,011
19              168,718               57,518               10,081               1,976              1,003                2,002              72,580              96,138
20              168,718                57,518               6,736               1,021              1,003                2,002              68,280             100,438
%   Using a shadow foreign exchange rate of TShs. 10 = US$ 1.
g   Incremental benefits consist solely of maize.  The volume of incremental maize production is shown in Annex 6, para. 12. This has been valued at import
parity up to 1979 and midway between import and export parity from 1980 onwards. Forecast import and export parity prices are shown in Tables 2 and 3
of this Annex. It has been assumed that maize from the 1975/76 crop would be harvested in 1976 and sold at 1976 prices, etc.
3/  Incremental costs are based on the cost data in Annex 8.  They include both recurrent and capital costs, including capital replacement costs.  Adjust-
ments have been made where appropriate to remove the effects of taxes and subsidies. All figures are in 1975 prices and include no allowance for
price contingencies. For the purposes of estimating incremental costs and benefits estimated production and input use levels in the 1974/75 season have
been taken as the base period. Thus, while the project cost tables include the full cost of maize inputs used in 197)/75, the economic analysis
includes only the amount of inputs which were incremental to those used in the 1974/75 season.
j Fertilizers have been valued at the prices shown in Table 5 of this Annex.
/  Costs for the project servicing unit include the capital and operating costs for the project aircraft and the costs for project preparation and consult-
ancy services.  The costs for the latter item do not include costs associated with preparation of the National Agricultural Development Project or 50%
of the costs required for consultancy on maize storage and milling.
The cost of materials used in construction of village stores has been included but no cost has been attributed to the labour supplied by farmers for
construction.  Likewise, no cost has been included for any increased labour input made by farmers for increasing maize production.  As incremental output
and inputs have been valued at the village level, no costs have been included in the economic analysis for increased NRIO storage
or maize transport charges. These are automatically taken into account through the price structure.
November 12, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ECONOMIC PRICES FOR MAIZE BASED ON IMPORT PARITY IN 1975 PRICES
IBRD Maize
Price                                                                   Less            Import
Forecast       Sea     Total    Total         Port        Value in       Internal      Parity in
In 1975 /   Freight   Value    Value        Handling      Store at    Handling &       Producing
Year   Prices-    Charges    cif         cif        Charges       Port_/      Transport /       Area
(US$ per Ton)----               ----------------       (TShs. per Ton)-------------------
a)  With a Shadow Exchange Rate of US$ 1 = TShs. 10
1975     128         45        173      1,730         100         1,830            408         1,422
1976     115         45        160      1,600         100         1,700            408         1;292
1977     ill         45        156      1,'c^         iG0         1,660            408         1,252
1978     111         45        156      1,560         100         1,660            408         1,252
1979     108         45        153      1,530         100         1,630            408         1,222
1980     105         45        150      1,500         100         1,600            408         1,192
b)  At the Official Exchange Rate
1975       -          -        173     1,393          100        1,493             380         1,113
1976       -          -        160     1,288          100-       1,388             380         1,008
1977       -          -        156     1,256          100        1,356             380           976
1978       -          -        156     1,256          100        1,356             380           976
1979       -          -        153     1,232          100        1,332             380           952
1980       -          -        150     1,208          100        1,308             380           928
1/  IBRD May 1975 Commodity Price Forecast.
2/ It has been assumed that this represents the value of maize in the consuming areas.
3/ Import parity in the producing areas has been assumed to be equal to the value of imported maize in
consuming areas less the costs of internal handling and transport to get locally produced maize from
producing to consuming areas.  In 1974 local costs for handling and transport of maize amounted to
TShs. 375/(t otal union costs and direct NMC costs from Annex 10, Table 7).  This has been increased
by 5% to bring it up to TShs. 394/ton in 1975 prices. It has been estimated that 20% of this represents
foreign exchange and 7% taxes. Adjustment for these items and the October, 1975 devaluation of the
Tanzanian Shilling increases the charges to TShs. 408/ton for the calculation based on a shadow exchange
rate and reduces it to TShs. 380/ton for the current official exchange rate estimate.
Nove.mber 12, 1975.



ANNEX 13
Table 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ECONOMIC PRICES FOR MAIZE BASED ON EXPORT PARITY IN 1975 PRICES
IBRD Maize    IBRD Maize    Less Internal
Price          Price          Transport.
Forecast       Forecast        and Port        Value in
in 1975        in 1975         Handling        Produci g
Year       Prices         Prices         Charges-l/         Areal
(US$ per Ton)      ---(TShs. per Ton)---------
a)  With Shadow Exchange Rate US$ 1 . TShs. 10                  -
1975        128           1,280            508               772
1976        115           1,150            508               642
1977        111           1,110            508               602
1978        111           1,110            508               602
1979        108           1,080            508               572
1980        105           1,050             508              542
b)  At the Official Exchange Rate
1975        128            1,030            480              550
1976        115              926            480              446
1977        111              894            480              414
1978        111              894            480              414
1979        108              869            480              389
1980        105              845            480              365
1/  The total of port handling and internal transport charges
from Table 2.
2/ This calculation is based on the assumption that the IBRD price
forecast could be obtained at the Tanzanian border. If sea
freight charges had to be paid before the forecast price were
received the net value per ton would be about US$ 45 per ton less
than the figures shown.
November 12, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
FORECAST FINANCIAL PRICES FOR IMPORTED FERTILIZER
BASED ON IBRD CONSTANT DOLLAR FORECASTS
IBRD 1975                                             Local         15% of        Total        Total
Constant                                              Costs for    cif Price         Cost        Cost
Dollar Price       Sea        Total        Total       Transport    for Local        in 1975   In Current
Year           Forecasti'    Freight    cif Cost    cif Cost          etc.2!/     Preference    Prices2'    Prices. A
-(US$ per Ton)-              - ---------    ------------- - -------(TShs. per Ton)---------------------
Triple Superphosphate
1975              250           45          295         2,375         650             356          3,381        3,381
1976              171           45          216         1. 739        650             261          2,650        2,886
1977              15u           45          201         1,618         650             243          2,511        2,954
1978              143           45          188         1,513         650             227          2,390        3,022
1979              134           45          179         1,441         650             216          2,307        3,136
1980              130           45          175         1,409         650             211          2,270        3,303
Sulphate of Ammonia
1975              139           45          184         1,481         600             222          2,303        2,303
1976              119           45          164         1,320         600             198          2,118        2,306
1977              100           45          145         1,167         600             175          1,942        2,285
1978               75           45          120           966         600             145          1,711        2,164
1979               63           45          108           869         600             130          1,603        2,175
1980               63           45          108           869         600             130          1,603        2,328
1/  Based on May 1975 Commodity Forecast.  Sulphate of Ammonia prices have been taken at the midpoint of a
range forecast.
2/ Including Port handling, TShs. 100; internal transport, TShs. 400 and 5% markup.
3/ Based on the fixed ex-factory prices and the assumption about transport costs included in the table,
fertilizer produced at Tanga in 1975 sold for the following prices:
Ex-Factory                Local Transport             Total
TSP:  TShs./ton                           3,160                        550                     3,710                     z
S/A:  TShs./ton                           2,151                        500                     2,651                   X x
4/  The previous column increased by the relevant IBRD Index of International Prices.
November 12,  1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
FORECAST ECONOMIC PRICES FOR IMPORTED FERTILIZER
2/-
Prices Based on Shadow Exchange Rate-   Prices Based on Official Exchange Rate
Total Cost                       Local           Farm                      Local            Farm
Year              cifl'/          cif Cost      Transportl'      Price      cif Cost      TransportA/       Price
(US$ per Ton)   (TShs. per Ton) ---------                    ----------(TShs. per Ton)-------------
Triple Superphosphate
1975              295              2,950            650          3,600       2,375           570            2,945
1976              216              2,160            650          2,810       1,739           570            2,309
1977              201              2,010            650          2,660       1,618           570            2,188
1978              188              1,880            650          2,530       1,513           570            2,083
1979              179              1,790            650          2,440       1,441           570            2,011
1980              175              1,750            650          2,400       1,409           570            1,979
Sulphate of Ammonia
1975              184              1,840            600          2,440       1,481            520           2,001
1976              164              1,640            600          2,240       1,320            520           1,840
1977              145              1,450            600          2,050       1,167            520           1,687
1978              120              1,200            600          1,800         966            520           1,486
1979              108              1,080            600          1,680         869            520           1,389
1980              108              1,080            600          1,680         869            520           1,389
1/  IBRD May 1975 Forecast plus sea freight of US$ 45 per ton.  Sulphate of Ammonia prices have been taken
as the mid point of a forecast range in prices.
2/  TShs. 10 = US$ 1.
3/  The figure for port handling and transport is the same as that used in Table 4.  Available data indicate
that transport operating costs have a foreign exchange content of 50% and a tax content of 20%. The
Adjustment for a shadow foreign exchange rate therefore exactly offsets that for taxes.
4/  The figure for transport and handling is TShs. 80 per ton less than that used in the financial prices
calculation for this is the estimated tax content of these costs.
November 12, 1975.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
THE P3EIT
IISR  OF.
DEVELOPMENT            TEASURY           S N E
PLANNING
MINISTRY OF     MINISTRY OF             MINISTRY OF        MIITYOF                          PRIME MINISTERtS                                           MINISRY OF            MIITY OF            MINISTRY OFSC
AGRICULTURE           COMMERCE AND           NATIONAL            HEALTH AND                            OFFICE                        MINISTRY ON                                  LAND                NATURAL RESOUR
INUTR                EDCATION            SOCIAL SECURIITY                  MANEF                              OSRCINPOWERDELOMN                                                ESIlIl'R5
|Printcipal Snlr.t.rV |
OeccIoRYmftn MTSWq-
m.fl! ASITSIrSTy            s          _ v
REGiONA|   REGIONAL 
0EV ELOPMENT                                                                                                              COMMISNER
DIRECTOR
PLANNING               FINANCE         R NSL
I , 1. 1 1 1 | I I ' ,,, ~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                           I                                            5                      I-  
|  COOPS           L    AGRICULTURE       i i NDUSTRY                  EDUCATION               HEALTH       | CONSTRUCTION                  WATER               LAR D                   NATUtRAL  ll       v   RNR 
AGRIC.1T.RE   l  l   INDUliTRY      l  l     EDUCATION    j  4       HEALTII     X  rCONSTPIUCT0ON     ]        0l              |    DEVELOPMENT          R   E%SOURC ES      |   VETERINARtY
'ielIl   A "IFOIrIS  DISTRICT                                                                                                           AREA
DEVELOPMENT                                                PlIplAIASCMISOE
ot'RECEOR
PL..N.NG               FINANCE~              NE
C:JAMAA &  COMMERCE AND ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WAERDVEOPET                                                                                        OIMITONR              VETERINARkY
World E.I.-1146EIR



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE
I
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY
. INTERNAL AUDITOR]
FINANCE AND                               SECTORAL PLANNING
|  ADMINISTRATION DIVISION                               DIVISION         l
FINANCE SECTION
l          H  ~~~MARKETING DEVELOPMENTl
fNTSSEACCOUNTS SECTION                           BUREAU
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION                           STATISTICS SECTION
SECTION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
UNIT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT                 CROP DEVELOPMENT                 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION                            DIVISION                            DIVISION
PROGRAMME PLANNING                 PROGRAMME PLANNING                   MANPOWER PLANNING
SECTION                            SECTION                             SECTION
TECHNICAL SERVICES                 TECHNICAL SERVICES                 FESSIONAL TRAINING AND
SECTION                       I    SECTION                         RECRUITMENT SECTION
RESEARCH AND DISEASE               RESEARCH AND DISEASE   l        |TECHNICAL TRAINING AND
CONTROL SECTION         |          CONTROL SECTION                    RECRUITMENT SECTION
|TIONSSEcTION               |      I       E                    I      INrFARMERS' EDUCATION
l OPERATIONS SECTION   l      l     OPERATIONS SECTION                 SECTION
PROJECT SERVICING UNIT1           PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
(MAIZE)                 I         SECTION
World Bank--8522(R)
Source. Kilimo



TANZANIA
NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
177.,/7J                                      9167/7                                      IJ71/77 
MAIN ACTIVITIES                       RESPONSIBLE                                                                                                        _                        _       _                                               _
AUTHOR T           j A T                                                          -           -.0 j 11   D-  J  I$             - I  - 1        A             J      I    I '  '   J  F  M         0    J
STAFF RECRUITMENT
Prpo1ec, iMJlalidy;, and Depulv               KILINGi
P-oc--emeot Offtce-, -n  F    l1 C-on I1le,  KI LIMO |0
Loca Staf                                    KILIMO
PIlot                             ~~~~~~KILIMO
Heqons and DGtolt|i
Reg n.-l Coo-d--alo,e                         Req,on.
Fat- Mangtn-         Otce-R-on
PROCUREMENT
O     At C -dalo-- PSU
eF--lll                                    PS"=
T,-np-I  E-aopmen
4 WD       'IenPS;
Ca In F , Vh                               Ps
dolceata                       ~~~~~PSO
Loo oct                        ~~~~~PSn
Mo,OtI Cycle; 00l SocKete                  PSU I.                                                                                                    __       =,,,,,,,=                                          ffffff ,,,,,,,,,    
m-)>  lpI                                   PSO
-I .AI  l i.UNSTPUCTION
F         -eqo 1  SloooS-o                    Re-on  C-OI
NM1C SI-tqe                                   NPAT
ORGANI ZATION
Eetablsnmet 'MeetIng of Stee--g Comm- ttee   CenItoto Go.l
Pocoat1an of Aono-  Woe;k PiIRIItI
fdn.Ictoc  Vofaqe-                 Redlo-
tdentofoaatalPl of  pal Pd        |qe      Reqtons     t2                                                         11|t[2 i                         1       E                                  "            
|f                 NdRtoron   of 10000 Seed;  Began
Regoonal Repoet rto IP5PU0Rgp                                                       -           J     [ f                 f      f    l                    _       @L           -                                                                   - - ~r_,
PSU Reooo ftlEtIeetISConontteeISA             PSIr
TRAINING
TAontng- f TootE;                               PSU'CINMPYT
New StaftPS
Ref-eh- Coo-;;                                PSI.
_ tepo... Coae-ee
T,d-- O  f T--,nt                             esoj
|   ,IATACIMMYT Coseac| IIATAICIMMYT
8  So                                         PSL                                                                I I         I  T       I   I  I                      I  I   I  I   I
M  S,                                         PSI,
M-ne:teeto  COaatSe
Tefoe - ~Coa;;                                PSL,
Ref-hBe Cate                                  PSI.
0a To a -9t nq
Gape and F--mers                              Req-nsa
STUDIES AND PILOT PROJECTS
Se-eage and MII eq Caa1ftanyv| PSB|
Age-_nn  Conu  05PSI.
NADP Peale0; Peepataton                        KIL,MO
|    eseatcO DatOonstoallal  Plot;                 KILInG           l jI                          rf                                  T       l T         t       r           f L                              
World B :1k-1524
S nopbades 2oot enoots too of;nn    ad tcotd;tonq
BeptebeSe 26. 1975



IBRD 10799
Docamber 1973
UGANDA                                                          KE                                                                               TANZANIA
V/    OR  Al
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
"N.                                                                 REGION BOUNDAMS
RWANDA
DtSTPACT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
200
4
3 4                             *39                                                        A I      11%.
BURUNDI
19*      A,12 4                     A F R I I A-,,.
0
3"5yasi
35*                                                                       "42
*36
*37
*21
*38                                                                                                         22*       7
P
%                                                                                            40
AP                                  24
28                    44
L At,'                                                                                                                    *2       017                           16
IVGANYIKA                                                                                                              14,J
29
J,
REPUBLIC
OF                                                                                                                       6
ZAIRE                                                                                                                                                                             N D   A A/
OCEAtV
'2      5
wawom
rA*TQ ARVSKA
2 RONGA                           20 To*w
3MrWARA                           21SAMgWA         43 MAWWA                                        3 I
R
5M8 EVA                           23 rAUNEZA
1!IRRO                     24C"AFAOEZV
4ori *URU                         22AMANt          4 4 AkplJt
6 K                                                                                                                                                                           43'
MtMUANO                        25 NACMNGWEA
8llw                              21 MT(f
9 MARUKIJ                         27 SI)LUlt
2
3c                                                                                                                             -'A
I(MPWAPWA                         31 laeo
TA W                                                 ZAM BtA                                                                                                              I At-
WEV XKMANJA90                   33 tAITALULA                                         AlrASAj
13 MBEYA                          34 SWANGA                                                                                                                                    ,6
14 LCNA                         j                     a,              'WI zp,
5 "I'A0A
5 MARU%V                          3 ,, MWAM4LA
0r'MMTIT11110111              37 WANHALA
IKKWOIRO,I!IARES ALAAM              URA
7 FACULTY CW AORtCU'              3, MM"
II TROPICAE PE5nCfDE`Tl*          4(j Hoffiecto                                                             1                                            M  0  Z A  M  B t Q  U  E
INVtWrE                                               (MALAWI
,j MAIJA
 I WWALENI






|~G AN ._4j .'.   C. ,.     R~ ',,K,,E,,N  YA          NATIONAL MAIZE PROJECT
REGIONS AND D STPICTS
RWANDA ~
t~~~~-0 B U                                  C>.>        s s1\<ylknu 5 <SModl(s\Msi   
~N~~Namir mb                                                   TA*t-ZAM rqiva
Ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~owc b"F
t l    1 tt ~~~~~~~~Get a     C,\              D o       4 
"' " ""'";   /I  3 j , X       ~ /E 
yikng           Mon /<Rungwrz   -XilQsU   Motog Ru 5EAAM
flE PU B L IC A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRC
bulu   MAIA                               S
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X              - t iMAX>rtJlnitS^
tf    E    S m    &    '  J~~ramb            onmbo   o,    t       UUA_g l 
~~t LAW5d     4OZAfA  B           l                    F 4ITCA4M 






U GAf -S                     Vl C T O R I A  >,            fENAMEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL
*t, 2' > Musom; V It ,Me, b                                                      tohystai    frZervols
~.  R \IVa N  D A  :,      .   "---/         /        \                                      M;lt;cr
><   qg  j  <    \0   9-  !' -.-  . .  Y @2,,,Y,, ,,,,    t_   / > s      ! "   2}82XX26a2over N 0
RWANDA                                                                 <                           zxezo                ,w 
/       t X1 Shinysngs              t  \LMACK:RS         d                                    -t~~~~~~~~~~200260
S~~~ ~  ~ t)i        o          >Sa>\                      Sqgd                               :c Or -2200
Kigom    o         A t a b o X  z         \  ;       X                         t 0 )t #       y p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'L
X   r    t   >   ..  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10- y vsSf//.t 
J    r    \   R   Ug0/M   '  .................... C . // 2 \ _ANZlEJARoo-too
9    A  8\   "  OMpondo   >,   Ro}  1|   )  sDodomo           t   .  R  rlomi  _    X           O00-80
B U R UR N Di                                                                                        400-f--6orgo J 0  A E ALA
xS  OP  \-\ V    At,  ,p,Lgw'- '-  (4\\  NtHeNg/t <n1 '  /ge7/g\    t200v400
tePvettc  <  Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNYR
K604TR            Tab                                                                         PEMBAo,     '   9 , GHf   2 
0<  5p  10,0    tX0    2pO   y   \    S   \  <                  o                        r   < N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
MILE5   XM   A   t  A  W  t  5  t~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~ >E ' M O ~iZAZ BARME     0   
R,   2                                                                       Zazia ft      r






U GA NDA   a>. '- 312    L AK                                                                                                                                               TANZANIA
.7 ~~~~~ ~~    V i C TOR IA   V                                                         K E NYA                                        POTENTIAL LAND USE
ukahba                      Massing      z 
r3            W As,\                                                                                                                                                                 o               200              300
KiLOMETERS
7                                                              ~      ~     ~~~           ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~0 50  100  ISO  200
4                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GROUP OF SOILS
flSoils unsuitable for cropping
[4(Game, limited grazing for
Wanz --T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.. cattle, possibly forestry in
humid areas.)
BURUNDI                                                                                                                                                                    Soils where httle cropp,ng is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ois  hrelite  ropngi
Shinyon   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~L..(Ranchmig, game, sometimes
limited cropping with sorghum,
millet, castor, groundnuts.
40
Fertile soils where low rain-
fl ~~~~~~~2fall or shallow rooting depth
ii ~~~~~~~~~iI        I! ~~~~~~~~~~~~(Sisal, sorghum, cagton, beans
-'-'N  '~~3~                                                                                           IA 4                                                                             with maize, wheat, pastares
(6                                                                                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and sometimes irrigalted
Kigoma  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lLSICcoffee at higb altitudes.)
Koliua  bora                                                                                                                      PEMBA          ~         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Soils of very lowtnertility wits
moderate potential.
a.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                                                                    1
(Sorghum, cassanva, cashew,
>                                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~castor, coconuts, simsim,
4                                            5                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tobacco, groundnuts, cotton,
II   ertzas                             pasatures, sotftwoods.)
R. Weam              o                                         Soils of low to medium fertility
sQL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                                                                                                                 with moderate potential
Mpcind                                                                                               zibo,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,      []~~~~~~~~~(Sisal, groundnuts, sorghum,
N,,,5                            ~~~~~~~~maize, soya, cashew, castor,
Morogo                          D~~~~~~AR ES SALAAM                    cotton, cassava, beans, pas-
8                                                                                             rN\  .  -  uaw.o0,u u                                                                            tures.)
Soils of medium to high fertilitp
w'hy high potential.
(Arabico coffee, wheat, pyre-
-N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~thrum, bananas  potatoes,
REPUBLIC                                                           itincia                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~timber, onions, aegetables,
temperate traits, grass, legum
pastures at high altitudes,
sisal, citrus, cocoa, rabusta
8                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cotfee, pastures, coconnuts,
spices ait low altitudes.)
4                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soils of low fertility in areas
of high rainfall.
(Teca, rabusta coffee, bamnans,
ZAMBIA                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Various alluvial or colluvial
u                             gle                               ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sails of considerable potential,
Ebut often regaining flood con-
trol, drainage or special
management.
%    '6                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Sugarcane, castor, cashew,
c-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~3                                             Mtwara                 cotton, rice, pasture, legumes,
bananaS, onions.)
220 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~2 



