CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 606 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(National Maize Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 606 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(National Maize Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) a loan (hereinafter called the
BADEA Loan) in an amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and BADEA;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Crop production year" means a period of 12 months starting on
July 1 of one calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendai
year;


﻿4
(b)   "Incremental cost of maize production inputs" means the cost of
purchasing and delivering, ti the villages included in Part A of the Project, in
any of the crop production years starting in 1976/7, such additional quantities
and types of the maize production inputs included in Part H of the Project as
shall exceed the quantities of such inputs purchased and delivered in the previous
year, such additional quantities to be determined by the annual work programs
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(c)   "TRDB" means Tanzania Rural Development Bank;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the sane may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Maize production inputs" means maize seed, fertilizers, insecticides
and herbicides;
(f)   "Maize Production inputs Account" means the account referred to
in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(g)   "Project Regions" means the regions of Arusha, Dodoma, Iringa,
Kilimanjaro, Lindi, Mara, Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara, Rukva, Ruvuma, Tabora and
Tanga;
(h)   "Project Servicing Unit" means the Project Servicing Unit included in
Part E of the Project; and
(i)   "Project Steering Committee" means the Project Steering Committee
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the


﻿5
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I 9) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
February 1, 1986, and ending August 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/21) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, through its Ministry of Agriculture and through its regional
authorities in charge of the Project Regions, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall cause TRDB to carry out Part C of the Project
and shall relend to TRDB such portion of the proceeds of the Credit as the
Association shall disburse for the purpose, all under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and TRDB under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall without
limitation provide (i) for the amounts so relent to carry interest at the rate of
four per cent (4%) per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time and to be repaid to the Borrower over a period of 20 years
(including a grace period of 5 years), (ii) for the sub-loans to be made by TRDB
Linder Part C of the Project to carry interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time and to be repaid to TRDB over a period of (A) 10 years in
the case of sub-loans for storage facilities and (B) 3 years in the case of sub-loans
for trucks, (iii) for TRDB to maintain a separate account to be used exclusively
for the recording of all of its payments and receipts under Part C of the Project,
and (iv) for TRDB to cause the National Milling Corporation, the cooperative unions
and the village cooperatives receiving sub-loans under Part C of the Project to
maintain appropriate accounts.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   sell and deliver the maize production inputs at such prices as the
Borrower, after consultation with the Association, shall from  time to time
determine;
(b)   without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, open and maintain an account (hereinafter
called the Maize Production Inputs Account) to be used exclusively to make
payments for the purchase and delivery of the maize production inputs under Part
A of the Project. The Borrower shall deposit into the Maize Production Inputs
Account such amounts as shall be from time to time required to permit such
payments to be made, promptly as needed, out of the Maize Production Inputs
Account, and the Maize Production Inputs Account shall be maintained until all
such payments shall have been made;
(c)   without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, deposit into the Maize Production Inputs Account (i) all proceeds


﻿7
from the sale and delivery of maize production inputs under Part A of the Project
and (ii) any such further amounts as shall be required to ensure that on the first
day of each calendar quarter there shall be available in such Account amounts
sufficient to meet payments for total expenditures for the purchase and delivery
of maize production inputs under Part A of the Project expected to be made during
such quarter in accordance with the contractual procurement schedules as such
schedules may be established from time to time by the Borrower after consultation
with the Association; and
(d)   authorize the Project Servicing Unit to make such withdrawals at such
times from  the Maize Production Inputs Account as shall be required to make
promptly any payments for expenditures for the purchase and dclivery of maize
production inputs under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause maize seed to he made available in
varieties, qualities and quantities adequate to timely meet the requirements of the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish, and maintain a Project Steering
Committee to approve the annual work programs referred to in Section 3.05
A-       hereinafter and to give general guidance to, and ensure the adequate coordination
among, all agencies of the Borrower involved in carrying out the Project. The
Committee shall include the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture; and
representatives from the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Finance and
Planning: the Commissioner for Rural Development; the Project Manager serving
as head of the Project Servicing Unit; and such other members as the Borrower
shall from time to time determine.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall submit to the Association, not later than
March 31 of each year, for its approval the annual work programs and cost
estimates for all Project activities prepared by the Project Servicing Unit and
approved by the Project Steering Committee.
Section 3.00. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ agricultural and engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance


﻿8
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to ensure that, not later than April 1, 1976, (a) the Farm Management
Specialist included in Part E.1 of the Project takes LIP his duties, or (b) a qualified
consultant or a qualified official of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture is
employed or assigned to temporarily carry out the duties of such Farm Management
Specialist.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause TRDB to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of TRDB.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause TRDB to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently  applied, by  independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case


﻿9
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of TRDB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower (i) shall cause to be audited for each fiscal year
the accounts of the cooperative unions and village cooperatives receiving sub-loans
under Part C of the Project, and (ii) shall furnish to the Association, upon its
request, the reports of such audits by said auditors as well as such other information
relating thereto as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   TRDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TRDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c)   the organization, powers and responsibilities of TRDB shall have been
altered in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the execution of Part
C of the Project or the efficient operation of TRDB, and
(d)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the process of the
BADEA Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated i. whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the BADEA Loan Agreement, or
(B)   the BADEA Loan shall have become dlue and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿10
(ii)        subparagraph   (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (d)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action:
(b)   (i)   the execution and delivery of the BADEA Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BADEA, respectively, have been duly
authorized  or   ratified  by  all  necessary  corporate  and
governmental action, and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of such agreement or the right to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of said loan agreement,
shall have b-,en fulfilled; and
(ii)  the Borrower shall have entered into a subsidiary loan agreement
with TRDB providing foi the on-lending of such portion of the
BADEA Loan as shall be disbursed to assist in the financing
of expenditures for Part C of the Project:


﻿11
(c)   the Project Servicing Unit shall have been established and the staff
members thereof specifically set forth in Part E.1 of the Project (except the Farm
Management Specialist) shall have been appointed and shall have taken up their
duties;
(d)   the Regional Maize Project Coordinators and the District Maize Project
Supervisors included in Part B. 1 of the Project shall have been appointed;
(e)   the Maize Production Inputs Account shall have been established; and
(f)   the Project Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.04 iereof shall
have been established.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the BADEA
Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the agreement referred to
in paragraph (b)(ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective parties thereto
and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 3, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, A.02
and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Represe,itative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ainister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as re presentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. TI.e following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania


﻿12
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Incremental cost
of maize produc-
tion inputs re-
quired for crop
production years
1976/7 on:
(a)   imported   )                                 100% of foreign
)                                 expenditures
)              5,500,000
(b)  locally     )                                 80%
procured )
(2) Equipment and ma-
terials:
(a)  imported    )                                 100% of foreign
)                                 expenditures
)              2,600,000
(b)  locally     )                                 80%
procured )
(3)   Construction of                3,200,000           80%
National Milling
Corporation's, and
regional, storage
facilities as well
as offices for Pro-
ject Servicing
Unit Staff


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)   Consultants' serv-             1,100,000           100% of foreign
ices and remunera-                                 expenditures
tion of Project
Servicing Unit staff
(5)   Salaries of Proj-              3,100,000          80%
ect Servicing
Unit's supporting
staff and of staff
included in Part
B.1 of the Project;
operation and main-
tenance of vehicles
used by Project
Servicing Unit's
staff and by staff
included in Part
B.1 of the Proj-
ect; and local
staff training
(6)   Unallocated                    2,500,000
TOTAL         18,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on


﻿15
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) on
account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $300,000.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above. if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Boirower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the 1975/6-1978/9 portion of the Borrower's National Maize
Production Program and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Maize Production Inputs
The sale and delivery by the Borrower, through the regional authorities, of
maize production inputs to village cooperatives in about 950 villages in the Project
Regions during the crop production years 1975/6 through 1978/9.
Part B.     Strengthening of Extension Services
The strengthening of extension services provided by the Borrower, through
the regional authorities, to maize farmers in the Project Regions by the following
means:
1.    The employment, in each Project Region, of a fulltime Regional Maize
Project Coordinator, and in each district within each Project Region,
of a full-time District Maize Project Supervisor, as well as of the
necessary field extension staff.
2.    The training of the staff included in paragraph I above in maize
agronomy and management.
3.    The provision, to the staff included in paragraph I above, of adequate
transport and of extension aids as well as of the inputs required to
carry out demonstrations in improved maize husbandry.
4.    The acquisition and production of suitable maize production films and
the provision and operation, in each Project Region, of one mobile
film unit to show such films in villages in the respective Project Region.
5.    The production, and the distribution in the Project Regions, of maize
production leaflets and of a monthly agricultural newspaper.
Part C     Transportation and Storage
1.    The provision by TRDB, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, of sub-loans to the National Milling Corporation, regional


﻿17
cooperative unions as well as village cooperatives to assist them in
financing the acquisition of trucks as well as the construction of
regional and local storage facilities, all for the purpose of improving
the transportation and the storage, in the Project Regions, of maize
production inputs as well as of maize grain produced in such Regions.
2.    The acquisition, by TRDB, of 2 four-wheel drive vehicles.
Part D:     Research and Studies
1.    The carrying out, by or inder the supervision of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, of (a) suitable field trials in maize production
in all Project Regions, and (b) a detailed review of all aspects of maize
agronomy in the major maize growing areas of Tanzania, including
the development of recommendations for the formulation of a national
adaptive maize research program.
2     The preparation of detailed investment proposals (including a review
of the Borrower's existing plans for the purpose) for (a) the
establishment of a national grain reserve, and (b) the expansion and
modernization of the milling and storage facilities of the National
Milling Corporation.
3.    The preparation of investment proposals for a national agricultural
development program. including the Project.
4.    A pilot scheme to develop methods to improve oxen utilization in
agriculture, in about 20 Project villages and in about 4 mechanized
agriculture centers that are being established with the assistance of
United Nations Development Programme and United Nations Food
Agriculture Organization.
Part E:     Project Servicing Unit
1.    The establishment and operation, within the Crop Production Division
of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, of a Project Servicing Unit
to be responsible for overall Project implementation, coordination and
supervision, such Unit to include a Project Manager as head of the
Unit, an Extension Specialist, a Financial Controller, a Farm
Management Specialist, a Procurement and Distribution Officer (all of
whom shall be appointed after consultation with the Association) as
well as the necessary supporting staff.


﻿18
2.    The provision to the Project Servicing Unit of the necessary offices,
equipment and vehicles, including a light aircraft.
*           *           *          * P
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1980.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, goods, works and services shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Contracts shall be grouped into economic bid packages.
(b)   Bidders for the construction of regional storage facilities shall be
required to prequalify as described in part 1.3 of the Guidelines.
3.    (a)   Contracts for maize seeds, film vans as well as for goods and services
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $120,000 shall be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
(b)   If in the view of the Project Servicing Unit and the regional authorities
of the Borrower, the construction of the local storage facilities included in Part
C of the Project would be facilitated by procuring the necessary materials through
normal commercial channels close to the place of use of such materials, they shall
be so procured, and the Borrower shall procure an equivalent additional amount
of such materials in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph I
hereof.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿20
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and. comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tanzania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20'/ of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if. as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C. all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for tile award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shail be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of' Bids fbr Ciil Works; Preferences fbr Domestic
Con tractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (3)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, a margin


﻿21
of preference of 7-1/2% may be granted to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A.2(b)
of this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, to submit
together with their bids, such information, including details of ownership, as shall
be required to determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference, and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for goods, works and services estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association.
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and


﻿22
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


