Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4394-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 25, 1983
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture III
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bakk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =    Turkish lira (TL) 182 la
TL 1              =    US$0.0055
TL 1,000,000      =    US$5,494.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                           =      2.20 pounds
1 metric ton D                                   1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                             =       0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                              =       1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                         -       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                           =       2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha                        =       0,25 acre
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha        =       0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                              =       0.254 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AP      -    Action Plan for Improvements in TCZB's Operations
FRS     -    Fallow Reduction Scheme
FDP     -    Farm Development Plan
GDAA    -    General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MAF
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD    -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
MAF     -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
PP      -    Production Plan
SCS     -    Second Crops Scheme
SEE     -    State Economic Enterprise
TCZb    -    Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TKK     -    Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
TMO     -    Scil Products Office, an SEE
TSK     -    Agricultural Sales Cooperatives
TZDK    -    Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey         - March 1 to February 28 (through 1981)
TCZB                       - March 1 to December 31 (1982)
- January 1 to December 31 (from
Jan. 1, 1983)
2e Exchange rate prevailing at time of appraisal.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ... ............... ................... 1
A.  Project Background ......*..........*.         .     ..... .   1
B.  Agriculture In Turkey ...... ......*........ . ............1.....  I
C.  Agricultural Policies, Performance, and Prospects                    2
D. Bank's Contribution and Lending Strategy in the
Agriculture Sector ..... ..................  4
II.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SUBSECTOR .........          .................       5
A.  Lending Institutions ..............................  .    ...o       5
B.  Agricultural Credit Policy ... ........................ ..... ... 6
C.  Interest Rates    .       ................... f                     8
IIl.  THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY (THE BORROWER) .................... 9
A.  Organization, Management, and Staff    .       ......               ..................... 10
B. Lending Policies and Procedures            .    .      .12
C.  Lending Operations ...... . .................................   .  14
D.  Financial Situation and Performance   .        ......................... 16
E.  Performance under First Agricultural Credit Project   ......... 18
F.  Summary of Evaluation of TCZB  ................................. 19
IV. THE PROJECT    , ............. . . . . 20
A.  Project Objectives ........................  . ..........20
B.  Project Components      . ...............20
C.  Detailed Features ..       ..................... 21
D. Project Cost                          ......26
E.   Finanlcing   Plan  .................               ........27
F.    Procurement   .......................  . ..........................28
G.  Disbursements ..... ................  .................... .o  28
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................... 29
A. Organization and Management .                                        29
B. On-lending Terms and Procedures .31
C.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting       .33
D.  Accounts and Audits  .................                             ........................... 33
E.  Action Plan for Strengtbening of TCZB .34
F.  Study of Credit Cooperatives  ........ .............         ..... 34
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   ....35
A. Production                            . . .   35
B.  Marketing and Processing .............................. 35
C.  Financial Analysis . .......................  .36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Turkey in
November 1982. Mission members included Mr. Vinay Bhargava 'Mission Leader),
Ms. Linda Likar (World bank), Mr. D. Masterton (FAO/World bank Cooperative
Program) and hessrs. R. Sood and A. Stoneham (Consultants).
This document has v. restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION . .. ....... .   . ................. . . . . .... . .....  37
A.  Benefits ..... .................. .................  37
B.  Economic Analysis . .. . .......  .... .     .     ...........39
C.  Risks and Uncertainties ... .. . .. . .. .. . ... . .......... .. ....  41
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS............. .. . .          *...... *    ...... *. *........  41
ANNEXES
1.  Detailed Cost Estimates........................                            4347
2.  Terms of References for Studies
A.  Study of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives .............48-49
B.  Systems and Procedures Study ...................50
C.  Accounting Systems Study.....................51
3.  Action Plan for Improvements in TCZB Operations .         ...........52-62
4.  Outline of Project Monitoring and Evaluation System.... ......63-64
5.  Economic and Financial Analysis:  Detailed Results.... .......65-72
6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.. .....73
7. Supporting T2bles
ST-i   Agricultural Credit Supply and Source of Funds.... .......75
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
ST-2   TCZb:  Consolidated Balance Sheets .... ..............76
ST-3   TCZB:  Consolidated Income and Expenditure Statement .......77
ST-4   TCZB:  Sources and Allocations of Funds..............78
ST-5   TCZB:  Agricultural Lending Operations ..............79
ST-6   TCZB:  Structure of Deposits ...................80
Farm Budgets
ST-7   Farm Mechanization Annual Income and Operating Expenses......81
ST-8   Farm Mechanization Cash Flow  ...................82
ST-9   Beef Fattening Annual Income and Operating Expenses........83
ST-10  Beef Fattening Cash Flow .....................                           84
ST-l1  Sheep Fattening Annual Income and Operating Expenses .......85
ST-12  Sheep Fatte3ling Cash Flow ..........................         .         86
ST-13  Broiler Production Annual Income and Operating Expenses......87
ST-14  Broiler Production Cash Flow ........88...........
ST-15  Egg Production Annual Income and Operating Expenses........89
ST-lb  Egg Production Cash Flow ...........  ..........90
ST-17  Orchard An.iual Income and Operating Expenses ...........91
ST-18  Orchard Cash Flow.........................                              92
ST-19  Crop Improvement Inputs and Labor use per Ha ...........93
ST-20  Crop Improvement Annual Income and Operating Costs ........94
ST-21  Crop Improvement Crop Budgets................... .                      95
ST-22  Fallow Reduction Component Inputs and Labor Use..........96
ST-23  Fallow Reduction Component Crop Budgets  ..............97
ST-24  Corum Cankiri Component Inputs and Labor Use ...............             98
.ST-25  Corum Cankiri Component Crop Budaets .............--99
'3T-26  Second Crop Component Inputs and Labor Use ..... .I.... ....100
ST-27  Second Crop Component Crop Budgets ................101



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
CHARTS
IBRD 24720  Organization Chart of The Agricultural bank of Turkey
(TCZB) ................... .................................  102
IBRD 24261  Organization Cbart of Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) ............. .. .... ..... **** ...*....*......  103
IBRD 24260 Organization Chart of General Directorate of Agricultural
Affairs (GDAA) in MAF          .....................  ,       104
RAPS
1   IBRD 16766 - Agricultural Regions in Turkey
2   IBRD 17071 - Project Area and Components



I                                                                                I



Staff Appraisal Report
Second Agricultural Credit Project
Turkey
I. Agricultural Sector
A. Project Background
1.01     The proposed project has been formulated with the objective to
provide funds to farmers to finance productive investments at the farm level
and to improve the principal agricultural credit institutions in Turkey. The
investments financed under the project will be aimed at intensification of
land use and establishment of more efficient livestock production in areas
where the Government of Turkey has undertaken to intensify support services to
farmers. The project will continue the effort started under the first
Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248-TU) to strengthen
the institutional capabilities of the Agricultural bank of Turkey (TCZB). In
addition, the project aims at laying the foundation for strengthening of the
agricultural credit cooperatives in Turkey. The proposed project is an
integral part of the Government strategy for development of the agricultural
sector.
1.02     The proposed project was one of several projects identified by an
agricultural projects identification mission for possible Bank financing (See
Mission Report "Agricultural Development. Problems and Opportunities", Report
No. 3178a-TU, May 7, 1981). A Bank mission visited Turkey in September 1981
to initiate project preparation. Subsequently, TCZB assumed responsibility
for project preparation. A substantial part of project preparation was done
by the Technical Cooperation and Coordination Department, in the General
Directorate of Agricultural Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF). The TCZB and MAF were assisted during project preparation by FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Programme staff through 2 missions in May and September 1982. The
bank missions of April and August 1982 guided the project preparation and
initiated discussions of main project issues. A project preparation report
was submitted by TCZB to the Bank on October 20, 1982, and a Bank mission
carried out field appraisal of the project during November 1-24, 1982.
B. Agriculture in Turkey
1.03     Agriculture plays a crucial role in Turkey.  besides meeting domestic
food needs, it accounts for about half of all export earnings and 60 percent
of employment. It also supplies much of the raw materials for industry.
Agriculture contributed 20 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of
Turkey in 1981. Growtb in agricultural production is of major importance in
e-.panding foreign earnings and providing employment for Turkey's growing labor
force.
1.04     The agricultural regions of Turkey are shown in IBRD Map 16766.
Intensive crop cultivation is prevalent in the coastal regions, whicb receive
plentiful rainfall or are partially equipped with irrigation iacilities.
Mixed (crop and livestock) farming predominates in the eastern and central



-2-
parts of the country where pastures and meadows form more than half of the
agricultural land and the crop production is dependent on rainfall. The main
system of cultivation in the rainfed areas consists of a rotation including
fallow 1 year out of 2. The livestock production system is largely
traditional, dependent on grazing lands and low productivity systems of animal
husbandry.
1.05     About 56% of Turkey's agricultural land is cultivatea.  The total
cultivated area has been increasing at an average annual rate of 0.8% since
1968. The increase has come from conversion of other lands to cultivated land
and reduction in the fallow, and has been realized mostly in field crops
(except cereals which declined) and fruits. Future increases in cultivated
areas are likely to be smaller and would come from the reduction of fallow in
rainfed areas and double cropping in irrigated areas in the Aegean and
Mediterranean coastal regions (IBRD Map 16766). Utilization of the cultivated
land (based on the average for 1978-80) was: Cereal crops - 66% of cultivated
area, oilseed crops - 3%, pulses - 3%, tuber crops - 1%, industrial crops -
6%, orchards and vineyards - 17%, and vegetables - 3%.
1.06     The livestock subsector in Turkey, though traditional and having a
low productivity, is large and accounts for one-third of agricultural GDP.
There was a steady growth in the numbers of livestock during the 1970's, but
no significant improvement in animal husbandry practices or productivity.
About 44% of the country's agricultural land in 1980 was occupied by permanent
pastures and meadows and offers considerable potential for expansion of
livestock production. However as a result of overstocking, much of the
pasture areas suffer from overgrazing and are in need of rehabilitation.
C. Agricultural Policies, Performance, and Prospects
1.07     Throughout the 1970's, agriculture was assigned a subordinate role to
industry pursuant to the inward-oriented growth strategy adopted by Turkey
during those years. Its primary role was to supply low-cost raw materials to
industry and guaranteed food supplies for the urban work force., The
agricultural policies stressed self-sufficiency through subsidizea inputs,
preferential credit at low interest rates, and guaranteed high producer
prices. As a result of these incentives, between 1972 and 197'i the real
agricultural GDP increased at an average annual rate of 4.7%, and the fixed
investment in agriculture increased at an average annual growth rate of
17.9%. However, during the period 1976-79, these incentives could not be
sustained due to the strain placed upon the budget and the competing demand
for resources from the manufacturing sector. In addition, the annual rate of
increase in cultivated area slowed down, and the shift to intensive
cultivation lagged. As a result of these factors, during 1976-79 fixed
investment in agriculture declined to a rate of about 1.7% per annum, and the
growth rate of agriculture GDP averaged only 1.4% per annum. Sectoral exports
during this period increased by about 11% per annum. However, as a fraction
of agricultural GDP, agricultural exports were less than 1% in 1979 and far
below their potential.
1.08     Agricultural growth during the 1970's came mainly from
intensification of land use. In response to the price and credit incentives,
there was a considerable increase in the consumption of modern agricultural
inputs and mechanization. In particular, fertilizer use tripled during the
1970's. The increased usage of inputs and mechanization resulted in higher



-3-
yields which for most major crops and some fruits, generally accounted for far
more of the realized growth in physical production than did increase in area.
However, a similar intensification of livestock production was not realized,
and the increases in production resulted from higher livestock numbers.
1.09     With the imposition of crisis management measures by the Government
in 1980 and 1981, much of the incentive apparatus put in place for farmers in
the 1970's was abruptly dismantled. Of particular note is the sharp reduction
in input subsidies (particularly fertilizer), reduction in number of
production price supports, the gradual conversion of the remaining supports
from artificially high incentive prices to floor prices, and severe rationing
of agricultural credit. These measures, together with deflationary demand
management and the new export incentives, have forced exporters and the more
commercial farmers to seek out foreign marketing opportunities. They have
done so with some vigor. In 1980 and 1981 agricultural export earnings grew
by an average annual rate of 29 percent, twice the average annual growth rate
of the previous five years.  Export growth continued at a lower level in 1982
amidst some indications that the diversion of existing production to foreign
markets is being replaced as a source of export growth by a genuine supply
response to the higher valued marketing opportunities which exporting
represents. However, growth in agricultural production has not matched export
growth. The shift in Government policies resulted in temporary disruptions in
the agricultural sector: the annual growth of agricultural GDP in real terms
was 1.5 percent in 1980 and fell to 0.5 percent in 1981. ln 1982, however,
there were indications that farmers were adjusting to the new agricultural
policy environment and, aided by good weather, real growth in agricultural GDP
recovered somewhat in 1982, with agricultural value-added growth estimated at
4.7 percent.
1.10     The performance possibilities for Turkey's agricultural sector, over
the medium term, were examined in a recent agriculture sector study by the
Bank 1/. The analysis done in the Study indicates that during the remainder
of the 1980's it should be possible for agricultural sector GDP to grow at
about 3 percent per year and agricultural exports between 4-6 percent per
year, provided certain key policies are pursued. The main elements of
development strategy to attain these growth possibilities are as follows:
(i) measures to foster a continuous growth in the factor productivity of
agriculture. These include institutional changes to improve technology
generation and its dissemination to farmers through strengthening of extension
and research programs, and increased imports of improved seeds and farm
equipments; (ii) more efficient public investment and higher levels of private
capital formation; (iii) an increase in the rates of investment in quick
yielding irrigation projects by completing the schemes under construction and
carrying out on-farm development for areas covered by the existing schemes;
(iv) provision of additional credit to encourage the uptake of improved
technology at the farm level; (v) improvements in marketing and inputs
distribution systems; and (vi) reform of price stabilization policies,
including a continuation of the reduction in the number of commodities
supported and shift from incentive pricing to floor pricing; and
rationalization of the system of financial support to the diverse food
procurement agencies; and (vii) continuation of the current policies of
maintenance of competitive exchange rates and progressive deregulation of
exports and imports.
11 Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with Exports",
Report No. 4204-TU, January 28, 1983, (3 Volumes).



-4-
D. Bank's Contribution and Lending Strategy in the Agriculture Sector
1.11     As of January 1983, Bank/IDA have made 14 loans and 7 credits
totalling $696.1 million for 18 agricultural projects. Of these projects, 5
were for livestock production, 5 for irrigation development, 2 for fruit and
vegetable production, 2 for rural development, 1 for forestry, 1 for
agricultural credit, and 2 for grain storage. Eight projects have been
completed so far; 4 irrigation projects, 1 grain storage project, 1 fruit and
vegetable project, and 2 livestock projects.
1.12     The principal objectives of the Bank program in agriculture are to
help increase output, productivity, and exports, and promote structural reform
in the sector. To support the country's medium term macro-economic adjustment
program, the elements of Bank strategy in agriculture include:
(i,   rationalization of the public sector investment program, particularly
in irrigation, with greater focus on quick gestating investment;
(ii)   stimulus for greater private investment through expanded credit
supply and improved financial sector policies;
(iii)   promotion of the greater use of market forces through reductions in
subsidies and price supports, interest rate reform and re-examination
of Government policies on agricultural marketing;
(iv)   liberalization of the foreign trade regime, including reductions in
export levels and inclusion of agricultural machinery, seeds, and
selected food products on the priority import list; and
(v)   support to institutional reform, particularly the development of
agricultural support services for research, extension, and planning
reform of Government enterprises, and improvements in the efficiency
of rural financial institutions.
1.13     These objectives are being pursued through sector dialogiue, the
structural adjustment lending program, and the lending program in
agriculture. Public sector investment will be channelled more efficiently to
quick-yielding projects through the proposed IAEE Irrigation Proj,sct, which is
also promoting greater private sector involvement in on-farm development, and
a reduction in subsidies for water, drainage and land-levelling works.
Agricultural services would be improved through an applied research and
extension project which is being prepared by the Government. Support for
export-oriented production and processing and further reform to public sector
enterprises would be promoted in a livestock products ptoject under
preparation. On-going projects are also promoting institutional development
and policy reforms in these areas. The proposed Second Agricultural Credit
Project constitutes a major component of the Bank's strategy in the
agriculture sector. It will promote agricultural output and the adoption of
new technology, expand credit availability, stimulate a reform of the
principal financial institution in the agricultural sector, foster the
rationalization of interest rate policy in agriculture, and initiate an
investigation of ways to broaden agriculture credit and resource mobilization
in the rural areas.



II. The Agricultural Credit Subsector
A. Lending Institutions
2.01     Agricultural credit in Turkey is provided by toe following
institutions: the central bank, the agricultural bank, agricultural credit
cooperatives, agricultural sales cooperatives, commercial banks, and
agroindustries--all in the organized sector, and informal groups such as money
lenders and relatives in the unorganized sector.  Information on the amount of
credit provided by the informal groups and agroindustries is not available.
However, the amounts involved are believed to be substantial and interest
rates charged are high.  The Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) is the most
important source of funds lent to agriculture, providing about two-thirds of
the funds; the balance one-third is provided by TCZB out of resources
mobilized by it from commercial, household, and official deposits. The credit
and sales cooperatives derive their resources from CBT and TCZB, and the funds
lent by commercial banks to farmers are insignificant.
2.02     The Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) supports the agricultural sector
through (i) direct credits to state enterprises for agricultural support
purchases (without using TCZB as the intermediary), (ii) credits to
agricultural sales cooperatives 1/ through TCZB for support purchases, (iii)
credits to agricultural credit cooperatives through TCZb for on-lending to
farmers, (iv) credits to the agricultural (TZDK) supply agency for purchase,
distribution, and manufacture of agricultural inputs; and (v) rediscounting of
agricultural loans made by TCZB. In addition, the CBT is the administrator of
the Government's selective credit policies (para. 2.06).
2.03     The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), besides acting as the channel
for agricultural credits by CBT, devotes most of its own resources to
agricultural loans. These credits are distributed through a network of 1,050
branches as well as 2,450 agricultural credit cooperatives. In 1981, the main
agricultural sector loan beneficiaries from TCZB were: agricultural sales
cooperatives with 38% of total agricultural loan amounts disbursed;
agricultural supplies agency, 35%; farmers, 15%; agricultural credit
cooperatives, 10%; agroindustrial enterprises, 1%.
2.04     The agricultural credit cooperative system in Turkey comprises a
central union, 16 regional unions, 2,450 credit cooperatives with 1.5 million
members, and serves about 40% of the farm households in Turkey. It is
administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The credit cooperatives finance
their lending operations almost entirely from funds borrowed from TCZB while
using the membership dues to cover operating expenses. Besides providing
short-term and medium-term loans to their members, the credit cooperatives
also purcbase and market commodities, and help with the distribution of inputs
such as seeds, fertilizer, and pesticides. As of December 31, 1981, 63% of
the loans by the credit cooperatives were for the purcbase of fertilizers, 21%
for working capital needs, 14% for equipment purchases, and 2% for other
purposes.
1/ The sales cooperatives have the principal aim of purchasing the
agricultural products of their members and selling them profitably. They
act as intermediaries for the price support program. To do this, they get
priority in the allocation of agricultural credit and in 1981 received
about one-third of the total agricultural credit in Turkey.



2.05     The share of commercial banks in total agricultural credit is
insignificant. Indirectly, however, commercial banks provide support to
agriculture through their export financing activities. The credit is extended
to trading companies and agroindustries who in turn provide credit to farmers
for purchase of goods. The banks are reluctant to lend directly to the
farmers due to the higher profits obtainable in lending to industry and
commerce, relatively higher transaction costs of lending to agriculture, and
their lack of technical expertise.
B. Agricultural Credit Policy
2.06     The Government policy is to provide loans to the agriculture sector
on preferential terms. Pursuant to this policy, the Government (i)
establishes the interest rates that can be charged on preferential loans to
the agriculture sector; (ii) directs the CBT to provide loans to (a) selected
state enterprises to finance support purchases; and (b) TCZB for on-lending
directly and through credit cooperatives to farmers; (iii) approves the annual
lending program of TCZB; (iv) requires that TCZB should allocate at least 801
of its total lending to agriculture; and (v) authorizes an interest rate
subsidy to be paid to banks lending to agriculture out of their resources.
2.07     Almost all of the agricultural credit supply in the organized sector
takes place on preferential terms and originates in CBT and TCZB. The total
agricultural credit supply from CBT and TCZB resources and its distribution by
main purposes during the period 1977-81 are shown in the table belowi:
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
A. Total Agricultural Credits 1/
(TL Billions)                              107.7   135.1   210.7   323.5   524.4
B. Distribution of Total Credits
by main purposes (% share of A)
(i) Direct credits to Producers 2/          19       20      18       21       21
(ii) Credits for Support Purchases 3/    74           71      63       60       62
(iii) Credits for Input Supply 4/              7        9       19      19       17
C. Sources of Financing of
Total Credits (X share of A)
(i) Central Bank of Turkey                  66      65       67       69       60
(ii) TCZB Resources                          34       35      33       31       40
1/ For details, please see Annex 7, Supporting Table ST-1.
2/ Includes loans to farmers (directly by TCZB as well as by credit
cooperatives, and sales cooperatives) and loans to other agricultural
enterprises including agroindustries.
3/ Includes credits by CBT to state enterprises support purchases (para. 2.02)
and credits by TCZB to sales cooperatives.
4/ Comprises of amounts lent by TCZB and CBT to the Agricultural Supply Agency
(TZDK)



-7 -
The distribution of agricultural credit, shown in the above table, reflects
the priorities established by the Government. About two-thirds of total
agricultural credits were allocated for financing of the state enterprises for
agricultural price support purchases. The remainder was equally shared by
input supply activities and the direct lending to the farmers. The credits
for support purchase and input supply activities were short-term. About one
half of the direct lending to farmers was for medium-term loans and the other
half for short-term loans.
2.08     Credits for support purcbases to State Economic Enterprises (SEE) are
provided mainly from the CBT resources and in 1981 were distributed as
follows:  agricultural sales cooperatives, 34%; Soil Products Office (1M0),
27%; the Tea and Tobacco Monopoly (TEKEL), 25%; Meat and Fish Organization
(EBK), 8%; Tea Industry, 5%; and Milk Industries Organization (TSEK), 1%. All
of these SEEs are granted credits directly by CBT except for sales
cooperatives who are financed by the TCZB. The sales cooperatives which
receive the largest share in credits for support purchases have been
delinquent in repaying their loans to TCZB, thereby aggravating the overall
shortage of funds available for direct lending to farmers. The problems in
sales cooperatives arise due to a lack of accountability, inefficient
operations, and the diversion of funds to their manufacturing enterprises. As
part of a reorganization of the public sector administrative structure, the
Government is considering a reorganization of sales cooperatives, to improve
the efficiency of their operations.  heanwhile, under this project, an
agreement has been reached (para. 3.33) with the Government that TCZB woula
not bear the risk of default on its loans to sales cooperatives.
2.09     Most of the direct lending to farmers is done by the TCZB and the
credit cooperatives. The supply of institutional credit to farmers is far
short of their needs. The limited availability of funds available for direct
lending to farmers, together with the low interest rates on agricultural loans
and the deficiencies of the TCZB has createa a situation in which the loans to
farmers tend to be insufficient for the intended use, late in being disbursed,
and often given in installments wbich lag behind needs.
2.10     The agricultural credit needs during the 1980's are projected to be
substantial. It is estimated that to help achieve an agricultural growth rate
of 3% per annum, a doubling of institutional credit supply (in real terms) by
1990 over the 1981 levels may be necessary. This requirement could become
larger if supplemented by a strong farmer demand for investment credit. A
much larger share of agricultural credit will also have to be directed (a)
towards the medium- and small-sized farmers, and (b) to finance medium- and
long-term credits. The present agricultural credit institutional syste1m, as
well as the credit policies, would need to be modified to mobilize the
resources to meet the projected credit demand and to reach farmers in the
required numbers.
2.11     To meet the future credit needs and to resolve the current problems
in the credit system and policies, the development strategy in the subsector
should aim at; (a) strengthening of the credit institutions by improvements
in resource mobilization and lending capabilities of the TCZb and credit
cooperatives and involving other institutions, such as commercial banks, in
lending to agriculture; (b) directing an increased amount of lending resources
to meet the investment needs of farmers and curtailing the outlays for
financing the support purchases; ana (c) adopting a policy of real positive
interest rates on agricultural loans so as to prevent a depletion of lending
resources in real terms.



-8-
2.12     In the near term, the efforts to strengthen the credit institutions
would focus on TCZB and credit cooperatives. Over the longer term, the
Government should consider making the agricultural credit market more
competitive by establishing new institutions to tap resources from and lend to
rural areas as well as to involve the commercial banks in lending to the
agriculture sector. Improvements in TCZB should aim at making it more
responsive to farmers needs by decentralizing its operations, increasing the
flexibility of its lending policies and procedures, training its staff to
improve customer services, and mobilizing more resources from rural areas.
The credit cooperatives need strengthening through training of their staff,
augmentation of their financial resources, deployment of professional
managers, and installation of sound financial management practices and
systems. The reorganization of TCZB is a major objective of this project.
For the credit cooperatives, an assurance was obtained from the Government
during negotiations that it would undertake a study of measures for increasing
the effectiveness of the credit cooperative system. The study would examine
in particular the feasibility of the credit cooperatives playing a wider role
in rural areas in financial intermediation (such as collecting deposits and
possible expansion of their lending programs) and suggest measures for
strengthening their organization and operations.
2.13     The overall strengthening of credit institutions, as discussed above,
would help mobilize additional resources available for lending to
agriculture. However, care would be needed to ensure that the increased
resources are not absorbed by financing requirements for the support
purchases. The Government is aware of this and, in recent years (para. 1.09),
bas taken action to reduce the number of supported commodities and shift from
incentive pricing to floor pricing.
C. Interest Rates
2.14     The Government has had a long standing policy to provide credit for
agriculture at interest rates that are lower than for most other sectors. The
low interest rate policy for agriculture is a part of the overall Government
policy to provide selective credits at subsidizea interest rates for priority
sectors such as tourism, housing, agriculture, exports, and less developed
areas. Pursuant to this policy, the Government: (a) provides an interest
rate subsidy to any bank, wbich makes agricultural loans out of its own
resources, to compensate it for the negative spread between the cost of
resources and the permissible interest rate on agricultural loans; (b) directs
the CBT to provide funds, through a rediscounting mechanism, to local banks at
interest rates 2-3 points below the interest rate allowed on agricultural
loans; and (c) establishes the interest rate that can be charged on
preferential loans (benefitting from (a) and (b) above) to the agriculture
sector.
2.15     The on-lending interest rates in Turkey vary from 14% to over 70,
tbe highest rates being applied to non-preferential credits and lowest to
priority sectors. Interest rates on savings and time deposits range from
20-45%; no interest is paid on official and commercial deposits. The current
on-lending interest rates 1/ for agriculture are 20X on short-term loans and
22% on medium- and long-term loans. The interest rates on CBT rediscounts are
16-18%, and the interest rate subsidy on agricultural loans granted by the
banks from resources other than CBT borrowings is 8%. Since 1980 the
1/ For support purchases as well as direct lending to farmers.



-9-
Government has revised the interest rates 4 times; 3 times to increase them
from 14-16% to 22-24X in response to accelerating inflation and 1 time to
reduce them from 22-24% to their current level of 20-22% as the inflation
sharply declined in 1981. A notewortby feature of the current interest rate
policy in Turkey is that whenever the interest rates are revised they are
applicable to the outstanding loans as well as the new loans. This policy bas
helped TCZB to remain financially sound and kept the subsidies lower than they
would be otherwise.
2.16     The current short-term agricultural interest rate is negative in real
terms as compared to the 1982 inflation rate, as measured by the Wholesale
Price Index, of 25 percent. Nevertheless, it should be recognized that by
holding the agricultural interest rate relatively constant while inflation
rates bave been reduced from over 100 percent in 1980 to 25 percent in 1982,
the Government has already achieved a substantial decrease in the negative
spread. Assurances were obtained during negotiations, from the Government,
that it would adjust agricultural interest rates on new short-term loans on an
agreed basis and to maintain such positive rates thereafter and that
preferential agricultural interest rates on new and existing medium- and
long-term loans would be set at a rate at least equal to the adjusted rate on
the short-term loans. The agreed basis refers to the Government's letter of
development policies in connection with a proposed Fourth SAL, which
stipulates that by the end of 1984 the minimum preferential interest rate will
be at least equal to the rate of inflation. The rate of inflation will be!
measured by the Wholesale Price Index or by such otber appropriate index as
may be agreed by the Bank.
III. The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (The Borrower)
3.01     The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) is the oldest arid the largest
bank in the country. Established in 1863, it is wholly Government owned.
Under its Charter (Law 3202 of 1937, as amended by Law 2277 of 1979), its main
responsibility is to finance the agricultural sector. In addition, it
provides full banking services to the rural and urban population through its
network of 1,050 branches. TqZB also acts as paymaster for Government
transactions in about half of the administrative districts in the country. It
has the largest volume of deposits (19X of total deposits in the banking
sector) and employs about 31,000 people (almost 25% of all banking staff in
the country). Since 1971, TCZB has been the ctiannel for 10 IBRD agricultural
projects with loans totalling US$233 million and is the proposed borrower
under this project.
3.02     The First Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan
1248-TU) recognized the need for reorganization and strengthening of TCZB and
incluaed funds for a study by international consultants of various
institutional aspects including organization, lending,'financial, and
accounting systems. Appointment of consultants was delayed, but early in
1980, the Consultant (Touche Ross and Company) made a series of 10 specific
studies on various aspects of TCZB's operations ana submitted their reports in
June 1981. Findings of the study are reflected in the discussion in this
chapter. Based on the Touche Ross Reports, Hacettepe University, Ankara,
Turkey (at TCZB request) prepared a development and application plan to be
pursued by TCZB. On the basis of these reports, TCZB has adopted an Action
Plan (AP) for implementation of proposals for the improvement in organization,
policies and procedures in TCZB. The contents of the AP and arrangements for
monitoring its implementation are presented in para. 4.15 and Section E of
Chapter V and Annex 3 of this report.



- 10 -
A. Organization, Management, and Staff
3.03     TCZB's operations are governed by its charter as well as the Law on
State Economic Enterprises. Although virtually autonomous in its organization
and management, TCZB is under the control of the Ministry of Commerce. Tbe
organizational structure of TCZB is presented in the IBRD Chart 24720. Its
main organs are: the General Assembly; Supreme Board; Board of Directors;
Managing Committee; General Directorate; Director's Committee; Regional
Directorates; and Branches. Some of these organs (Managing Committee,
Directors Committee and Regional Directorates) are not effective, contributing
to a centralized organizational structure.
3.04     The General Assembly and the Supreme Board  Under its Charter, the
General Assembly of the Turkish Parliament is also the General Assembly of
TCZB and is comparable to a shareholder general meeting. The Supreme Board
for the Regulation of Credits determines TCZB's annual lending and investment
program and ensures that TCZB's activities and policies are consistent with
the Government's economic policies. The Supreme Board's members are the
Ministers of Finance, Commerce, Agriculture and Forestry, TCZB's Director
General, Chairman of the Central Bank, Undersecretaries of the State Planning
Organization and Land and Agricultural Reform Departments, and members of
TCZB's Board of Directors.
3.05     Board of Directors  TCZB's full Board of Directors consists of the
Director General (DG) of TCZB as Chairman, three of the six Assistant General
Directors of TCZB, two members appointed by the Council of Ministers (one each
designated by the Ministers of Finance and of Commerce), one member elected by
the agricultural credit cooperatives, and a seventh chosen by TCZB's staff and
employees. The Board determines and approves general lending and investment
policies and procedures, the opening and closing of branches, operational and
personnel budgets, and loans and investments beyond the authority of the
Director General.
3.06     Management  Day-to-day management of TCZB activities is the
responsibility of the General Directorate of TCZB. In addition, the TCZB
Charter provides for (i) a Managing Committee to make decisions of management
and administrative affairs as delegated by the Board, and (ii) a Directors
Committee to deal with the administrative affairs of TCZb employees. The
General Directorate is headed by a Director General (DG) who is the chief
executive officer of TCZB. The DG is assisted by 6 Assistant Director
Generals (ADGs). The DG and the ADGs are nominated by the Ministry of
Commerce and appointed by the Government. The General Directorate performs
its functions through 35 Divisions managed by 6 ADGs as shown in the IBRD
Chart 24720.  The Managing Committee consists of the DG and 2 board members.
The Directors Committee consists of the ADG responsible for staff, Director of
the Accounting Division, Chief of the Board of Inspectors, and two other
members selected from the TCZB Department Directors.
3.07     The organizational structure of TCZB is centralized.  At present the
Board of Directors of TCZB spends much more time on administrative rather than
on policy matters. A very large amount of work is referreca to the Board since
(a) the Managing and the Directors Committees are inactive, and (b) loans of
more than TL 2 million ($10,000) must be approved by the Board (para. 3.20 ).
Consequently there are delays in decision making. The present structure of
the General Directorate is also such that it results in a heavy workload for



the ADGs and the DG and does not allow them much time for planning and poLicy
formulation. TCZB management is aware of the need to decentralize the
decision making responsibilities and to improve planning and policy making
and, as part of the Action Plan, is taking steps to decentralize the decision
making in loan approvals and other mtters within the limits set by the current
banking legislation. To set the stage for further decentralization of loan
approval authority in TCZB, assurances have been obtained from the Governaent
that it would, by December 31, 1983, take necessary action to permit TCZB to
increase substantially the minimum loan amount requiring Board of Directors'
approval (para. 5.20). A banking reform decree to be issued in the near
future is expected to increase from TL 2 million to TL 20 million the size of
loans requiring Board of Directors' approval.
3.08     Regional Directorates  TCZB's Charter provides for the establishment
of Regional Directorates (RDs) to oversee the work of the branches. In 1977
seven RDs were established, but to date they have only limited
responsibilities, mainly for staffing matters. In September 1982, the
Government published the "Bylaws of the Regional Directorates of TCZB" to
expand the role and responsibilities of the RDs and enable decentralization of
TCZB operations. According to the Bylaws, the RDs would be responsible for
investigation and approval of credit requests that exceed the branches'
authority; overseeing accounting records; the setting of branch
targets--particularly for deposits; dealing witb branch staffing matters; and
opening of new TCZB branches.  The Bylaws specify the duties, authority and
responsibilities of Regional Directors and senior staff. The Bylaws represent
an important attempt to decentralize branch operations and delegate
responsibility. The Action Plan contains proposals for assumption by the RDs,
over a 3-year period, of the duties and responsibilities as set out in the
Bylaws (para. 4.15).
3.09     Branches  The 1,050 branches of TCZB are located in both the rural
and the urban areas. The branches carry out their work fairly independently
according to the guidelines and regulations provided for them by the General
Directorate. The supervision of branches is done through an annual programme
of inspections by TCZB's Board of Inspectors (which is equivalent to an
internal audit department). However, in many instances the branches do not
follow the guidelines issued by the General Directorate, and this has led to
inefficiencies in the lending operations of TCZB. The effectiveness of branch
supervision should improve once the Regional Directorates become fully
operational.
3.10     The poor communication among the various units of TCZB and the
voluminous and repetitive paperwork to satisfy procedures are major
impediments in TCZB's activities. The problem is present both between the
head office units and between the branches and the head office. As a result,
delays occur and efficiency suffers. To address these problems, TCZB would
undertake (para. 5.19) a systems and procedures study with the assistance of
independent consultants at an early date. The terms of reference for the
study are shown in Annex 2.
3.11     Staff and Staffing  Over the past five years, total staff has
increased from about 25,000 to 30,700 at end-1961. Read office staff has
remained at just under one eighth throughout the period. Of the total staff
at end-1981 one-eighth were administrative and supervisory, and the rest
office staff and ancillary workers. Four fifths of the technical staff of 700



- 12 -
were agricultural engineers and technicians. Annual turnover of staff has
been consistently low, averaging just over 47/ over the past 5 years, mainly
because salaries are above those in the! civil service. About two-fifths of
the turnover is due to staff retirements. The staff are generally well
qualified and trained.
3.12     The growth in total staff has slowed down in recent years due to the
Government imposed restrictions on recruiting in public agencies. The current
level of staff in TCZB appears satisfactory in relation to the volume of
business, and further increases should be avoided. However, strengthening of
staff in three activities would be desirable.  First, staff in the Projects
Evaluation Division should be increased since the present strength is not
sufficient to cope with the volume of work, leading to long delays in
evaluating projects. Second, the branches which are dependent on other
branches for technical help to operate the Supervised Credit Program should be
provided with their own technical staff. Suitable norms for this purpose
should be devised. Thira, the number of branch inspectors should be increased
so that the internal audit of an increased number of branches can be conducted
each year. Most of the above strengthening of staff can be largely
accomplished by retraining and relocating existing staff of TCZB. The Action
Plan contains measures to strenghthen the staffing as proposed above (para.
4.15).
3.13     Staff Training  TCZB has a sizeable training program, based on its
training center in Ankara, although senior staff requiring special training
are sent overseas. There is also considerable on-the-job training. Training
courses cover banking principles, management skills, foreign affairs, foreign
languages and special training courses for agricultural engineers and
technicians. An average of 3,900 staff per year have received some training
over the past 3 years. Under the project, training in foreign countries for
about 130 staff is projected over the next 3 years (1983-85).
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
3.14     The agricultural lending operations of TCZB are governed by the
"Agricultural Credit Guidelines" (the Guidelines) issued in 1979. The
Guidelines were developed in consultation with the Bank as part of the First
Agricultural Credit Project. The Guidelines are comprehensive and cover,
inter-alia, the following subjects: type of credits, lending (appraisal)
criteria, sub-borrower contribution, interest rates, loan approval
authorities, security for loans, loan disbursemnents and supervision, repayment
terms, rescheduling of dloans, and legal remedies. The provisions of the
Guideline are generally satisfactory. The critical problems in TCZB's lending
operations arise due to the divergences between the Guidelines and the actual
lending practices followed by the branches. The adherence by branches to the
Guidelines provisions should significantly improve once the Regional
Directorates become fully operational and starit to carry out their
responsibilities for monitoring of branch actfivities. brief particulars of
the Guidelines are described below; the full text of the Guidelines is in the
Project File (Document B.4).
3.15     Loan Types  The Guidelines permit lending for virtually all
agricultural activities including production,, maarketing, and processing.
Loans can be made to farmers, partner#hips, cooperatives, agricultural
enterprises, public organizations, and local Government entities. For the



- 13 -
purposes of appraisal criteria and security requirements, loans are classified
in two types: Project Credits and Normal (Non-Project) Credits. Project
Credits are made on the basis of a 'Project Document' whicb contains
technical, financial, and if required, economic information to enable their
appraisal. Normal credits do not require a Project Document and are made on
the basis of a simple loan application stating the purpose and amount of
credit required and availability of sufficient collateral security. For the
benefit of small and medium farmers, TCZB operates a Supervised Credit
Scheme. The loans under this scheme are treated as Project Credits. In
addition, from time to time TCZB is given responsibility to provide credits in
support of special schemes launched by the Government. Sucn credits are
called Encouragement and Development Credits, and the applicable lending terms
and conditions are specified in the relevant Decrees issued by the
Government. Project credits include loans to credit cooperatives, sales,
cooperatives, supply agency, agroindustries, and to farmers under the
Supervised Credit Scheme and directly against a Project Document; these
credits account for most of TCZB lending to agriculture.
3.16     Lending Criteria   The Guidelines provide that the small- and
medium-scale farmers and agricultural enterprises, cooperatives, and
enterprises assigned a priority status by the Government, are to receive
priority in approval of agricultural credit by TCZB. The main criteria for
approval of loans are that the approved credit miust be in proportion to real
credit requirements and must not exceed the ability to repay the credit. The
repayment capacity is to be estimated on the basis of the projected income and
the total expenses including living expenses. Seasonal credits are to be
granted, for up to 1 year maturity, based on typical costs of crop or
livestock production for a particular region as determined by TCZB and MAF.
The medium-term credits for investment are to be based on the price of
livestock or goods to be financed and estimated investment cost for buildings
and installations. Loans to credit cooperatives, sales cooperatives, and
supply agency are based on their annual activity programs as approved by the
Government.
3.17     Sub-borrower Contributions for the project credits is 10% of the
total production and investment cost in the case of small- and medium-farmers,
30% for other farmers in developing regions, ana 40% for all other farmers.
The sub-borrowers contribution can be cash or kind including family labor.
For the Encou:ragement and Development Credits, the contribution is determined
by the provisions of the relevant scheme/decree. The normal credits are
granted according to norms, which are established annually on the basis of
typical costs of production and investment. In the current high inflation
economy, the sub-borrowers frequently end up paying more than the required
contributions due to the cost increases which occur between the time of loan
approval and utilization. The Action Plan contains proposals for systematic
annual review of the credit norms to make them adequate to cover the costs
adjusted for inflation.
3.18     Security  For project credits, the project cash flow and
credit-worthinesss are the main security, but a mortgage of land is obtained
from the loan applicant if the purpose of the loan includes land improvement.
For non-project credits up to TL 750,000 ($4,000), a joint personal guarantee
of 2-5 farmers is obtained. For non-project credits of more than TL 750,000,
mortgage of immovable property and/or hypothecation of movable assets is
obtained. The Bank has suggested that valuation of land for security and loan
limits on joint guarantees should both be subject to annual review to adjust



- 14 -
for inflation; and that joint personal guarantees should be accepted as
security for medium- and long-term loans. TCZB, agreeing with the first part
of the suggestion, has recently revised the limits upwarus but considers the
use of a joint personal guarantee for medium-term loans-as too risky at this
time.  However, it has agreed to study the matter further.
3.19     Maturity Periods  For Project Credits, 1:he loan repayment period is
established taking into account the net income and the cash flow projections
for the concerned project. For the normal (non-project) credits, the maximum
repayment term is 5 years for investments in livestock, machinery, and
equipment and 20 years for land improvement and land acquisition purposes.
The maximum repayment periods are inclusive of any grace period. The basic
criteria to be followed in setting the maturity period for any loan is the
nature and the projected income from the investment. However for livestock
and movable properties, the maturity period should not exceed one half of the
normal economic life of the asset to be financed. The maturity period for
'encouragement credits' are set according to the provision of the concerned
schemes.
3.20     Loan Approval Authority  The current banking law specifies that loans
of more than TL 2 million ($10,000) must be approved by the Board of
Directors; thus effectively putting a ceiling on the delegation of loan
approval authority. The regional directorates and large branches have been
allowed to approve loans up to TL 2 million. Small and medium branches are
given loan approval authority on a progressive scale.
3.21     Disbursement and Supervision  As far as possible, TCZB disburses
money direct]y to suppliers of inputs/equipment. Thus farmers receive
fertilizer, seeds, equipment, etc. rather than cash. Under the supervised
credit scheme, field supervision of fanns is undertaken to ensure proper use
of funds.
3.22     Repayments and Rescheduling  TCZB follows a strict policy regarding
repayments on time, although reschedulings are permitted in case of natural
disasters or exceptional individual circumstances.
3.23     As rioted above, the Guidelines are generally satisfactory.  However,
the interpretation and application of the Guidelines varies widely from one
branch to ancither, and the farmers complain regarding insufficient loan
amounts to ccver credit needs, stringent security requirements, delays in loan
approvals andL disbursements, and poor customer service. The overall scarcity
of loanable funds, low interest rates, and lack of adequate supervision of
branches lie at the root of these problems. The Branch Managers frequently
have to ration credit among large numbers of applicants and tena to give loans
to as many farmers as possible but in the process are unable to meet the full
requirements of each farmer. They also tend to favor large scale farmers who
can provide ample security and are perceived to be most credit worthy, and the
small- and medium-farmers tend to get discouraged. Supply of projecit credits
to farmers is marred by the long time necessary for loan approvals.
C. Lending Operations
3.24     TCZB makes an annual operations plan showing both the sources of
funds and allocations of funds by type of credits and beneficiaries. This
annual plan is approved by the Supreme Board. The total loan disbursements by
TCZB during the period 1977-81, and their allocation by type are shown in the
table below:



- 15 -
1977     1978      1979      1980     1981
A. Total Loan Disbursements 1/
by TCZB (TI. billion)            156.8    215.0    315.5    634.2    827.0
B. Distribution of Loans(X)
(i) Agricultural Loans              92.5      93.3      94.0     90.4      89.9
a. Production (short term)
-Direct to farmers            9.0       8.1      7.4       5.7       6.8
-Credit Cooperatives          8.0       7.7      9.9       7.7       9.0
-Sales Cooperatives          47.2     46.4      37.7      28.7      34.5
-Agric. Supply Agency        20.7      23.5     32.3      42.2      31.7
Subitotal Short-Term      84.8     85.7      87.3      84.2      82.0
b. Investment (Med/Long Term)  6.7         b.2       5.8      5.5       7.3
c. Agroindustries (All Terms)  1.0         1.4       0.9      0.7       0.6
(ii) Commercial Loans                  7.5      6.7       6.0       9.6     10.1
Total (All Loans)                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
1/ It should be noted that these amounts represent total disbursemenlts during
the year.  Ihe year-end balances of agricultural loans outstanding would be
much less, due to intra-year repayments. Year end balances are shown in
Tables 1 and 2.
3.25     In accordance with its charter, TCZB has allocated more than 80% of
its lending for agricultural purposes. Within the agricultural credits, loans
to sale cooperatives for support purchases have declined from 47% to 37% of
total disbursements over the period, while that to the agricultural supply
agency bave increased from 21% to 31% due to increase in fertilizer prices.
As a result, the direct short-term loans to farmers have remained about 15-17%
of the total loans. Long term agricultural loans for investment and
agroindustries as a percent of total agricultural loans have remained at under
8% over the period. However, the share of medium-term loans in direct lenaing
to farmers is about 45%. The above distribution of TCZB loans reflects the
priorities established by the Government (paras. 2.06 and 2.07). A
significant increase in direct loans to farmers, particularly for medium- and
long-term investment purposes should have a high priority to expand the
production base in the agriculture sector. This would require improvements in
TCZB's loan approval procedures for project credits.
3.26     TCZB's charter states that small- and medium-size farmers should be
given priority in agricultural lending. However, TCZB does not maintain data
to firmly document the extent to which the small and medium farms benefit from
TCZB loans. By their design, the lending to credit cooperatives as well as
the lending under the supervised credit scheme concentrates on small and
medium farms. On this basis, it is estimated that about 50% of direct lending
to farmers or abDout 20% total agricultural credit (including loans to sales
cooperatives and supply agency) goes to small- and medium-size farms.
3.27     The direct lending to farmers (excluding agroindustries) by TCZB is
characterized by a large number of small loans; as of the end of 1981, direct
lending by TCZB comprised of about 1.4 million agricultural loan accounts with
an average loan size of TL 49,800 ($274). The average loan size for loans to



- 16 -
about 2,150 credit cooperatives was TL 77 million ($426,000) and for 286
agroindustries loans, the average loan size was TL 15 million ($83,600). The
loan accounts for the sales cooperatives and the supply-agency are large (TL
166.8 billion and TL 87 billion respectively) and as noted above, accounted
for about 70% of agricultural lending by TCZb in 1981. The mix of very small,
medium, and large loans in TCZB's lending portfolio enables TCZB to keep the
ratio of operating costs (including personnel and other expenses but excluding
financial costs) to a volume of business lower than what it would be if TCZB
was to concentrate on direct lending to farmers only.
D. Financial Situation and Performance
3.28     Resources  As of December 31, 1981, total resources of TCZB amounted
to TL 620.2 billion, an increase of 61% over 1980 in nominal terms and were
derived from Government as well as non-Government resources. The
non-Government resources constitute the majority (52X of total) and mainly
consist of deposits from household and commercial sectors. The remainder 48%
of resources came from Government sources comprising of borrowings from the
CBT (33%) and official deposits (15%). This resource structure has not
changed significantly during the last five years, and it is encouraging to
note that TCZB continues to finance over half of its operations through
mobilization of resources from non-Government sources. At present, TCZB's
market sbare in the total banking system deposits (comprising of 40 private
and public deposit banks) is'about 20% (the largest of any bank).  Fuirther
increases in non-Government resources is possible through deposit mobilization
efforts focussed on rural areas, whose savings potential bas neither been
fully tapped by TCZB nor by otner financial institutions in Turkey.
3.29     Financial Performance of TCZB during the period 1977-81 has been
satisfactory. Its financial statements and key financial indicators are shown
in the Supporting Tables ST 2-4. Summarized 5-year income and expenditure
statements are as follows:
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
- - - - -   TL billions - - - - - -
A. Income
- Interest and Commissions              7.4    10.4    17.3    40.4    t4.6
- Net Payments from IRDF 1/             0.4      0.9    -0.5      1.8      9.3
- Other lncomes                         0.8      1.0      1.8     2.8      7.5
Total Income (A)                   8.6    12.3    18.6    45.0   101.4
B. Expenditure
- Staff Expenses                        2.2      3.5      7.4    12.1    14.1
- Interest Paid 2/                      3.3      4.2 *   7.0    19.3    52.1        *
- Other Expenses                        2.1      3.1      3.7     7.8    13.2
Total Expenses (B)                 7.6    10.8    18.1    39.2    79.4
C. Net Income                              1.0      1.5      0.5      5.8    22.0
1/  This is comprised of the interest rate subsidy payments (paras. 2.06 and
2.14) by CBT out of an Interest Rate Differential Fund (IRDF) to TCZB on
agricultural loans made by TCZB out of resources other than the borrowings
(rediscounts) from CBT.
2/ Includes interest paid on deposits as well as borrowings from CBT and
other sources.



- 17 -
3.30     The financial performance of TCZB is affected by its role as the
Government's agent by (a) providing loans to the agriculture sector on
preferential terms (para. 2.06), and (b) the Government's treasury functions
in about half of the administrative districts in the country. Due to its
former role, TCZB receives an interest rate subsidy of 8% on funds lent to
agriculture out of resources other than CBT borrowings and realizes a lower
yield on its agricultural loan portfolio, since interest rates on preferential
loans to agriculture are lower than for most other sectors (para. 2.14). The
latter role of ICZB adds to its operating costs for which TCZB receives no
direct compensation from the Government. However, TCZB's average cost of
deposits is lowered, since the Government maintains offical deposits witb
TCZB, which are mainly sigbt deposits on which no interest is payable.
3.31     In 1981, the average interest earned (including payments from IRDF)
by TCZB on its agricultural loan portfolio (including loans from CBT funds as
well as resources mobilized by TCZB) was 23%. For the same period, the
average interest cost of deposits was 17%, and the cost of borrowing from CBT
was also about 17%. The resulting spread of about 6% allowed TCZB to cover
its operating costs and realize profits. However, the TL 22 billion net
income of TCZB is overstated since it includes the net interest rate subsidy
payments from the Interest Rate Differential Fund (IRDF). These payments
represented 42% of the net income, and TCZB would have remained profitable
even without these payments from IRDF, although its net income would have been
smaller. As noted earlier (para. 2.14), the subsidy from IRDF is paid to
compensate TCZB for the negative spread between the cost of resources and the
permissible interest rate on agricultural loans. This spread has narrowed
during 1982, and the payment from IRDF reduced from 11% in 1981 to 8% in 1982,
and is expected to be further reduced as the agricultural interest rates under
this project reach real positive levels (para. 2.17).
3.32     Loan Collections Performance  The ratios of amounts collected against
the amounts due for payment (Collection Ratio) for the major types of loans by
TCZB are shown below:
Type of Loans                  1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
- - - -(Collection Ratios %)- - - -
1. Direct Loans to Farmers
Normal Credits                         69      74       80       82      81
Project Credits
-Supervised Credits                   73      76       84       86      81
-Development Credits                  81      49       62       59      66
2. Loans to Credit Cooperatives          100      100     100      100      100
3. Loans to Supply Agency                100     100      100      100      100
4. Loans to Sales Cooperatives            70       55      75       80       83
The above data show an encouraging trend of improvement in collection
performance. Most of the collection rates are in excess of 80% and considered
satisfactory, except for development credits. However, these rates could be
further improved at the field level and, with increased branch supervision by
the Regional Directorates wben they become fully effective, better collection
rates can be anticipated.



- 18 -
3.33     Arrears and Reserves  As of end 1981, total accumulated arrears were
TL 33.6 billion. Arrears as a percentage of the total agricultural loan
portfolio bave declined from 23% in 1977 to 9% in 1981, reflecting both a
better collection performance, as noted above, as well as a rapid increase in
the loans outstanding. Over 75% of the arrears (TL 25.4 billion) are on the
loans made to sales cooperatives; the balance being arrears on loans to
farmers. As noted earlier (para. 2.08), TCZB loans to sales cooperatives are
partly refinanced by the borrowings from the CBT. TCZB repays the loan from
CBT on due dates, even though the sales cooperatives have not repaid their
loan in full. Since TCZB lends to sales cooperatives under the Government
directive, it is reasonable that the Government itself should bear the loss.
Accordingly, in early 1982 the Government, through the Ministry of Finance,
provided an amount of TL 30.2 billion to TCZB to write off a part of the
accumulated arrears of sales cooperatives with the TCZB. Of this amount,
about TL 12 billion was for overdue interest payments and the balance
TL 18 billion tor principal repayment. Further payments to TCZB would be
necessary to fully write-off the arrears of the sales cooperatives. An
assurance has been obtained from the Government that it would compensate TCZB
on an annual basis for losses arising from its loans to sales cooperatives.
The total reserves of TCZB at end 1981 were TL 3.3 billion. These reserves
are considered adequate to cover the arrears under litigation - TL 2.2
billion, excluding the arrears of the sales cooperatives.
3.34     Audit  TCZB's Board of Inspectors is responsible for internal
auditing. It makes regular inspections of branch accounts and special
investigations as required. Large branches are currently inspectea every year
and small ones every three years. An annual audit of the accounts of all
branches is preferable, and would be attempted as the Board's staft is
increased and some of the Board's staff is stationed in the Regional
Directorate Offices.
3.35     Independent external audit of TCZB's operations is the responsibility
of the Board of Sworn Bank Examiners, Ministry of Finance. The auditors are
required to ensure that TCZB's transactions are conducted according to the
law. The Bank has received regular reports in the past under the First
Agricultural Credit Project, Loan 1248-TU.
E. Performance Under First Agricultural Credit Project
3.36     A Bank loan of $63.0 1/ million was approved to TCZb in 1975 for the
Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248-TU). The prcject
objectives are to raise farm production through loans to farmers, establish
new and improve existing agroindustries, purchase one ferry-boat, and provide
consultant services and vehicles. Except for $27 million of Bank loan
proceeds earmarked for agroindustrial credit and some small amounts for
technical assistance, all the other categories have been fully disbursea. The
main problem with the agroindustrial component has been that borrowers have
been required to assume the foreign exchange risk, which is not requirea of
them under other programs. Discussions are continuing on the possibility of
1/ $8.7 million of the loan was cancelled at the Borrower's request due to
(i) a Government program for cattle fattening credit at subsidized rates,
which made a non-subsidized component for the same purposes redundant; and
(ii) a UNDP grant for training, replacing a similar component in the loan.



-19-
the Government arranging a suitable foreign exchange risk insurance scheme.
The completion date for the project has been extended from September 30, 1981,
to June 30, 1984. TCZB's performance under the project is satisfactory.
F.  Summary of Evaluation of TCZB
3.37     TCZB is the largest bank in Turkey and has operated successfully for
120 years. In an institution as old and as large as TCZB, organizational
problems are not unexpected. The principal problem in TCZB is
centralization. The 1,050 branches of TCZB are controlled by the head office
located in Ankara. The regional directorates, though existent, are
ineffective. Within the head office the decision-making is concentrated in
the Board of Directors and delegation of authority is inadequate. In
addition, there is overlapping of functions of various administrative units
resulting in lack of coordination and excessive paperwork. The communication
process between head office and the branches needs to be significantly
improved and the supervision of branches needs to be made more effective.
Remedial measures to overcome the above deficiencies are the main objective of
the Action Plan approved by TCZB (para. 4.15). The streamlining of procedures
and the flow of paperwork is to be addressed through a Systems and Procedures
Study, to be undertaken as part of the Action Plan.
3.38     The lending policies and procedures of TCZB are generally
satisfactory. However, the critical problem arises in application of these
policies and procedures. In an atmosphere of severe credit rationing, the
managers at TCZB branches resort to arbitrary rationing measures and
significant divergence between official lending criteria and actual lending
practices is observed. The short-term solution to these problems is increased
supervision of branches and emphasis on improved customer relations. The
medium-term solution lies in increasing the lending resources for farmers,
through increased resource mobilization and restructuring of current
distribution of available funds between direct lending and lending for support
purchases. The supervision of branches is expected to be improved when tne
regional directorates become fully operational. Arrangements for this are
included in the Action Plan (para. 4.15).
3.39     The financial performance of TCZB has been satisfactory.  During the
period 1977-81, it financed more than half of its operations from
non-Government resources, consistently realized profits, and increased its
net-worth, in real terms by 62%. The profitability and gain in net-worth of
TCZB remain valid even when adjustments are made for the interest rate subsidy
payments to TCZB and the injection of TL 11.4 billion in 1981 in TCZB share
capital by the Government.  In looking at the financial performance of TCZB,
it should be notecd that the performance is conditioned by the Government's
intervention in TUZB operations as discussed in paras. 3.30 and 3.31. The
financial condition of TCZB is also satisfactory with the exception of arrears
of sales cooperatives. Excluding the loans to sales cooperatives, the quality
of the lending portfolio of TCZB appears to be good; the collection ratios are
in excess of 80%, the turnover ratio is satisfactory, the overdues in excess
of two years are d,eclining and the reserves cover the overdues over two
years. In the past, the Government has borne losses on account of loans to
sales cooperatives and has agreed (para. 3.33) to compensate TCZB for such
losses in the future.



- 20 -
3.40     The accounting and audit procedures of TCZB are acceptable though
they can be improved.  There is an urgent need for automation of the
accounting system and introduction of a functional cost accounting system to
provide the information needed for management and to enable more realistic
pricing of various functions performed by TCZB. The Action Plan includes a
study on accounting systems. As regards the audit, an effort is underway to
improve the overall audit standards and capabilities in Turkey. Results of
this effort could improve the auality of audit of TCZB. In the meantime the
current arrangements have been accepted for audit of all Bank-assisted
projects and are acceptable for this project too.
IV. The Project
A. Project Objectives
4.01     The main objectives of the project would be to:
(a)   increase agricultural production and to raise the productivity and
income of farmers by supporting TCZB in its lending activities in
those areas where the Government has undertaken to intensify support
services to farmers;
(b)   further encourage institution building of TCZB tbrough:
(i) an agreed Action Plan for its reorganization and strengtbening;
and
(ii) provision of staff training and eauipment;
(c)   address sectoral issues of on-lending interest rates and
strengthening of credit cooperatives through seeking agreement with
the Government to (i) achieve real positive on-lending interest rates
in the agriculture sector by end 1984, and (ii) arrange for a study
to develop a 5-year plan for development of the credit cooperative
system, which may form the basis of a future project for possible
Bank financing.
B. Project Components
4.02     The project would be implemented over a four-year period (1983-86)
and would include loans by TCZB under the following project components:
(a)   On-Farm Development  Loans to about 76,500 farmers in 10 selected
provinces of Turkey (IBRD Map 17071), where the Government plans to
intensify general extension services, including 6,500 medium-term
loans to farmers for livestock and horticulture production and
purchase of farm machinery, and 70,000 short-term loans for working
capital needs;
(b)   Second Crops Scheme  Short-term loans would be provided to about
60,000 farmers to grow a second crop on about 220,000 ha of irrigated
areas in 15 provinces;
(c)   Fallow Reduction Scheme  Short-term loans would be provided to about
50,000 farmers to grow crops on about 265,000 ha of cultivated areas,
in 12 provinces, which are currently left fallow;



- 21 -
(d)   IAEE Irrigation Component  Short and medium-term loans would be
provided to about 25,000 farmers, to meet their on-farm development
and short-term credit needs in the areas covered by the Government's
irrigation development scheme which has been proposed for a loan from
the Bank (Report No. 4299-TU).
(e)   Corum-Cankiri Project  Short-term loans would be provided to about
60,000 farmers in areas covered by a Bank assisted Corum-Cankiri
Rural Development Project (Loan 1130-TU). These loans would belp in
the further reduction of fallow areas and intensification of crop
productions in the Corum and Cankiri provinces of Turkey; and
(f)   Strengthening of TCZB through an Action Plan (AP) for its
reorganization and improvement in its operations. Funds would tie
provided to TCZB for (a) overseas training of its staff, (b) purchase
of vebicles and eQuipment to facilitate its work, and (c)
consultants' services to assist TCZB in carrying out a systems and
procedures study, an accounting systems study, and any such other
studies as may be agreed between the Bank and TCZB.
4.03     Overall, t:he project would cover 29 provinces (in some provinces 2 or
more components would be simultaneously implemented) as shown in the IBRD
Map 17071.
C. Detailed Features
On-Farm Development Loans
4.04     The 6,500 medium-term loans under this component of the project are
expected to include 2,100 loans for farm mechanization, 1,400 each for cattle
fattening and orchard establishment, 840 for sheep fattening, and 420 each for
broiler and egg production. These loans would finance the purchase of
machinery and equipment, construction of farm buildings, initial livestock
reQuirements, planting materials, permanent working capital reQuirements. and
start-up expenses as needed in each case. The 70,000 short-term loans vculd
finance expenditures for seed, fertilizers, animal feed, as well as other
operating expenses relating to crop and livestock production by farmers, The
scope of this component would be limited to 10 provinces where the Goverrtmerlt
proposes to strengthen the extension services. In 7 out of these 10
provinces, loans for livestock development would also be provided under the
ongoing Livestock Ill, IV and V Projects (Loan Nos. 1265-TU, 1586-TU, and
1862-TU). The lending targets for livestock production purposes, under this
project, have been established after taking into consideration the objectives
of these ongoing livestock projects and taking note of TCZB's past performance
and future lending program in these provinces. An assurance has been obtained
from TCZB that, in those provinces where the Bank-assisted livestock credit
projects are operating and wbich are included under this component, it would
make loans for livestock activities only after the funds for similar purposes
under the livestock projects are utilized and will thereafter lend on
on-lending procedures similar to those for livestock projects.
4.05     The Government's extension service is active in the 10 provinces and
includes 150 agricultural engineers and 980 agricultural technicians. ]:t is
planned to intensify the extension services in these provinces by providing
additional extension staff, improving the applied agricualtural researcb, and



- 22 -
introducing a training and visit system for agricultural extension. A project
for this purpose is being prepared by the Government for possible Bank
financing. The existing extension staff in the provinces, with the planned
training and better organization, would be sufficient to serve the needs of
the farmers receiving loans under this component. However, when the propsosed
extension project is effective, the credit provided under this component would
complement the extension activities under that project.
4.06     The 10 provinces include about 730,000 farm households in 6,150
villages. These farm households own about 6.35 million ha of agricultural
land of which 94% is rainfed. Under rainfed farming conditions, cultivation
in many areas must await the onset of autumn rains with the result that
timeliness and speed of land preparation is critical. In 1980, there were
about 75,000 tractors in these provinces, but it is estimated that about 5,000
of these would become due for replacement during the project period. The
agricultural eauipment, in relation to the number of tractors, appears to be
insufficient, and there is a strong demand for the purchase of this
eQuipment. Under the project, a provision for purchase for about 1,400
tractors with ancillary farm equipment has been made. Implementation of the
extension services and the short-term loans to be provided under this
component are expected to increase the supply of fodder as well as protein
concentrates. There is already a strong interest from farmers in the
livestock production. With the increased availability of livestock feeds,
interest in these activities can be expected to grow steadily. The current
orchards are low producing. The availability of high yielding fruit varieties
offer a good income opportunity to farmers, and in recent years there is
increasing interest in establishment of new orchards, mainly apple orchards,
where annual yields up to 20 tons/ha can be realized, as opposed to the
current average yield of 5 tons/ha.
Second Crops Scheme
4.07     Under this component, short-term loans would be provided to support a
nigh priority land use intensification scheme of the government, Second Crops
Scheme. The basic objective of the Scheme is to ensure better utilization of
irrigated lands, generally located at low elevation wbere winters are sborter
than elsewhere in the country, and consecuently a growing season long enough
to permit: second cropping is available. Accordingly, the Government has
initiated the Scheme in 15 provinces in the Aegean, Mediterranean, and
Southeastern Anatolia regions of Turkey and plans to bring 380,000 ha under
second crops over a 6 year period (1983-1988).  The farmer interest in the
Scheme is strong, judging from the response received during the pilot phase in
1981 and 1982 when areas of 13,000 and 52,000 ha respectively were planted
with second crops. During the proposed project period, it is expected that an
additional 220,000 ha would be planted with second crops by about 85,000
participating farmers. The loans would finance the purchase of seed,
fertilizer, and other inputs. Tentative targets for areas and crops to be
planted under the project are indicated in Annex 1. These targets would be
subject to annual adjustments.
4.08     Experiments under the government's National Second Crops Research
Project have establisbed that second crops can be successfully grown in
irrigated areas presently left unsowD following cereal crops of wheat and
barley in lowlands with mild winters. The crop rotation normally followed in
irrigated areas over a 2 year cycle is a cereal crop of wbeat or barley during



- 23 -
winter, followed by no cropping during the following summer or winter,
followed by cotton in spring. The strategy for the second crop provides for
the cultivation of maize, soybeans, peanuts, sesame, sunflower, sorghum, rice,
or sudan grass following the harvest of wheat and barley as an additional crop
in the 2 year wheat/barley-cotton rotation. The research program has to date
identified varieties suited to most regions and has tested the technology
package tbrough an extensive field demonstration program tbroughout the 15
provinces. The information already available is adenuate for the proposed
scheme.
Fallow Reduction Scheme
4.09     Under this component of the project, it is proposed to provide 50,000
short-term loans to farmers participating in the government's fallow reduction
scheme in 12 provinces. The scheme is designed to increase land use intensity
by introducing crops on land otherwise left fallow. It is estimated thal:
about one million ha of fallow land in the 12 provinces are suitable for
cropping. Out of these areas, the Government has set a target to cultivate
325,000 hectares over a period of 1982-87, and thus reduce the fallow areas by
about 30%. The crops which will be planted on the fallow land include
lentils, chickpeas, cow vetch, and sainfoin. The actual mix of crops will be
decided by the farmers according to technical possibilities and market
prospects. Tentative crop and area targets under the project are shown in
Annex 1. Under the component, the loans would be provided to cover about: 80%
of the production cost including the purcbase of inputs and labor charges.
4S.10    The practice of fallowing originated from the farmers belief that in
areas with annual precipitation below 500 mm, it is advisable that land should
be left fallow for one year to conserve moisture and nutrients for
autumn-winter sown cereal crop. The applied research bas demonstrated that if
the recommended crop husbandry practices (suitable varieties and timely
preparation of seedbed) are followed, it would be possible to substantially
reduce fallow without undue risk of reduction in grain yields. The results
achieved under the Bank-assisted Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan
1130-TU) confirm the feasibility of fallow reduction. Under this project, the
fallow area has been reduced from about 46% to about 28%. Encouraged by the
farmers' interest in fallow reduction, the Government has formulated the
Fallow Reduction Scheme.
IAEE Irrigation Component
4.11     This component of the project is designed to meet the medium- and
short-term credit needs of farmers in areas covered under an IAEE Irrigation
Project (Report No. 4299-TU, dated May 13, 1983), wbicth has recently been
submitted for consideration by the Executive Directors. Medium-term loans
would be provided for orchard establishment, purchase of machinery, and
construction of greenhouses.  In addition, sbort-term loans would be provided
for meeting the production expenses.  It is expected that a total of 25,000
farmers would receive loans. The credit requirements of the farmers would
follow the implementation scbedule of the irrigation works. It is anticipated
that farm developments begun during the 1982-86 period will involve
investments continuing through 1994. Under this project, only 38% of these
investments, expected to take place during the project's disbursement period,
are included.



-24 -
4.12     IAEE Irrigation Project includes four irrigation schemes, which would
bring about 113,000 hectares net area under improved irrigation and benefit
about 25,000 farm families. The credit component under this project would
complement the IAEE project by assisting the farmers to make the necessary
investments on farm. Full details of the project are presented in the staff
appraisal report no. 4299-TU.
Corum-Cankiri Project
4.13     This component of the project has been designed to provide funds for
incremental short-term lending in the area covered by the Bank-assisted
Corum-Cankiri Project (Loan 1130-TU) and continue the momentum of development
achieved under that project. All available funds for short-term lending under
the Corum-Cankiri Project are expected to be fully utilized by fall, 1983.
This project would provide the funds to continue the sbort-term loan program,
which has been successful in assisting farmers to increase crop yields. Funds
are available for medium- and long-term loans under the Corum-Cankiri project,
and these funds would be utilized until the project closing date of June 30,
1984.
Strengthening of TCZB
4.14     This component of the project aims at institution building of TCZB
through an Action Plan (AP) for its reorganization and strengthening including
two studies aimed at improvements in accounting system and procedures of TCZB,
provision of funds for staff training, and purchase of vehicles and equipment
for TCZB use. Tne Action Plan has been developed on the basis of the findings
and recommendations of the studies done by TCZB to improve its operations as
well as studies aone with bank assistance under the Agricultural Credit and
Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248-TU). These studies covered TCZB's
organization and policies and procedures (para. 3.02). The Action Plan
includes proposed improvements aimed at making TCZB more responsive to farmers
needs through decentralization of its operations, increasing flexibility of
its lending policies and procedures, and training of its staff to improve
customer services.
4.15     The Action Plan has been developed in consultation with the Bank and
is satisfactory. A summary of the measures included in the Action Plan is
presented in Annex 3. The key areas of intended improvements proposed under
the Action Plan are as follows;
(a)   delegation of increased responsibilities to the Regional Directorates
over a three year period ending December 31, 1986, so as to permit
most of them to exercise responsibilities specified in the bylaws for
regional directorates whicb were published on September 12, 1982.
This transfer of responsibilities from the General Directorate to the
RDs would greatly facilitate decentralization of decision making,
improve branch supervision, and reduce delays resulting from required
approvals from the head office;
(b)   a review of the organizational structure of the General Directorate
with a view to improve its efficiency, and increasing delegation of
responsibility and preparation of updated organization charts to show
the lines of responsibility at bead office, regional directorates,
and typical branch offices of various sizes;



- 25 -
(c)   enunciation of the short-term and long-term objectives of TCZB
including growth targets and strategies to achieve the targets. The
objectives would include resource mobilization, lending operations,
income goals, and cost estimates;
(d)   introduction of annual and 5-year financial planning system;
(e)   introduction of annual budgeting system for brancbes and regional
offices, and preparation of a budget manual for this purpose;
(f)   a system for annual review and adjustment of credit norms and loan
approval authorities of branches and Regional Directorates to keep
them at levels adequate to meet farmers requirements;
(g)   proposals for bringing up to strength tecbnical staff in the Projects
Evaluation Division and brancbes operating the Supervised Creciit
Program;
(b)   measures to achieve conformity between official and actual lending
criteria and improve the access of small- and medium-scale farmers to
loans;
(i)   measures to improve the internal auditing system, so as to audit an
increased number of branches every year;
(j)   a study of systems and procedures throughout TCZB aimed at the
streamlining of procedures and paperwork so as to increase efficiency
of operations. As part of the study, the farms and the reporting
procedures in use will be examined in particular to simplify them and
make them more useful to the users;
(k)   a study of the accounting system in TCZB which would, inter alia,
specify the accounting system needs for TCZB, assess the deficiencies
in the present system, and make proposals for improvements in the
accounting system. An accounting plan will be developed and
implemented covering the basis of internal accounting reports,
informational needs of all managerial levels, functional cost
accounting, and automation needs; and
(1)   training of existing and new staff in tte changes in procedures and
systems whicb would be introduced as part ot the AP;
The A? consists of many programs and includes timetables for their
implementation. The implementation will extend over a 4-year period. The
monitoring arrangements for the Action Plan are outlinei Ln para. 5.19.
4.16     The studies under items (j) and (k) in the paragrapb above would be
undertaken with the assistance of consultants, whose qualifications and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.19).
These studies would cover subjects which were not included tor in-depth review
under the previous studies (para. 4.14). The Systems and Procedures Study
will require about 20 man-months of consultant services and the Accounting
Systems Study about 15 man-months. The total cost for bol:h studies is
estimated to be US$350,000 at an average man-month of $10,000. The estimated
average man-month cost includes salary costs, fees, international travel,
local transportation, subsistence, and local office operating expenses. It is



- 26 -
expected that both international and local experts would be involved in the
studies which would take about 18 calendar-months to complete. Funds would be
provided under the project to finance expenditures relating to consultants
employed to assist with the conduct of these studies as well as any other
consultants services required with the Bank agreement, to assist in
implementation of the AP. The proposed terms of reference for the studies are
presented in Annex 2.
4.17     To improve the quality of its staff, TCZB proposes to send about 130
of its management level administrative and technical staff for short training
courses in developed countries during 1983-85. Under this component, funds
would be provided for this staff training. Assurance has been obtained from
TCZB that details of the training program and courses would be submitted to
the Bank prior to sending the staff for training. In addition, funds would be
provided for the purchase of 81 vehicles (74 trucks for cash movement and 7
minibuses), 57 micro computer systems, 15 programmable calculators, and 7
photo copying machines.
Study of Credit Cooperative System
4.18     With a view to further develop and strengthen the agricultural credit
cooperative system in Turkey, the Government has agreed (para. 2.12) to
undertake a study. The Study would evaluate the past performance of the
agricultural credit cooperative system and propose a development plan covering
a 5-year period. The Study would examine the feasibility of the credit
cooperatives playing a wider role in financial intermediation. The draft
terms of reference for the Study are in Annex 2. The Study would, inter alia,
make proposals for: improvements in lending policies and procedures; putting
credit cooperatives on sound tinancial footing; strengthening the management
and administration; training and recruitment of personnel; external control
and supervision of the credit cooperative system; and appropriate changes in
laws and regulations governing the cooperatives. The Study would be completed
by March 31, 1985, and would be carried out with the help of consultants
supervised by a Steering Committee to be appointed by the Government by
November 30, 1983 (para. 5.21). The Government has expressed its interest in
financing the costs for the Study tbrough the Project Preparation Facility,
since the study may lead to a possible future project for Bank financing.
D.  Project Cost
4.19     The total project cost including physical and price contingencies is
estimated to be US$363.l million equivalent and includes an estimated US$9
million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component, which includes
both direct and indirect foreign costs, is estimated at US$150.0 million or
about 41% of the total cost. The base cost represents the estimated cost of
investment items during the 4 year (1983-1986) project implementation period
in November 1982 terms. Price contingencies average about 18% of the base
cost and have been applied to botn local and foreign costs in US dollar terms
at the following annual rates: 8.070 in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985, and
6% in 1986. By measuring both foreign and local price contingencies in US
dollar equivalents, it has been assumed, in line with the government's policy,
that the Lira exchange rate would change so as to offset the inflation
differential between Turkey and its major trading partners.  The Lira has been
devalued roughly in accordance with this pattern since 1980, and is now
adjusted daily on a floating system. A summary of the project cost is given
in the table below, with details in Annex l.



- 27 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
TL Million             US $ Million       Foreign
Project Componen1:       Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
A. On-Farm Development
a. Medium-Term Loans       14,313   8,772  23,085   78.6       48.2  126.8      38
b. Short-Term Loans         3,685   2,896   6,581   20.2       16.0   36.2      44
B. Short-Term Loans for
Second Crops                4,967   4,064   9,031   27.3       22.3   49.6      45
C. Short-Term Loans for
Fallow Reduction            3,782   2,318   6,100   20.8       12.7   33.5      38
. IAEE Irrigation Project
a. Medium-Term Loans        2,358   1,780   4,138   13.0        9.8   22.8      43
b. Sbort-Term Loans         1,008      672   1,680    5.5       3.7    9.2      40
E. Short-term Loans for
Corum-Cankiri Project       2,515   1,976   4,491   13.8       10.9   24.7      44
F. Strengthening of TCZB
a. Training                     -       43      43    -         0.2    0.2    100
b. Eauipment                  195      781     976    1.1       4.3    5.4      80
c. Studies                      9       64      73    0.1       0.3    0.4      80
Total Base Cost               32,832  23,366  56,198  180.4    128.4  308.8        42
Price Contingencies 1/          5,954   3,935   9,889   32.7      21.6   54.3      40
Total Project Cost            38,786  27,301  66,087  213.1    150.0  363.1        41
Front-End Fee                       -      73       73    -         0.4    0.4    100
Total Financing ReGuired l/  38,786  27,374  66,160  213.1    150.4  363.5         41
1/ Estimated in dollar terms at an exchange rate of US$1 = TL 182.  Because local
inflation is expected to higher than international inflation, the actual TL
amounts will be higher, the difference being offset by changes in exchange rates.
E. Financing Plan
4.20     The proposed bank loan of US$150.4 million equ'ivalent will finance
100% of the foreign exchange costs of the project (41% of total costs) and the
front-end fee. TCZB, as the borrower, will contribute US$138 million or 38%
of the total project cost. The remaining 21% would be contributed by the
sub-borrowers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from TCZB that it
would includ,e sufficient funds in its annual lending program for financing the
estimated project expenditures for each of the project years and would submit
its annual lending program to the Bank by March 31 of each year. Assurances
were also obtained from the Government that it would ensure that TCZB bas or
is provided funds necessary to implement the project. In previous Bank
projects involving on-lending to farmers, the Government and TCZB have agreed
that the Government would bear the foreign exchange risks on Bank loan



- 28 -
proceeds, and TCZB would be allowed a 3.5 percent spread on the on-lending of
Bank loan proceeds. The difference between the interest: rate on Bank loan and
the on-lending interest rate to farmers, after allowing for the 3.5% spread to
TCZB, goes to the Government. This arrangement would apply to this project
also, and the Government and TCZB would enter into a Subsidiary Agreement to
this effect. Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of effectiveness.
F. Procurement
4.21     The goods and works to be financed by the Loan proceeds will be
purchased over a 4-year period by thousands of farmers located in 29 provinces
through established commercial channels. There are private dealers in Turkey
who sell and service a variety of tractors and farm equipment, most of which
are assembled in Turkey from imported components under licensing arrangements
with the foreign manufacturers, These dealers have competitive prices and
provide farmers with a choice of farm machinery. The 81 vehicles for TCZB
use, at an estimated cost of $5 million, would be procured through ICB
according to Bank guidelines. Other equipment for TCZB, estimated to cost
about US$400,000, would be procured through local and/or limited international
procurement.  Procurement documentation in respect of goods for TCZB use would
be subject to prior review by the bank.   Assurances to this effect were
obtained during the negotiations.
G. Disbursements
4.22     Disbursements of the Bank would extend over an estimated five-year
period and would be made in accordance with the following allocations:
Amount
Allocated
Loan Categories                           i m
(1)  On Farm Development
(a)  Medium-Term Loans                                60.4
(b)  Sbort-Term Loans                                 17.0
(2)  Second Crops Component                                24.0
(3)  Fallow Reduction Component                            16.5
(4) IAEE Irrigation Project
(a)  kedium-Term Loans                                10.0
(b)  Short-Term Loans                                  4.b
(5)  Corum-Cankiri Project                                 12.0
(6) Strengthening of TCZB
(a)  Iraining                                          0.4
(b)  Equipment                                         4.7
(c)  Studies                                           0.4
(7)  Front-End Fee                                          U.4
(8)  TOTAL                                                150.4
The Bank loan would be disbursed against (i) 507% of medium-term loans, (ii)
50% of incremental short-term loans, (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures, 1007/
of local expenditures ex-factory, or 60% of other expenditures for vehicles
and equipment procurec, locally; (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas
training, and (v) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services.



- 29 -
4.23     Disbursement requests for foreign expenditures would be supported by
full documentation. Disbursements against all sub-loans would be for local
expenditures only, and the Bank would disburse against statement of
expenditures since these would involve on-lending for a large number of small
sub-loans. Disbursements against short-term sub-loans would be on an annual
incremental basis defined as the excess of the amount disbursed by the TCZB in
any calendar year over the maximum amount disbursed for the same purposes in
any prior calendar year and claimed for withdrawal from the Bank. TCZB is
fully familiar with the statements of expenditure procedure, and its
accounting and internal control procedures are satisfactory in ensuring that
Bank funds are used for the purposes for whicb they are granted. The
documentation in support of statements of expenditure would be retained by
TCZB and would be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of
project implementation. Assurances on these disbursement procedures were
obtained during negotiations.
4.24     The schedule of disbursement is estimated as follows;
US $ Million - Bank FY
FY 84    FY 85    FY 86    FY 87
Annual                           20.9      35.1      42.6      51.8
Cumulative                       20.9      56.0      98.6    150.4
The schedule of disbursement is based on the phasing of the lending program
and is consistent with the experience for similar activities under the first
agriculture credit project.
V. The Project Implementation
A. Organization and Management
5.01     TCZB would be the borrower under guarantee of the Republic of
Turkey. The project would be administered by the Encouragement and
Development Loans Division of TCZB (Chart 24720) through TCZB branches located
in the provinces covered under the project. This Division of TCZB currently
manages the credit components of 5 World Bank assisted projects in the
agriculture sector. Ihe Division is satisfactorily staffed and well
experienced in management of on-lending operations in Bank assisted projects.
5.02     The applicants (individual farmers or credit cooperatives) for loans
under the On Farm Development and Irrigation Schemes component would submit
their loan applications to the nearest TCZB brancn. TGZB would appraise and
approve the loan applications according to the requirements under TCZB's
Agricultural Credit Guidelines (Document b-4) and on-lending policies and
procedures described in paras. 5.07 to 5.13. TCZB will provide to the
extension service staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), at
least monthly for short-term loans and quarterly for medium-term loans, a list
of farmers who have been approved to receive loans. The list will show the
name and address of the borrower as well as purpose and amount of loan, to
enable the extension staff to provide these farmers with technical advice.



- 30 -
TCZB has 213 branches in the provinces where these components would be
implemented and in 1981 had loans totalling $183 million. The additional
lending of $35 million per year under the project can be handled without any
special arrangements. Assurance was obtained from TCZB during the
negotiations that it would staff the branches in the project area with
qualified staff in adequate numbers to carry out the lending under the project.
5.03     The Second Crop Scheme (SCS) and Fallow Reduction Scheme (FRS) are
special Government schemes whose administration would be governed by relevant
decrees issued by the government. These decrees are satisfactory 1/. In
terms of the decrees, the MAF would be responsible for implementation of these
schemes. Within MAF, the General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs has the
lead responsibility for implementation. The role of TCZB in these schemes is
to provide short-term credit to participating farmers, provided they are
creditworthy. The total amount of credit to be allocated to each of the
schemes will be jointly determined by the MAF and TCZB during February of each
year, and the Bank will be notified. The MAF will select the participating
farmers, adopt measures to encourage planting, and organize services involving
extension work, provision of seeds, production, and distribution. The crops
to be included in the schemes, the planting areas, and the amount of credit
per hectare will be determined by the MAF and TCZB. The participating farmers
would apply for loans to the extension service staff and/or TCZB branch. The
extension staff would forward all applications to the TCZB branch. TCZB would
determine the creditworthiness of the applicants, and if satisfactory, approve
the loan. MAF will be notified by TCZB of all loan approvals. Adequate
harvesting, drying, and processing facilities would be needed to handle the
incremental output from these schemes. Assurance was obtained from TCZB to
provide adequate credit to qualified borrowers for the purchase of harvesting,
drying, and processing equipment.
5.04     For the successful implementation of SCS and FRS components of the
project, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would cause MAF
to (i) assign adequate staff for implementation of the schemes; (ii) continue
its current applied research program to improve the technology for these
schemes, and (iii) review annually (a) the cost of production of various crops
included under the schemes to ensure that credit norms would be set on a
realistic basis for the following year, and (b) the market prospects
(including the adequacy of drying and processing facilities) and economic
justification for the crops to be supported under the schemes; and prepare and
furnish to the Bank and TCZB an annual report detailing the results of the
annual review. Assurances were also obtained from the Government that it
would: (a) provide to MAF adquate budgetary support for implementation of
these schemes, and (b) take all necessary actions to make available sufficient
amounts of chemical fertilizers and improved seeds for crop varieties included'
under the schemes.
5.05     The existing arrangements for provision of seasonal loans to farmers
rander the Corum-Cankiri project have worked satisfactorily and would be
continued under this project. At present, the farmers needing credit submit
their loan applications to the extension staff or a TCZB branch. The
extension staff are responsible for confirming the adequacy of inputs required
and providing technicaL advice to farmers. TCZB staff confirm
1/ Decree Number 8/4535, dated May 2, 1982, for SCS and Decree Number 8/5713,
dated November 28, 1982, for FRS.



- 31 -
creditworthiness of the farmers and handle the on lending and loan repayment
arrangements. Over a period of 5 years, US$23.0 million of Bank loan proceeds
were disbursed under the Corum Cankiri Project, and the $5.7 million on
lending proposed under this component is expected to be handled in a similar
fashion over the next 4 years.
5.06     A dratt Protocol has been prepared by TCZB and MAF defining the
respective roles of TCZB and MAF (as described in paras. 5.02-5.05 above) in
implementation of the project. In terms of the Protocol, TCZB would be
responsible for full implementation of the project, ana MAP would assist in
identification of participating farmers under the SCS, FRS, and Corum Cankiri
project and would provide technical advice to (i) all farmers participating in
the project, and (ii) TCZB staff in review of technical aspects of loan
applications and in setting norms for seasonal credits. The draft protocol
has been reviewed and commented upon by the Bank. Signing of the Protocol,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan. An assurance to this effect was obtained during the
negotiations.
B. On-lending Terms and Procedures
5.07     Assurances were obtained from TCZB that in making loans under the
project, it would apply the on-lending policies and procedures as described in
paras. 5.08 to 5.14 below.
5.08     Eligibility  In order to qualify for a sub-loan under the project,
each applicant (farmer or credit cooperative) would have to satisfy the
criteria under the Agricultural Credit Guidelines and, in addition, each
applicant under SCS, FRS, and Corum Cankiri components of the project would
have to be certified by the agricultural extension service staff of MAF as a
participant in the government's special schemes. Further, the sub-loans under
SCS and FRS scheme for any given agricultural year will be approved only for
crops and areas to be agreed among the MAF, TCZB, and the Bank on the basis of
the annual reviews referred to in para. 5.04 (iii).
5.09     Lending Criteria  Each applicant for a medium-term loan will submit a
Farm Development Plan (FDP) with the loan application. The FDP will contain
minimal information necessary to demonstrate the technical feasibility and
financial viability of the proposed investment. At present the TCZB technical
staff and, in their absence, extension service staff assist the loan
applicants in preparing the FDP; this arrangement would be continued under the
project. Each applicant for a short-term loan will submit a simple Production
Plan (PP) showing the type of crops to be planted during the year and area
under each crop type or input requirements and expected production for
livestock activities. TCZB will approve sub-loans in accordance with its
normal procedures after a satisfactory appraisal of credit worthiness of the
applicant and the FDP or PP.
5.10     Amount of Loan and Sub-borrower Contribution  The sub-borrowers would
be required to contribute a minimum of 10% of investment and/or production
costs shown in FDP or PP; sub-loan by TCZB would be sufficient to cover the
balance of the costs. The farmer's contribution may be in cash or kind,
including the value of family labor. TCZB would ensure that the investment
costs in FDE' include a base cost estimate at prices prevailing at time of
sub-loan approval and price contingencies estimated for the duration of



- 32 -
investment. The short-term loan amounts would be based upon standard per
hectare production costs for various crops or per animal established by GDAA
and TCZB. TCZB would ensure that the loan amounts are disbursed in a timely
fashion and that the aggregate amount of sub-loans approved to any single
sub-borrower under the project does not exceed $150,000.
5.11     Interest Rates  At present the interest rate charged on short-term
loans is 20% and for medium-term loans it is 22% per annum. As a condition
for this loan, the Government has agreed to attain positive real interest
rates on agricultural loans by end 1984 (para. 2.16). The interest rates
established by the government, pursuant to the above agreement, shall be
applied to the on-lending under the project.
5.12     Security  All lending under the project would be considered "project
credits" as defined in Article l(g) of the Guidelines. In accordance with the
Guidelines, the expected casb flow from the FDP and the PP would be the
required security and the main consideration in approval of the sub-loan,
rather than availability of land security of adequate value to cover the
amount of sub-loan. For the medium-term loans which involve land improvement
(including construction of barns, sheds, greenhouses, and other installations
on land), a mortgage of sub-borrowers' land would be obtained. For all other
sub-loans under the project, the machinery, equipment, crops, and animals and
materials financed would be hypothecated to TCZb as security up to the amount
of the loan, and mortgage of sub-borrowers' land would not be necessary.
5.13     Repayment Terns for medium-term loans woula be decided in accordance
with the projected cash flow in the FDP and for short-term loans woulai be a
maximum of 1 year. Normally the repayment terms for medium-term loans would
be as follows:
Grace      Repayment       Total Term including
Investment                  Period       Period            Grace Period
Farm Mechanization                     2            4                      6
Cattle/Sheep Fattening                 2            8                    10
Broiler/Egg Production                 2            8                     10
Orchards                               5            7                     12
Greenhouses                            2            8                     10
Since the repayments from the sub-borrowers would follow different
amortization schedules from that for the Bank loan, TCZB may roll-over Bank
funds in its financing program, provided the sub-loans are made for purposes
and in areas covered under the project.
5.14     Supervision  'TCZB requires the sub-borrowers to utilize the credits
for the purpose for whi.ch they were provided.  lt attempts to ensure this
through direct payment to suppliers of inputs and materials, as far as
practicable, and through periodic field visits to sub-borrowers' farms. In
accordance with its normal practice, TCZB staff are expected to supervise
regularly the medium-term loans. Regular supervision of each sub-borrower of
sbort-term loans would not be cost-effective. For the short-term loans under
the project, TCZB would supervise them on the basis of field visits to a small
sample of farms. The focus of such supervision would be on ascertaining any



-33 -
common problems affecting the farmers and initiating remedies. In addition,
the extension service staff, who are expected to be in regular touch with the
farmers receiving loans under the project, would also advise TCZB abcut
problems faced by farmers in utilization of sub-loans and execution of FDP and
PP.
C. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting
5.15     TCZB would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the On
Farm Development and Irrigation Schemes components of the project. GDAA in
MAF would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the SCS, FRS, and
Corum Cankiri components of the project. The key indicators and variables to
be monitored and the scope and framework of evaluation are presentea in Annex
4 of this report. A semi-annual report on monitoring and annual reports on
evaluation would be submitted to the Bank by TCZB and GDAA. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during the negotiations.
5.16     TCZB would prcvide six-monthly progress reports to the Bank in an
agreed format in line with the similar reporting requirements in other Bank
financed agricultural projects in Turkey. In addition, TCZB would prepare and
submit to the Bank a project completion report not later than 6 months after
the closing date. The PCR would be prepared on the basis of the monitoring
and evaluation reports prepared by TCZB and MAF as specified in para. 5.15
above. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
D. Accounts and Audits
5.17     TCZB would establish a clearly identified account for transactions
relating to this project. It would also ensure that all loans made under the
project are readily identifiable. In previous Bank-assisted projects, TCZB
has maintained sucn accounts satisfactorily (para. 3.36). Project accounts
would be maintained, in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, to annually
provide a clear picture of financial transactions under the project. An
auditor's opinion and report, satisfactory to the Bank, on the project
accounts would be provided by TCZB. The auditor's report would include (i) a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, and
(ii) an opinion on the reliability of statements of expenditure as a basis
for loan disbursements. In addition to the audit of project accounts as
discussea above, TCZB would provide its audited annual financial statements
(balance sheet and income expenses statement). The above audit report would
be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of the financial year of
TCZB. The annual audit of the project accounts, as well as TCZB's annual
financial statements, would be done by the Board of Sworn Bank Examiners
(para. 3.35). The audit would be done in accordance with tne "Illustrative
Form of Audit Report for Development Finance Companies". The audit capability
of the Board of Sworn Bank Examiners is considered satisfactory. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations from TCZB that it would follow the
accounting and auditing requirements outlined above.



-34 -
E. Action Plan for Strengthening of TCZB
5.18     Improvements in TCZB's organization and procedures would be
implemented in accordance with an Action Plan for strengthening of TCZB (AP),
which has been approved by the TCZB Board of Directors on April 20, 1983
(para. 4.14).
5.19     For the implementation of the AP and the studies (para. 4.15 and
4.16), assurances were obtained from TCZB during negotiations that it: would:
(a)   take all necessary steps to implement the AP in accordance with the
agreed implementation schedule;
(b)   prepare and furnish to the Bank six-monthly progress reports on
implementationj of the AP, not later than each April 15 and October
15, beginning October 15, 1983, through the loan closing date;
(c)   from time to t:ime, review the progress in implementation of the AP
with Bank and take mutually agreed actions to improve the
implementation of AP; and
(d)   carry out the Systems and Procedures Study and the Accounting System
Study, referred to in paras. 4.15 and 4.16 and employ, not later than
June 30, 1984, consultants to assist in the conduct of the studies
The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank.
They would be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency, August 1981.
5.20     To facilitate decentralization of TCZB's lending operations, an
assurance was obtained from the Government that it would, by December 31,
1983, take all action necessary to permit TCZB to increase substantially the
minimum loan amount requiring approval by its Board of Directors. A banking
reform decree to be issued in the near future is expected to increase from
TL 2 million to TL 20 million the size of loan requiring Board of Directors'
approval. The decree is also expected to contain other changes designed to
facilitate decentralization and other improvements in the banking sector. In
addition, the Government is planning to issue a decree for reforms in SEE to
improve their efficiency. In terms of this decree, the TCZB is expected to be
placed under the control of the Ministry of Finance instead of the Ministry of
Commerce at present. These decrees, which encompass the whole of banking and
public enterprise sectors, are expected to have a beneficial effect on TCZB's
efforts to decentralize its operations through the implementation of the AP.
An assurance was obtained from the Government that it would take all actions
necessary to facilitate implementation of the AP by TCZB.
F. Study of Credit Cooperatives
5.21     An assurance was obtained from the Government that it would undertake
this study. The study would be carried out by consultants with suitable
experience with rural credit cooperative institutions in other countries. The
study would be supervised by a steering committee, under the chairmanship of a
representative of the State Planning Office of the government. The committee
would consist of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Commerce and



-35 -
Agriculture, Central Union of Credit Cooperatives, Central Bank of Turkey, and
TCZB. For implementation of the study, assurances were obtained during
negotiations from the Government that it would (a) appoint the steering
committee latest by November 30, 1983; (b) employ suitably qualified and
experienced consultants by Marcb 31, 1984, to carry out the study.  The terms
of reference for the study and the qualifications and experience of the
consultants should be satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) submit the study to
the Bank promptly upon its completion. An interim report on the study would
be submitted by the consultants to the Government by December 31, 1983, and a
final report by March  i1, 1984.  The terms of reference for the study are at
Annex 2.
VI. Production, Markets and Financial Analysis
A. Production
6.01     As a result of investments under the project, substantial increases
in primary agricultural production, valued at TL 59.4 billion ($326 million)
annually in constant 19,82 prices, would result, as shown below and in Annex 4:
Incremental Output and Value of
Primary Agricultural Products
Incremental       Incremental
Production       Value at Full
at full         Development
Product                           Unit      Development       (Millions TL)
Pulses  1/                         Tons        320000             13150
Cereals 2/                         Tons        536000             14770
Industrial Crops  3/               Tons        455000             14880
Fodder 4/                          Tons        219000              3780
Vegetables                         Tons        334000              4430
Fruit                              Tons           7000              280
Cotton                             Tons         25000              1990
Beef                          Tons l.w.          16212             3890
Sheep                        Tons l.w.           3306               930
Broiler                       Tons l.w.          4269               910
Eggs                             No. 1.            957             1150
1/ Pulses; dry beans, lentils, chickpeas
2/ Cereals: wheat, maize, rice, sorghum
3/ Industrial crops: soya, sunflower, sugarbeet, ground nuts, sesame
4/ Fodder: vetch, sainfoin, alfalfa, sudan grass.
B. Marketing and Processing
6.02     Marketing of farm products is mainly handled by private traders.  In
addition, a number of State Economic Enterprises are directly involved in
processing and purchasing. The soil products office (TMO) is the main public
sector marketing agency in the country and active in the marketing of maize,
sorghum grains, rice and lentils and has a storage capacity of 390,000 tons in



-     36-
the project area. Sales cooperatives are responsible for purchases of oil
seeds at the support price. The Sales Cooperatives then redistribute the
oilseeds to local factories for processing. The oil seed industry has ample
storage and processing facilities with 71 oil extraction factories out of 198
such factories in the country, representing 67.7% of the country's extraction
capacity. The project area also has 36 out of 123 fodder factories in the
country representing 26% of total capacity. Livestock products are sold to
the private sector which has a solid domestic market and good export
opportunities throughout the Middle East and North Africa.
6.03     Most of the crops included in the Fallow Reduction and Second Crop
Schemes are well known crops to farmers and have established markets both
locally and internationially. The only crops which could pose marketing
problems are lentils, maize and soybean. Lentil exports increased rapidly
from 97,000 tons in 1979 to 228,000 tons in 1981. However, since then an
estimated 600,000 tons of production in 1982 seems to have outpaced Turkey's
present export market. Consequently, the lentil market situation would be
reassessed each year with the objective of providing production financing when
the market stabilizes. The incremental output under the Second Crop Scheme
may encounter difficulties if adequate harvesting and drying facilities are
not available for maize and soybean which are harvested in late autumn. This
could cause loss of grain by shattering and difficulties io marketing due to
high moisture content. Assurance was obtained from TCZB (para. 5.03) that
adequate funds would be found under the normal agro-industries program. In
addition, assurances were obtained from TCZB and the Government (paras. 5.04
and 5.08) that the annual targets for the crops to be financed under the
Second Crop and the Fallow Reduction Schemes would be established after taking
into account the adequacy of drying and processing capacities.
6.04     In addition to pulses, other significant exports supported by the
project are sheep and beef meat. In 1981 Turkey exported 80,000 tons of meat
(10% of total meat production) and trade analysis for the region estimates a
meat export potential of up to 500,000 tons by 1990. The rapid increase in
livestock exports and the opportunities to expand international sales even
further would require farmers to supply greater volumes of animal feed,
particularly winter vetch. Therefore, the increased production of vetch,
sainfoin, alfalfa and cereals encouraged by the project would find ready
markets and allow increased livestock production.
Prices
6.05     Annex 5 gives the financial and economic prices of the various
commodities in the project. Financial prices have been collected in the field
in October/November 1982 while economic prices have been calculated for
tradeable inputs and outputs. Commodity support prices have been set largely
on the basis of production costs. As a result of successive devaluations
since 1980, most support prices have been brought in line with or below export
prices.
C. Financial Analysis
6.06     The financial viability of the project has been examined through
representative models for each major investment type to be financed and
through representative crop budgets and cash flows. Actual investments may
differ from the models since they may be of different size and the local



- 37 -
conditions and sub-borrower demand may vary by province. The results of
financial analysis are presented in Tables 3 and 4 of Annex 5. Financial
rates of return were estimated for medium term investments. For short-term
investments the net income and benefit-cost ratios for main crops were
estimated to analyze tbe attractiveness of these investments to the farmers.
With the exception of the Orchard Model, all other representative models show
Financial Rates of Return (FRR) from 19% to 35%.  Despite a marginal FRR
(10.3%), the orchard model was not excluded because the incremental output is
intended for export and. the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was satisfactory
(38%). Moreover, the negative cash flow during the early years would not
preclude farmers who devote only a small part of their land to orchards or
farmers who have other income sources. The switching values for the cost and
revenue streams are low for the beef, sheep and broiler models. This is not
uncommon for livestock models. The effect of delays in implementation is
tested by lagging the operating costs ana benefits which does not
significantly alter the base case results. The permanent working capital
requirements have been included in the investment costs for the livestock
activities. The selected crop budgets for those farmers participating in crop
improvement, second cropping or fallow reduction confirm that these production
activities have positive net incomes and provide attractive incentives to
farmers. (See supporting tables 19-27.) The benefit-cost ratios range from
2.6 to 1.7 for the Second Crop Scheme; 1.9 to 1.4 for the Fallow Reduction
Scheme; and 8.2 to 1.9 for the Corum Cankiri Component, see Table 4, Annex 5.
The underlying assumptions for each of the models are described in Working
Papers 1-4 and are based on interviews with farmers and operational experience
obtained under similar Bank-financed projects in Turkey.
VII. The Project Justification
A. Benefits 1/
7.01     The main project benefits would derive from the improved productivity
of farmer holdings and higher farm incomes. The goal is to increase
intensification of land use and establish more stable yields on an area of
485,000 ha which are presently either fallow or under-utilized for all or part
of the year. The project investments would help farmers to increase their
output of industrial crops, cereal, animal feed, beef, chicken and sheep meat,
vegetables, fruits and eggs. A large part of the production would augment the
country's capacity to export, particularly cereals, pulses and livestock. The
production of other cereals and certain industrial crops will help to meet the
domestic demand and decrease imports.
7.02     The project would generate considerable employment in the 29
provinces where additional credit would be extended. Based on the technical
parameters of the models, it is estimated that at full development, the
project investments would result in 63,000 permanent tull-time jobs. 2/ The
breakdown according to project component is as follows:
1/  Benefits to the estimated 25000 farmers receiving credit in the areas for
irrigation completion are not discussed here but can be reviewed in the
Appraisal Report No. 4299-TU for the IAEE Irrigation Project.
2/  A full time job is defined as 200 working days a year at 8 hrs. a day.



-38-
Number of
Component                       Full-time Jobs
(a) On farm development                  7,500
(b) Fallow Reduction                    22,900
(c) Corum Cankiri                        8,500
(d) Second Crop Scheme                  24,100
Secondary and tertiary industries such as food processing, sales and
transportation services would also develop further, tbereby increasing
opportunities for economic growth and employment and reducing under-employment
and pressure to migrate from the project area.
7.03    The effect of the project on farmers' incomes would be substantial.
Under the first component, some 6,400 farm families would receive long term
loans for mechanization and farm development, and about 70,000 farmers would
receive short-term credit for annual crop improvement. The gross value of
production by the time of full project implementation would increase by about
82% compared to the pre-project value for those farmers participating in the
On Farm Development component. The Second Crop Scbeme would provide
sbort-term loans to about 60,000 farmers resulting in an increased value of
production of TL 22,470 million or US$123 million. Most farmers will probably
participate with one type of crop only and the average plot size is expected
to be 2.5 ha. Therefore, the average net incremental farm family income for a
family growing 2.5 ha of second crop would range from TL 124,500 (US$684) for
those introducing soya to TL 345,000 (US$1895) for groundnuts. Under the
Fallow Reduction Component short-term loans would be allocated to about 50,000
farmers to grow crops on fallow land with an incremental value to the farmers
of TL 9,560 million or US$ 52 million. Since the crop will be grown on
otherwise unused land, the additional net family income would be TL 81,000
(US$445) in the case of cow vetch and TL 108,000 (US$593) for chickpeas.
Another 60,000 farmers in the Corum-Cankiri provinces would benefit from
short-term credit which would help bring about a 55% increase in the gross
value of production. The total number of loan beneficiaries under the project
is estimated to be about 271,000 including 25,000 farmers under the IAEE
Irrigation Project. However, some of the beneficiary farmers may receive more
than one loan.
7.04 Foreign Exchange; About balf of the 950,000 tons incremental primary
crop production would be for export which would contribute to foreign exchange
earnings of an estimated US$173 million. Higher fodder production
and expanded exports of sheep and beef would provide an estimated US$25
million. In addition, increased self sufficiency in the production of such
commodities as maize, rice, industrial crops, and poultry meat will also help
to save foreign exchange by reducing imports. The agricultural sector's
contribution to an improved trade balance is significant in view of Turkey's
1981 trade deficit of US$ 4.2 billion and the sector's large (50%O) share in
export earnings.
7.05  Institution Building:  The non-quantifiable benefits of this project are
substantial. One of tbhe project's main objectives is the institutional
strengthening of Turkey's largest Bank TCZB. The principal purpose of its
reorganization is to maike it more responsive to farmers by decentralizing its
operations, increasing the flexibility of its lending policies, and training



- 39 -
its staff to improve customer services. In addition, the project seeks to
strengthen and expand the involvement of credit cooperatives particularly in
financing small farm activities. The Government bas agreed to undertake a
study, as part of this project, to examine credit cooperatives in order to
assess their past performance and present operating policies and to recommend
measures for improving and expanding their operations over a five year
development period.
B. Economic Analysis
7.06    The economic evaluation of the project has been done using internal
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) estimations for medium-term investments. The
economic analysis of the short-term annual crop production investments has
been done using benefit-cost ratios since these investments are fully
recovered each crop year and have substantial positive cash-flow. Therefore,
the economic benefits for these investments have been evaluated using
Benefit-Cost ratios and switching values for the revenue and cost streams.
7.07    For all the project components, benefits auantified include gross
revenues from sales or consumption of incremental output from project
investments. Costs ciuantified include all capital, including permanent
8orking capital reGuirements as appropriate and operating costs, excluding
price contingencies ancl transfer payments but including physical contingencies
for the medium-term investments. All benefits and costs were calculated using
constant 1982 prices, adjusted to represent benefits or costs at the farm
level. The cost of extension services bave been included based on GDAA's
estimated incremental budget for extension strengthening in the ten
provinces. The research and extension costs in the areas covering the Second
Crop and Fallow Reduction programs have also been taken into account in the
analysis.
7.08    Economic prices for tradeable outputs of cereals, meat and industrial
crops and of fertilizer and concentrate feed inputs are based on World Bank
commodities and Export Projections Division forecasts. Prices for otber
tradeable commodities are based on recent average unit values of Turkish
foreign trade. The prices of all non-tradeable items are those presently
prevailing in Turkey and are converted to economic values by applying the
appropriate conversion factors. Key economic prices and conversion factors
used in the economic analysis are presented in Annex 5, Table 5.
7.09    The medium-term investments under the On-farm Development component
represent 41% of the total base cost of the project. The ERR has been
estimated for each type of investment and is shown below, together with the
sensitivity of the ERR to variations in selected cost and benefit changes.
The overall ERR for the medium-term investments is estimated to be 28%. The
ERR for broiler and beef production activities are Quite sensitive to changes
in benefits and costs which is typical for such operations.



*           - 40 -
On-farm Development Component
Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Values for 3/       ERR when
X of Total                                                Benefits &
Type 1/        Cost of the                Invest  Operating               Op. Costs
of            medium-term ERR   NPV 2/  ment        Costs     Benefits Lagged 1 yr
Investment    Investmeots  %   TL 000   cost    _                  %       _
Beef               40       23   3453       70         6         -5           15
Sheep               8       38   2489      157        12        -10           22
Broiler             2       14      88      10         1         -1           15
Egg                 9       25   3517       92        28        -18           20
Orchard            15       38   8372      565       350        -65           32
Mechanization      26       29   8743      138         -        -58            -
Overall ERR       100       28
1/ Medium-term Investments
2/ Net Present Value based on Opportunity cost of Capital (OCC) of 12%.
3/ Switching Value at 12%.
7.10     The Benefit Cost Ratios and switching values for the Second Crops,
Fallow Reduction and Corum Cankiri components and the Crop Improvement
investment in the On-farm Development Component are presented in the table
below. These components represent 47% of the total project cost and involve
short-term investments in annual crop-production on lands which are currently
not cropped or are under-utilized for all or part of the year. A satisfactory
technology package for these components has been developed (para. 4.06 and
4.10) and adequate arrangements for supply of inputs and extension services to
farmers have been agreed (para. 5.03 to 5.06) with TCZB and the Government.
The benefits from credits granted from these investments to the economy will
be substantial since, the net returns per hectare on these investments are
very high and the lag between the investment outlays (purchase of inputs) and
returns is short--usually 9-12 months. Even after allowing for the lag
between the cash-inflows and outflows, the returns for these investments are
high and remain so in response to cost increases, implementation delays, or
decreased benefits.
Economic Analysis for Short-term Investments
Switching             Present
Values 1/             Values 2/
Benefit Cost   -X     - - -
Components                      Ratios       Benefits   Costs    Benefits   Costs
On Farm Development,
Crop Improvement Model         2.1            -52       108         .844      .405
Second Crop                      2.3            -56       128       194460    85430
Fallow Reduction                 1.7            -40        66        86818    52296
Corum Cankiri                    3.2            -70       221        10853      3382
1/  Opportunity Cost of Capital at 12%
2/ TL Millions



- 41 -
7.11      The IAEE Irrigation component of this project provides medium and
short-term loans to far-mers in areas covered by 4 irrigation schemes to be
completed with Bank-assistance under IAEE Irrigation Project (Report No.
4299-TU). The expectecl benefits from the investments to be financed under
this project have already been taken into account in the estimation of the ERR
for the IAEE Irrigation Project and are not included here. The ERR on the
Irrigation Project is estimated to be 20%. The remaining 2% of the project
cost relates to technical assistance to TCZB. Benefits from these components
are not auantifiable and therefore an ERR bas not been estimated. The results
of the economic analysis as discussed in the above paragraphs indicate that
the project is expectecl to be highly beneficial to the economy of Turkey.
C. Risks and Uncertainties
7.12      There are no significant risks relating to the project.  However,
marketing prospects give rise to some uncertainties since they would affect
demand for loans under the project components. At present the Government is
committed to support the Second Crop and Fallow Reduction Schemes. But if
this policy should change, it would seriously hinder project implementation of
these components. However since the project is a credit operation, other
components of the project could utilize the funds released by the second crop
and fallow reduction scheme. Marketing presents some uncertainties. The
Government is aware of the problems for maize, soybean, and lentils (see para
6.03) and recognizes the need to review the cost of production and the
marketing situation on an annual basis in order to plan which crops are to be
eligible for financing based on realistic credit needs and market
possibilities. Considering the potentially large benefits, both direct and
indirect, to the economty and farmers, these uncertainties are not critical.
VIII. Recommendations
8.01      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:  (i) the signing of
a Protocol, satisfactory to the Bank, between TCZB and MAF (para. 5.06); and
(ii) signing of a subsidiary agreement between the TCZB and the Government
(para. 4.20).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from TCZB that it
would:
(i)   follow the financing and disbursement procedures described in paras.
4.20 and 4.22-4.23;
(ii)   undertake overseas training of its staff in bccordance with
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.17);
(iii)   procure the goods and services to be financed under the project as
described in para. 4.21;
(iv)   deploy sufficient staff to enable implementation of the project
(para. 5.02)
(v)   make available adeuuate credit to qualified borrowers for harvesting,
drying, and processing facilities for incremental output under SCS
and FRS (para. 5.03);



- 42 -
(vi)   follow the on-lending terms and procedures described in paras. 4.04
and 5.07 to 5.14 while making loans under the project;
(vii)   follow the reporting, monitoring, and evaluation procedures as set
out in paras. 5.15 and 5.16;
(viii)  follow the accounting and auditing arrangements described in para.
5.17; and
(ix)   implement the Action Plan for strengthening of TCZB, and report on
its progress ais described in paras. 5.18 and 5.19.
8.05     During the negotiations, assurances have been obtainea from the
Government that it wou2Ld;
(i) undertake a study of its credit cooperative system (para. 2.12);
(ii) take steps necessary to achieve real positive interest rates, in
accordance with an agreed schedule, on loans to agriculture
sector (para. 2.16);
(iii) undertake to compensate TCZB on account of losses on loans to
sales cooperatives (para 3.33);
(iv) ensure thait TCZB is provided with sufficient funds to implement
the project (para. 4.20);
(v) set up a committee and take steps necessary to carry out a stucLy
of the credit cooperative system according to terms of reference
and implementation arrangements agreed with the Bank (paras.
2.12, 4.18, and 5.21);
(vi) take steps as described in para. 5.04 to facilitate successful
implementation of SCS and FRS components the project;
(vii) cause MAF to prepare monitoring and evaluation reports specified
in para. 5.15; and
(viii) by December 31, 1983, take all action necessary to increase
substantially the minimum loan amount requiring Board of
Directors approval (para. 5.20).
8.06     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$150.4 million to the TCZB, with the guarantee
of the Government of Turkey.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Project Cost
TL Million
1983    1984      1985   1986    Local    Foreign  Total    FE%
A.  ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT
a. Medium Term  Loans             3297    6596    6596   6596    14313         8772   23085        38
b. Short-Term  Loans              1040    2260    2540    741        3685      2896    6581        44
B. SHORT-TERM LOANS FOR
SECOND CROPS                      2114    2305    2305   2307        4967      4064    9031        45
C. SHORT-TERM LOANS FOR
FALLOW REDUCTION                  1279    1768    1469   1584        3782      2318    6100        38
D. IAEE IRRIGATION PROJECT
a.  Medium Term Loans               23      770    1456   1889       2358      1780    4138        43
b.  Short Term Loans                22      274      386    998       1008      672    1680        40
E. SHORT-TERM LOANS FOR
CORUM CANKIRI PROJECT              4U8      8b0    1361   1862       2515      1976    4491        44
F. STRENGTHENING OF TCZB
a.  Training                        10       14       19       -         -       43       43      100
b.  Equipment                      482      494        -       -       195       781     976       80
c.  Studies                          -       29       44       -         9       64       73       80
Total Base Cost                   8675   15370   16176  15977    32832    23366   56198            42
Price Contingencies 1/             346    1855    3269   4419         5954     3935    9889        40
Total Project Cost                9021   17225   19445  20396    38786    27301   66087            41
Front End Fee                                                                     73       73     lot
Total Financing Required                                                38786    27374   66160         41
1/ With price contingencies of 8% in 1983, 7.0% in 1985 and 6% in 1986-90



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Investment Costs
1983                               1984                       1985                  1986                  Sub-Project Total
Uost Per
Model     No. of       Cost          No. of       Cost               No. of    Cost            No. of    Cost           No. of    Cost
TL 000    Units        TL Million   Units         TL Million         Units     TL Mllion    Units        TL Million   Units       TL Million
1.  Mechanization              2827      300          848.0        600          1696.0             600       1696.0          600       1696.0         2100      5936.1
2.  Cattle Fattenlng*          6535     .200         1307.1        400          2614.2             400       2614.2          400       2614.2         1400      9149.6
3.  Sheep Fattening*           2095      120          251.4        240           502.9             240        502.9          240        502.9          840      1760.1    1
4.  Broiler Production*        1222        00          73.3         120          146.7             120        146.7          120         146.7         420        513.4    >
5.  Egg Production             5545       00          332.7         120          665.4             120        665.4          120        665.4          420      2329.0
6.  Orchard Establishment 1/ 2427        200          485.3        400           970.6             400        970.6          400        970.6         1400      3397.1
Totals                                           3297.9                     G595.8                       5595.8                    6595.8                  23085.3
1/ Year 1 -  TL 923,000          Year 2 - TL 256,200       Year 3 - TL 323,600   Year 4 - TL 217,500  Year 5 - TL 389,700
* Includes Working Capital.
m 1



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
SECOND CROPS COYPONENT
Phasing of Production Costs
Production  Target            1983                   1984                   1985                   1986            Foreign
Cost         Area                                                                                                  Exchange
TL/ha        Ha'000   Ha'000  TL million  Ha'000  TL million  Ha'OOO  TL million  Ha'000  TL million  TL million
Maize                   67545      50        10          675.4      25         1688.6      40        2701.8       50        3377.2          1621.1
Soya                   59080       50        10         590.8       25        1477.0       40        2363.2       50        2954.0         1477.0
Groundnuts              79680      20         6         478.1       11         876.5       16        1274.9       20         1593.6          557.8
Sunflower              49105       10         6         491.1        8         392.8       10         491.1       10         491.1          304.5
Sesame                 48340       15         5          241.7       8         386.7       11         531.7       15          725.1         203.0
Sorghum                43810       10         2          87.6        4         175.2        6         262.9       10         438.1          205.9
Sudan Grass            61905        5         1           61.9       2          123.8       3         185.7        5         309.5           136.2
Rice                   72195       10         5         361.0        7         505.4        9         649.8       10         721.9          252.7
Wheat                  45790       50         5          229.0      15         686.8       25        1144.8       50        2289.5          1007.4
Total Areas &
Production Costs                 220        50        2916.6    105          6312.8    160          9605.9    220         12900.0         5765.6
T_7) %
1. Total Production Costs                                  2916.6                 6312.8                9605.9                 12900.0
2. Less 30% not requiring credit                            875.0                 1893.8                2881.8                  3870.0
3.*Balance: Cumulative Production                          2041.6                4419.0                 6724.1                 9030.0
costs under the project
4. Annual Production Costs
under the project                                      2041.6                 2377.4                 2305.1                 2305.9
* Line 3 - Line 1 - Line 2.
m1i



SECOND AGRICULTUPAL CREDIT PPOJECT
TURYEY
FALLOW REDUCTION COMPOPENT
A. Phasing of Production Costs and Operating Credit Requirements
Production Costs
Production       Target                1983                  1984               1985                 1986
Cost             Area
TL/ha.                                                                                                                TOTAL       Foreign Exchange
ha 000       ha 000   TL million   ha 000  TL *il.  ha 000   TL mil.    ha 000   TL ail.  US$ dil.              US$  il.x
Lentils SE                  32390          50             -           -          20      647.8      35      1133.7         50      161.9        8.90        3.47      39
Lentils (CA&TZ)             32b80          50             -           -          20      653.6      30      980.4          50      163.40       8.98        2.96      33
Chick Pea                   36110         100            35        1263.8        60    2166.6       80     2888.8         100    3611.0        19.84        7.54      38
Vetch                       32225          50            15         483.4        25      805.6      40      1289.0         50    1611.2         8.85        3.70      42
Sainfoin                    15905           15            5          79.5         5       79.5      10       159.0         15      238.6        1.31        0.51      39
265           55        1826.7       125    4353.1    195        6450.9        265    8714.3        47.88        18.18      38
B. Operation Credit Requireme'nts
1.  Total production Cost                                              1826.7               4353.1             6450.9                8714.3
2.  Less 30% not requiring credit                                       548.0               1305.9              1935.3                2614.3
3.* Balance  Cumulative Production Costs under the Project             1278.7               3047.2             4515.6                 6100.0
4.  Annual Production coats under the Project                          1278.7               1768.5              1468.4                1584.4
* Line 3= Line 1 - Line 2.



APPRAISAL OF
SECOID AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PR(JECT
TURKEY
CORUM-CANKIRI SHORT-TERM CPEDIT COMPONENT
Phasing of Project Costs and Credit Requirements
1952                     1983                       1984                      1985                     1986
Prod.   Total            Prod.    Total             Prod.   Total             Prod   Total             Prod.   Total
Area    Cost    Cost      Area   Cost      Cost    Area    Cost    Cost    Area    Cost   Cost          Area   Cost    Cost
TLOOO                    TLOOO                     TLOO0                     TL 000                   TL 000
Ha 000   ha    TL Mill  Ha 000    ha    TL Mill Ha 000    ha   TL Mill  Ha 000               TL Mill  Ha 000   ha    TL Mill
Cereals                                  475.5      -         -   458.2      -          -   458.9      -          -   459.6      -          -   460.3      -          -
Lentils                                   42.4   32.68  1,385.6   42.4   32.68  1,385.6   42.4   32.68  1,385.6   43.6   32.68  1,424.8   44.8   32.68  1,464.0
Chick peas                                 9.5   34.90    331.5   10.5   35.20    369.6   11.5   35.50    408.2   12.5   35.80    447.5   13.0   36.11    469.4
Peas                                       8.5   31.27    265.7    9.4   32.90    309.2   10.3   34.52    355.5   11.3   36.15    408.4   12.2   37.77    460.7
Vetch                                     41.6   26.50  1,102.4   46.9   27.93  1,309.9   52.2   29.36  1,532.5   57.4   30.79  1,767.3   62.7   32.22  2,020.1
Sainfoin                                   7.9   15.90    125.6    8.3    5.90    131.9    8.7   15.90    138.3    9.0   15.90    143.1    9.4   15.90    149.4
Sunflower                                  6.1   49.10    299.5    6.6   49.10    324.0    7.1   49.10    348.6    7.6   49.10    373.1    8.1   49.10    397.7
Sugarbeet                                  8.9  100.01    890.0    9.5  108.73  1,032.9   10.2  117.44  1,197.8   10.9  126.16  1,375.1   11.5  134.88  1,551.1
Potatoes                                   4.7  117.0      549.9    5.0  123.4       617-.0    5.4  129.9      701.4    5.8  136.3       790.5    6.1  142.70    870.5
Alfalfa                                    2.6   42.74    137.1    3.5   54.49    190.7    4.4   56.24    247.4    5.2   58.00    301.6    6.1   59.75    364.4
1.  Total Production Cost                                     5,087.3                   5,670.8                  6,315.3                   7,031.4                   7,747.3
2.  Incremental Prod. Cost Cumulative                                                     583.5                   1,228.0                  1,944.1                   2,660.0
3.  Less 30% not requiring credit                                                         175.0                     368.4                    583.2                      798.0
4. * Balance : Cumulative Production Costs                                                408.5                     859.6                  1,360.9                    1,862.0
under the Project
5.  Annual Production Costs under the Project                                            408.5                     451.1                     501.3                     501.1
* Line 4 = Line 2 - Line 3
IS4



- 48 -
Annex 2
TURKEY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A STUDY OF
THE CREDIT COOPERATIVE SYSTEM
1.       The Study would be commissioned by a Steering Committee to be
appointed by the Government. The committee will be headed by a representative
of State Planning Office and include inter alia representatives of the Central
Union of Credit Cooperatives, the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and
Commerce, the Central bank, and TCZB. The study will be carried out by
consultants, supervised and assisted by the committee. An interim report
would be submitted to the Government by December 31, 1984, and a final report
by March 31, 1985.
2.       Its purpose would be to evaluate the past performance of the Credit
Cooperatives, the Regional Unions and the Central Union, with detailed
information covering the last five years, and to propose a rehabilitation and
development plan covering the next five years. The Study would be in three
sections, dealing separately with the Credit Cooperatives, Regional Unions and
Central Union.
3.       Evaluation of Past Performance: The Study would pay particular
attention to:
(a) cooperative laws, eligibility for membership, equity contributions,
audit performance, and external control and supervision;
(b) financial policies and performance, including capitalization,
sources and application ot funds, interest rate structure,
profitability and arrears;
(c) lenoing policies, procedures and performance, incluaing application
and approval of loans, security, eligibility criteria,
term-structure of lending, and share of loans going to small- and
medium-scale farmers;
(d) management and administration, including typical organization
charts, managerial capabilities of senior staff, training programs,
recruitment, salary scale and accounting system; and
(e) external control and supervision.
4.  Future Development Program  The study would present a five-year program
that would identify elements for inclusion in a project for strengthening the
credit cooperative system. It would examine the feasibility of the credit
cooperatives playing a wider role in financial intermediation (such as
collecting deposits on its own behalf or on behalf of an existing banking
institution, expanding lending programs, or extending credit with a longer
maturity for investment purposes). Dependent upon the conclusions reached on
the above possibilities or other possible changes in the role and function of
the cooperatives, the study would, inter-alia, include proposals for:



-49 -                                 Annex 2
(a) appropriate changes in laws and regulations governing the
cooperatives;
(b) improvements in lending policies and procedures;
(c) proposed changes in financial arrangements necessary to ensure
financially viable and strong cooperatives;
(d) proposed changes in managerial and administrative arrangements within
the system;
(e) staff recruitment and training requirements;
(f) proposed changes in the external control and supervision of the
system;
(g) an implementation plan and schedule including proposed sources of
funds.



- 50 -
Annex 2
Draft Terms of Reference for a Study of TCZB's Systems and Procedures
1.       The S_udy will examine in detail the systems and procedures employed
thoughout ' .13 and make recommendations for their modernization and
improvement. It will include;
(a) an analysis of the volume and flow of paperwork, including
correspondence, memoranda, forms and questionnaires, and
proposals for improving the system;
(b) an analysis of the procedures and communication system,
particularly the flow from branches via regional directorates to
head office and return, and proposals for improving them;
(c)  a study of the forms used at branches for loan and credit
applications and their processing, together with proposals for
their simplification;
(d) drafts of the procedures manuals necessary to ensure that statf
throughout TCZB follow the system;
(e) a time schedule for phased implementation of the proposals; and
(f) estimates of the capital cost of any necessary machinery and
equipment.
II. An Interim Report will be submitted to TCZB by -/-/- and the Final Report
by /I/I.



-51 -                                   Annex 2
Terms of Reference for a Study of TCZB's Accounting System
1.  The Study will exarnine in detail the complete accounting system employed
throughout TCZB and make recommendations for its modernization and
improvement.  It will include;
(a)  proposals for reorganizing tne system with particular
reference to the need to supply regular and
up-to-date and information for management purposes;
(b)  arafts of the accounting manuals necessary to ensure
that staff throughout TCZB follow the improved system;
(c) a time schedule for phased implementation of the
proposals, particularly the extension of
computerization throughout the system; and
(d) estimates of the capital cost of the necessary
machinery and equipment.
II. An Interim Report will be submitted to TCZB by -/-/- and a final report by
-/I_/,_.



-52 -
Annex 3
TURKEY
Second Agricultural Credit Project
Summary of Action Plan for Improvements in TCZB Operations 1/
I. Scope of the Action Plan (AP)
1.   The AP covers improvements in (a) lending policies and procedures, (b)
financial planning system, (c) annual and 5-year budgeting system, (d)
management information system, (e) accounting system, (f) staff training,
(g) decentralization of operations, and (h) organizational structure.
2.   To achieve the improvements in items (a) through (f), TCZB staff have
formulated 18 Action Plans - one for each of the 18 directorates dealing
with these matters.  These 18 plans have been approved by TCZB Board of
Directors on April 20, 1983, and implementation on them would commence in
June 1983. Specific actions to be taken are summarized in Section II of
this Annex.
3.   To achieve decentralization of operations, two major actions are
envisaged.   First, assurances have been obtained from TCZB (see
Supplemental Letter No. 5 in the legal documents) that it would delegate
the responsibilities from the General Directorate to Regional
Directorates (RDs) so that by December 31, 1986, most of the RDs can
perform the duties and responsibilities envisaged for them in the bylaws
governing RDs, as published in the official Gazette on September 12,
1982. Second, assjrances have been obtained from the Government that it
would, by December 31, 1983, take necessary action to increase the
minimum loan amounit requiring approval of TCZB Board of Directors from TL
2 million to TL 20 million. These two actions should enable a
substantial decentralization of TCZB operations, as discussed in Section
III of this Annex.
4.   Improvements in organizational structure of TCZB, particularly in the
General Directorate and the Board of Directors have been formulated by
TCZB but would be put into action only after passage of two important
legislations affecting TCZB. These legislations are (i) an SEE reform
decree, and (ii) a banking reform decree. Both of these decrees are
expected to be issued by July 1983. The measures envisaged in both of
these decrees are aimed at improving the efficiency of the SEEs and the
banking sector. Since TCZB is an SEE as well as a bank, it would benefit
from both decrees. These aspects are discussed in Section IV of this
Annex.
1/   This summary has been prepared on the basis of (i) a TCZB letter, dated
April 20, 1983, containing proposals for reorganization, etc., and (ii) a
detailed Action Plan submitted by TCZB during negotiations. Both of
these documents are available in the Project File as Document B-6.



- 53 -
5.   The AP has been formulated by the staff who will be implementing it; thus
a high degree of commitment to implement the AP was assured. In
formulating the AP, TCZB staff utilized the following
documents/materials: (i) 10 studies prepared by consultants (Touche
Ross), hired under the First Agriculture Credit Project (for their
reports see Document B-2 of the Project File); (ii) 2-volume report
prepared by experts from Hacettepe University and TCZB covering
Development and Implementation Plan for TCZB; (iii) reports of the
Evaluation Committee formed by TCZB to review Touche Ross and Hacettepe
Studies; (iv) Directives of the General Director of TCZB appointing 15
preparation committees for formulating AP and indicating the terms of
reference, and (v) the detailed suggestions and comments made by the
World Bank appraisal mission for this project and the supervision
missions for the first agriculture credit project. TCZB will require the
assistance of outside consultants in carrying out the AP. These needs
are discussed in Section V of this Annex.
II. Improvements in TCZB's Policies, Procedures, and Systems
1.   This AP contains 18 separate APs distributed as follows:  (a) AP Nos.
1-6, 11, and 13-18 deal with improvements in lending policies and
procedures; (b) AP Nos. 7 and 14-18 deal with improvements in financial
planning and budgeting; (c) AP Nos. 8-10 and 14-18 deal with improvements
in the accounting system, (d) AP Nos. 12-13 deal with improvements in the
management informaltion system, and (e) AP Nos. 14-15 deal with staff and
training.
2.   A common methodology (Precedence Diagram Method, PDM, of network
scheduling of tasks) was established for presentation of each the Actioni
Plans and, therefoire, each Action Plan consists of the following parts:
(a) a list of activities (task) with a brief description of work to be
done.  A maximtum of 50 tasks in an AP was specified to ensure
controllability. Each task must be a clearly defined activity;
(b) a network diagram showing sequence of tasks, time required for each
task, elapsed tii1e, and critical path; and
(c)  a histogram showing personnel and time required for each task.
3.   The APs were prepared by the unit which will implement them and were
finalized after lengthy discussions - close involvement of staff was thus
ensured. Each activity has been defined in such a way that it could be
treated separately and be assigned to a different individual or group.
4.   The work on implementation of AP would begin in June 1983.  Each
directorate will then assign staff to work on each task in accordance
with the network diagram and the histogram. As soon as one activity is
finished, the next will start. The staff assigned to complete tasks(s)
will be relieved from their other responsibilities and will work full
time on completion of task.
5.   Quarterly progress reports will be submitted by the directorate regarding
the implementation of AP. A committee will be formed to coordinate and
monitor the implementation.



- 54 -
6.   Specific actions included in each AP are discussed below.
AP No. 1 - The Encouragement and Development Directorate will:
l.   Annually compare credit requirements of farmers with personal limits
(credit norms), and establish norms at adequate levels. Realistic norms
are necessary to overcome the problem of an inadequate amount of credit;
2.   recommend revision in lending authorization limits of branches to enable
them to grant loans up to personal limits. Authorization limit means
discretionary power of branch to approve loans;
3.   distribute authorization limits to branches, regional directorates, and
general directorates within the framework of overall authorization limit
on size of loans which, by law, must be approved by the TCZB Board of
Directors;
4.   conclude a protoco]L with Ministry of Finance regarding bearing of foreign
exchange risk on all foreign credits including WB loans for
agroinduistries;
5.   determine new kind of guarantees which will take account of farmers
circumstances;
6.   review and amend the loan application and appraisal forms in use by the
Directorate to simplify them and ensure that only necessary and usable
information is included;
7.   determine criteria for project evaluation so that projects can serve as
the guarantee and no other guarantee is required;
8.   review arrangements for supply of inputs under schemes administered by
the Directorate and conclude protocols with the supply agencies. Also
conclude protocols with marketing agencies which will handle the output
under the schemes;
9.   hold quarterly regional meetings with TCZB General Directorate Staff and
MAF staffs.; and
10. AP No. 1 consists of 32 tasks and is expected to take 22 months to
implement. In general it will take 1-2 months to finish a task using 2-4
persons working full time. Several tasks will be carried out
simultaneously. Total number of man-months required is 210.
AP No. 2 - Directorate c,f Agricultural Credits will:
1.   Revise credit norms (personal credit limits) to make them realistic;
2.   revise authorization limits to ensure consistency with personal credit
limits;
3.   determine number and type of staff required to carry out ag. credit work
at branches;



- 55 -
4.   arrange for traininzg of new and existing staff;
5.   determine new kind of guarantee;
6.   review loan application and appraisal processing forms to simplify them
and make them useful;
7.   define criteria for project evaluation so that projects serve as
guarantee;
8.   conclude protocols with input supply and marketing agencies; and
9.   AP No. 2 consists of 32 tasks and is expected to take 45 months.  Tasks
will be done simult:aneously. Total staff assigned to the tasks will vary
from 8-27. Total man-months required for implementing the AP is 769.
AP No. 3 - Directorate of Credits for Fishery Products will:
1.   Determine number and qualifications of staff to carry out directorate
activities at the various branches;
2.   arrange for training of new and existing staff;
3.   review and determir,e credit demand at the branches;
4.   annually compare credit requirements and current credit limits to assess
adequacy of these limits;
5.   revise lending authorization limits;
6.   determine new types of guarantees;
7.   review and amend loan application and evaluation forms;
8.   define criteria for project evaluation to ensure that projects can serve
as guarantee;
9.   monitor the implementation of the above activities; and
10. Total number of tasks = 26; time per job ranges from 1-12 months; total
man-months required = 255; implementation time = 25 months.
AP No. 4 - Directorate c,f Supervised Agricultural Credits (SAC) will:
1.   Determine the numbe!r of branches with adequate number and type
(qualifications) of staff and vehicles to carry out directorate
activities;
2.   establish Supervised Agricultural Credit Units in these branches;
3.   procure the required vehicles;
4.   recruit and train the staff;



-56 -
5.   release selected branches from dependence on other branches for technical
staff;
6.   determine credit requirements of farmers;
7.   revise personal limits based on credit requirements;
8.   revise credit limit:s of branches;
9.   revise and determine authorization limits to ensure alignment between
those and personal credit limits;
10. prepare regulations, define responsibilities and rotation program for
technical staff;
11. prepare criteria for project evaluation;
12. authorize technical staff to prepare project proposals;
13. review and amend loan application and evaluation forms;
14. determine new types of guarantees;
15. determine interest rates on overdue and current credits;
16. determine inputs required by farmers, select supplying agencies, and
prepare and conclude protocols with suppliers;
17. determine sales schedule of farmer produce, select and prepare protocols
with marketing agencies;
18.  promote SAC to farmers;
19. discontinue the system of having Selection Committees including
Representatives of Ministries of Finance, Trade, Agriculture and
Forestry, State Planning Organization and TCZB;
20. monitor above actions; and
21. total number of tasks = 46; time per job 1-6 months; total implementation
time = 41 months; total manpower required = 706 man-months.
AP No. 5 - Directorate of Commercial Credits will:
1.   Review and simplify loan application and evaluation forms;
2.   determine criteria for delegation to Regional Directorates of authority
to grant credits;
3.   abolish 'group credits';
4.   determine staff needs and arrange for its training;
5.   prepare transitional program for the delegation of authority to Regional
Directorates;



- 57 -
6.   monitor the proposed actions; and
9.   total number of tasks = 11; range of time per job = 1-6 months; total
implementation time = 21 months; manpower required = 80 man-months.
AP No. 6 - Directorate of Participations will:
1.   Define criteria for participating in equity investments (profitability,
productivity, value added, employment, targets, other factors);
2.   determine standardized forms to report and monitor equity participations;
3.   determine promising types of businesses for investing;
4.   identify and evaluate potential companies which would qualify for
participation;
5.   define and implement program for equity participations for qualified
companies;
6.   prepare guidelines for the preparation of performance report form;
7.   prepare training program for the use of the new forms;
8.   evaluate performance reports in order to monitor performance of companies
in which TCZB is participating, and inform TCZB's management on status of
participants;
9.   establish control system to monitor implementation of the equity
participation policies and program;
10.  prepare and submit to TCZB management proposals to deal with external
factors affecting TCZB equity participation program and policies,
including strengthening relations with State Planning Organization; and
11.  total number of tasks = 14; time per job ranges   1-6 months; total
implementation time = 37 months; total manpower   72 man-months.
AP No. 7 - Directorate of Planning, Programming, and Budgeting will;
1.   Prepare a report defining short- and long-term objectives of TCZB
including growth targets and income and cost obj,ectives. Strategies to
achieve goals will also be detailed;
2.   prepare financial planning and budget forms - annual and 5-year
timeframe. For General Directorate divisions, branches, RDs;
3.   prepare manuals for use of financial planning forms (12 months);
4.   test the forms, organize training in use of forms, and monitor and
evaluate completion of forms;
5.   prepare 5-year financial plan and budget, and submit to Board of
Directors;



- 58 -
6.   establish monitoring (control) system for budget and plan implementation,
and prepare quarterly progress reports;
7.   AP No. 7 comprises of 16 tasks and will take 28 months to finish.  Time
for each job varies from 1-4 months. A total of 102 man-months required;
and
8.   The Systems and Procedures Study under the project will serve in
implementation of this AP.
AP No. 8 - Directorate of Accounting will;
1.   Determine the extent to which the present accounting system meets the
legal and management information requirements. A survey will be done for
this purpose;
2.   define the requirements (specifications?) for a new accounting system
taking into account systems in use by other Turkish and foreign banks;
3.   prepare an Accounting Plan which will form the basis of internal
accounting reports and satisfy the informational needs of all managerial
levels;
4.   prepare instruction book for implementing new Accounting Plan;
5.   program and organize training of personnel in new Accounting Plan;
6.   monitor the implementation of the new Accounting Plan and solve problems;
7.   AP No. 8 comprises of 14 tasks and will take 43 months to finish.  Time
for each job varies from 1-12 months.. A total of 169 man-months will be
required; and
8.   the basis of this AP will be the Accounting Study proposed under the
project.
AP No. 9 - Directorate of Automation will:
1.   Will install a B-2930 computer and computerize all activities of the
Directorate;
2.   prepare programs and computerize selected activities of Ankara (Central)
and Tandogan branches;
3.   prepare programs and computerize selected activities of Personnel and
Supplies and Procurement Directorates;
4.   purchase and instal:L small computer systems in 13 branches, in a phased
manner over a 4-year period, to computerize foreign transactions;
5.   establish a data bank for use of the TCZB by January 1, 1985;
6.   adapt an IBM package to TCZB computer to facilitate project evaluation
work; and



- 59 -
7.   the above tasks will require 64 months to accomplish them.  However, many
tasks will be finished in 1-2 years. Total manpower required will be 409
man-montbs.
AP No. 10 - The Directorate of Control (Audit) will:
1.   Revise the present system of control to make it more efficient;
2.   prepare new forms, reports, and manuals for control;
3.   determine personnel and equipment requirements to implement the system;
4.   program and organize required training of staff;
5.   monitor and evaluate the working of new system; and
6.   AP No. 10 comprises of 11 tasks and will take 37 months to implement.
Time required for each task varies from 2-6 months and most of the tasks
have to be done in a sequence rather than simultaneously. Total manpower
required is 155 man-months.
AP No. 11 - Project Evaluation Directorate will;
1.   Prepare simplified forms for loan application, appraisal, evaluation and
monitoring of projects.
2.   recruit new staff for the Directorate according to new salary scales and
on basis of a qualifying examination;
3.   program and organize training for new staff and branch staff in project
evaluation techniques;
4.   review and redefine the functions and responsibilities of the Directorate
and seek Board of Directors approval for them; and
5.   the AP No. 11 comprises of 14 tasks, many of which can be performed
simultaneously. Total time required is 17 months and total manpower
required is 176 man-months.
AP No. 12 - Design of Daitabase System
1.   The AP outlines the structure and uses of the database system.  The
database covers not only the data on TCZB activities, it also contains a
library and data on economic and sector-wise data;
2.   in addition to periodic reporting of data on TCZB operations, the system
will also provide the data for the following periodicals published by
TCZB; (a) Daily Economic Bulletin, (b) Monthly Economic Bulletin,
(c) Annual Economic Report, (d) Values of Agricultural Production, and
(e) Special Research Reports; and
3.   the creation testing of the database will take about 60 months.



- 60 -
AP No. 13 - Project for Agricultural Production Calendar
1.   The calendar will show timing of all aspects of agricultural activities,
including land preparation, planting, cultivation operations, harvesting,
production feeding, relating to crop and livestock activities. The
calendar will also show input providing and input-using industrial
linkages;
2.   the calendar will be used for planning TCZB operations as well as in
agricultural planning;
3.   work was started 12 months ago and will take a further 48 months to
complete;
4.   the information used for calendar will be obtained through a
questionnaire, field survey, survey of literature;
5.   as part of calendar, data on costs will also be compiled.  Also deposit
mobilization strategy will be designed to intensify drive during periods
of crop sales;
6.   The calendar for Agricultural Production will have five components:
calendars for (a) activities of agricultural production, (b) agricultural
inputs by crops, (c) agricultural credits by crops, (d) marketing by
crops, a nd (e) loan repayment by crops. In a second phase, a calendar
for anim31 products and a calendar for fishing will be prepared; and
7.   The Action Plan describes the methodology of preparing the calendar and
lists 34 tasks to produce the calendar.
AP No. 14 - Directorate of Personnel will:
1.   Carry oul: recruitment/assignment of staff, required for carrying out AP
or indicated by AP; and
2.   staffing functions should be over in 12 months.
AP No. 15 - D-Lrectorate of Training will:
1.   Prepare and conduct the training programs as required by respective
directorates;
2.   the tasks will take 1-3 months per job; and
3.   in all, 9 training ;?rograms are envisaged over a period of 40 months.
AP No. 16 - The Directorate of Organization and Methods will:
1.   ]?repare and revise I:he forms in consultation with the 10 concerned
directorates which have undertaken to simplify and streamline the forms
under their APs;
2.   it will take 1 to 5 months to finish revision in each directorate; and



- 61 -
3.   The Systems and Procedures Study will make a major contribution in this
AP.
No. 17 - Directorate of Printing will:
1.   Arrange printing of forms, circulars, and manuals for use in loan
processing, accounting, and financial planning and budgeting; and
2.   time required for each task will range from 2-6 months.
AP No. 18 - Directorate of Supplies and Procurement will:
1.   Arrange for distribution of revised forms and manuals prepared by otber
directorates; and
2.   the timing of AP depends upon work finished by otbers.  Distribution will
take I month in each instance.
III. Decentralization of TCZB Operations
1.   TCZB will delegate the responsibilities to the Regional Directorates
(RDs) over a 3-year period, ending December 31, 1986, so as to permit
most of the RDs to fully exercise the duties and responsibilities
specified in the bylaws governing operations of RDs, as published in the
official Gazette, dated September 12, 1982. A program for such
delegation of powers will be prepared by TCZB and submitted to the Bank.
2.   In terms of the bylaws, the RD can, inter alia, perform the following
duties: administratively control and supervise the work of branches;
approve loans exceeding branch's approval authority; organize loan
recovery program; organize deposit mobilization efforts by branches and
set targets for branches, carry out studies of deposit potential and
credit requirements; approve expenditures in excess of branches
authority; recruit clerical and support level staff; temporarily assign
staff from one brancn to another depending on work requirements; make
proposals for opening new branches; foster improved customer relations at
branches; investigate and settle, as far as possible, complaints about
personnel; follow up on comments in branch audit and inspection reports;
organize staff training; and supervise procurement and supplies for
branches.
3.   At present TCZB has 7 RDs, but it is proposed to raise the number to 17.
The present RDs carry out only a limited number of responsibilities
described in para. 2 and the General Directorate (Head Office of TCZB in
Ankara) controls the i,065 branches. The proposal to make most of the
proposed 17 RDs fully operational according to the bylaws would allow a
substantial decentralization of TCZB operations and increase efficiency.
4.   The APs described in Section II contain proposals for increasing the loan
approval authority of branches and RDs, on a selective basis, up to the
levels permitted by the banking law. The current provisions allow
delegation of responsibility only up to TL 2 million; any loan above TL



- 62 -
2 million must be approved by the TCZB Board of Directors. TCZB has
already delegated the powers to branches and RDs to approve loans up to
TL 2 million. However, a substantial number of loans have to be sent to
head office for approval by the Board. This creates delay. The
Government and the banks are aware of the need to increase the limit of
TL 2 million. A banking reform decree is expected to be issued by July
1983 which contains proposals to increase the current limit of TL
2 million to TL 50 million. When the decree is issued, TCZB will review
and increase the loan approval limits set for the branches and RDs..
IV. Improvements in Organizational Structure
1.   The Government is planning to issue a decree for reform of public
administration, including SEEs. The SEE reform decree will most likely
continue the status of TCZB as an SEE, although TCZB has proposed that it
should be considered exclusively as a bank and not an SEE. The
composition of the TCZB Board of Directors, TCZB's relationship with
Central Bank, control of TCZB by the Ministry of Finance instead of the
Ministry of Commerce, and some other powers and responsibilities of TCZB,
would be settled once the decree is issued. Thereafter, TCZB plans to
put into effect improvements in its organizational structure. The decree
is expected to be issued in the end of May 1983. The decree will not
interfere with the implementation of the parts of the AP referred to in
Sections II and III of this Annex. The provisions of the decree are also
not expected to affect the internal organization of TCZB, i.e. the
General Directorate, RDs, and branches. However, it may affect personnel
regulations and composition of the board of Directors. TCZB management
considers it prudent that the improvements in the internal structure
should be put into place only after the SEE reform decree and banking
reform decree are issued. The Bank concurs with this position.
2.   In the meantime, TCZB has formulated proposals for division of authority
and responsibility at General Directorate, RD, and branch levels. The
authority and responsibilities of all existing organizational units have
been defined and codified in draft statutes. As soon as the decrees are
issued, these statutes will be finalized. TCZB will, within a maximum
period of 12 months from the date of issue of the decree, finalize the
revised organization structure including organization charts and duties
and responsibilities of each unit.
V. Consultant Assistance for Carrying out the AP
1.   At the present time, TCZB and the Bank have agreed that as part of the
AP, TCZB will carry out a study of the accounting system and a study of
the systems and procedures. TCZB will require Consultants' assistance
and shall employ consultants by June 30, 1984, to assist in the conduct
of these studies. The Bank loan proceeds will finance the expenditures
for these consultants.
2.   Further consultant assistance requirements for implementation of the AP
may be financed under the project if mutually agreed between the Bank and
TCZB.
3.   For implementation of the AP, TCZB also plans to utilize the services of
2-4 man-months of consultant services which are being provided to it by
OECD under a technical assistance program.



- 63 -
Annex 4
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation System
Purpose
1.  The purpose of the system is to improve implementation of the project by
reporting and monitoring the key variables.  Main areas to be covered are
status of transactions under the loan, progress in project implementation,
operational results of representative investment projects, the financial
condition of TCZB and micro/macro economic trends relating to investment
projects for which this loan has been made. The reports will be prepared in 3
parts as described below.
Part A: Semi-annual Monitoring Report
2. This report will be prepared by the Encouragement and Development Division
of the TCZB for the On-Farm Development and IAEE Irrigation Project components
and by the Extension Department General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs,
MAF (GDAA) for the Fallow Reduction, Second Crop and Corum-Cankiri
components. Each report will consist of a textual part highlighting the main
achievements and problems encountered during the semester in project
implementation (i.e. delaiys in construction or delay/shortages in availability
of goods and inputs such as fertilizers, seeds herbicides, etc.) and list
actions and recommendations proposed to resolve the proDlems. The following
tables will be attached to these summaries.
(i)  On-farm Development IAEE lrrigation Project (TUZB)
-  Processing of investment loan applications by type and provinces
Loan amounts approved and disbursed, by province
- Overdues on project loans, by province
-  Procurement status for TCZB, equipment, training, personnel
- Loan supervision activities of TCZB staff
(ii) Second Crops, Faillow Reduction, and Corum-Cankiri Components
(Responsibility GDAA)
- Progress of construction and procurement for extension service
-  Number of participating farmers and areas planted by crops and, by
province                                                                 I
- Loan amounts approved, by province (TCZB to provide)
-  Summary Report on extension and research activities
3.       These semi-annual reports will be submitted to the World bank within
two months from the end of the six-month period. The last report will be made
when the last investment project is completed.



- 64 -
Part B                                                                    Annex 4
Annual Financial Statements
4.       The certified copies of the following financial statement relating to
TCZB and the project will be submitted to the World Bank annually not later
than six montbs after the end of the accounting year of TCZB:
-    Statement of income and expenses ot TCZB
-    Movement of balance sheet accounts of TCZB
-    Annual report on project account transactions
-    Annual report on rescheduling of loans for investment projects
financed under the Bank loan
-    Audit Reports of TCZB and project accounts
Part C
Annual Evaluation Reports (AERs)
5.       The focus of AERs will be on operational results of representative
investment projects. The AER will be prepared on the basis of a sample 2/ of
subborrowers, to be selected according to methodology agreed with the Bank.
The methodology and sample size woula be preparee by the Economic Researcb
Division of the TCZB for the on-Farm Development and IAEE Irrigation project
components and by the Technical Assistance and Coordination Department of GDAA
for the other project components. The methodology and sample plan will be
agreed with the Bank.
6.       The textual part of the AER will compare the actual operational
results for the representative investment project with the projections made at
the time of appraisal. Thle summary will also comment whether the expected
results are being achieved surpassed or not being achieved and analyse the
reasons why.
7.       The following information will be included in the data collection
from the sample farms 1/;
Crop Related Activities                       Livestock Activities
-  Access and timely arrival of          -  Sheep Purchase (weight & cost)
necessary inputs:                   -  Feed Purchase/Quantities
(i) Fertilizer, Seed               -  Average weight gain in 6 months, 1 yr.
(ii) Pesticides, Herbicides         -  Mortality Rate, Causes of Loss
(iii) Water for irrigated crops    -  Sales
-  Crop Yields (tons/ha)                 -  Prices
-  Application Rates for major
inputs (tons/ha)
General Social and Economic
-  Losses due to:                             Background of the Farmer:
(i) harvesting
(ii) improper storage               -  land holdings
(iii) other reasons                  -  sources of income
Amounts of Losses                    -  family size and composition
-  Marketing of Crops (Sales)            -  family labor
Prices
1/ Sample farm group will include some farmers who are not participating in
the project, but who are participating in the various schemes.
2/ Sampling will be on the basis of a stratified sample but using purposive
selection of farmers based on appropriate criteria.



Annex  5
Table  1
APPUASAL 01
SECOD AG4IlCULITUR4L CYEDIT PROJcT
TUIMKE!
PRODUCTI0N. GCOSS VALUE *D INCWSTAL PRODUCTION
I . ON PARK DEVELWNENT
before Proiect                                         After Project                                  Incresental
Area   Yield  Production  Value 1/ Gross Value 1/  Area    Yield  Production  Value 1/ Gross Value 1/   Production  Value 1/
Mechanisetion    ia 000  Watha   Ton 000    SJljl    Tn lillion            Ha 000  V.a  Ton 000                   T SL Billion        Ton 000   TL BillTon
Wheat               63      1525       96         27         2.59             63     2530      160          27           4.32           64         1.73
Chick Peas          21       715       15         38         t 0.57           21     1200       25          38           0.96           10          .39
Cotton              21      1600       38         71         2.99             21     3000       63          79           4.98           25         1.99
Soya                10.5   1135        12        52          0.62             10.5   1900       20          52           1.04            8        0.42
Annual Crops
Cereal Grain       140      1900      266        2J          7.18            140     2300      316          27           8.53           50         1.35
beans               70      1200       84        49          4.12            70      2300      161         49            7.89           77         3.77
Sunflower                 -        -         -               -               35      1300       45          50           2.27           45         2.27
Vegetables          35    18000       630         13         *.19             35    25000      875          13          11.37          245         3.18
Total Subproject (360.5)            (1141)                 (26.26)          (395.5)          (1665)                    (41.36)        (524)      (2I.IO)
Investment Models                                                     (No Units)             (tons)                                  (tons)
Beef                 -         _        _         ..         _             1400  11580LW   16212 L1       240            3.24        16212 LW     3.89
Sheep                -         -        -           -                       840   3936LW    3306 LW       280            0.79         3306 LW       .93
broiler              -         _       _          .                         420   S500LW    3570 LW       220           0.76         3570 LW      0.78
Layer# E             -         -        -         .          -              420 227950No        96 Nok      96           1.15           96 moll   1.15
Layers Heat          _         _        _                                   420   1665Ltl    699 LW        190           0.13          699 LW     0.13
Orcherd              _         _        _         ,                        3500    20000    7000 tona    40              0.28         7000 tone   0.28
Total              360.5             1141                   26.26                                                      47.73                     22.26
71. Fallow Reduction
Lentil SE            -         -             -               -               30      1100       55         40            2.20           55         2.20
Lentil CA.T2         -         -        -                    -               S0       100       50         40            2.00           S0         2.00
Chick Paes Seed      -         -        -         .                         100      1200      120          38           4.56          120        4.56
Vetch Seed           -         -                   .   -                     50       goo00     40          25           1.00           40         1.00
Seinfoin Fodder      -         -        -         -          -               15      5000       75          18           1.35           75        1.35
Total                                                                       265                340                      11.11          340        11.11
Ill.Coru-Connkiti
Lentils             42.4   1100       47         40          1.87            44.8   1100       49          40            1.97            2        0.10
Chick Peas           9.5   1200        11        34,         0.36            13.0   1300        17          38          0.49             6        0.13
Peas                 8.5   1200        10        SO          0.42            12.2   1400        17         SO           0.61             7        0.19
Vetch               41.6    800        33        25          0.83            b2.7   1000        63          25           1.56           30        0.73
sainfoin             7.9   73i5       58         IS          1.04             9.4   7315        69         18            1.24           11        0.20
S,itlower            6.1   1300        8         50          0.40             8.1   1300        11         SO           0.53            3         0.13
Sugarbeet            8.9  36000      320          5.5        1.76            11.5  48000      552           5.5         3.04          232         1.28
Poatoes              4.7  15000       70         13          0.92             6.1  25000       152          13           1.98          82         1.06
Altalfe              2.6   6500        17       l           0.30             6.1   7315        45          18          0.80           28         0.50
Total              132.2             574                     7.90           173.9              975                      12.22         401         4.32
IV. Second Crop
maize                          -        -                    -               50      4000      200         25           5.00          200         5.00
Soya                           -        -           -        -               50      1900       95         52           4.94           95         4.94
C  u.,ts                       -        -         -          -               20      2000      40          85           3.40           40         3.40
Sunflower                      -                  -                          10      2000       20         50            1.00          20         1.00
sc*c ze  -  -      -          -               15      0OO       12         120           1.44           12         1.44
Sorghum                        -       -          -                          10      3200       32         25           0.80           32         0.SO
Sudan Grass                    -       -          -                           5      7000      35           -           -              35         -
Rice                           -       -          -                          10      4000      40          46           1.84           40         1.84
wtlcat                         -       -          -          -               50      3000      150         27           4.05          150         4.05
lotal Subproject                                                            220         -     624           -          22.47          624        22.47
Pr ject Totals    492.7 2/          1715 2/                 34.16          1054.4            3604.0 1/                 93.53         1889 2/    6U.16
1/  Financial Prices.  Fodder crops and by-products for Livestock reeding not included except alfalfa in Corum-Caakiri.
2/ Crop Totals only.
31  ancremental velue of all project related investments eacludina the irrigation completion subproject which is discussed in the IAEE Appraisal
Report.



-66-                                     Annex 5
Table 2
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PRICES AND INIPUT COSTS
A Prices            Financial                  B Costs
Produce                                      Seeds
Lentil Red       Steeds (S)      40         Lentil Red                              52
F odder (F)      4                 Green                          52
Green   S                40         Chick pea                              50
F                5         Vetch                                  42
Chick Pea        S               38         Sainfoin                                55
F                5         Peas                                   56
Vetch            S               25         Maize                                  140
F               15         Soya                                   90
Sainfoin         F               15         Groundnut                              100
Alfalfa          F               15          Sunflower                              56
Sesame                                140
Maize            S               25         Sorghum                                30
F                3         Sudan grass                            75
Soya             S               52         Rice                                   80
Groundnut        S               85         Wheat Existing wo                      40
"I               F               10         Cotton (Seed Cotton)                   35
Sunflower        S               50         Potato (Existing)                      20
With Project                           25
Sesame           S              120         Bean Existing                          50
With Project                           60
Sorgham          S               25         Alfalfa                               300
F                3         Fertilizer (Units N,P205KO)
Sudan Grass    F                 15         Ammonium Sulphate N.P205               60
Rice             S               46         Triple Super PhosphateK20              45
Wheat            S               27         Potassium Nitrate                      42
F                8
Cotton                           79         Farm Yard Manure                         5
Peas                             50         Chemicals
Vegetables                                   Insecticides 1.4                     630
Potatoes                         13         Fungicides 1.4                        425
Sugar beet                        5.5       Herbicides 1.4                        750
Beans                            49         Insecticide (Fruit Trees) 1.4    965
Apples                           40          Irrigation Water Ha                 4000
Livestock Products
Fat cattle LW                   240         Labour
Fat sheep LW                    280         Tractoroperator al                    600
Wool (greasy)                   300         "                  b/                 800
Broilers LW                     220         Field Labour    a/                    400
Cull Layers LW                  190                            b/                 500
Eggs ea.                      11-13
Fuel
Cattle manure                     3         Petrol super. lit                      94
Sheep  "                          5         "       regular lit                    89
Poultry"                          5         Diesel lit                             58



- 67 -                       Annex 5
Table 2 (continued)
B Costs (cont.)
Livestock Purchase
Store cattle per kg l.w.          220
" sheep "                         230
Chicks broiler each                 68
it     layer each                  126
a= Corum Cankiri and Fallow Reducation
Area
b= Second Crop and on Farm Development
Areas
Livestock Feed
Barley grain                     15-20
Maize grain                         18
Bran                             13-15
Sunflower cake                      22
Sugar beet pulp dry                 15
"1     "1   1" wet                   1.5
Wheat-broken                        16
Lentil-broken                        7.8
Meadow hay                          12
Alfalfa hay                         15
Lentil straw                         8
Cereal straw                         5
Poultry Feed Broilers A             34.5
"1   "     "I          B            33.5
Poultry Feed Layer    A             29.5
"I  II   to            B            26.0
"I  li "               C            26.0
Transport
Freight (Sea) $/Ton in bags
Turkey to N. Europe I/s            $50
,,  ,i     II        L             $25
Turkey to S. Asia2!   S            $60
It  of     II        L             $30
Chemicals
White Oil lit.                     140
Copper Sulphate kg.                 60
Lime (Slaked) kg.                   15
Chlorobenzylate kg.                640
Hydrolizing protein kg.            100
S= Small Consignment less than
5-10,000 T
L= Large Consignment greater than
10,000 T
11FOB Liner Terms
2/FOB Stowed on Charter Terms
A= Chick
B= Growing
C= Laying



APPRAISAL OF
.SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREpIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Summary Results of Financial Analysis 1/.
Financial Rates of Return                                   Switching Values  2/
Operating  Investment  Benefits   Benefits &
Base  Benefits   Costs        Costs    -10%        Operating Costs             Investment  Operating   NPV
Models                    Case   (-10%)    (+10%)       (+20%)   INV.(+1O%) Lagged 1 year       Benefits   Costs        Costs    TL 000
Beef                   26      3         7           21          2          21                -7         87           8      4736
Sheep                  29      3         8           24          2          23                -7        105           8      1846
Broiler                19    -          -            15         -           1                 -3         41           4       436
Egg                   29      21        25           24         19          23              -22         109          37      4974                              i
Mechanization         35      29        33           28         26          26              -39         134         123      3375                             
Orchards               10      8        10            9          8           9                +9        -15         -25         -                             X
I/ Constant November 1982 Prices
2/ At 12%
iD. | 
ax> 
U't



-69-                            Annex 5
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
CROP SCHEMES
FINANCIAL BENEFITS
INCREMENTAL WITH PROJECT
TL per ha
Benefit     Net    Net Income
Gross       Total 1/        Cost    Income   to Family
Value        Value         Ratio    Per Ha   Labor Der ha.
A. Second Crop Scheme                                     -
Maize                 112000       67545           1.7     44455       56825
Soya                   98800       59080           1.7     39720       49775
Groundnuts            200000       79680          2.5    120320       138020
Sunflower             100000       49105          2.0      50895       58250
Sesame                 96000       48340          2.0      47660       62600
Sorghum                95000       43810          2.2      51190       58015
Sudan Grass           105000       62905           1.7     51405       55405
Rice                  184000       72195          2.6    111805       125170
Wheat                 105000       45790           2.3     59210       63175
Cotton                237000      113420          2.1    123580       134085
B. Fallow Reduction Scheme
Lentil                 48400       32390           1.5     16010       18205
(South East)
Lentil                 45000       32680           1.4     12320       17915
(Central Anatalia)
Chickpeas              52100       36110           1.4     15990       21625
Vetch                  44000       32225           1.4     11775       16232
Sainfoin               30000       15905           1.9     14095       19525
C. Corum-Cankiri
Peas                   10000        6510           1.5      3490        4990
Sugarbeet              66000       34870           1.9     31130       34030
Alfalfa                 14625            *         -       23685       29745
* Costs lower with
project
D. Annual Crop Improvement (On-Farm Development Component)
Vegetablets             91W0       25680          3.5      65320       38834
Cereals                14000        6325          2.2       7675        7980
Pulses                  9800             *        -        10730         -
Oilseed                65000       31835          2.0      33165       36025
* Costs lower with project:, less family labor.
1/  Gross Value less costs of nroduction.



-70-                                  Annex 5
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Economic Prices 1/ for Major Inputs and Outputs
(constant 1982 Value TL/Kg)
I.  Cereals and                     TL/Kg
Industrial Crops
Wheat                          26.3
Paddy                          52.4
Maize                          36.6
Sorghum                        36.6
Soybean Seed                   79.2
Groundnut                      93.3
Sunflower Seed                40.8
Sesame Seed                  690.7
Sugar                           7.6
Pulses
Chickpeas                      61.8
Lentils                        53.5
Dry Beans                     138.9
Livestock
beef                          233
Mutton                        268
Broiler                       167
F'ruits and Vegetables
Apples                         81.5
Potatoes                       23.8
Non edible
Cotton                        100.2
Fertilizer 2/
Nitrogen  N                   119.5
Phosphate P205                 81.6
Potash K20                     44.6
Feed
Broken Wheat                   23
Bran                           19
Barley                         14
Soyabean Meal                  65
Fish Meal                      87
Sunflower Meal                 51
Conversion Factors
Standard                         .8
Investment                       .75
Consumption                      .86
Transport                        .8
Labor                            .5
1/ Exfarm/Exfarmgate prices
2/ 100% active ingredient



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Summary Results of Economic Analysis 1/
Economic Rate of Return                                       Switching Values  2/
Benefits &
Operating  Investment  Benefits   Operating                                                 NPV
Base   Benefits   Cost         Cost       (-10%)      Cost lagged                   Investment  Operating  at 12%
Models                    Case   (-lO%)    (+10%)       (+20%)    Inv.(+lO%)  one year             Benefits      Costs        Costs    (TLOOO)
Beef                        23     -           1          19         --                               -5          70           G       3453
Sheep                       38     12         16          30           10          28                -10         157          12       2489
Broiler                     14     -          -           10             -         11                 -1          10            1        88
Egg                         25      18         21           21          16          20               -18           92          28       3517
Orchards                    38      35        37            35          33          32               -65         566          350       8372
Mechanization               29      26          -           25          24          24               -58          137           -       8743
Total ;3j                   28
m x
*   Economic Rate of Return higher than 100%.                                                                                                           a u
1/ Constant 1982 prices.
2/ At 12%
3/ Total Economic Rate of Return is a weighted average of the medium term investments.



- 72 -
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                         Annex 5
TURKEY                                     Table 7
PROJECT EMPLOYMENT A,
Without Project                           With Proiect                       Increment
Model              Hectares      Hrs. per Ha    Total Hrs   Hectares           Hrs. per Ha  Total Hrs          Total Hrs
or Units        or Unit          (000)      or Units         or Unit         (000)            (000)
Beef                    -              -               -          1,400          4,000          5,600            5,600
Sheep                   -              -               -            840          4,000          5,600            5,600
Broilers                                                            420          4,000          1,680            1,680
Layers                                                              420           4,000         1,680            1,680
Orchards  2/        3,500             27              95          3,500           1,680         5,880            5,785
Annual Crops
Vegetables    3,500             586          20,510         35,000             576          20160             -360
Cereals      140,000             27            37B0        140,000               31          4340              560
Pulses        70,000            264          18,480         70,000              103          7210         -11,270
Oilseed             -             -               -         35,000               79          2765             2765
Subtotals               -              -              -         42,865                         54,915           12,050
Fallow Reduction
Lentil SE               -              -               -         50,000              96         4,800            4,800
Lentil CATZ             -              -               -         80,000             168         8,400            8,400
Chick Pea               -              -               -        100,000             169        16,900           16,900
Vetch                   -              -               -         50,000             113         5,650            5,650
Sainfoin                -              -              -          15,000              64           960              960
Subtotal                                                                                       36,710           36,710
Corum-Cankiri
Lentils            42,400            168         71,200          44,800             168        75,300
Chick Peas          9,500            169          1,600          13,000             169         2,200
Peas                8,500            145          1,200          12,200             124         1,500
Vetch              41,600            113          4,700          62,700             113         7,100
Sainfoin            7,900             64            500           9,400              64           600
Sunflower           6,100            120            700           8,100             120         1,000
Sugarbeet           8,900           694           6,200          11,500             884        10,200
Potatoes            4,700            586          2,800           6,100             576         3,500
Alfalfa             2,600            277            700           6,100             300         1,800
Subtotal                                         89,600                                       103,200           13,600
Second Crops
Maize                                                            50,000             196         9,800
Soybean                 -              -              -         50,000              168         8,400
Ground nuts             -              -               -         20,000             330         6,600
Sunflower               -              -              -          10,00u             120         1,200
Sesame                  -              -              -          15,000             342         5,100
Sorghum                 -              -              -          10,000             120         1,200
Sudan G.                -              -              -           5,000             194         1,000
Rice                    -              -              -          10,000             284         2,800
Wheat                   -              -              -          50,000              51         2,550
Subtotal                                                                                       38,650           38,650
Total Incremental Project Employment 3/                                                                        101,010  hours 000
12,625 days 000
63,000 jobs
i/ Not including irrigation completion.
2/ Without project situation covers Labor requirements for the production of irrigated wheat.
3/ Allowing 8 hrs per day.



73-                                Annex 6
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports and Studies on Turkey
A-1      Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with Exports
Report No. 4204-TU (3 Volumes), World Bank, 1983.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1      Project Preparation Report.  Turkey - Second Agricultural Credit
Project. T.C. Ziraat Bankasi, Ankara, Turkey. October 20, 1982
B-2      Report of Touche-Ross Study
B-3      Hacettepe Report on TCZB Development Program and Application Plan
B-4      TCZB Agricultural Credit and Supervised Credit Guidelines
B-5      Laws concerning establishment of TCZB and its Regional Directorates
B-6      Action Plan for Improvements of TCZB Operations
C. World Bank Appraisal Mission Working Papers
WP-l     On Farm Development Component
WP-2     Fallow Reduction Scheme
WP-3     Corum-Cankiri Project Component
WP-4     Second Crop Scheme
WP-5     Irrigation Completion Scheme
WP-6     Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
WP-7     Economic and Marketing Analysis



- 74 -
Annex 7
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Supporting Tables
Table
No.                       Title of Table                                      Page
ST-1   Agricultural Credit Supply and Source of Funds                            75
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
ST-2   TCZB:  Consolidated Balance Sheets                                        76
ST-3   TCZB:  Consolidated Income and Expenditure Statement                      77
ST-4   TCZB:  Key Financial Indicators                                           78
ST-5   TCZB:  Agricultural Lending Operations                                    79
ST-6   TCZB:  Structure of Deposits                                              80
Farm Budgets
ST-7   Farm Mechanization Annual Income and Operating Expenses                   81
ST-8   Farm Mechanization Cash Flow                                              82
ST-9   Beef Fattening Annual Income and Operating Expenses                       83
ST-10  Beef Fattening Cash Flow                                                  84
ST-Il  Sbeep Fattening Annual Income and Operating Expenses                      85
ST-12  Sheep Fattening Cash Flow                                                 86
ST-13  Broiler Production Annual Income and Operating Expenses                   87
ST-14  Broiler Production Cash Flow                                              88
ST-15  Egg Production Annual Income and Operating Expenses                       89
ST-16  Egg Production Cash Flow                                                  90
ST-17  Orchard Annual Income and Operating Expenses                              91
ST-18  Orchard Cash Flow                                                         92
ST-19  Crop Improvement Inputs and Labor use per Ha                              93
ST-20  Crop Improvement Annual Income and Operating Costs                        94
ST-21  Crop Improvement Crop Budgets                                             95
ST-22  Fallow Reduction Component Inputs and Labor Use                           96
ST-23  Fallow Reduction Component Crop Budgets                                   97
ST-24  Corum Cankiri Component lnputs and Labor Use                              98
ST-25  Corum Cankiri Component Crop Budgets                                      99
ST-26  Second Crop Component Inputs and Labor Use                               100
ST-27  Second Crop Component Crop Budgets                                       101



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
Agricultural Credit Supply aHd Sources of Funds
1977                     1978                     1979                      1980    of                1981
.Amount      Zs of          ..ont     Z of        Amo.'t        7            ^unt        X of          -D:           G
(TL million)   Total   (TL million)   Total   (TL million)   Total   (TL million)   Total   (TL million)   Total   Average
A. Loans to
1. Farmers by TCZB                     13,909         13         17,487        13         24,192        12         42,262         13         69,728         13
2. Credit Coop. by TCZB                 5,203          5          7,455         6         10,121          5         21,899         7         34,723          7
3. Agroindustries by TCZB               1,328          1          1,783         1          1,785          1          3,536         1          4,534          1
4. Supply Institution by TCZB            7,534         7         11,351         8         36,497         17         55,260        17         87,056         16
5. Sales Coops by TCZB                 40,073        37         43,465         32         61,023        29          94,030        29        16b,840         32
6. State enterprises by Central
Bank for support purchases         39,683        37         53,285         39         72,425        34        100,268         31        155,366         30
7. Supply Agency by CBT                      -        -             300         1          4,626         2           6,251         2          b,169          1
TOTAL A                               107,730        100        135,126       100        210,b69        100        323,506       100        524,416        100
b. Financed by
1. Central Bank Credits                70,870        66          87,683        65        140 174        67        222,704         69        313,605         60        65
- to TCZB                           31,187                   34,098                    63,123                  116,185                   152,070
- Direct                            39,683                    53,585                   77,051                  106,519                   161,535
2. TCZB funds                          3695          34          47,443        35         70,49          33        100;802        31        210,811         40        35
TOTAL B                               107,730        100        135,126       100        210,669        100        323,506       100        524,416        100       100
C. Loans by Types 
1. Direct Lending                      20,440         19         26,725        20         3b,098         18         67,697        21        108,985         21
2. Support Purchases                   79,756         74         9b,750        71        133,448        63         194,298        60        322,206         62
3. Input Supply                         754            7         11,691         9         41,123         19         6,511         19         93,225         17
TOTAL C                               107,730        100        135,126       100        210,669        100        323,506       100         524,416       100



- 76 -
Table ST-2
TIURKEY: SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB: CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
1977             1978             1979             1980               1981
AS iTS                   TLBi        %     TLBi        %     TLBi    Z        TLBi      %       TLBi       X
Cash and banks        17.1    16       22.5      17    330      16        54.6   15         48. 6    J
Invoices, bills
advances            8.4      8      9.7        7     12.8    6         34.6    9         49.1      8
Current accounts       6.3      6      10.7       8      11.2    6        45.3   12         66.8    11
31.8    30      42.9      32      57.0   28        134.5   36        194.5    31
Agricultural
loans (net)       68.0    64       81.5      61    133.6   67         217.0   58        362.9    59
Fixed assets (net)   1.0        1       1.3       1       1.7    1          2.3   (a)        3.2    (a)
Participations         0.7    (a)       0.7      (a)      1.2   (a)         1.6   (a)        3.2    (a)
Other assets           5.0      5       7.3       6       7.2    4         17.6    5        56.4    10
Total assets    106.5   100    133.4        100    200.7  100         373.0  100        620.2   100
LIABILITIES
Deposits:
official         149       14      21.0      16      29.7   15         46.6   13         86.7    14
savings           26.0    24       32.5      24      50.8   25         70.6   19        149.4    24
comml.& banks       8.5      8     11.8       9      19.2   i0         34.6    9         54.8      9
49.4    46      65.3      49      99.7   50        151.8   41        290.9    47
CBT borrowings            33.9    32       35.7      27      65.5   33        127.8   34        195.1    32
Other liabilities         20.3    19       29.2      22      30.1   15         82.3   22         93.9    15
Total liabilities    103.6    97    130.2          97    195.3   97         361.9   97       579.9    94
NET WORIH
Paid-in equity         1.5      2       1.5       1      3.3    2          3.6    1         15.0      3
Reserves: legal
& other         0.5    (a)       0.5      (a)      1.6    1          1.7   (a)         3.0    (a)
Net income             0.9      1       1.5       1      0.5   (a)         5.8    2         22.0      3
Total net worth        2.9      3       3.5       3       5.4    3        11.1    3         40.3      6
106.5   100    133.7      100    200.7  100         373.0  100        620.2   100
TOTAL ASSETS             TLBi       %      TLBi       %      TLBi    %        TLBi      X      TLBi        x
Current TL Bi        106.5            133.7            200.7             363.0             620.2
TL Bi of 1977        106.5             87.3             80.5              71.6              71.9
NET WORTH
Current TL Bi          2.9              3.5               5.4             11.2              40.3(A)
TL Bi of 1977          2.9              2.3               2.2               2.1              4.7(B)
(A) 28.9 TL Bi if 11.4 TL Bi injected in 1981 excluded
(B) TL 3.3 Bi of 1977 if equity injection excluded
(a) less than 1%



- 77 -
Table ST-3
TURKEY: SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB: CONSOLIDATED INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENTS
TL Billions                        1977         1978         1979           1980            1981
I NCOME
Interest and commissions                 (W)            (%)           (W)            (X)            (x)
Agricultural loans            4.63   54   7.93    65   12.36   66   24.74   55    68.05   67
Current accounts credit    1.36   16   0.60          5    0.99    5    8.89   20         8.22     8
Stocks and bonds              0.17    2   0.24       2    0.48    3    0.69       2      4.26    4
Advances                      0.58    7   1.05       9    1.46    8    4.43   10         7.47     7
Others                        1.10   13   1.47    12    1.99   11    3.40    8           5.93    6
7.84   92  11.2       92   17.28   93   42.15   94    93.93   93
Profits from exchange             0.46     5   0.74       6    0.85    5    1.60    4         5.85    t
Other Income                      0.26    3   0.23        2    0.53    3    1.23    3         1.60    2
Total income                  8.56  100  12.26   100   18.66  100   44.98  100   101.38  100
EXPENDITURE
Staff expenses                    2.18   25   3.46    28    7.41   40   12.08   27    14.05   14
Interest on deposits              1.47   17   1.82    15    3.74   20    7.b6   17    28.38   28
CBT borrowings                    1.84   21   2.35    19    3.25   17   11.70   26    23.73   23
Other expenses                    2.14   25   3.12    25    3.73   20    7.78   17    13.23   13
Total expenditure                 7.63   89  10.75    88   18.13   97   39.22   87    79.39   78
NET INCOME                              0.93   11   1.51    12    0.53    3    5.76   13    21.99   22
100           100            100           100             100



- 78 -
ST 4
TURKEY: Appraisal of Second Agricultural Credit Project
Key Financial Indicators of TCZB Performance
Financial Indicators                1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
* Net Income/Net Wortb (%)                31.0    43.0      9.0    52.0    55.0
* Net Worth in Real Terms
(TL billion of 1977)                   2.9     2.3      2.2     2.1      4.7a/
* Total Assets (TL billion current)    106.5   133.7   200.7   363.0   620.2
o Total Assets (IL billion of 1977)    106.5    87.3    80.5    71.6    71.9
* Net Worth/Total Assets (U)               2.8     2.6      2.7     3.0      b.5
* Staff Expenses/Total Income (X)         25.0    28.0    40.0    27.0    13.0
* Staff Expenses/ATA (X)                   2.3      2.9     4.4     4.2      2.8
* Financial Expenses/ATA (X)               3.5     3.5      4.2     6.7    10.5
* Total Expenses/ATA                       8.1     8.9    10.9    13.7    16.0
o Total Income /ATA (7.)                   9.1    10.2    11.2    15.7    Z0.4
i Net Income/ATA                           1.0      1.3     0.3     2.0      4.4
* Interest Earned/Interest Paid (Ratio)  2.36    2.7        2.5     2.2      1.8
O Arrears/Net Loans Outstanding (X)       23.0    28.0    15.0    12.0       9.0
* Turnover Ratio b/                        2.2     2.5      2.7     2.9      2.3
Note: ATA = Average Total Assets
a/   TL 3.3 billion (in real terms) if equity injection of TL 11.4 billion in
nominal terms in 1981 is excluded.
b/   Turnover Ratio = Total Disbursements/Average Loan Outstandings



TCZS  Agiculurl lon Ssbuavent,(1977-1981)
1 9 77                         197 8                          1 9 79                         1 98 0                         19 81I
Amount Of                     Amount of                       Amount of                      Amoun of                        Amount of
Number of    Disbursed        Numboerno     CrDit ursede                   Dsbursed           Rgmber of  Dibursed,          Number of     Disbursed
!YP'B OF CREDIT                       B-r-Ler      Credit            C.-r.           dtredit                                        Oroes        Credit           BtO.,          Cei
88                                                           (TL)                            (TL)                     f    (TL)                           (TL)                             (TL)
A-Or-atiornal CreitsCi ooeya
s'tt'rcgedits)(nt-n-er
.1-Fleld Iroduct Credits                   1.945.423    9.330.897.159.-  1.837.227   11.782.387.656... 1.767.933   15.336.981.517...  1.656.313   21.037.574.019.-  1.436.619   28.974.99o.866.-
2-free end orchard Product Credits          138.164    1.009.696.051.-    153.169    1.480.088.910.-    172.865    2.261.471.057.-    178.862    3.586.209.C27...   149.786    4.328.731.953...
3-Dairy Credits                              278.431    1.022.191.735.-    259.931    1.346.424.054.-    277.926    2.138.423.358...   290.329    3.656.098.!52...   222.047    6.857.124.414...
4-Fattening Credits                           14.815      280.411.973.-      28.553      403.724.787.-      24.692      708.076.247.-      33.146    1.607.240.E94.-   106.733    2.924.808.636.-
5-Other Livestock Credits                      4.819      109.761.371.-       5.743      169.636.562...      1.122      314.742.015.-       8.290      619.821.509...     23.205    1.364.797.508.-.
6-Other Operational Credits                  604.391    2.254.641.946.-    514.180    2.290.073.770.-    459.443.   2.431.239.932.-    453.970    5.237.347.475.-    467.586   1.1.007.023.788...
7-water product Operational Credits            1.649       32.189.132.-       1.480       41.614.289...      1.607       76.118.079.-       1.641      154.224.235.-       1.564      325.094.229.-
8-credits oDened to ApfTicultural Credit 
Cooperatives                                  -      12.520.600.587...       -      16.571.399.436...       -      31.267.569.721...      -        48.646.140.E54.-     -        74.731.'119.010...
9-Credits osened to Agricultural ale
Cooperatives                                  -      74.154.950.650.-        -      99.710.440.840...       -     118.991.739.080...      -      181.860.102.566.-    -         285.627.306.998...
10o.ercwtural SurelyInstita-tiam                        32.409.299.673.-        -      50.505.485.254..        -     101.864.093.886.-       -       267.601.735.256.-     -       261.922.816.562...
SHORT TERM CREDIT TOTAL              2.987.692  133.154.640.277..  2.790.283. 184.301.275.558... 2.711.588  275.390.454.892... 2.622.551. 534.006.495.357.-  2.407.540  678.063.813.964.-
D-Investment Credits
(M~edium aLnd Long term Credits)
1-Tree and orchard Product Credit             30.052      586b533.787.-      29.602      813.486.425...    28.699    1.228.019.466...    29.422    2.20D.174.21..   Z27.829    6.555.683.352...
2-Sundry Agricultural equipment SLnd
Machinery Credit                           148.663    4.997.061.377.-   150.066    5.333.594.013...   141.485    5.332.808.065.-   126.736    8.900.643.FAO.-   100.847   15.010.511.339..,
3-Dalry Outfitting and Establishment credit  52.905    1.394.771.578..-    63.960    2.084.161.320...    76.803    3.482.870.667...    96.218    7.671.639.$'1...    97.670   12.425.733.340...
4.-Fattening Outfitting and Retabliebment 
credit                                      34.393    1.292.532.923.-      45.398    2.218.589.014...    57.797    4.088.515.196...    72.886    9.217.933. 56-.    81.111   10.385.986.048...
5-Other Livestock Outfitting and Establishment
Credit                                      18.210      476.737.508.-    19.676        678.590.779...    20.015    1.009.743.382...    21.882    1.969.187.112..-       29.258    2.650.360.576...
6-Other Outfitting andi Establishment Credit 171.730    1.244.550.664.-    148.776    1.606.072.786...   134.722    2.066.919.236.-    118.3180    2.80O.258.83..-    160.137    9.639.099.821.-
?-To-raksu Credits                            15.649      407.033.390.-      17.042      599.535.508...    19.383       946.342.834...    20.001    1.582.591.V8...    23.176    2.988.570.770...
8-Rater Product investment Credit              1.553       75.800.198.-       1.439       83.110.938...      1.480.     134.325.314...      1.506       230.898.79.-       2.274      653.509.971.-
TI-Ar-RI-ThTU1'TPY CREDITS
A To-  naustry C;reditS                        462    1.160.354.949.-         451    2.045.634.294...        424    1.843.909.699.-         360    3.712.11.8...          242    2.776.999.271...
B-.1hread Weaving and Leather Industry Credits     1       66.390.359.-          10      235.460.782...         11       244.926.836...        13       173.825.61.-          11      59.188.459.-
C-Agricultural Equipment and 1Xachinery Credits   97      205.933.290.-         103      342.687.248.-          85      319.321.128...         70       234.058.35...         12      146.907.714...
D-Other Agro-Industry Credits                    342      113.513.244.-         268      330.236.711...        187      362.717.594...        135       585.149.21.-         193    2.041.702.906...
MiDIUE and MiGn~ TON) CRDT  OA             474.0O,7  11.991.213.277.-    474.791   16.371.159.830...   481.091   21.060.420.429.-    702.420   39.359.054.75.-    522.751   65.334.253.567.r
TOTAL DISBUJRSEMENTS                     3.461.749  -145.145.853.554.-  3.265.074  200.672.435.388...  3.192.679  296.450.87531..3.109.960  573.365.549.92.-  2.930.291  743.398.067.531,..
-   TEAR END BALANCESa/                      1 .7 54 .4 89   .8.if47.688.810    1.648.413   81.541.299.605.-  1.651.576  133.618.811.921.-  1.536.221  216.986.996.E66   1.400.757  362.881.004.535-
TURNOVER RATIOS 6/-                                       3.2                            2.5                             2.7                            2.9                           2.3
.1 The aoushow-. ore dfbur.--t durin.g the year  The -e,r end balanc,, are such n.-llr i.c,e the
rep.>-e.t during th, year are -nte.d Out.H
B/ Since Soot of the TC20 loCo prfloonitof short-t-r loaso the turn-er ration are high.
The tornaver r-tIo WE) fo bacuaedh diofdi,,g the total dtuhors-ceto (0) by the .-erge I.sse
..t.t..diOt do-iug the y,ar (t).                                                                                                                                             I.



-~able 6
T. C. Ziraat Bankasi
Estimated Cost of Deposit Funds Received /1
1979 to 1981
1979                                              1980                                                1981
Average Balances /2   Interest    Interest    Average Balances /2   Interest    Interest    Average Balances /2   Interest    Interest
Types of Deposits    TL M         % of Total  % p.s. /3  Cost (TL M)  TL M           Z of Total  Z p.a. /3  Cost (TL M)  TL M           % of Total  2 p.a. /3  Cost (TL M)
Demand:
a.  Government      23,900.5         39.0          -            -      36,597.7          29.1         -            -      65,232.0         29.2          -             -
b.  Commercial      11,202.3         13.6          -            -      21,050.8          16.8         -            -      37,684.1         16.9          -             -
c.  Banks            2,881.3          3.5          -            -       4,461.0           3.5         -            -       5,772.7          2.6          -             -
d.  Others               48.2          N           -            -          129.5          0.1         5.0          6.5       389.5          0.2           5.0         19.5
e.  Savings
(on demand)   24.586.1         29.8           3.0        737.6   32.860.3          26.1          5.0           0  39,207.0           17.6           5.0  1. 960.4
Sub-Total           62,618.4         75.9          1.2        737.6   95,099.3           75.6         1.7      1,649.5  148,285.3          66.5          1.3      1,979.9
0.
Time Deposits with maturities of:
a.  3 mos tol yr          -           -           20.0          -           37.8           N         33.0         12.5    1,590.6           0.7         50.0         795.3
b.  To 2 years      10,523.0         12.7         22.0      2,315.1   15,411.0           12.3        34.0      5,239.7   26,229.8          11.8         50.0    13,114.9
c.  Over 2 years    9,368.9          11.4         24.5      2,295.4   15,194.4           12.1        36.0      5,470.0   46.806.6          21.0         50.0    23,403.3
Sub-Total           19,891.9         24.1         23.2      4,610.5   30,643.2           24.4        35.0    10,722.2   74,627.0           33.5         50.0    37,313.5
Total Deposits      82,510.3        100.0          6.5      5,348.1  125,742.5          100.0         9.8    12,371.7  222,912.3          100.0          17.6    39,293.4
/A       CB rediscounts were not costed since the CB allows around 2 1/2% margin between borrowing and re-lending rates.
/2       Average of beginning and ending balances on Table 8.
/3       Where interest rates vary within a maturity range, the highest rate was used for conservation.



- 81 -                                  Table ST-7
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TURKEY
Farm Mechanization
Annual Income & Operating Expenses
Years of Project
1        2        3-20
TL/Hr  ----------TL'0 0--
A.  Income
Ploughing                                 885    177        354        354
Discing & Cultivating                     880      50       101        101
Harrowing & Levelling & Ditch             860      45        90         90
Drilling or Planting                    1,045      34        68         68
Hoeing                                    860      37        73         73
Spraying                               1,075       65       129        129
Fertilizer Disbributing                   860      17        34         34
Mowing                                  1,275      13        26         26
Threshing                               1,025      20        41         41
Transport                                 910    157       314         314
Total Operating Income                                615    1,230       1,230
B.  Operating Costs 1/
Ploughing                                 614    123        246        246
Discing & Cultivating                     615      35        71         71
Harrowing & Levelling & Ditching          609      32        64         64
Drilling or Planting                      655      22        43         43
Hoeing                                    610      26        52         52
Spraying                                  710     42         85         85
Fertilizer Distributing                   608      12        24         24
Mowing                                    724       7        14         14
Threshing                                 655      13        26         26
Transport                                 622    108       215         215
Total Operating Expenses                              420       840        840
Net Operating Income                                  195       390        390
1/ Fuel, Oil, Repairs & Maintenance only.



Ak  JML UI
SEXlND AGPRCLLTR&AL CREDIT PRO)ECT
ON FARtM D EW1WP    CIEDIT
Farm echanization
Cash Flow
Years of Project
1     2      3      4      5      6      7    8       9     10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19   20
Cash Inflow
Contractirg Income 1/  615  1,230  1,230  1230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230 1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230  1,230 1,230
Cash Cutflow
Operatirg Expenses I/  420   840   840  840   840   840   840   840   840  840   840   840   840   840   840   840   840   840   840  840
Plant & Plant
replacement        2,825      -      -    -      -      -      -  1,840   230  640        -      -      -   230  1,840    345   230        -      -   -
Tbtal Cutflow        3,245   840   840  840   840   840   840 2,680  1,070 1,480    840   840    840  1,070  2,680  1,185  1,070    840   840 840
Net Cash Inflow -
Before Debt         (2,630)  390   390  390   390   390   390 (1,450)   160  (250)  390   390    390    160 (1,450)   45    160   390   390 390
Servicing
Investment
--an-Re-ceipt Ht75%   2,119     -      -    -       -      -      -  1,380    172  480      -      -      -    172  1,380    258    172      -      -   -
Fanner contribution 25% 706     -      -    -      -      -      -   460    58   160        -      -      -     58   460      87     58      -      -   -
Total finranring     2,825      -      -    -      -      -      -  1,840    230  640       -      -      -    230  1,840    345   230       -      -    -
Balarce after Financirg 195   390   390  390   390   390   390   390   390  390   390   390   390   390    390    390   390   390   390 390
Loan Repayment           -   265   265  265   265   265   265    265   265  265   265   265    265   265    265    265   265    265   265 265
Qjtscandirg balance  2,119 1,8754  1,589 1,324  1,059    794   529  1,644  1,551 1,766  1,501  1,236    971    878  1,993  1,986  1,893  1,628  1,363 1,098
Interest on balarre
outstandiig 1/        85    1ll    95   79    63    48    32    99          93  106    90    74    58    53    119    119   113    98    82  66
Total Loan Servicing    85   366   360  344   328   313   297    364   358  371   355   339   323   3138   384   384   378   363   347 331
llet Cash Flow
After Debt             110    24    30   46    62    77    93    26    32   19    35    51    67    72                  6      6     12    27    43  59
Servicing
r
1/Ya 1, a UuLiI,a si-teseat >,.ly.                                                                                                                           rF



- 83 -
Table ST-9
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TURKEY
Model 2: Beef Fattening
Annual Income and Operating Expenses
1       2       3-20
-------TL'000----------
A. Annual Income
Cattle Sales 1/                                   3326    9979    9979
Manure Sales 2/                                     200'   600       600
Gross Sales                                       3526   10579   10579
B. Operating Costs
Cattle Purchase 3/                                2200    6600    6600
Feed Purchase                                       573    1721    1721
Veterinary, Vaccines & Drugs                          7      22       22
Energy and Water 4/                                   3      10       10
Repair & Maintenance 5/                               -       57      57
Labor Costs  6/                                     192     576      576
General & Miscellaneous 7/                           39     119      119
Total Operating Expenses                        3014    9105    9105
C.  Gross Margin (A-B)                                  512    1474    1474
D.  Investment Cost  8/                                6119
E.  Net cash flow (C-D)                               -5607    1474    1474
1/  Purchase 1 batch of 5 in year 1, thereafter, purchase 3 batches of 50, mortality
1%,sales 148.5 head at 280 kg LW at TL  240/Kg.
2/  Manure production 4 ton per head for 300 day fattening period at TL 3 per kg.
3/ Year 1 50 of 200 kg LW at TL 220 per kg. Year 2 onwards purchase 150 head at
same weight and price.
4/ TL 60 per head per batch
5/  2%o o' construction and 20% of equipment from year 2.
6/  2 Laborers at TL 24,000 per month.
7/ 5% of production costs excluding cattle purchase.
81 Includes permanent working capital covering purchase of feed and
animals for one batch.



- 84 -
Table ST-10
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Model 2: Beef Fattening
Cash Flow Projection
Years of Development
1        2           3-10        11-20
--------------TL '000---------------
1.   Net Cash  Flow Before
Debt Service  (Table 9)          -5607      1474         1474       1474
2.   Investment  to be financed from
Long Term Loan  1/                4283        -           -          -
Farmer's Contribution 1/          1836
Sub-total                         6119
3.   Debt Servicing
Interest on Long Term Loan 2/    260        260          -
Repayment of Long Term Loan 2/   -            -          690         -
Sub-total Debt Servicing           260      260          690
4.   Net Cash Flow After Debt
Servicing  (4=1-(2+3)              252     1214          784        1474
1/ MT Loan 70% of investment cost, farmer contribution 30%.
2/ MIedium term loan interest assumed to be positive 6%. Term 10 years
including 2 years grace on principal repayment. Amortization factor
Years 3-10=0.161036.



- 85 -
Table ST-li
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TURKEY
Model 3: Sheep Fattening
Annual Income & Operating Expenditures
1         2        3-20
A.  Annual Income
Sheep Sales 1/             1234      3704      3704
Manure Sales 2/               50      150       150
Gross Income               1284      3854      3854
B.  Operating Expenses
Sheep Purchase 3/            690     2070      2070
Feed Purchase                192      576       576
Veterinary A         4/        5        15       15
Energy & Water  5/             3        10       10
Repairs & Maintenance 6/   -            25       25
Labor Costs (2)  7/          192      576       576
General & Miscellaneous       20        60       60
Total Operating Expenses  1102       3332      3332
C.   Gross Margin (A-B)           182       522      522
D.   Investment Cost  8/         1q63
E.   Net Cash-flow (E=C-D)    1781         522       522
1/  Year 1 purchase 100 less mortality 2%-to sell 98.0 at 45 kg LW at TL 280 per
kg.
Year 2 onwards to sell 294 at same weight and value.
2/  Manure recovered.  300 kg per head during 300 days at TL 5 per kg.
3/  Sheep purchase Year 1, 100 hd at 30 kg LW each, Year 2 onwards 300 hd at
30 kg LW each costing TL 230
4/ TL 50 per head per batch.
5/  TL 30 per head per batch.
6/  From Year 2, 2% of constructions and 20% of equipment.
7/  Two workers at TL 24,000 per month.
8/  Includes permanent working capital to cover purchase of feed and 100 sheep for one batch.



- 86 -
Table ST-12
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TURKEY
Model 3: Sheep Fattening
Cash Flow Projection
Years of Development
1         2        3-10    11-20
1.   Net Cash Flow Before Debt Service                ----------------TL'OOO---------------
From Table 11                                 -1781       522        522        522
2.   Investment to be financed by
Long Term Loan Receipts  1/                    1374        -          -          -
Farmer contribution 1/                          589        -
Sub-total                                      1963
3.   Debt Servicing
Irnterest Long Term Loan 2/                      84        84         -          -
Repayment Long Term Loan 2/                     -          -         221         -
Sub-total Debt Servicing                         84        84        221
4.   Net Cash Flow After Debt Servicing                  98       438        301        522
1/ MT Loan 70% of investment cost, farmer contribution 30%.
2/ Medium term loan interest assumed to be positive 6%. Term 10 years including
2 years grace on principal repayment. Amortization factor Years 2-10 = 0.161036.



TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT SUBPROJECT
Model 4 Broiler Production
Annual Income & Operating Expenses
Years of Development
1         2          3-20
- - - - TL 000-
A. Income
Broiler Sales 1/         748       1,870       1,870
Manure Sales 27           66         165         165
Gross Sales              814       2,035       2,035
B. Operating Expenses
Purchase Day Old
Chicken 3/             140         350         350
Feed Starter 4/           91         229         229
Feed Finishing 4/        210         524         524
Veterinary & Vaccine5/  12            30          30                                                         1
Electricity, Fuel &                                                                                         X
Water 6/                50         125         125
Repairs & Mainten-
ance 7/                  -          48          48
Labor 87                 173         432         432
Miscellaneous 9/          34          87          87
Total Expenses         710       1,825       1,825
C.  Gross Margin (A-B)         104         210         210
).  Investment Cost  10/    1189
E.  Net Cash Flow (C-D)    -1085           210         210
1/  Year 1, 2 batches of 1,000 to sell at 1.7 kg LW each valued at TL 220 per kg.
Year 2 onwards, 5 batches of 1,000 to sell at same weight and price
2/ 6.6 kg per bird (wet) at TL 5 per kg
3/ Purchase 1,020 per batch allowing for mortality, Cost TL 68 each
4/  Starter 0_30d 1.3 kg at TL 34.5 per kg. Finished 31-60d 3.1 kg at TL 33.5 per kg. For average 1,015 birds
5/ TL 6 per bird
6/ TL 25 per bird
7/ From year 2, 2% of constructions, 10% of feed storage and 20% of equipment.
8/  Labor 2 @ TL 18,000 per month.
9/  Miscellaneous 5% of above costs.                                                                            5
101I  Includes permanent working capital to cover purchase of 1000 day-old chickens and feed for                 D
one batch.                                                                                                 H



- 88 -
Table ST-14
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TURKEY
Model 4: Broiler Production
Cash Flow Projection
Years of Development
1        2      3-10    11-20
----TL'000---
1. Net Cash Inflow Before Debt Servicing
From Table 13                                   -1085       210     210      210
2. Investment to be financed by
Long term Loan Receipt 1/                         832
Farmer contribution 1/                            357
Sub-total                                        1189
3- Debt Servicing
Interest on long term loan  2/                     51        51       -
Repayment on long term loan 2/                      -         -     134
Sub-total Debt Servicing                           51        51     134       -
4. Net Cash Flow After Debt Servicing                    53       159       76     210
1/     MT Loan 70% of investment cost, farmer contribution 30%.
2/     Medidum term loan interest assmed to be positive  6%.  Term 10 years
including 2 years grace on principal repayment. Amortization factor Years
4-10 = 0.161036.



- 89 -                APPRAISAL OF                            Table ST-15
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TURKEY
Model 5: Egg Production
Annual Income & Operating Expenses
Years of Project
1       2        3-10
TL'000---------
A. Income
Egg Sales 1/                           233.5  2735.4   2735.4
Cull Pullets 2/                          9.5     9.5       9.5
Cull Hens 3/                              -    306.9    306.9
Manure Sales 4/                        105.3   394.0    394.0
Total Sales                          348.3  3445.8   3445.8
B. Operating Expenses
Chick purchase 5/                         -    137.5    137.5
Feed chicks 6/                            -     64.1      64.1
pullets                             -    215.3    215.3
layers                           104.9  1228.2   1228.2
Veterinary expenses 7/                   1.2     8.3       8.3
Electricity, fuel & Water 8/            10.0    75.0      75.0
Egg crates 9/                            7.8    91.2      91.2
Repairs & Maintenance 10/                 -    179.4    179.4
Labor costs (2)                         36.0   432.0    432.0
Miscellaneous costs                      8.0   121.6    121.6
Total Operating Expenses               167.9  2552.6   2552.6
C.  Gross Margin                           180.4   893.2    893.2
D.  Investment Cost 12/                   5086.0
E.  Net Cash Flow                        -5105.6   893.2    893.2
1/  68% egg production per day from all layers at the TL 12 each
2/ Pullets 1 kg at TL 190 per kg.
3/ Cull hens 1.7 kg LW at TL 190 per kg.
4/ 79 kg per bird at TL 5 per kg
5/ 1100 day old chicks at TL 126 each.
6/ Refer text feed costs chick TL 29.5 kg pullet TL 26 layer TL 26
7! TL 7.5 per bird
8/ TL 75 per bird
9/ Packing cases each for 30 eggs at TL 12 each
10/ From Year 2, 2% of construction
_1/ 2 at TL 18,000 per month.
12/ Includes permanent working capital to cover purchase of chickens and
feed for one batch.



- 90 -
Table ST-16
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Model 5: Egg Production
Cash Flow Projection
Years of Development
1        2        3-10        11-20
- - - - - - - TL '000 - - - - - - -
1. Net Cash Flow Before Debt Service
From Table 15                       -5105      893       893          893
2.  Investment to be financed by
Long term credit receipts 1/         3560        -         -
Farmer contribution 1/               1526
Subtotal                           5086        -        -
3- Debt Servicing
Interest on short term loan 2/          3        38        38          38
Interest on long term loan 3/         214       214       -            -
Repayment on long term loan 3/         -         -        573          -
Subtotal Debt Servicing             217       252      611           38
4.  Net Cash Flow after Debt Servicing  (37)        641       282          855
1/ MT Loan 70% of investment cost, farmer contribution 30%.
2/ Short term loan for working capital equivalent to three months preparation
cost from year 2 (i.e., TL 638,200) at assumed positive interest rate of
6% p.a.
3/ Medium term loan interest assumed to be positive 6%. Term 10 years
including 2 years grace on principal repayment. Amortization factor
Years 3-10 = 0.161036.



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
MODEL G ORCHARD ESTABLISHMENT
ANNUAL INCOME AND OPERATING EXPENSES
0          5           6           7           8           9           10           11-20
------------------TL 000---------------------------------------------------------
A.  Income  Sales        l/      166.25      320         720        1000        1400        1600        1800          2000
B. Operating Expenses
Cereal Production            78.14
Materials
Manure                 2/                              62          62           62          62          62            62
Fertilizer            3/        -                      58           58          58          58          58            58
Chemicals             4/        -                      90          90           90          90          90            90
Packaging             5/        -           15         34          47           66          75          84            94
Chemicals             -/                                10          10          10          10          10             10
Irrigation Water                                       10           10          10          10          10            10
Labour                 7/       -          70         495         505         514          52J         532           540
Mechanization         8         _          27          35          41           46          51          57             61
Miscellaneous                               5          41          43           44          45          45            47
Total Operating Costs          78.14      117         865         894          928         952         978          1000
C.  Gross Margin                 88.1       203          145         106         472         648         822           1000
l/   Production Y.O. Irrigated wheat.  Refer model 7   1900 kg grain and 1900 kg straw.
2/   Production Ton Y.5 8 Y.6 18 Y.7 25 Y.8 35 Y.9 40 Y.10 45 Y.ll    50.
3/   Manure 12.5 Ton pu year.
4/   Fertilizer N 600 kg P205 250 kg ks0 250 kg.
4/   White oil 250 kg. Copper Sulphate 50 kg Lime 100 kg Chl robenzylate 37.5 kg Pesticide 27.5 kg
5/   Padeagin 20 kg each, used four times at TL 150 each.  6 TL4000 pu ha
7/   Irrigation, mowing, fertilizing 75 mondays at TL600 prunning 150 mondays at TL2000, diseuse and pest control
125 mondays at TLI00   Harvpqting & sorting 175 *omendays at TL400.  Total.  Harvesting and sorting costs
increase from year 5 according to production.
8/   Cultivation TL12000 pa.  Transport TL600 ju ton production sold and ju ton of manure distributed.
103
I-.



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL G ORCHARD ESTABLISHMENT
CASH FLOW PROJECTION
0       1         2      3        4       5        6         7          8         9          10          11     12    13-20
------------------TL 000--------------------------------------------------_______________________________________
Net Cash Inflow Before Debt Servicing
Gross Margin                            88.1    -        -       _        _    203      145         106      472        648        822        1000   1000    1000
Investment
Farmer contribution 1/                   -    266       74      93       62    107        -
Long term investment loan receipts 2/  -    796        221     279      188    321        -
Interest capitalized 3/                  -      -       24      56       74     93        -
Total Financing                              1062      319     428      324    521        -           -         -         -          -           _       _       _
Total LT Loan CummulatiVe                             1041    1376    1638   2052                              -          -                -         -           -
Debt Servicing
Short term interest
Long term loan interest 4/               -     24       56      74       93    113
Long term loan repayment-                       -        -       -        -      -      417         417      417        417        417         417    417        -
Total Debt Servicing
Net Cash Flow after Debt Servicing    88.1    -         -        _        _     90    (272)       (311)       55        231       405         583    583    1000
l/ 25% of investment cost.
75% of investment costs.
3/ Interest capitalized from previous year added to long term loan.
Interest assumed to be positive 6% payable on only 6 months in year of borrowing.  Interest in years 1 to 4 capitalized.
5/  Loan repayed in seven equal annual installmentes after five years of grace.  Amortization factor = 0.203363
I-



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
MODEL 7 ANNUAL CROP IMPROVEMENT
INPUTS & LABOUR USE PER HA
WITHOUT PROJECT                                             WITH PROJECT
Vegetables   Cereals    Pulses    Oilseed                        Vegetables       Cereal      Pulses      Oilseed
Inputs
Seed on Plants kg                   1500        230         150          -                           100          200          130          100
Fertilizer  N  Kg                     40          30         20          -                           100            50          30           30
100% Active P                         88          40        44           -                           200           60           62           50
Ingredient K                           -                   -
Chemicals         Kg
Insecticides                      10           2.0        2.0        -                             10            2.5         3.0
Fungicides                        10           2.0        2.0        -                             15            2.5          3.0
Herbicides                          -          -                                                                 -            -            2.5
Irrigation Water  TL               4000            -          -          -                          4000             -
Bags (Used 3 times)                  120           -                     -                           180                         -
Labour
Tractor Operation hrs                214          14.3       13.0                                     56            16.7        20.7         18.7
Hand Labour Planting                380            2         60          -                            80             2           5            5
Fertilizing/Manuring               6            2        20                                         8            2            3            3
Weeding, Hoeing, Pest Control  192              -        60                                       172            -           30           20
Irrigation & Ditching            150           -          -                                       100
Harvest, Cart & Stack             78            5       100                                       108            6          30            20
Threshing                                      -          -                    -                           -                 10            8
Transport to Market               36           4          3                                        52            4            4            4
Total Manual Labour                  542          13        251                                      520            14          82           60
0m
cjn



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
MODEL 7 ANNUAL CROP IMPROVEMENT
ANNUAL INCOME AND OPERATING COSTS 5 ha. FARM
Crop Area                   Years of Project Participation
ha.                         0          1           2            3
A Annual Income                                                         ---TLOOO
Vegetables                               0.5                    117        132          148          162
Cereals                                  2.0                    133        142          151          161
Pulses                                   1.0                     63         66           69           73
Oilseeds                                 -                        -          8           2b           32
Sub Total Gross Income   -                                        313        348          394          428
B Operating Costs
Vegetables                               0.5                     63         u7           71           76
Cereals                                  2.0                     60         64           68           73
Pulses                                   1.0                     43         42          42            42
Oilseeds                                 0.5                      -          6           16           16
Sub Total Operating Costs                                         166         179         197          207
Incremental Operating Costs                                         -          13          31           41
C Gross Margin                                                        147        169         197          221
0-3
4H



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TUPRKEY
ON FARM DEVELOPNE'1T CREDIT
CROP BUDGET
ANNUAL CROP IMPROVEMENT
Yield, Unit Price, Product Cost, Gross Value and Net Value per Area Unit
Units: (a) Area ..Ha..        (b) Weight/Volume  ..       g...... Kg. (c) Currency ...... TL.
Equiv. US$ .1 = TL 182
Cost
Unit    Gross    Seeds                      Mecha-                                Net      Total    Return   Total    Net         Family  Return
Crops            Yield   Price   Value         or    Ferti-   Chemi- niza-    Misc.  Labour   Total    Value   Labour   per              Cost      Value   Labour  per
Plants  lizers   cals   tion                                            hrs.      Labour   Exclud-             hrs.    Family
hrs.      ing                        Work
A. Without                                                                                                                               Family                      hr.
Project                                              Manure                                                                              Labour
Vegetables    F  18000    13   234,000   30000    6360    6300    39935    4000   39630   126225   107775    584                  184     92875   141125    487        290
S   1900    27
Cereal         F   1900      8      6650Q    6900    3600    2110    15370           -    2275    30255    36245        27      1342      27980    38520       27    1426
S   1200    49
Pulses         F   1500      3      63300    7500    3180    2110    12740           -   17615    43145    20155    264           76      29950    33350    196        170      >
B. With Project
Vegetables        25000    13    325000  30,000   15000   12675    50830    4000   39400   151905   173095    576                301    145041   179959    470         383
S   2300    27
Cereals        F   2300      8      80500    8000    5700    2595    17705           -    2580    36580    43920        31      1416      34000    46500    210    1500
S   1400    49
Pulses         F   1500      3      73100    7800    5700    3165    18280           -    7270    42215    30885    103          300      40655    32445       58      560
Oilseeds            1300    50      65000      560    4050      1875    19580              5770    31835    33165        79      420      28975    36025       44      819
S = seed (grain)
F = fodder



- 96 -
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table ST-22
TURKEY
FALLOW REDUCTION COPONENT
Inputs and Labor Use per Hectare
Lentils      Lentils   Chick   Vetch          Sainfoin
Southeast   CA&TZ      Pea                 Estab.    Annual
Inputs
Seed kg                        120          120        120       100     100
Fertilizer kg
N units                        30           30         30        30      30          20
P units                        60           60         60        70      90          90
K units                         -            -          -         -       -
Chemicals kg
Weedicide                       2.1          2.1        2.1       2.1
Fungicide                       -            -          5.4       -
Labor hrs
Tractor operation              14.1         11.6       12.8      15.6      8.0        2.4
Planting                        4.0          4.0        4.0       4.0    40.0         -
Fertilizer Spreading            3.0          3.0        3.0       3.0    16.0         -
Weeding & Pest Control         30.0         20.0       20.0      20.0    16.0
Harvest, Cart & Thresh         44.0        124.0      124.0      64.0     -          52
Transport Tractor Operator    1.0            1.0        1.0       1.5,    -           2
Labor                4.0          4.0        4.0       6.0      -           8
Tractor Driver                 15.1         12.6       13.8      16.1     8.0         4.4
Manual Labor                   85.0        155        155        97       72.0       60
1/ 50% of farmers expected to use chemical weed control (Tribunil or Maloran)
Seed Treatment Benlate & Penmarsol Forte 3g + 300g/100 kg seed.  Also post
emergence Benlate 750 g.
3/ Fertilizer based on 100% active ingredient



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
FALLOW REDUCTION COMPONENT
CROP BUDGETS
Yield, Unit Price, Product Cost, Gross Value and Net Value per Area Unit
Units: (a) Area ... Ha        (b) Weight/Volume .      ..... Kg ...... (c) Currency ...... TL.
Equiv. US$..l - TL 182
Unit   Gross   Seeds                       Mecha-                                Net     Total   Return   Total   Net         Family   Net
Crops            Yield!lPrice      Value   or        Ferti-   Chemi-  niza-   Misc.   Labour TotaLy          Value   Labour  per         Cost    Value   Labour   Return
Plants  lizers   cals    tion                       Cost                 hrs.    Labour   Excel   TL          hrs.     Familv
Hour      hr.     Family             Labour
Labour            Hour           0
Lentil            S 1100    40    44,000
South East        F 1100      4       4400
48,400   6250      4500    1605    14655             5380    32,390    16010        100    160    30195    18205          36      506
Lentil            S 1000    40    40,000
F 1000      5     5,000
45,000   6250      4500    1605    11630             8695      32680    12320       168      73    27085    17915        106      169
Chick-            S 1200    38       45600
-peas             F 1300      5       6500
52100   6000      4500    3905    12920             8785      36110    15990       169      95    30425    21625        107     202
Vetch             S 800    25        20000
F 1600    15      24000
44000   4200      4950    1605    15410             6060      32225    11775       113    104    27768    16232          81     200
Sainfoin          S    -
3 years          F 6000    15    90,000   5500    16350           -    15215        -  10860      47925
Sainfoin
1 year             2000    15    30,000   1815        5400        -      5070           3620      15905    14095        70    201    10475    19525          70     277
l/S=Seed or grain  F-Fodder
2Ilncluding the value of family hired labour.



TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORUM- CANKIRI SHORT TERM CREDIT COMPONENT
Inputs & Labor Use per Hectare
Without Project                                With Project
Peas    Sugar Beet  Alfalfal/  Alfalfa2/    Peas    Sugar Beet  Alfalfal/  Alfalfa2l
Seed  kg.                        80           -          16           -          60           -          12           -
Fertilizer Kg  N Units               20            70        15           -          30           110        30          20
P205 Units          50            50        50          60          60            60        80          80
K Units              -                       -           -           -           -           -           -
Manure      Tons                  -             5         2           2           -            10         2.5         2.5        1
Chemicals  Kg
Insecticides         2.5          10         -           -           2.5          10         -           -
Fungicides           -           -           -           -           -             -         -
Herbicides           -            10         -           -           2.5          15         -           -
Irrigation Water  TL              -         4,000    4,000        4,000           -         4,000    4,000        4,000
Labor       Hours
Tractor operation             15            44        15          20          21            64        18          29
Planting                      30            10         5           -           4            10         5           -
Fertilizer spreading          16            10        11          11           3            70        15          15
Weeding, Hoeing, Thinning   16             240         -           -          16           245         -           -
Irrigation & Ditching          -           150       150        150           -            100       100         100
Harvesting & Carting          64           240         -          64          75           320         -          96
Transporting                   4            56         -          64           5            75         -          96
Total Labor                  130           650       166         289         103           820       120         336
1/  Establishment year
2/  Annual maintenance                                                                                                       K



TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CORUM-CANKIRI SHORT-TERM CREDIT COMPONENT
CROP BUDGETS
Yield, Unit Price, Production Cost, Gross Value and Net Value per Ha
Crop            Yield  Unit   Gross                  Cost                                                                                          Family   Net
Price  Value  Seeds Ferti-  Chemi-  Mecha-    Miscella-    Labour Total   Net           Total   Return   Cost    Net    Labour   Return
lizer   cals    niza-       neous                Cost    Value   Labour  pu          Excl    Value  hours    Per
tion                                             hrs.    Labour   Family                      Family
hour     Labour                     Work hr.
A. Without Project
Peas            1200   50.0    60,000   4480   3450    1575  14135            -      7625    31265   28735   145        198      26040   33960   115         32951
Sugar beet    36000    5.5   198,000         -   6450   13800  39965       4000    35800  100,015   97985   694         141      88015  109985   454           242
Alfalfal/       2000   18       36,000   4800  13150       -    15185      4000      9425    46560   10560    181
2/     24000   18      432,000       -  38100      -    6b450    12000    47850   164400  267600    927
3/     26000   18       468000   4800  51250       -    81635    16000    57275   210960  257040   1100
47/    6500   18      117,000   1200  12810       -    20410      4000    14320    52740   64260    277          232    38420   78580       277       284
B. With Project
Peas            1400   50.0    70,000   3360   4500  3450    19740            -      6725    37775   32225    124         260    31050   38950       124       314
Sugar beet    48000    5.5    264000         -   9300 17550    58235       4000    45800   134885  129115    884          146    11985  144015       650       221
Alfalfal/       2250   18        40500   3600  17900       -    17005                4000      7350   49855   9355        138
2/     27000   18       486000          48300      -    71910               12000    56925  189135 296865        1095
T/     29250   18       526500   3600  66200       -    88915               16000    64275  238990 287510        1233
5/      7315   18       131625    900  16550             22230               4000    16070   59750  71880         308       233   43680   87945        300
Ia/
"3
I/Costs. year of establishment, 2/Total of 3 yrs annual production and costs, 3/Total costa for 4 yrs. 4/Annual Costa and Return



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
SECOND CROPS COMPONENT
Inputs & Labor Use Per Hectare
Maize  Soya  Groundnuts  Sunflower Sesame  Sorghum  Sudan G.  Rice  Wheat  Cotton
Seed kg                           25    80       100           10         15       10        25       150   200      50
Fertilizer N units  (Kg)          80    20        30           80         30       80       160         70    50    50
100% Active P units               66    75        75            65        20       65         65        50    60    60
Ingredient K units                         -                     -         -        -          -         -      -      -
Manure
Chemicals
Insecticides kg                  3.0   4.5      4.5                     -         -         -         -      --   40.0
Fungicides kg                    2.5   -        -             -          -        -         -          2.0   2.5   6.0
Herbicides kg                    2.5   -        -             2.5        2.5      2.0       2.0       5.0   2.5   4.0
Irrigation Water TL             4,000  4,000   4,000           4,000   4,000   4,000         4,000   4,000  4,000 4,000                          1
Labor hrs                                                                                                                                        
Tractor operation
production 1/              22.2  28.0    30.0            21.5      14.5    14.2       22.2       1-8    15.5  26.0
transport  1/               4.0   3.0       4.0          2.0        1.0      4.0       6.0        4.0   4.0    3.0
Planting 2/                      5.0   5.0       8.0          5.0      50.0       3.0       3.0       5.0   2.0   5.0
Fertilizer Spreading             3.0   2.0       2.0          2.0        2.0      3.0       3.0       5.0   2.0    5.0
Weed & Hoe, Thin,
Pest Control                 40    60       120            40       120       50         40         -      -    54.0
Irrigation & Ditching          70    50        50            30        30       30         80       230     15      7.0
Harvest, Cart thresh & Dry  36         8      100            12       120         -        16         -      8    70.0
Transport                       16    12        16            8         4        16        24        16      4      3
Total                            170   137       296            97       326      102       166       256    31   207
1/ 800/decare = 100/hr.
2/  500/decare = 65/hr.
a



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TURKEY
SECOND CROPS CO?PONE1vT
CROP BUDGETS
Yield, Unit Price, Production Cost, Gross Value and Net Value per Area Unit
(with project)
Units:  (a) Area  ha    (b) Weight/Volume  Kg    (c) Currency  TL
Equiv. USt I = TL 182
Costs
Crops         Yield    Unit    Gross   Seeds or Ferti- Chemi- Mechan- Misc.  Labor    Total   Net              Total          Total Cost      Net      Family   Net
Price   Value   Plants   lizers cals   ization Irrig.                         Value   Labor          Excl. Family   Value   Labor    Return
Water                              Hours             Labor        per ha  Hours    per Hr. TL
Maize        S 4000      25      100000
12000
F 4000       3      112000    3500    7770   8610   29995   4000  13670    67545   44455             196             55175      56825       176        323
Soya         S 1900      52
F  -         -      98800    7200    4575   2835   28465   4000  12005    59080   39720              168             49025      49775       138        361
G Nuts       S 2000      85      170000
30000
F 3000      10      200000   10000    5175   2835   35030   4000  22640    79680  120320            330              61980    138020        220        627
Sunflower   S 2000       50
F  -         -      100000      560    7725   1875   26290   4000   8655    49105   50895            120             41750      58250       100        582
Sesame       S  800    120
F   -        -      96000    2100    2700   1875   14925   4000  22740    48340   47660             341              33400      62600      221         283
Sorghum      S 3200      25      80000
15000
F 5000       3      95000       300    7725   1500   21835   4000   8450    43810   51190           120              36985      58015        95        611
Sudan G.    S  -          -
F 7000      15     105000    1875   12525   1500   28395   4000  13610    61905   51405              194             49595      55405       174        318
Rice         S 4000      46
F  -         -      184000   12000    6450   4600   26305   4000  18840    72195  111805            278              60830    125170        163        756
Wheat        S 3000      27       81000
24000
F 3000       8      105000    8000    5700   2940   21185   4000   3965    45790   59210              50             41825      63175        31       2038
Cotton       S 3000      79                                                                                                                                                 @
F  -         -     237000    1750    5700  55950   29665   4000  16355   113420  123580             236             102915    134085        146        918     H
S = Seed or Grain
F = Fodder



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Organization Chart of T.C. Zlraat Bankasl
THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY Of STOCKHOLDERS
THE SUPREME BOARD FOR REGULATION Of CREDITS
HGH CONTROLLER BOARD OF PRIME MINSTRV
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THE MANAGEMENT COMMtTTEE
THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE
HEAD OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS &
GENERAL DIRECTOR                                                                                                              '3
Esspectlonr Of the BOan       Disetorn                  Directors                  ielt
- Board of Discipline
- Secretariat Of Cmiv
Defense
- Couniclor of General    - Encouragement &         - Agricultural Loain     - CommercIol Loan            - Staff DMsEon          - Planning Divsion        - Accounting DMslon          - Foreign
Directorate             Development Loan            Divsion                  Division                   - TrainIng DMslon      - Organization &          - Automation Division           Transaction
- Control DMstion         Divsion                    -CooperatIVeS           - Participation DivisIon     - Health Serioces         Method DMvsion          - Mtoney & Bond AffaEs          Dlv,sion
- Legal Alfairs DMsEon  - Project Evaluation           Division              - Information DIvison (3)       Rind DMslon          - Program & BLudget         Diviskiri                  - Foreign
DMslon                   - Agricultural           - Deponits & Banking         - Interior Services       DMivSoIn                - Printing Services             Transaction
- Construction DMslon          Development Loan        Services Division             Division            - Economic Research          DMsion                        Branches
- Real Estate Division         Division              - Public Reiotions           - Social Attain           Division                -Sippies & Puirchasing       - Representatives
- Communication Division    - Loasn & Agricultural     Divsion                       Divislon            - Regional Directorates      Division                     In Foreign
Reform Ddsiotn                                                            - Branches                                                Countries
- Water Products
Loaon Division
--Seed Ad iCh
-Dvision                                                                                                                            Word Baonk-24720
*DMslons -nvoived In project i*plementation



_ 103 -
TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY (MAF)
COUNCIL FOR                           MINISER                              MINISTER'S
INSPECTION                            MIITRSECRETARIAT
[  MINISTERfAL                                                            COUNCIL FOR
ADVISORS                                                               PREPARATION OF
[ DVISORS ________________LAWS AND DECREES
GENERAL                                                             COUNCIL OF RESEARCH, |
SECRETARIAT                                                              PLANNING AND
COORDINATION 17 dptl|
ATATURK STATE FARM iAMT
DIRECTORATE        _
UNDERSECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF
INTERNATIONAL                                                     _             ADVICE
TECHNICAL AFFAIRS 
CONTROLLER'S      __                                                         BUDGET
DEPARTMENT                                                                DIRECTORATE
OEPARTMENTOF                                                             BCIVILDEFENSE 
-SUPPORT SERVICES                                                           SECRETARIAT
Y DATM     OEP TY                                                               DEPUTY
|  UNDERSECRETARY                            UNDERSECRETARY                           UNDERSECRETARY
*::G.D. OF AGRICULUA:::                    G.D. OF VETERINARY                          G.D. OF FORESTRY 
-': AFFAIRS 11dpr ::'                       AFFAIRS 1 2 dptl1                            0 5 (1dpts)  
G,D . OF PLANT PROTECTION                   G.D. OF LIVESTOCK                    G.D. OF FOREST INDUSTRIES*
AND QUARANTINE (9 dpt,)                  DEVELOPMENT 17dptel                            (4dpts)
_77  r__                                          I              I           
DG.. OF FOOD CONTROL                       G.D. OF WOOL AND *                       DEPARTMENT OF
|   <9 dpu)l     l           l   MOHAIR CORPORATION                         FOREST VILLAGES
|   .D. OF STATE FARMS                      G.D.OrFFEED iNDUStRY*|*SnEooiEtpin
0.0. OF STATE FARMS             ~~~~~~CORPORATION                 Stat. Economic Entarprlsag.
I |*  Agpncin with own revolving fund and
O.D. OF AGRICULTURAL7                   0 t .D. OF MILK INDUSTRY-             govmmnssupplamntkry budget
BUPPLY ORGANIZATION                         ORGANIZATION                      G.D.- Gcnrnl Directorstc
I                       OR ANIZ                           Dpt - DpaCrtmCnt
I *'D Bi Unit directly involved in
0.D. OF PERSONNEL                         DEPARTMENT OFt                    project implementation.
(3 dptl)         l                     FISHERIES         |     (All Dther General Dirtorat. and Oapartmentu
I__T                                                       wm '  ndcr te gpneri budgt.)
DEPARTMENT oF 
COTTON AFFAIRS       | '
L    I                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bcnk-242E'i



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE
OF AGRICULTURAL AFFAIRS OF THE MINISTRY (MAF)
GENERAL DIRECTOR
|  SECRETRA
DEPUTY GENERAL                   DEPUTY GENERAL                   DEPUTY GENERAL                    DEPUTY GENERAL
_   DlIR ECTOR          _        DIRECTOR                         DIRECTOR                          DIRECTOR
I
.~ ..........
I                         1ESEAR1H                                 _ '   C::: ' '  ''' ''.........TRAINING  1  |  PLANNING
Li  RESEARCH  I   ~~~~  EXTENSION              II ~      DEPARTMENT      j        1       AND BUDGET
- DEPARTMENT          J          :::~DEARTMENT-,  '.,::...          iVOCATIONAL SCHOOLS)                 DEPARTMENT
DEPRTMENTOF              XSEEDS                                   PLANT NUTRITION                 ICS AND STATISTICS
TECHNICAL COOPERATION. :DEATNT                        IEPRMTAGICULAD TUALISECSNM
DEPARTMENT OF                   DEPARTMENT FOR                     AGRICULTURAL                    DEPARTMENT OF
FOR El GN ASSISTANCE                 NATIONAL               _       MECHANIZATION                   PERSONALAFFAIRS
PROJECTS                        DISASTERS                        DEPARTMENT                   AND ADMINISTRATION
0 These Departments are directly involved in project implementation.                                              World Bank-24260



I
I
I
4



I



i~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I



IBRD 16766
NOVEMBER 1987
t~~\S'   ~~                                                                                       SINCE>                                SEA 30V 
<t>Wlt- *4-- - 1 f g t- >_ 5 F XA 0 0 v < f z \ U S S R ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           U.S.  . R
_      . ;  V + + t . + t +,  . t . -                              ,             ) 0 0             ;9   g          SMSUN           <    '       -  *                         .                       i |KASTAMONU  M   Z  2   
LAFlD-ttgtEMIRDAGI               L 7 4 ' 4 ++ J A J ' ts; + , a> & ORDU
~~~~_IFWqDA6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~ '                                                             IASO                                    KR 
I t  ROA~~~~~~~~~~~~~H  .,.~~~~~~~~~~?                                                                    t~~~~~~GIRESUN
'       lUGL10.<                                RO C   ' ANALYA                      CORIJM \:  AS =                        r NX .                                 AGRICULTURNL  REGIONS
S 1 I, r !7 i - --  : _ ICEL                      w7'   X  9             2 SRANARYATOKAT                                                                                            . . R.PUBIC.  IAL  C
-43'   A                                          BLECKNkARA                                                                                                      f     ==N                                                             EATI40NLAL.  40-
K  RURSA  (RILECIK,je                                         ~~~~~~~~YOZGATSASC
ESKIKtSIR    ~'  "  . ESSEHIP  A NK RATUNCELA SEA                                                                                                             REIN
A N K A R A                                                             EENRGO                    lj8 NRHESTRGO                                    ETA-ATRGO
FKIRSEHIR5
*  KUTAHIYA                                     f~                                                                                                                  BITLIS    /         A
0 '       ANI A0                                                                            NEvSEHIR>      KAYSER I                 MARA TY ATR                                                                         H
USAK  A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- ~DIYARBAKIR                                                                       -         SIIRT                  I  KN
I m R      I~KNIGISE                                                                                *" 
Kl_ARAS                                                     MAMETN ,flS  fN              IRAQ
K0o    t ttilleteK. /oNYA                                                               -                                                             .- (
.       acENI ctLI  o [ s  b                                                              P                  )>."                                       -.
URFA
ADANA  -
OLdLA                I            ATLAAGRICULTURAL  REGIONS
1>                                       ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~ICEL   7 NxJYR              AAB        REPUBLIC                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
35                                                \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                      O~~~~~~~~~~~~-ATAY-                                      ---       PROVINCIAL BOLUNDARIES
35' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                     .-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        35'
-                       -'~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ CENTRAL-NORTH REGION          MEDITERRANEAN REGION                    BLACK SEA REGION
AEGEAN REGION               J      NORTH-EAST REGION               ,      CENTRAL-EAST REGION
40 80 10    6             T,sneheuupnpnshrh  Wdan'ntehn'ettttautsre                                                J~MRMR  RGIN50T-EAST REDION                                                     CETA-SOUTH REGION
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                      MARMARA5Sa'  REtGIONpOnnn dptySOUTHpernOtheCENdSTtRALd 
-tIie nyadg-ne -n the tenet -tw of any t-e;trt nn anyenoetnto
no-ptan.-f -ho b-o,dae,-                                       3,5     






30~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                ,"L..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~MARCH 1983
SIOPARTVIN
* ~~~~~~~~  7  *.                                            ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KASTAMONU  SNP-RIZE
ISTANBUL                      ~~~~~ZONGULDAK                                                                                                                        KR
40   ANKALj ~                        1   KOAELI YA                                              .I                 \,, AMA A         - U -.                                                   *)RS4
~~~'                                   OLU                  CANKIRI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CORUM  ) 'N.*v,                              GUMUSHANE             ERZU RUM11
SAKARYA                                                           TOKAT\ OZGT 
A~~~~~~~~~~~UCL   IGLI
A.                                       sKIRSEHIR  ~~~~~~          -K                         n~~~"'~~ ~aJ)           )                                     / YOGAAN           IRA
N            ~~~KUTAIHYA                                                                                                              '              )        .BTS
C'  MANISA         /    >'    ~~~~~~~AFYON                                      NEVSEHI R-     KAYSERI                 MALATYA   -  
AU?   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          AOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRAI     SIIRT         Y
~ISMIR  \.,XNA A6DE~J
*~~~*,,*,   ~~~~~~~                                  ..  NIGDE            *"'    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARAS  AIAA
I     I PARTA               KONYA                          ..~*~MRJ                                                                             ~     ~     '      IRAQ
-  AYDIN      <~~~DENIZL-IAr       \           ,'-,7'                                                                                         UE                              
(N$.'~~~K          )BURDURR/                                                                 AN                                           *UT                                    R     E
MIJOLA  r            . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAZI~~~~~~:ANTEPTU     K 
1  0 ~~ ANTALYI~~  ~    ~       . *~X                  ~~                                       '~-'f  APPRAISAL OF SECOND  AGRICULTURAL
35~~~~  i5   7         /   --'----          "                    ICEL     /            2   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S Y R IA N   A R A B  R E P U B L IC         C   E  I        R   J   C
.-"     -'-----   K. ~~~~~~~~      *   - ~~~HATAY                                                                PROJECT   AREA   AND   COMPONENTS
--  .  1                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREAS UNDER SUB PROJECTS  NO. OF PROVINCES UNDER THE SCHEME
-.         1 ~~~~~~~~~~~                            , ~~~~~~~xj      ~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL           A      CORUM-CANKIRI                     2
-. -PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES             A     FALLOW REDUCTION                 14
-. -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES         ID    SECOND CROP SCHEME               1B
40   810  129   1800                                                                                                                                                        IRRIGATION COMPLETION             4
KILOMETERS
Th.snp a hens 5pr&rac W In0b The WoOd hakaSal rs,,,ln 1ha,gl -asneoar o                                                                 EXTENSION-LINKED                 10
111. I= ~~~ _1    ~', fy w thspt-.1. ~~~~~  ~=                            AREAS UNDER PROJECT                   GENERAL CREDIT
Financ CMat-raa The de-hsahn used and b-alerrerie shw- on lhs AP0
,nrp4. snIs erIh The WrI0 Rank end he40nassIIcneCmoaa  nijgae    S



