Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Report No. P-3593-TU
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150.4 MILLION
TO THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY (TCZB)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 25, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Jan. 1980 /1    Jan. 1981    January 1982    March 1983
US Dollarl          TL   70.0        TL  91.00    TL   127.00       TL  195.00
TL 1                US$   0.014      US$  0.011   US$    0.008    US$   0.005
/1    Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners.  TL 182/$l
(tbe exchange rate at the time of appraisal) was used for Parts III and
IV of this report.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey      March I to February 28 (through 1981)    -
March 1 to December 31 (1982)
January 1 to December 31 (from Jan. 1, 1983)
TCZB                   January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ba               -      hectare.
IAEE             -      Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis.
IRDF             -      Interest Rate Differential Fund.
SEE              -      State Economic Enterprise.
TCZB             -      Agricultural Bank of Turkey.
TZDK             -      Agricultural Supply Organization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Borrower:                 Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
Guarantor:                Republic of Turkey.
Amount:                   US$150.4 million (including capitalized front-end fee).
Terms:                    Seventeen years including four years of grace, with
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:          Medium-term loans to farmers would be for six to twelve
years including two to five years of grace, with terms
for individual loans decided in accordance with cash
flow proJections. Short-term loans would be for one
year or less. Interest rates would be established by
the Government in accordance with its agreement to
achieve and maintain positive real interest rates on an
agreed basis. The foreign exchange risk for the credit
components would be assumed by the Guarantor.
Project Description:   The project would finance medium and short-term loans
by TCZB during a four-year period for specific programs
aimed at increasing agricultural production and raising
farmer income in areas where the Government has
undertaken to intensify extension and other support
services.  Itswould also include support for
strengthening TCZB's institutional capabilities.
Benefits and Risks:    The project is expected to increase incomes of some
270,000 farm families and to intensify land use and
produce' more stable yields on about 485,000 hectares
(ha). It is also expected to assist in strengthening
TCZB and foster reforms of the agricultural credit
system.  The most significant project risk is the
uncertainty in the marketing and processing of some
crops. Annual cropping pattern reviews would permit
adjustments as needed to avoid this risk. There is
also a risk that the institution building aspects of
the project would not proceed as expected, but
provisions for periodic reports and consultations have
been designed to reduce this risk to an acceptable
level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
---- $Million  Equivalent  --
Estimated Project Costs:                         Local        Foreign       Total
On-Farm Development
Medium-term Loans                              78.6          48.2        126.8
Short-term Loans                               20.2          16.0         36.2
Short-term Loans for Second Crops                 27.3          22.3         49.6
Short-term Loans for Fallow Reduction             20.8          12.7         33.5
IAEE Irrigation Project
Medium-term Loans                              13.0           9.8         22.8
Short-term Loans                                5.5           3.7          9.2
Short-term Loans for Corum-Cankiri Project        13.8          10.9         24.7
Strengthening of TCZB
Training                                        -             0.2          0.2
Equipment                                       1.1           4.3          5.4
Studies                                         0.1           0.3          0.4
Total Base Cost                                  180.4         128.4        308.8
Price Contingencies                               32.7          21.6         54.3
Total Project Cost                               213.1 /1      150.0        363.1
Front-end Fee                                      -             0.4          0.4
Total Financing Required                         213.1 /1      150.4        363.5
Financing Plan:
Bank                                            -           150.4        150.4
TCZB                                          138.0           -          138.0
Sub-borrowers                                  75.1                       75.1
Total                                         213.1         150.4        363.5
Estimated Bank Disbursements:
Bank FY                              1984     1985      1986     1987
Annual                               21.3     35.1      42.6     51.4
Cumulative                           21.3     56.4      99.0    150.4
Economic Rate of Return:    28 percent (medium-term credit components only) /2
Appraisal Report:   4394-TU    dated May 25, 1983.
/1 Includes $9.0 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
/2 For short-term credit components, the lag between investment and returns is
less than a year and benefit/cost ratios have been calculated instead of
economic rates of return. These ratios vary between 1.7 and 3.2.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Turkey for the equivalent of US$150.4 million (including capitalized
J          front-end fee) to help finance an agricultural credit project.  The loan would
have a term of 17 years including four years grace at the standard variable
interest rate. About $144 million of the proceeds will be on-lent to farmers
with repayment for medium-term credit over six to twelve years including two
to five years of grace, and for short-term loans in one year or less.
Interest rates would be established by the Government in accordance with its
agreement to achieve and maintain positive real interest rates (see para 49).
The Guarantor would bear the exchange risk on the credit components.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Turkey:  Policies and Prospects for Growth"
(No. 2657a-TU) and the Postscript thereto, were distributed to the Executive
Directors in December 1979 and March 1980, respectively. Updating of economic
prospects has since been undertaken through the continuing work on structural
adjustment loans (SALs) to Turkey and several special economic missions. The
report of a mission to evaluate the investment program and entitled "Turkey:
Public Sector Investment Review" (No. 3472-TU) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. The report of a mission to review
Turkey's industrialization and trade strategy entitled "Turkey:
Industrialization and Trade Strategy" (No. 3641-TU), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1982. The report of a mission to review energy
sector policies entitled "Turkey: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector'
(No. 3877-TU) was distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983.
Missions to review recent economic developments and analyse the medium-term'-
prospects, to study the agricultural sector and the financial system visited
Turkey at various times in 1982.  Their findings are reflected in this section.
3.       Turkey is about as big as France and Germany combined, with a
population of around 46 million and an estimated GNP per capita of US$1540.
The density of population is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural
land), and about 45 percent live in urban centres. Although population growth
is below the median for middle-income countries (2.2 percent per annum), and
despite rapid economic growth in the mid-1970s as well as substantial
emigration of workers (to Western Europe and more recently, to the Middle
1/ Parts I & II are substantially the same as Parts I & II of the President's
Report on the Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis Irrigation Project (P-3581-TU) dated
May 17, 1983.



- 2 -
East), the employment situation has deteriorated steadily with an unemployment
rate currently about 16 percent. There is, however, little or no absolute
poverty, although income distribution is relatively skewed. There are also
considerable regional differences and large rural-urban disparities. Recent
data indicate a probable worsening in income distribution, especially of wage
and salary earners, and a sharp real decline in the minimum wage. Educational
enrollments have expanded greatly but the rate of adult literacy remains
relative low (60 percent in 1975).
Development Strategy Prior to 1980
4.       Turkish development strategy during the 1960s and 1970s aimed at
rapid growth through high rates of investment with the main emphasis on
industrialization. Import substitution was favored over exports, with State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) playing an important role in the industrialization
strategy as well as in regional development. These policies, supported by
agricultural expansion and growing workers' remittances, helped to bring
about a favorable growth record throughout the First and Second Plan periods
(1963-72). A continuation of these policies in the face of the various
exogenous shocks of the 1970s, including the rise in world oil prices and
stagflation in the OECD economies, helped to maintain growth well into the
1970s, but finally proved unsustainable.
5.       To maintain its growth momentum in the Third Plan (1973-77), Turkey
financed a large part of its investment and import requirements through
reserve decumulation and heavy external borrowing, particularly short-term.
The rapid GNP growth, averaging around 7.7 percent per year in 1973-76, came
to an abrupt halt in mid-1977 as the massive external debt burden led to a
sharp deterioration in creditworthiness, severe shortages of imports and
disruptions in industrial production with a rise in urban unemployment; GNP
growth slowed down sharply to 4.0 percent in 1977 and to a negative figure in
1979. At the same time, domestic inflation accelerated from 24 percent in
1977 to an average of 64 percent in 1979.
6.       By the end of 1979, the rate of domestic inflation had reached over
100 percent and had become an issue of critical importance. Although
international price increases and domestic cost-push factors influenced the
inflationary process, a substantial monetary expansion was the main cause.
The monetary imbalances originated mainly from the Government's budget
deficits and the huge financing requirements of the SEEs. Political and
social unrest aggravated the economic difficulties. It was in these
exceptional circumstances that the January 1980 reform measures were adopted.
The Government's New Policy Priorities and Actions
7.       The Government's program for stabilization and restructuring of the
Turkish economy was initiated in January 1980 and is now entering its fourth
year. The program has involved policy measures which have effects both in the
short- and medium-term. In an effort to stabilize the crisis situation, a
series of urgent measures were introduced to restrict domestic demand. These
measures included enforcing tight credit ceilings by the Central Bank,
reducing the budget deficit through expenditure control and increased
taxation, and restraining growth of wages and salaries. Over the medium-term,
the program is designed to restore a better balance between the public and
private sectors of the economy and achieve sustainable growth. The key
elements of this program are: the adoption of a realistic and flexible



- 3 -
exchange rate and incentives to encourage producers to export; deregulation of
interest rates to reflect market conditions and encourage private savings; the
strengthening of public finances through tax reform; measures to improve
institutional efficiency in key sectors; a rationalization of the public
investment program; and a reform of the SEEs designed to reduce their burden
on the budget and improve their efficiency.
8.       The adjustment program, which has been supported by the Bank through
three structural adjustment loans, involves far-reaching changes affecting all
facets of the Turkish economy. It entails substantial changes in attitudes,
institutions, and the legal and policy framework, all of which take time and
face considerable resistance. In view of the severity of the crisis, and the
urgent need to bring down inflation and stabilize the balance of payments as
quickly as possible, the Government accepted the need for a temporary
sacrifice of growth and social objectives. Drastic structural changes were
made in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax system, interest
rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public investment policy.
9.       The implementation of the program is being carried out by a military
regime which assumed power in September 1980 following a period of sustained
unrest, terrorism and deterioration in the parliamentary process.  This
Government, like previous military regimes in 1960-61 and 1971-73, has
emphasized its commitment to restore civilian rule. A Consultative Assembly
was set up to draft a new constitution, which was overwhelmingly endorsed in a
nationwide referendum in November 1982. New election and party laws are
expected to he promulgated soon, and parliamentary elections are scheduled for
October 1983.
Effects of the Structural Adjustment Process -- 1980-83
10.      The Turkish economy has shown an impressive response to the program
launched in 1980, and in many cases actual performance has met or exceeded the
Government's own targets. Real GNP, after falling for two consecutive years,
expanded by 4.2 percent in 1981 and 4.4 percent in 1982. Growth has been
mainly export-led, with less than one quarter of the growth in 1982 due to
domestic demand. Demand for consumption increased by 3 percent while fixed
investment grew at a modest 4.1 percent (both in real terms) in 1982, and
depletion of inventories helped to expand supply. Public investment grew
significantly slower than private investment, thus reversing the trend of
previous years. However, unemployment continued to grow in 1981 and 1982, as
employment opportunities did not increase fast enough to absorb the expansion
of the labor force.
11.      Through a combination of fiscal, monetary and income policies, the
Government has been remarkably successful in reducing the rate of inflation.
After peaking at 107 percent in 1980, the annual average rate of increase in
the wholesale price index declined to 37 percent in 1981 and around 25 percent
in 1982, which was the program target. However, the degree of credit
restraint needed to reduce inflation this rapidly, has had a marked effect on
liquidity in the economy and has helped to maintain interest rates at high
real levels.
12.      Commercial hank interest rates which wTere deregulated in July 1980
have increased substantially; with inflation gradually coming down, they are
now markedly positive in real terms. As a result, total bank deposits



increased by 72 percent in 1980 over 1979, and in 1981 this trend accelerated,
with total deposits growing by 104 percent and time deposits by 263 percent.
Growth in deposits slowed somewhat in 1982, and the bankruptcy in late June
1982 of a major non-bank financial institution shook depositor confidence and
was followed by a shift of funds into the larger banks. While the Government
has averted an immediate crisis in the banking sector, additional actions to
reform and strengthen the financial sector as a whole are urgently recuired.
The Government is at present preparing a new banking law which aims to
strengthen the equity position and management of banks.
13.      While positive real interest rates have provided an incentive to
save, they have also meant high borrowing costs. The current real interest
rate for non-preferential credits is about 28 percent. These high interest
rates, together with the limited availability of credit, have led to
considerable liquidity problems for the private business sector, particularly
for businesses supplying the domestic market. The banks have taken steps to
lower rates on deposits and reduce the tax on interest received by banks with
the aim of reducing interest on credit. But the liquidity problem of the
private business sector is compounded by under-capitalization which had been
encouraged by easy access to cheap bank credit in the past. Tax changes and
other measures are under preparation to encourage the corporate sector to
raise paid-up capital to levels commensurate with those in other countries.
14.      There has been encouraging progress in the fiscal area.  The budget
deficit was reduced from 4.6 percent of GNP in 1980 to 1.2 percent in 1982.
Covernment expenditures as a percentage of GNP declined from 22.6 percent in
1981 to 21.5 percent in 1982, but the impact on the deficit was offset by a
slower growth in revenues than programmed. The SEE accounts showed a marked
improvement, with net profits climbing to 0.5 percent of GNP in 1982 from 0.1
percent in 1981 and their financing requirements falling from 8.8 percent of
GNP in 1981 to 5.7 percent in 1982. Moreover, supplementary appropriations
were cancelled. Public sector borrowing requirements dropped from a level of
6.5 percent of GNP in 1981 to 5.2 percent in 1982.
15.      On the external account, the flexible exchange rate policy under
which the Turkish lira has been adjusted daily since May 1981, together with
the new export-oriented policies, led to an unprecedented export growth in
1981 when exports amounted to US$4.7 billion, or 63 percent higher in dollar
terms than the 1980 level. Increases were concentrated in manufactured goods
which experienced a rise of nearly 120 percent; product groups with the
largest increases included textiles, clothing, cement, iron/steel, and
non-electrical equipment, with the Middle East becoming an increasingly
important market. Exports in 1982 reached US$5.75 billion, about 22 percent
increase over 1981, despite a significant decline in export prices,
particularly prices of agricultural products. As in the previous year,
manufactured exports were the major source of expansion, as exporters
continued to make inroads into the Middle East.
16.      A new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income earned
from construction contracts (with a gross value of around US$11 billion in
1982) in the Middle East and North African countries.  These activities are
also expected to add to the normal flow of worker remittances, which remained
strong throughout 1981, although declining slightly in 1982, reflecting the
appreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis European currencies as well as the
impact of the recession in Western Europe.



- 5 -
17.      Imports declined in dollar terms by 2.3 percent in 1982 compared to
1981, due mainly to weaker prices of oil and raw material imports, a stronger
US dollar, a reduction in stocks and the elimination of a risk premium
previously paid by Turkish importers. As a result of these developments, the
current account balance showed a significant improvement in 1981 and 1982,
with the deficit reduced from 5.6 percent of GNP in 1980 to 3.5 percent in
1981 and about 1.7 percent in 1982, well below program targets. By the end of
1981, outstanding external disbursed debt amounted to US$17.5 billion
equivalent or about 30 percent of GNP. Multilateral agencies and official
bilateral sources accounted for about two-thirds of the total outstanding. Of
the total, only 12 percent constituted short-term debt, a marked contrast to
the position in 1978 when short-term debt accounted for half of total
outstanding debt.
18.      A modest pickup of growth (4.8 percent) is anticipated in 1983
concurrent witb a slowdown of inflation (to about 20 percent), based on a
slight recovery in private investment and higher capacity utilization rates.
The current account deficit is expected to decrease to US$870 million in 1983
from US$1 billion in 1982, representing a slight fall iD relation to GNP
(1.5 percent as against 1.7 percent). These results are based on a 17 percent
projected growth in exports, a marginal improvement in workers' remittances,
(both predicated on a revival of growth in the industrial economies) and a
13 percent growth in imports (required by the upturn in domestic demand).
Medium-term Prospects
19.      It is expected that the draft Fifth Five Year Development Plan
(1984-1988) will be completed by mid-1983. Projections prepared by the recent
Economic Mission indicate the need for a continuation of the stabilization
program until 1985, which can be followed by a growth strategy aiming at about
6-6.5 percent per annum GDP growth consistent with a manageable balance of
payments.
20.      Two basic assumptions on the sustainability of export growth and on
fiscal discipline have guided the projections. The continued growth of
exports is based on the view that conditions that have made possible the
1981-82 upsurge are not temporary. Specifically, it assumes continuation of a
flexible exchange rate policy, export incentives and import liberalization.
Secondly, it also assumes that the monetary and fiscal policy restraints will
not be relaxed to a point that will revive inflation, thus disrupting the
basic shift in development strategy.
21.      The projections of key economic variables for the period 1983-1990
are presented in Table below. Merchandise exports are projected to continue
to grow at 9.5 percent in real terms into the late 1980s on the basis of a
continuation of present policies for export promotion. Such a scenario would
also require improvement in the pace of import liberalization in order to
reduce the profit bias against exports.



-6-
Table 1: Turkey - Projection of Selected Economic Indicators
1981  1982   1983  1985  1990     Average Annual Real Growth Rate
Units  Actual    Estimate    Program  Projected  1981  1982  1982-85  1985-90
GDP               1980 TL b  4518  4717  4943  5455  7349  4.4  4.4    5.0     6.1
Conaumption              3611   3757   3943  4310  5716  1.9   4.1    4.7      5.8
Fixed Investment          898    924    977  1129  1617  4.2   3.0    4.9      7.4
Exports of Goods  Current $ m    4703  5746  6800  9811  21505  79.0  23.0  8.6  9.5
Imports of Goods          8931   8735   9697  12825  27433  10.2  -4.1  7.7     9.1
Trade Balance            -4230  -2989  -2897  -3014    -5928
Current Account Balance  Current   m   -2089  -1035  -870  -485    -1757
Ratios
Investment/GDP     X     24.7   22.3   22.2  22.7  24.0
Savings/GDP        X     18.9   19.0   19.4  20.7  21.9
Exports of Goods/GDP  2   8.9   10.5   10.6  11.6  13.5
Current Account Deficit/GDP  x  -3.5  -1.7  -1.5  -0.8  -1.8
Debt Service Ratio */  S  13.8  24.2   20.6  20.6  18.1
Public Fixed Investment/  2  60.9  60.6  60.3  57.5  50.0
Total Fixed Investment
a/ Total Debt Service including Debt Relief - Exports of Goods and NFS plus Workers' Remittances.
Source: State Planning Organization and IBRD Projections.
22.      Merchandise imports are projected to grow slowly in real terms
through 1984 and then to pick up from 7-8 percent to an average of a little
over 9 percent for the 1985-90 period in line with the growth of demand.
23.      The current account balance, under these assumptions, would show a
decreasing deficit for 1982-85 as stabilization curtails imports while
encouraging exports. As growth sets in, the trend would be reversed for the
1985-90 period, and Turkey's current account deficit would increase again.
The terminal year 1990 would show a deficit of US$1.8 billion as compared to a
1985 projected deficit of US$485 million.
24.      The projected capital account would remain manageable throughout the
projection period given the need to restrain the growth of debt and maintain a
reasonable debt service ratio. This would permit Turkey to meet the
amortization and interest payments arising from the US$9.6 billion of debts
rescheduled between 1978-82 and maintain an exchange reserve equivalent to two
months' imports.
25.      Consistent with this scenario, the projections indicate a GDP growth
of 5 percent per annum for 1982-85 (stabilization period), and a higher figure
of 6.1 percent per annum for 1985-90 (growth period). Achievement of these
growth rates will be necessarily dependent on the growth of the productive
sectors, namely agriculture and manufacturing. The achievement of sectoral
growth will depend to a large extent on the Government's determination to
render the public sector more efficient and to create a more favorable
investment climate for the private sector.



- 7 -
26.      The medium-term scenario presented above assumes an increasingly
important role for private sector investment in line with the policy of
rationalizing public sector investment in the manufacturing sector.
Accordingly, private investment is expected to grow at an average annual rate
of 9.6 percent during 1982-85 and 11 percent during 1985-90. As a corollary,
the real growth of public investment will slow down from a higa of 7.8 percent
per annum during 1980-82 to a more moderate 5.0 percent during 1982-85 and
eventually to 4.4 percent per annum for 1985-90. This is consistent with the
framework of achieving the medium-term goal of an equal balance in the ratio
of private and public fixed investment by 1990.
Creditworthiness
27.      At the end of 1978, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden of
US$7.5 billion in short-term debt and US$6.8 billion of medium- and long-term
debt. Turkey was faced with service payment obligations (mostly on short-term
debt) of US$5.1 billion (including arrears), or nearly three times the value
of merchandise exports in 1977. Following the resolution of the 1978 debt
crisis, Turkey pursued a very conservative policy of external borrowing which
was restricted almost entirely to long-term borrowing. Much of this was
arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey and was extended on
concessional terms. Also, between 1978-1980 Turkey rescheduled some
US$9.6 billion of outstanding obligations through a series of rescheduling
arrangements concluded with official and commercial creditors. Approximately
US$6.0 billion of short-term debt, including US$2.6 billion in convertible
Turkish lira deposits and bankers credits and US$1.2 billion of non-guaranteed
suppliers credits, were consolidated into medium-term loans or partially
converted into Turkish lira obligations.  As a result of the these measures,
short-term debt as a percentage of total debt outstanding fell from 51 percent
in 1978 to 12.5 percent in 1981. Inflows were mostly from official sources --
major creditors being the OECD countries, the World Bank and the IMF. Of the
total debt outstanding at end-1981, 87 percent constituted medium- and
long-term debt. Based on the growth scenario outlined earlier, debt
outstanding and disbursed as a percent of GDP is projected to rise from 28
percent in 1981 to 31 percent in 1982 and then fall to 29 percent in 1985 and
26 percent in 1990.
28.      Debt service obligations are likely to be high over the coming
years. Accordingly, the debt service ratio is projected to increase to
24.2 percent in 1982 from about 14 percent in 1981 as a result of a large
repayment of previously rescbeduled debt under the earlier OECD agreements.
*         Projections beyond 1982 show a decline of the debt service ratio to
19.4 percent in 1984, an increase to 20.6 percent in 1985 (again on account of
repayments of rescheduled debt), and then a fall to 18.1 percent in 1990. The
debt burden should remain manageable, provided current policies are
successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained, and Turkey continues
to receive further international support from private and official donors.
29.      On all aspects of economic analysis, the IMF and the Bank have
coordinated closely with each other, and Turkey continues to be in good
standing with the IMF. A three-year standby arrangement in an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved by the IMF's Board and became
effective on June 18, 1980. Under the arrangement, Turkey has thus far made
ten purchases totalling SDR 1,060 million. The present standby is to expire
on June 17, 1983 and a one year extention is being sought hy the Turkish
authorities.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
30.      Through May 31, 1983 the Bank/IDA have lent US$3,939 million to
Turkey, througn 71 projects. Agriculture accounts for 18 percent of funds
lent, industry and DFCs for 34 percent, power for 13 percent, structural
adjustment and program loans for 26 percent, and urban development,
transportation, education and tourism for the remaining 9 percent. As of
March 31, 1983, IFC commitments to Turkey totalled about US$236 million, of
which about US$82 million were still held by IFC. Annex II provides a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983,
with notes on the status of ongoing projects.
31.      The execution of Bank-financed projects in the public sector has been
slow, due in part to weak management, limited coordination amongst ministries,
staffing problems, and the serious external and domestic financial crisis from
1977 to 1979. There has been notable improvement since September 1980.
Nevertheless, problems persist in many cases, reflecting difficulties in
staffing the public sector at current salaries, over-centralized bureaucratic
structures, and continuing constraints on the availability of local funds.
The implementation of private sector projects has generally been more
satistactory. Recently, however, the high interest rates for working capital
combined with depressed domestic demand and reluctance of investors to take
the foreign exchange risk, have led to slow commitments under DFC lending.
Disbursements average 53 percent of appraisal estimates (excluding structural
adjustment loans) as compared to 55 percent for Tunisia and 45 percent for
Morocco.
32.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting Turkey's medium-term objectives
of redirecting the Turkish economy towards a development path placing more
reliance on market forces and adopting a more outward-oriented strategy.
These objectives also include increasing domestic savings and reorienting a
restrained public investment program to reflect the Government's priorities of
completing ongoing projects faster and emphasizing quick-yielding new
investments with positive balance of payments impact. The main vehicle for
the Bank's operational discussions with the Government has been the structural
adjustment lending (SAL) program. Three SALs have so far been approved and a
fourth is expected to be ready for Board presentation shortly.
33.      Agriculture, industry, transportation and energy will continue to be
the key sectors for project lending. In agriculture, projects are expected to
emphasize irrigation, credit, and reform of the extension and research
services. In industry (including DFCs), the emphasis will be on the promotion
of exports, employment, and increasing operational efficiency. Energy
projects underway are for power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite
resources, as well as enhanced oil recovery and oil and gas exploration.
Future projects will emphasize both the oil/gas and coal/lignite sub-sectors.
In addition, transportation projects will focus on developing the
infrastructure to facilitate exports and improve the efficiency of
operations. Projects for industrial training, urban and regional development
and public utilities may supplement these efforts.



- 9 -
34.      The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue established with the
Government in recent years is expected to be pursued. The economic and sector
work undertaken recently includes studies of the agricultural and financial
sectors. Topics likely to be covered in the future include a review of the
next five-year development plan, employment, SEEs, transportation and the
agro-industrial subsector.
35.      This is the second loan to Turkey to be presented to the Executive
Directors this fiscal year. Loans for power transmission, development of the
Thrace gas field, and a fourth loan for structural adjustment are also
expected to be ready for Board presentation shortly. Other projects being
processed include: technical assistance to SEEs, industrial training,
agricultural extension, gas utilization and rehabilitation of the paper
industry.
36.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was
9 percent in 1981, and is expected to grow to about 17 percent by 1985; its
share of total debt service payments is projected to increase from about
13 percent in 1981 to about 14 percent in 1985.
37.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, meat processing, motor bicycle engines, truck
manufacture, piston rings and cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also
invested in the Turkish Industrial Development Bank (TSKB). New investment
opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
38.      While the importance of the agricultural sector in the economy is
declining, it still represents about 20 percent of GDP, about half of export
earnings and about 60 percent of civilian employment. The growth rates of
agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below that for the rest
of the economy. Nevertheless, agricultural growth has a significant role to
play in providing foreign exchange earnings and employment.
39.      Turkish agriculture is diverse.  Intensive crop cultivation is
prevalent in the coastal regions which receive plentiful rainfall or are
equipped with irrigation facilities. Mixed (crop and livestock) farming
predominates in the eastern and central parts of the country where pastures
and meadows form more than half of the agricultural land and crop production
is dependant upon rainfall.  In these areas much of the land is kept fallow in
alternating years.  While the livestock production system is largely
traditional, dependant on grazing lands and low productivity systems of animal
husbandry, it produces about one-third of agricultural GDP.  Cereal crops
occupy about two-thirds of the cultivated area, fruits and vegetables about 20
percent, industrial crops about six percent, and oil seeds, pulses, and tubers
the remaining seven percent.
40.      Through the 1970s, Turkey's agricultural policies were
inward-looking, stressing food self-sufficiency through subsidized inputs and
producer prices. This led to relatively rapid growth of production through
the first half of the 1970s, but could not be maintained due to the strain



10 -
placed upon the budget and competing demand for resources from the
manufacturing sector. An over-valued exchange rate discouraged exporting.
Exports in 1979 amounted to less than one percent of production. The foreign
exchange crisis in the late seventies led to the adoption of new policies in
1980 featuring maintenance of a realistic exchange rate and reduction of
agricultural subsidies. These policies, combined with improved export
incentives, led to an increase in agricultural export earnings in 1980 and
1981 at an annual average rate of 29 percent. This trend is expected to
continue, although at a less rapid rate, over the next few years.  The rate of
growth of agricultural production fell initially with the reduction of
subsidies, but has rebounded in 1982 due to good weather and an adjustment by
farmers to a more market-oriented farming environment.
41.       The possibilities for growth through expansion of the cultivable area
or of livestock numbers were largely exhausted by the mid-1970s. Growth must
now come primarily from increased productivity and changing the crop mixture
to reflect better Turkey's comparative advantage.  The demands of an
export-oriented approach imply a change of emphasis from food self-sufficiency
to increased net agricultural contribution to the balance of trade, and thus
imports of certain foods in which Turkey does not have comparative advantage
must increase if food consumers are not to he penalized. Increased
productivity will require expansion in the irrigated area through increased
efficiency of the implementing agencies (better planning, increased use of
contractors), better extension and research programs, and increased imports of
improved seeds and appropriately-sized equipment. Other important issues in
the sector include improved sector planning, continued progress in reduction
of subsidies, increased availability of credit (particularly for small and
medium scale farmers), and reform of agricultural SEEs and marketing
agencies.  With adequate progress on these issues and continued adherence to
policies designed to encourage exports, it should be possible for agricultural
sector GDP to grow at about 3 percent per year over the next decade.
Agricultural Credit
42.      The agricultural credit system in Turkey is divided between an
organized sector, which provides both production and term credit on
concessional terms, and an unorganized sector whose activities largely consist
of sbort-term liquidity advances at high rates of interest or discount. These
latter take the form of moneylender loans and advances for the purchase of
farm products. Little is known about the informal sector except that it is
pervasive and diverse, funds are disbursed quickly, and arrears are few.
43.      Over 95 percent of institutional agricultural credit (excluding
direct credit from the Central Bank of Turkey to SEEs for support purchases)
is provided by or through the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), a Government
owned Bank having privileged access to various official sources of financing.
Pursuant to Government policy, it has been lending these funds at negative
real rates of interest. Over the years, TCZB (which dates from Ottoman times)
has been vested with a multiplicity of banking and non-banking
responsihilities in addition to its main responsibility for providing
agricultural credit. TCZB provides a full range of banking services to
commercial and manufacturing entities both in Turkey and abroad, and handles
all Governmental transactions in nearly half of the country's administrative
districts. It has the largest volume of deposits of any Bank in Turkey, the



- 11 -
most branches (1050), and employs close to one-quarter of all banking
personnel in Turkey.    However, TCZB's administrative and financial
capabilities have not kept pace with its growth, reducing the efficiency of
service provided to its agricultural borrowers. In addition, over the period
1977-1981, loans to sales cooperatives and financing of the Agricultural
Supply Agency (TZDK) have averaged about 70 percent of TCZB's agricultural
credits, leaving limited funds for provision of credit to farmers, either
directly or through credit cooperatives. An average of about 46 percent of
TCZB's agricultural credit financing has had to be financed from the Central
Bank. Cash flow problems, which stem partially from low interest received and
partially from the demands of the sales cooperatives and TZDK, have forced
TCZB to institute a number of de facto credit rationing procedures, including
an extremely stringent application of creditworthiness criteria, systematic
underfinancing of individual farm and agroindustry credit needs, late
disbursements, and insistence in much of its project lending that physical
equity be fully committed before disbursements commence. These procedures
reduce the incentive for agricultural investment and constrain the use of
agricultural inputs.
44.      Sales cooperatives have utilized on average over one-half of TCZB's
total agricultural credit. These cooperatives were intended to act as
intermediaries for the price stabilization program, using funds borrowed from
TCZB to purchase crops from farmers at the floor price and then selling the
crops domestically and abroad. The cooperatives also provide credit to
farmers as an inducement to sign contracts to sell their crops to the
cooperatives (often at lower prices than offered by merchants). After selling
the crops, the cooperatives have an obligation to repay the borrowed funds to
TCZB; any loss they make is covered by the Government and any profit - and
last year all but one of the 21 sales cooperatives sold their crops at a
profit - is supposed to be returned to the farmers. In practice, however, the
sales cooperatives have accumulated substantial arrears with TCZB, due in part
to the time lag between the buying and selling of the crops, but also due to
the large operating costs of these overstaffed entities and to their diversion
of funds from profits on sales and the non-repayment of loans to support the
investment and operating costs of diverse manufacturing activities. As a
result of such non-repayments, the Government in 1982 has written off
substantial amounts corresponding to arrears of sales cooperatives. The
Government is aware of the problem of these entities and has obtained from the
Consultative Assembly the power to reform the legal basis of their operations
by decree. Proposals for carrying out such reforms are under preparation and
the Government intends further studies to develop measures to make the credit
cooperatives financially self-sufficient with their credit obtained on
commercial terms. Progress is expected to be monitored in the context of
proposed structural adjustment lending.
45.      The agricultural credit cooperatives have received about 10 percent
of TCZB's agricultural loans. There are close to 2,500 cooperatives with 1.5
million members serving about 40 percent of the farm households in Turkey.
This system is one of the few financial institutions operating at the grass
roots level and taking an active role in small farmer financing. The credit
cooperatives finance their lending operations almost entirely from funds
borrowed from TCZB while using their membership dues to cover operating
expenses. The credit cooperatives need strengthening through training of
their staff, augmentation of their financial resources, deployment of
professional managers, and installation of sound financial management



- 12 -
practices and systems. The Government has agreed to undertake a study of
measures for increasing the effectiveness of the agricultural credit
cooperative system (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01(a)), including in
particular an examination of the feasibility of these coperatives playing a
wider role in rural areas in financial intermediation (such as collecting
deposits and possibly expanding their lending programs). The study would
propose a 5-year development plan for the agriculture credit cooperative
system, which may provide the basis for future Bank assistance. The study
would be supervised by a steering committee, headed by a representative of the
State Planning Office. Consultants would be employed by March 31, 1984. Upon
completion (expected March 31, 1985), the results will be furnished to the
Bank for its comments.
46.      The share of commercial banks in total agricultural credit is
insignificant. They are reluctant to provide agricultural loans due to the
higher profits obtainable in lending for industry and commerce, the relatively
higher transaction costs of lending to agriculture, and their lack of
technical expertise. Indirectly, however, the commercial banks provide
support to agriculture through their export financing activities. The credit
is extended to trading companies which obtain the commodities through
middlemen, who occasionally also provide direct credit to farmers. Commercial
bank credit to agro-industries also is occasionally used to provide credit to
farmers under guaranteed purchase contract arrangements.
47.      The Government has had a long-standing policy of providing credit for
agriculture at interest rates below those of most other sectors. This has
been accomplished, in part, through Central Bank rediscounts (at interest
rates of 16 to 18 percent) for agricultural loans provided at interest rates
specified by the Government. In addition, the Government provides an eight
percent per year interest subsidy on agricultural loans made at preferential
interest rates from banks' own resources. This subsidy is provided from an
Interest Rate Differential Fund (IRDF) which is in turn financed by a tax
collected on commercial loans. In addition, TCZB's average cost of funds is
reduced by its large share of Government deposits (one-third of TCZB's total
deposits) on which no interest is payable. Due to the above arrangements,
TCZB is able to lend to farmers at 20 percent (22 percent for medium- and
long-term loans) at a time when it must pay 45 percent on time deposits, and
when commercial loans not qualifying for preferential rates under the
Government's selective credit policies are made at rates of 70 percent or more.
48.      Such heavily subsidized rates have had various detrimental effects.
The costs of non-preferential credit are raised considerably by the required
payments to the IRDF and by the reserve requirements imposed on deposits which
mobilize resources for the Central Bank for subsidizing its selective credits.
One-third of these go to agriculture (mainly for support purchases but also
for direct credit to farmers). In addition, the maintenance of negative real
interest rates has also had a detrimental effect on the agricultural sector.
In real terms the assets of TCZB have decreased by about 33 percent over the
past five years, reducing the ability of TCZB to meet farmers' borrowing
requirements. The effects of the shortage of funds for agricultural credit
have been accentuated by Government reforms since 1980 which have reduced the
subsidization of agricultural inputs, thus increasing credit requirements.
The current short-term agricultural interest rate of 20 percent is negative as
compared to the 1982 inflation rate, as measured by the Wholesale Price Index
(WPI) of 25 percent. Nevertheless, it should be recognized that by holding



- 13 -
the agricultural interest rate relatively constant while inflation rates have
been reduced from over 100 percent in 1980 to 25 percent in 1982, the
Government has already achieved a substantial decrease in the negative spread.
49.      The Government has now agreed (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04) to
achieve positive real agricultural interest rates on an agreed basis and to
maintain such positive rates thereafter. The agreed basis refers to the
Statement of Development Policies - 1983 furnished by the Government in
connection with a proposed Fourth SAL, which stipulates that by the end of
1984 the minimum preferential interest rate will be at least equal to the rate
of inflation.
50.      Agricultural lending operations of TCZB are governed by Agricultural
Credit Guidelines issued in 1979. These Guidelines are generally
satisfactory. However, the interpretation and application of the Guidelines
vary widely from one branch to another, and farmers complain regarding
insufficient loan amounts to cover credit needs, stringent security
requirements, delays in loan approvals and disbursements, and poor customer
service. The overall scarcity of loanable funds, low interest rates, and lack
of adequate supervision of branches lie at the root of these problems. The
Branch Managers frequently have to ration credit among large numbers of
applicants and tend to give loans to as many farmers as possible but in the
process are unable to meet the full requirements of each farmer. They also
tend to favor those farmers who can provide ample security and are perceived
to be most creditworthy. In this situation, the small and medium farmers tend
to get discouraged.
51.      The organization of TCZB is centralized, with inadequate delegation
of decision-making authority, both within the head office in Ankara and
between the head office and the 1,050 branches. This problem is compounded by
poor communications among the various units of TCZB, overlapping
jurisdictions, and voluminous paperwork requirements. Regional directorates
exist but are ineffective. Supervision of the branches and communications
between the head office and the branches need to be significantly improved.
While accounting and auditing procedures are acceptable, there is a pressing
need for automation of the accounting systems, introduction of functional cost
accounting systems, and improvement in management information systems. The
First Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248-TU) included
funds for a study by international consultants of ways to improve TCZB's
organization and lending, financial and accounting systems.  Touche Ross and
Company completed a series of ten specific studies in June 1981 and based on
this report, Hacattepe University (Ankara, Turkey) at TCZB's request prepared
a development and application plan to be pursued by TCZB.  Arising from these
reports TCZB has formulated a detailed Action Plan and schedule for improving
TCZB's organization and lending policies and procedures, which has been
approved by its Board of Directors. TCZB has agreed (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04) to implement the Action Plan, submit periodic reports, and consult with
the Bank on progress in its implementation. Key areas of intended improvement
involve:
(i)    delegation of increased responsibilities to Regional
Directorates, so as to decentralize decision-making, improve
branch supervision and reduce delays resulting from required
approvals from the head office;



- 14 -
(ii)    review of the organizational structure of TCZB's head office
to improve efficiency, increase delegation of responsibility,
and reduce overlapping jurisdictions;
(iii)   development of a staff training program;
(iv)    improving conformity between the official and actual lending
criteria so as to improve access of small and medium scale
farmers to loans;
(v)     introduction of improved planning and budgeting procedures;
and
(vi)    studies to improve systems and procedures and accounting
methods.
Finance is included under the proposed loan for staff training and consultant
services. In addition to the reforms included in the Action Plan, a banking
reform decree to be issued in the near future is expected to increase from
TL 2 million to TL 20 million the size of loan requiring Board of Directors'
approval. The Government has agreed to take action by December 31, 1983 to
permit TCZB to increase substantially the minimum loan amount requiring Board
of Directors' approval (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.07(b)), which action is
needed to facilitate TCZB decentralization.
52.      The financial condition of TCZB is satisfactory with the exception of
arrears of sales cooperatives. The quality of the lending portfolio of TCZB
appears to be good. The collection ratios are in excess of 80 percent, the
overdues in excess of two years are declining and the resources cover the
overdues over two years. The arrears of sales cooperatives are a special
case. TCZB lends to sales cooperatives at Government directive. When the
arrears occur TCZB does not file legal proceedings, but goes to Government to
seek reimbursement. In the past the Government has reimbursed TCZB for the
arrears. However, this arrangement is informal, The Government has agreed
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.05) that it would compensate TCZB on an annual
basis for losses arising from its loans to sales cooperatives.
Performance Under Other Agricultural Credit Lending
53.      A Bank loan of $63 million 1/ was approved to TCZB in 1975 for the
Agricultural Credit and Agro-industries Project (Loan 1248-TU). The project
objectives were to raise farm production through loans to farmers, establish
new and improve existing agroindustries, and provide consultant services and
vehicles. Except for $27 million of Bank loan proceeds earmarked for
agroindustrial credit and some small amounts for technical assistance, all the
1/ $8.7 million of the loan was cancelled at the Borrower's request due to
(i) a Government program for cattle fattening credit at subsidized rates
which made a non-subsidized component for the same purposes redundant, and
(ii) a UNDP grant for training, replacing a similar component in the loan.



- 15 -
other categories have been fully disbursed in a satisfactory manner. The main
problem with the agroindustrial component is that borrowers have been
unwilling to assume the foreign exchange risk. Discussions are continuing on
the possibility of the Government arranging a suitable foreign exchange risk
insurance scheme. The completion date has been extended from September 30,
1981 to June 30, 1984. TCZB's performance under the project has been
satisfactory and there are no outstanding issues. TCZB has also been used as
the channel for credit components under five livestock and two fruit and
vegetable projects. The performance under these components has been
satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.      The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1980;
another mission visited Turkey in September 1981 to disc'iss project
preparation. The project was prepared by TCZB with assistance from the
Ministry of Agriculture and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The project was
appraised in November 1982. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Turkey -
Second Agricultural Credit Project" (No.4394-TU dated May 25, 1983) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The key features of the
proposed project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Negotiations took place in Washington in April/May 1983, with a delegation
headed by Mr. Tunc Bilget, Chief Financial and Economic Counselor of the
Turkish Embassy in Washington, and including representatives of Treasury,
TCZB, State Planning Office, and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Objectives and Loan Features
55.      The proposed project is designed to increase agricultural production
and raise productivity and income of farmers. It would assist TCZB's efforts
towards organizational and procedural reform (para 51), foster rationalization
of interest rate policy (para 49), and initiate an investigation of ways to
improve the agricultural credit cooperative system and to broaden the rural
financial markets (para 45).
56.      The proposed project would finance loans by TCZB over a four-year
period (1983-86) for specific programs aimed at increasing agricultural
production and raising farmer income in areas where the Government has
undertaken to intensify extension and other support services. In addition,
TCZB's program for improving its organization and procedures under an agreed
Action Plan would be assisted through the provision of consultants, staff
training, and equipment.
Project Components
57.      On-farm development loans.  Under this component about 6,500
medium-term loans to farmers for livestock production and fattening, broiler
and egg production, orchard establishment, and purchase of farm machinery, and
about 70,000 short-term loans for working capital needs would be provided in
10 provinces in which the Government intends to embark on a program to improve



- 16 -
its extension services. An extension project is being prepared by the
Government and is expected to be ready for appraisal this year. The existing
extension staff and TCZB staff in these provinces are expected to be
sufficient to carry out this component under TCZB's supervised credit program,
which was implemented successfully under the First Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 1248-TU). However, when the proposed extension project is effective,
the credit provided under this component would complement the extension
program in assisting to intensify production. The ten provinces are in areas
where rainfed agriculture predominates. The medium-term loans would finance
purchase of machinery and equipment, construction of farm buildings, initial
livestock requirements, planting materials, permanent working capital
requirements and start-up expenses. The short-term loans would finance
expenditures for seed, fertilizer, animal feed, and other operating
expenditures related to crop and livestock production. Loans for livestock
would be eligible for financing only in those provinces where similar
financing from ongoing Bank-financed livestock projects (Loans 1265-TU,
1586-TU, and 1862-TU) is not available or fully utilized (Loan Agreement,
Annex 1 to Schedule 2). In provinces where such available credit has been
fully utilized, the lending procedures under the earlier livestock loans would
be maintained.
58.      Second Crop and Fallow Reduction Schemes.  Since possibilities of
growth through expansion of cultivated area have been largely exhausted,
increased priority must be given to intensifying land use. In rainfed
production areas much of the land is left fallow in alternating years, mainly
for reasons of moisture conservation. Crop rotations and planting schedules
have been developed for replacing traditional fallow following wheat and
barley with pulses (chick peas, lentils) and fodders. It is estimated that
three million ha in Turkey receive sufficient rainfall to permit replacing
fallow by continuous cropping. The potential for introducing these new
rotations through improved extension combined with short-term credit has been
tested successfully under the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project
(1130-TU). The Government has planned a program for expanding the fallow
reduction program in 12 additional provinces. Under the fallow reduction
component of the project, short-term loans would be provided to about 50,000
farmers to cover about 80 percent of the production costs for growing the new
crops on about 265,000 ha of land currently left fallow in alternating years.
Similarly the Government has introduced a Second Crop Scheme based on
possibilities for a marked increase in multiple cropping identified for about
380,000 ha in irrigated areas with long growing seasons in the south and
south-east. These areas are normally planted in wheat or barley and cotton in
alternating years. A Government research program has identified and tested
varieties of maize, soybeans, peanuts, sesame and other crops which can be
successfully grown between the grain and cotton rotations under the two year
cycle. This program was tested on a pilot basis in 1981 and 1982 with strong
farmer interest. During the project period it is expected that an additional
220,000 ha in 15 provinces would be planted with second crops. Under the
project short-term loans would be provided to 60,000 farmers for the purchase
of seed, fertilizer, and other inputs. TCZB has agreed (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05) to ensure that adequate credit would be made available to
qualified borrowers under its normal agro-industries program for purchasing
drying and processing equipment needed to handle the incremental output of
these schemes.



- 17 -
59.      IAEE Irrigation and Corum-Cankiri Components.  The
Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis (IAEE) Irrigation component is designed to meet the
medium- and short-term credit needs of about 25,000 farmers expected to
benefit from four on-going irrigation projects, designed to provide improved
irrigation on about 113,000 ha. Proposals for a separate Bank loan to assist
in accelerating irrigation development in these areas have been circulated to
the Executive Directors (Report No.4299-TU dated May 13, 1983). This
component of the proposed Second Agricultural Credit Project would complement
the irrigation investments by assisting the beneficiary farmers to make
on-farm investments for machinery, greenhouses, and orchard establishment and
to purchase the increased inputs appropriate for irrigated production. The
Corum-Cankiri component would continue the progress achieved under the
Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan 1130-TU) in intensifying crop
production and reduction of fallow. Since all funds for short-term credit
under Loan 1130-TU are expected to be fully disbursed by fall 1983, this
component would permit continuation of progress by providing incremental
short-term credit to 60,000 farmers in the area covered by Loan 1130-TU.
60.      Strengthening of TCZB.  About 35 man-months of consultants' services
would be financed to assist TCZB's organization and procedure improvement
program (para 51), inter alia through participation in TCZB's studies of its
accounting systems and its overall systems and procedures. In addition,
about 130 of TCZB's management, administrative and technical staff members
would benefit from overseas training programs approved by the Bank. Funds
would also be provided for vehicles, micro-computer systems, calculators and
photo copying machines.
Cost Estimates and Financing
61.      The estimated total cost of the proposed project is $363.1 million
including an estimated $9.0 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange
cost of the project, both direct and indirect, is $150 million. The above
estimates include about 18 percent price escalation. (While local costs are
expected to increase at a faster rate, the floating Turkish lira automatically
accommodates the difference between local and foreign inflation.) The
proposed Bank loan of $150.4 million would finance the estimated foreign
exchange costs of the project (about 41 percent of total costs) plus the
front-end fee. TCZB, as the borrower, would contribute about $138.0 million
or about 38 percent of total project cost. The remaining 21 percent would be
contributed by the sub-borrowers. Consultant costs are estimated to average
about $10,000 per man-month (including salary, costs, fees, international
travel and subsistence). Fellowship costs are estimated to average about
$1,100 per man-month.
Project Implementation
62.      The project would be administered by the Encouragement and
Development Loans Division of TCZB through TCZB branches located in the
provinces covered under the project. This Division of TCZB, which currently
manages the credit components of five World Bank assisted projects in the
agriculture sector, is satisfactorily staffed and well experienced in
management of on-lending operations in Bank assisted projects. The applicants
(individual farmers or credit cooperatives) for loans under the On-farm



- 18 -
Development and Irrigation Schemes components would submit their loan
applications to the nearest TCZB branch. TCZB staff would appraise the loan
applications, with the advice and assistance of staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture extension service. TCZB branches in the provinces where these
components would be implemented are considered to be adequately staffed to
handle these components. However, TCZB would periodically review the adequacy
of its technical staff for carrying out these components and has agreed to
ensure (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)) that such staffing is adequate at all
times. The Second Crop and Fallow Reduction Schemes are special Government
programs which would be administered under the provision of special decrees.
These decrees are satisfactory to the Bank. The General Directorate of
Agricultural Affairs in the Ministry of Agriculture would have the lead
responsibility for implementation of these schemes. The Ministry would select
the participating farmers and organize provision of extension services,
suitable seeds and other required inputs. The Ministry would annually review,
together with TCZB, the market prospects, processing facilities, and economic
justification for the crops to be supported under the schemes (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.02(a)) and determine, with the approval of the Bank, the
crops and the target areas eligible for financing under the project during the
next cropping season (Loan Agreement, Annex 2 to Schedule 2, para A 4). The
participating farmers would apply for loans to the extension service staff
and/or TCZB branch. TCZB would determine the creditworthiness of the
applicants approved by the extension service, and if satisfactory, approve the
loan. The Government has agreed (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02) to
provide adequate staff support for implementation of the schemes, continue its
applied research program to improve the technology package for these schemes,
and ensure availability of sufficient fertilizer and improved seeds for
recommended crop varieties. Arrangements similar to those currently being
used successfully for provision of short-term loans to farmers under the
Corum-Cankiri project would be continued for that component. Signing of a
Protocol satisfactory to the Bank setting forth respective roles of TCZB and
the Ministry of Agriculture in implementation of the project (as described
above) would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(a)).
On-Lending Terms, Conditions, and Criteria
63.      Each applicant for a medium-term loan would have to submit a Farm
Development Plan with the loan application. TCZB technical staff or extension
service staff would assist the loan applicants in preparing the Farm
Development Plan. Each applicant for a short-term loan would submit a
Production Plan showing the cropping pattern and input requirements or
expected production of livestock activities.  The Farm Development Plans and
Production Plans would be analyzed to ensure that the subloans are within the
borrowers' repayment capacity, based upon projected income and total expenses
including living expenses. The sub-borrowers would be required to contribute
a minimum of 20 percent (10 percent for small farmers) of estimated investment
and/or production costs taking into account price contingencies estimated for
the duration of investment. The short-term loan amounts would be based upon
standard per hectare production costs for various crops or per animal
established by the Ministry of Agriculture and TCZB. Interest rates would be
in accordance with the Government's agreement to achieve and maintain positive
real interest rates (para 49). The expected cash flow of the proposed farm
plans would be the main consideration in approval of the subloans, rather than
availability of security. For medium-term loans which involve land



- 19 -
improvement, a mortgage of sub-borrowers' land would be obtained. For all
subloans the machinery, equipment, crops, and animals and materials financed
would be hypothecated to TCZB as security up to the amount of the loan, and
mortgage of sub-borrowers' land would not be necessary. Repayment for
medium-term loans would be over six to twelve years, including two to five
years of grace, with individual terms decided in accordance with projected
cash flow under the Farm Development Plan. Short-term loans would have
maximum repayment periods of one year. TCZB would roll-over Bank funds in its
financing program, provided the sub-loans are made for purposes and in areas
covered under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03), The Guarantor would
bear the exchange risk. In return, the difference between the interest rate
on the Bank loan and the on-lending interest rate to farmers, after allowing
for a 3.5 percent spread for TCZB, would go to the Government.  Signing of a
Subsidiary Agreement to this effect, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). TCZB requires
the sub-borrowers to utilize the credits for the purpose for which they are
provided and would disburse loans, to the extent practicable, through direct
payment to suppliers of inputs and materials. TCZB staff would periodically
visit sub-borrowers' farms to supervise medium-term loans. Short-term loans
would be supervised through periodic field visits by TCZB staff to a sample of
farms to ascertain any common problems and initiate remedies. Extension
service staff would also be in regular touch with the farmers and would advise
TCZB about any general implementation problems. The above procedures are set
forth in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.      Except for the TCZB strengthening component, the machinery,
equipment, inputs, and services which would be financed from the loan proceeds
will be purchased through commercial channels over a 4-year period by
thousands of farmers located in 29 provinces. Private dealers in Turkey sell
and service a variety of tractors and farm equipment, most of which is
assembled in Turkey from imported components under licensing arrangements with
foreign manufacturers. These dealers provide farmers a choice of farm
machinery at competitive prices. The vehicles under the TCZB strengthening
component (estimated $5 million equivalent) would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Other
equipment for TCZB, estimated to cost about $400,000 equivalent, would be
procured either through local procedures or through limited international
bidding on the basis of at least three offers.  The Bank loan would be
disbursed against (i) 50 percent of medium-term loans; (ii) 50 percent of
incremental short-term loans; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditure and
local expenditure ex-factory and 60 percent of other local expenditure for
vehicles and equipment; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditure for overseas
training; and (v) 100 percent of expenditure for consultants. Disbursements
for subloans would be based upon statements of expenditures, since a large
number of small subloans would be involved.
Accounts and Audits
65.      TCZB would establish a clearly identified account for transactions
relating to this project and would ensure that all loans made under the
project are readily identifiable. In previous Bank-assisted projects, TCZB
has maintained such accounts satisfactorily. An independent external audit of



- 20 -
TCZB's operations is carried out annually by the Board of Sworn Bank
Examiners. The Bank has received regular audit reports in the past under the
First Agriculture Credit Project (Loan 1248-TU) and under the credit
components of other agricultural loans. The above audit arrangements would be
continued under this proposed project and TCZB would submit its annual
financial statements, audited by the above-mentioned independent auditors,
together with separate audited statements of project transactions, within six
months of the close of the fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Benefits and Risks
66.      The main project benefits would be improved agricultural productivity
and higher farm incomes. The project is expected to increase incomes of some
270,000 farmers and to intensify land use and produce more stable yields on an
area of 485,000 ha. The project investments would help farmers to increase
their output of industrial crops, cereals, animal feed, beef, chicken and
sheep meat, vegetables, fruits and eggs. A large part of the production would
augment the country's capacity to export, particularly cereals, pulses and
livestock. The production of other cereals and certain industrial crops will
help to meet the domestic demand and decrease imports. Non-quantifiable
benefits include the strengthening of TCZB and the demonstration effects of
the Second Crop and Fallow Reduction Schemes. The estimated economic rate of
return for the medium-term credit components averages 28 percent. For the
short-term credit components the lag between investment and returns is less
than a year and benefit/cost ratios have been calculated instead of economic
rates of return. These ratios vary from 1.7 for the fallow reduction
component to 3.2 for the Corum-Cankiri component.
67.      The most significant risk for the project lies in the uncertainty in
the marketing and processing of some crops in the fallow reduction and second
crop programs. The arrangements (para 62) for annual reviews of the cropping
patterns in light of marketing developments and processing capacity should
permit adjustments as necessary to cover this risk. In addition, there is a
risk that the institution building aspects of the project may not proceed as
well as expected. However, the provision for periodic reports and
consultations (para 51) would contribute to reducing this risk to an
acceptable level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and TCZB and the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
special features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in the text and listed
in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of loan effectiveness would
be (i) signing of a protocol setting forth the roles of TCZB and the Ministry
of Agriculture in project implementation (para 62); and (ii) signing of a
Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and TCZB (para 63).
69.      I am satisfied the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors apoprove the proposed loan.
A.W.Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachment
May 25, 1983
Washington D.C.
f



-22-                                            ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                             !&e i  of  5
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5LRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ.-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             780.6                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      377.4               1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  320.0        580.0    1470.0                   2323.9                   10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      249.6        488.4     770.9                   2107.4                    7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27509.0       35321.0   44858.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7          38.4       47.4                    47.9                      78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        67.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         108.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        35.2         45.2      56.2                     83.3                     138.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      73.9         92.0     116.2                    155.4                     509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.2         41.0      39.0                     31.1                      22.7
15-64 YRS.                          55.2         54.3      56.5                    61.2                       65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.5          4.7       4.5                      7.7                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.5       2.4                      1.6                       0.8
URBAN                               6.1          5.1       4.5                     3.5                        1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.8         38.3      32.2                     23.6                      14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.6         12.7       9.6                      9.2                       9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1          2.7       2.1                      1.6                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        65.6      66.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3/d         8.2      38.0/i-
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           96.0        100.0     110.0                   116.0                      111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   115.1        110.5     115.8/f                 125.1                      130.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           85.1         80.2      82.7/f                  92.7                       97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        25.0         22.9      24.9/f                  35.9                       61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      50.0         31.2      21.0                      9.2                       0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.5          56.6      61.8                     67.6                      73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           189.5        147.5     122.6                     65.1                      11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         52.0      75.0/g
URBAN                                ..         51.0      70. O/g
RURAL                                ..         53.0      80.0/i                     .. 
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..      20.0/g
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2799.6       2227.6    1762.5/f                1105.4                      620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      7492.4/d    1883.8      922.6/f                  634.4                     246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             600.5/h      490.3     503.6/f                 286.8                      122.0
URBAN                             340.8/E      313.4     311.07!                 192.0                      140.6
RURAL                            5098.5/h    5912.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         20.2      22.3/f                  20.0                       17.7
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.7/i        5.9
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.4/i        2.2
URBAN                               2.0/i        1.9         ..
RURAL                               2.7/i         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              29.0         41.1      57.O/j
URBAN                                 ..        78.2         ..
RURAL                               2.0         18.0         ..



-23-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEY- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TLUREY                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE              MARXET ECONOMIES
EDUCATICN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  75.0        110.0      105.0                   102.4                      101.7
MALE                  90.0        124.0      115.0                    107.1                     103.9
FEMALE                58.0         94.0       96.0                     99.0                     103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  14.0         27.0       34.0                    60.2                       88.4
MALE                  20.0         38.0       46.0                     66.4                       83.4
FEMALE                 8.0         15.0       22.0                    54.0                        84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (C OF SECONDARY)  17.7           13.7       17.5/f                   31.6                       18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.8         37.8       29.6/f                  25.8                       20.3
SECONDARY                           19.3         27.6       22.8                    22.2                       16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         38.0         51.3       60.3/l                   75.9                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.7          3.9       11.5/3                  51.0                      338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          49.1         87.7       97.6                   157.2                     1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOL'SAND
POPULATION                           0.0          1.8       70.7                   123.7                      403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   51.3         41.0       88.5                   112.3                      331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1            6.7        1.9                      4.0                        3.6
LABOR IORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1        15828.8   19400.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.2         37.0      36.4                     36.6                       36.0
AGRICULrURE (PERCENT)               78.5         67.7       53.5                    38.7                        6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.5         12.1      12.8                     25.9                       37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50-.         44.8       43.2                    44.5                       45.4
.MALE                                 58.7         55.7       54.3                     56.3                      58.9
FEMALE                                41.2         33.6       31.9                    32.8                       32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.0        1.0                      0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/d         32.8/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS  61.07Th        60.67k    56.5/e                     .-                       43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2T           2.97V      3.57                     ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   1o.672          9.47i    11.557                     ..                       16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     342.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     270.0
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
R'JRAL                                ..           ..     220.0                    406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
MOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Est'rmate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1974;  /d 1963;  /e 1973; /f 1977; /j 1976; /h 1962; /1 1965; ,1 1975; k 1968.
May, 1982



-24-                                                                                    ANNEX 1
Puc, of 5
DEFINITIOSfl OP SOCIAL INDtCAThRS
Notes:  Although tho data ote drovn Ero= s.u.res genoeally judged  ohe tat  uthrlitati-e and reliable, It abeuld also be noted that they  ay  tt be  inter-
nationally comparable b c.aua of tha lack of standardized defeicitons and concepts used by different onaotrieo in nollestieg tha data.  The d ta  re, sne-
thele,. oseful to desriba ordera of e itud,. indicate tae-da, cad oharaccerite  cer-tin  -ajar differetnae bet.aena cou..nts.                                     . n
The -eferencr groups ant (i) tho s:00 c.o.ney group of the aubJece co--tcy and (2) aucontry group vith  -usohas higbher average income  tha. the country group
of the subject country (oncept foE       'ib  Incope   Oil toporter" group obero "fiddlo I.cone North Afii- aod Middle lat" is choren becaase of arrnger
_ocia-oul ueI l affi" i  ,es).  ln the roferen    g eup data ebe th.  Pa eu  var  population veightnd seiths tic  e.tos for each indiostor and cho-e only  hen
eajarity of the oouo rie  in a getup has data for thut indicator.  Si-ce  hnec-teage of .o.ntri .eaotog the iodioators depeeds en tho availability of dots
and is cot unffoea  ooucion nast be .euris-d in rlatiog coeragos of Ino  indioator to another.  Th.e. a-aragea are only ateful 10 comparing the value of
one indiocatr at a tine 0rotg ahe  accntry sod rofrosuce groups.
AREA (chous. nd rq.kt.)                                                                           fopulation  ene hospital hed - total. s-ban, ond rort1 - Population (total.
Total - Tonal cuefoen area ct prisiog laud cena cod iolaod waters; 1979 data.                     urban, and earal) divided by their rospecti-e noeber of hospital beda
Agricultural - intinato uf agoitultur.l area used tonpurarily or per.natttly                      available in public and pri,stn  general and spetialieed hospital and re-
for cropc, pascue-e,  Iaote  and kitchen garden  00 to  lie fallow: 1979 dots.                 habili stiot  Hcentrs.         Nepitolsure sett blish-ests peesanantly etaffed
by as lean.t ..e physLiaa. Eatabliahltmet providing prinoipally ca.cao-
GNP PER CAPITA (USf) - CNP per capita ostimatZet as trotet narhet prians. cal-                      dial cart are not icluded.   aral hospitals, hbtevr, irclude health
culated by  -sa        - onversioc sathod an World lank htclI (1978-80  aslaf; 1960,              and sadi1 .a enter  noat peroanontly staffed hy a physieias (hot by
1970, and 19t1 deco.                                                                              sedilal au.Latoet.         i sldife.eno. e;edhio   ffer itie-r i-st ats'r-
danion od pro-idn  linliod ran ge of medical facilities. Poe stetie-
ENERGY CONSUi8PTION PER CAPITA - Anaual concu-pniov of coeroial energy (toal                        icoal pueroa.a urban . oapitels includa WHOe pricipal/genee-l hoapiteIs.
and lignite., pecrolc=, otural gas and hydro-, nuclear cd gaotcarmal clec-                        and rural boapitaln, local or raral hospitals and -edioal and metereity
oricit,y  io kilogrt=s of coal OqulcOlent pat capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                        centers.  Specialieed hospisals are intcded only under total.
dota.                                                                                           _dsin  per Cuenltd- Total number of adeisos et   or dsbre
frue hoepinilte divided by the camber of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Population  Mid-Yoar (thouuandu) - An of July 1; 1960, 1970, ad 1989                   hOUSING
dano.                                                                                        Aoeeaea clan of  heohld (parsons per Ih...ebeld) -  otl   rehe, aa tonal-
Urban Populution (percent of tutal) - Ratio of urban to total population;                         Aioshl  oni            odf agroSup oPf Indilduals vho share living quarters
difforant definitinon  of urbae areat  my affect coep.rability of data                          and their main  tam.  9 boardee or lodger say or say not be inluded in
omons countries; 1960. 1970, and 198  data.                                                     th  bIue.hold for anattinical purposes.
Populatiun yrujncetkca                                                                         AceracE nu=ber of Persna  per oom - tonal. uobao. aed rural -1avrage no=
Pnpulation in year 2099   - Current populacion youject boa ore  based on 1980                  ber of persons per room  it all urhae. and rural occupied conventional
tonal populanioctby age and se-  and theie martaliaY  und fertility  rates.                  dellings, respectively.  Dvellitgs e- lode too-pesaenenn struonunes and
Projection yarareters for sarcality rante  ucprIto of three lovelus aun-                     uocctupied parts.
ing lift              atetonancy ct birth increasing oItb ccuncry'  pen capita Ittnon       Acces. to 6l.cttt-icy (Percent of deellicos) - total, urban. atd ural -
level, add fenale life expeccuncy natilizinc at 77.5 years.  Tha para-                       Conventi ocal dwllings mith elactlicity in living quartera as percentage
mtanrs for fertility rant  olso harp three le-1s aIu...nc decline io                        of total. urba, and roeal dvellings re-pe-tiv-ly.
fertility  accooding to inccr hovel ard paIc fouily planning peror=aace.
loch oouetry is then ausignrd nun of hele  cite ci mbinanicta of =orctlity               EDUuATION
acd fertilicy crendn for projottlec purposes.                                              Adjusted  nn...ll1nnt Ratie
Staticdary poyniacica - Ic u stationuty popuatit   there is Io 9000th ciou                   Poitany uchool - totul, tale and fenale - bt.e. total, mle and female
the birth race in equal to the death race, ad also the age atruct.re re-                        enrollsan  of ol agea at the pritary level as percentagos of veapectie
mienn c.nsta-n.  This iu achieved only after forcollty rareu declicaenC                         priocay achool-age popu,lation; nortally itcludes children aged 6-11
the ryplacesant level of unil   t Ierepdoductton rate, oh- aech g reneacion                    years but adjusted foe differeet lengthn of primary ed-ation; for
of  -onne replacen icseif  -actly.  The  acaciouary  population situ man                      countries  ith unoiersal education evellsant .ay exceed 1DD percent
entlaced  oD che baiu  of the projected charsct-rlisics of the fopulata.o                      uInue stca  pupils are bolos or aboe thne official school age.
In the year 2900, and the eate of decliIe of fertility  rate to replace-                     Secondary school - total, mle and female - Co=yuted as ab- .e; s.ecndary
te. nt levul.                                                                                  education requires at leant fear peavs of apprvevd primary lentesonict;
Year  tat ion.ry ppulation is rooced - The year ehen ctainuary population                         pevidea general, vocatioal, or teacher training insrauctions for pupiln
nian vill be rechod.                                                                           utuatly ot 12 to 17 peara of ago; correspondence =coures are g.enrally
P3p9latioo Density                                                                                  tocluded.
Per nq. kd. - Mid-yeur pupulattoc per squae kilomreetr (100 hectares) of                     Vocatio-al enrellsnn  (percent of uecondory) - Vocational tsin..        onina
total area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                        ioclude terhnial  industrial. or other programs shih operate independ-
Pop sq. he. agricultural land - Compyutd ao aboce for agricultur-l laud                                                                       I_tly or on departsants of seondary toatitutlos
only; 19690  1970 and 1979 daca.                                                           Pupil-neuthe. h  atio - prtiary, and secondary - Total utudeots enrolled in
Popalution Ado  Structur-  (peruceot  - Children (9-14 yers). vorking-age (15-                   primary and secondary levels divided by cumbert of teachers tc the
69 yearn),. and retired (65 yearn a.d over) as percentages of mid-year pupu-                   correspondoin  levels.
laion; 199,0 1970. acd 1980 data.                                                            Adult literacy rate fpetcent) - Literate adults (able to read and spite)
Population Ivonc,h  ane             - total - Annual grouth cee  of total pid-                    a a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
year populatioc for 1950-60, 1960-7, and 1970-t0.
Popalatloc Gr-th lace fpoc_oo-ura   -               1oca  groethran ot urban Pop-            CONScigyTIlN
latioca for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                                   Paseenger Cars (er thousand  populationc - Passenger tars co=prise mer
Crude Bilth Rtte (p2r thousand) - APnual liv  births per th.ouand of  id-year                    care tracing losI than eight pernon; rxcludas ambulanoes  hearaes ar
populatcio; 1960. 1970, and 1990 data.   otlhpary vehicles.
Crude Death late (per thouuopd) - Annual deaths per thousacd  of oid-year                      ladio Receirers (per thouuaod population) - All types of receivers for radio
population; 1960, 197           989 data.                                                       boadcasts to genreal pblic per thousand of population; excludea on-
Gr.ss Reproduction  lte-a Averaga  colber of daughtermac mo=  vill bear cn                        licensed racelvero It countries and in yoars s-ec cegintranlo  of radio
her cormal repraducei-e period if the eupeci-cen- yreont age-specillc fer-                     sets man in effect; data for  .r.acn  years say not be comparable since
oility rateu; unually fivc-year avrage endifg in 1960, 1979O  and 190.                         =ets  countrieu abolished lice_aiog.
FPoily ylueoits-Accnycorn  Actul (hbounuIds) - Aucual oo=ber of Iconpooct                      TV Reoei-vru (per thousand populatiot) - TV receivera ton broadcaut no
of biotb-centrol devices ceder ausyices of catiotal fa=ily planning program.                    general Psblic per thiosand population; encludes unlic nned TV recei-rr
Paly Plancin  -Ulers (percenctof marrIed enmeo  - Percentage of married                             ocountrtesand iI yearn vhec regtstration of TV stes eas in effect.
oren  of child-h=arnlg age (19-hi ye-ra) thu lut birtt-coutrol  deciceoco Ntvspaper Circulation  (per nheuuaod ropulanion) - Shoes the average cir-
all married  cot  an  sa  age group.                                                           cauatioc of 'daily g.enerl intereat newpaper". deficed asa periiocal
publioatior devoted primarily to recordiug genaerl nets, It is cotsidered
FOOD AND NTIIIN                                                                                     to be "daily" if it appeeas at laast feur clns a veek.
Index of Food Prodaction pen Capita (1969-71-10f) - loden of per ctpita acnual                 Cinema APnual Actendance per Capita per fear - lased on the oseber of
pnoductiun of all food cor=odities.  Preducdioc e-cluden nerd aPd feed aII                     tickets told dorIng the year  including admissioos no drive-ic caiemas
is  on_caledar year basin.  losocadliou cover primtary goods (e.g. sugarcane                   and robile units
instead of augar) ehich are edible and contoin nutrientn (e.g. coffee aod
tea are excluded).  Aggoegare productioc of each cu..try Ia bhaed ou                       LABcR PORCE
uPter capi   -ret g   rlofdcaorprIiercelghtu; 1961-65,  1970. and 1980 data.                 Toc-  Labor Porce (th u.aands  - tEo nndcally active- ptruoes, tao tding
Per cayt. scpplc of clre    perro  of requireot) -Cooputed f run                                 ard fIro.. and unemployed hue.. enldkcgbunsvnuadn,  0.
energypeqoivalent of oIt food nopplles available In country per capita                         covering popuatoien of oil ages.  LefiI.loIonI   io vatiouu couptries ore
per day.  Available supplies co-prise dcaestic produ-tioc, i=portu leon                        00t comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1989 data.
exprts, and changea de sourk.  coy suppliea ettlode acimal feea  seeda                         Femle (percent) - Fesale labor ferce aa perceetage of otal labor fence.
quau iteu used  nd ldI losses In dis-ribution.  Reuire-                                        Agricolture (percent) - Labor force i  faig, forestry-  hueing amd
saunatsern estimated by FAG baaed 00 physiological needs for norml acti-                         fiuhing as perreotoEg  of total labor force; 196, 1970 and 1980 data.
viey and health conidering oc-irtoeneil cecperenur, hcdy oeights, ae                           lndustry (rerrcent  - Labor foece in =iniog, contruction  scfacosrieg
andy_e dictribution of popalation, and alloning 10 percent for vsteet                            and elect ria,ty,  aer aed gao us percenesge of total labor force;
household level; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.                                                    1960, 1979 and 1980 data.
Per cap ita aupply of proteic (grans per day) - Pronein coneon  of per capita                  Participation Rat   (peroene) -  otal, sale., and feale - Participation or
cacaopply of food per day.  Net epply of turd is dafinad as above.  he-                        aotivity rates ore c=pated as total  male, ond iemale labor  cone as
quIroanoos for eli co-otrien esrabliuhed by USDA provide for  .i-tacuc                         perceetages  of  onal, male aod female population  of all aget r-spectively;
allowance  of 61 gra=m   of total protein per day aed 20 gra= of animal add                    1960, 19709 asd 1980 dunn.  Theta are bated  n ILO's paricipation rates
pulse protein. of shlub 19 gramu ohouli he animal potrln.  These statd-                        noflacileg age-sen uceocoune of ths populatipp  and long tica  trend.  A
ardu are leer than thon cf 75 gra-   of  total preteoi  and 23 graIs of                        fev eati=tes are fros mationl sources.
ani al pr.oein at an-acrage fcr  hb  -crld, proposed by FAO In cth  thrd                    Econo=ic Dependency Ratio - Ratio of pupalation  -uder 15 and 65 and nver
nold Food  onn,y; 196140. 1970 and 1977 dana.                                                  to the total lbor force.
Per capita protint up_ply fr.c animal and pul-s  -Protei  cupply of food de-
riced fro.u auimta  and pulses io grant par day; 196145. 1970 and 1977 data.               INCOME DlST3IBUTION
Child (aueo 1-4) Deach Outo (per rhoutand) - Ancual deaths per thousaad In                     Percetntag  of Private Ipcote (both in cash add kind) - Received by riohe-t
asge geop 1-4 year., tc  chiidrec ih  this ase group; for mast developing taun-                5 P?eceont rh tbsAO 20 percent. p-o-est 20 peronnt. ved poreest 40 percent
ories data derived from  life  tables; 1960. 1970 aPd 1980 data.                               of h-ouarhlds.
StIbLTH                                                                                        POVERYT TARGET GROUPS
Lilt Expec tanc  at Birth (years) -  verage c-aber of years of life re=inieg                   The fello-ig o.staia-es are very appr-nt-ane  -aeaures of penerty h-vel,
cc biitb; 199, 1979 und 1960 data.                                                             aed should be interpreted vith consid-bable goutiod.
tPfaot agersality  ateer   - ihausand) -    -Ana  de.athn of ifacrt under .oe  year            EAt ted AbP olote   Povert y i e1ncas Level 9US  per copita  - urbar end rural -
ad age pee tbausud I lice itha; 1960, 1.979 aad 1980O data.                                   Aaleeln   poverty incas  leel is that hcr`s  lvel beot ehiol a minima
Acets. to Safe ga_er (perc.nt of popalationf - total  urbam  and rural - No=-                    eutritieaplly adequate diet plus essertlal man-feed require=tats is not
ber of people (total. cebh, aed rural) vith leasonahie access no safe                          affordable.
wter supply (iteludos treated surf.ace maters ot  .ntreated bt  -oaentnnioanrd               Estimated  lalive Poverty tineoa Level (90 per oupira) - urbas and renal -
san ruoh as ahat fees prota.etd berble.1  aPrings.Iad saitopy salle) as                        sR-     - rotiv  povrty tecas   eeli   t-tido  anarge pr  ait.
Percest sag  of their re-pe-ti-e population.sI.cno rbat area              s                    E  apliu  pesnl Lnout of abs ..-try.  Urbao level is derivd fre  the rural
foentaio  or oeandpest located not mere ehan 20D mtaers from a  bouty be                       level vith  djatuent fle  higher cost of livisg is  _rhe= areas.
considered as beie  vithin reouctablt at=et of thot ha    0' rura  areas                       tad   Popalatert al   abselato  (Penrtv meet Level (peteet  - urban
re...mbla maoso  old imely that the hossfa or memer of the hatarhld                            an  Ins      Proeto   ouale ffe(rben Andrue) cb   ra.bsalat
do set bats no upend a dpsproporthanane paec of the day In feenbihg the
family's mater needs.
AdoVesoa rOnenra Diseosal feroet of noealanien7 - totea   utb nb  and rural -
Nutber at people (natal. utbun, and eural) serd by emornta dispessl as
perenetages of their respective prpualaiosu. laareaa disposal spY Lipelde
the sellantdms aed dispsa. 1,ewit  on sdiot treatee. of bta   -eesa 
and .s..e-t ter by eoate-bore spatAsa ro tbe oat of pit peivima mad  ii-
tae istealletr iO.
Papulaies pr quylafit - Pepalatian divided by  ..ber sf praetisig physi-                                                              Emaine an.d SYi.1 Dbant  Diiion
eis.- qeslifind One a sadies  sasl       a  ,,innlt  lve.-                                                                    ta  ebogelys. eM  Penjsnins  Dep-esme
Pee.laesti   ter Nrmasia  Peeso  - Peopuet Ia  dividnd by eamber af preatieirS                                                                    May 1962
male ard female geeduatesersee. assistant nuras., peantiel .1 ses  and
enursing asaihiaries.



ANNEX 1
- 25 -                                                   Page 4 of 5
TURXEY - COUNTRY DATA
Population:       45.5 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1540 (1981)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (x)          Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$           (at constant 1980 prices)                  (at current prices)
Indicator                                  at current prices)
1981              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80          1965      1970      1975    1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                      57,655                 6.6         7.5        2.8        100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                 11,903                 3.1        4.4        2.7         30.7      26.4      26.2    21.4
Industry /b                                 14,218                 9.5        9.5        2.8         16.6      17.2      18.0    28.6
Services                                    28,130                 8.2        8.0        3.7         42.9      46.5      46.0    44.3
Consumption                                    46,717                 5.8         7.0        2.7         84.6      82 8      85.2    81.8
Gross investment                               14,392                11.7       12.9        0.6          16.7      20.1      23.3    26.4
Exports of goods and NFS                        6,372                 7.9         7.3       4.4           6.1       5.8       6.1     7.1
Imports of goods and NFS                        9,826                11.2       13.8       -3.1           7.4      8.7      14.5    15.2
Gross national savings                         12,317                11.6       11.9         2.4         15.8      18.8      18.1    18.3
Average Annual Increase CE)         Composition of Merchandise Trade C%)
(at constant 1980 prices)                (at current prices)
1972-75       1975-80                     1972     1975      1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE /c
Merchandise exports                             4,703                     -6.1        2.8                       l0O.G    100.0    100.0
Primary                                      2,413                    -6.3        4.0                         72.6      64.1      64.0
Industrial products                          2,290                    -5.8        0.9                         27.4      35.9      36.0
Merchandise imports                             8,933                     11.2        1.2                       100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture and livestock                      125                    27.9      -23.8                          2.2       4.3       0.7
Mining and quarrying                           221                    17.4        6.8                          1.2       1.6       1.8
Petroleum                                    3,878                     5.4       11.0                          9.9      17.1      48.8
Machinery and equipment                      1,996                    14.0      -12.1                         45.0      35.6      18.2
Other industrial products                    2,713                     9.9        4.5                         41.7      41.4      30.5
1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator (1980 - 100)                                  20.2       29.0       49.4      100.0      141.9
Exchange rate                                              18.0       24.3       31.1       76.0      111.2
Export price index                                         63.8       63.0       78.2      100.0       99.3
Import price index                                         61.2       61.2       71.9      100.0      109.3
Terms of trade index                                      104.3      102.9      108.8      100.0       90.6
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
1965        1970       1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                      15.0        22.6       22.0       19.8
Current expenditure                                                  10.0        11.8       12.6       11.5
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                                           -2.0        -2.3       -0.4       -4.8
Investment expenditure                                                4.7         5.7        4.2        3.9
(        Transfers                                                              5.0         7.5        5.5        9.2
Foreign financing                                                     1.8         1.6        0.3        0.2
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                                          6.8        7.7        2.6
GNP per capita growth rate (x)                                               4.1        5.0        0.3
ICOR                                                                         2.9        2.9        5.7
Marginal savings rate CE)                                                   28.2       19.5       30.8
Import elasticity                                                            1.7        1.8       -1.3
/a   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
7T   Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
/c   In accordance with Turkish Government's specifications, which are not compatible with SITC's.
EM2DA
2/22/83
(01841)



ANNEX I
-26-                                                                 Page 5 of 5
TURREY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /a
(million US  at current prices)
Population:        45.5 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita:  US1540 (1981)
Actual                                  Estimate                    Projected
1970      1977       1978       1979        1980       1981          1982        i983       1984        1985     1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods S NFS                              342       3880        1984       2442       4658        3476       -2021          1960      -1788      -1771   -1956
Exports of goods & NFS                               754       2556       3075       3247        4102       6416         7620         8894      10613       12523   14545
Imports of goods & NFS                              1096       6436       5059       5689        8760       9892         9641        .0853      12402      14293   16501
Workers' rerittances                                    273         982        983       1694       2071        2490        2187          2350       2450       2622    2779
Net transfers                                            91          12          -          -           -          -           -             -          -           -        -
Current account balance                                 -58      -3572      -1741      -1771       -3207      -2089        -1035         -870        -693       -485     -602
Direct private investment                                92         169        147        200        148         129         125           127        131        144       158
Public MHLT (gross) /b                                  271        997        1017       4321       2354       2188         2076          1690       1593       1487     1671
A-torization on M&LT /b                                -146       -234        -336       -414       -434       -545        -1230          1105      -1258      -1783   -2040
Public M6LT (net) /b                                    125        763         681       3907       1920       1643          846           585        335       -296     -369
Other capital /c                                         27       2074        1061      -2410       1642         983         264           130         29        924    1151
Change in reserves (-   increase)                      -186        566       -148          74       -503       -667         -200            28        199       -288    -339
International reserves                                  612        726        874         800       1303       1970         2076         2049        1850       2138     2477
Reserves as months of imports                             7           1          2          2           2          2           2             2          2           2        2
Ac tual
1972      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Gross disbursements of M6LT loans                                               372       759       857      4198 /d  2279        2116
Official grants                                                                                       -          -         -       300
Concessional                                                                261        193       228       588       812       522
Bilateral                                                                139       100       129       406        749       499
IDA                                                                        4        19         8          3         -         -
Other multilateral                                                       118        74        91        179        63        23
Non-concessional                                                            111        566       629      3610 /d  1466       1294
Official export credits                                                    1        47       133       250        288       355
IBRD                                                                      25       146       165       277       313        454
Other multilateral                                                        27         5        35         15       150       162
Private /d                                                                58       368       296      3068 /d   715         323
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt oustatnding and disbursed                                                 2450      4293      6322    10942      13415    13804
Official                                                                   2273      3657      5489       7189      8281      8906
IBRD                                                                      92       512       648       890      1158       1546
IDA                                                                       99       181       188       190        189       188
Other                                                                   2082      2964      4653      6109      6934       7172
Private                                                                     177       636       833       3753 /e  5134       4898
Debt outstanding including undisbursed                                         3560      7128      9879    14620    16807       17093
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service /e                                                           224       363       428       627      1001      1168
Payments                                                                    161        196      264       403        405       510
Interest                                                                     63       167       164        224       596       658
Total debt service as 2 exports of goods t NFS
t workers' remittances                                                    11.8      10.3       10.6      12.7      16.2      13.1
Total debt service as I GNP                                                    1.3       0.8       0.9       0.9       1.7       2.0
Average interest rate on new loans (3)                                         4.4       7.7       6.9      11.3       6.5       7.9
Official                                                                   4.5       7.7       5.6        3.5       5.5       5.3
Private                                                                    6.8       7.8       8.2       13.6      10.6      15.4
Average maturity of new loans (years)                                        22.1       11.6      13.3      11.1      17.4      15.0
Official                                                                  26.0      12.7      15.2       25.1      16.6      16.3
Private                                                                   11.0       9.2        7.6       7.1       6.4       4.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (0)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                                            3.7       11.9      10.2       8.1       8.6      11.2
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements                                  6.7      19.1       16.4       6.5      13.7      25.0
IBRD debt service/total debt service /e                                       5.1       17.2      19.2      16.8      13.3      14.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                             3.9       4.2        3.0       1.7       1.4       1.4
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements                                   1.1        2.5       0.9       0.1       -         -
IDA debt service/total debt service /e                                        0.4       0.6        0.5       0.4       0.3       0.2
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1981)
TERMS STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (x)
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                       37.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                      76.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                                       6.5
/a All entries on external debt are defined as in the Bank's Debtor Reporting System (only public and private guaranteed d.bt).
7Th   Includes private guaranteed and non-guaranteed debt, debt relief, and grants.
/c   Includes errors and emissions, and for projected years it includes net IMF, short-term, and unidentified capital inflow-.
7i   Includes 32,638 million of consolidated short-term debt.
/e   Takes account of debt relief due to debt rescheduling, and excludes interest on short-term debt and private non-guarant,ed.
EM2DA
2/22/83
(01841)



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan                                                                              Amount ($ millions)
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-three loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                      1493.0    177.4
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0                  8.5
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                    148.0                 6.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                  75.0                18.7
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                 54.3                 26.8
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                          70.0                  1.6
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                     21.5                  6.1
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                           26.0                 15.1
1379-TU   1977   DYB                        Industry                          70.0                  7.0
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                 86.0                 50.8
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                      24.0                 18.2
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stare II            95.0                 34.2
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation               75.0                37.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                     85.0                 81.5
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                          60.0                 16.6
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles           65.0                 39.5
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles           15.0                 10.8
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control       6.0                  5.1
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower              120.0                 95.7
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles         83.0                 75.2
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                       51.0                 47.2
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration             25.0                 23.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery                      62.0                 47.1
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Labor Intensive Industry          40.0                 36.2
1967-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Fruit and Vegetables       40.0                 39.5
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 110.0                100.3
1998-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                         70.0                 65.2
2093-TU   1982   TSKB                       Export-Oriented Industries       100.0                 99.8
2094-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Erzurum Rural Development         40.0                 38.2
2131-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Second Fertilizer
Rehabilitation                  44.1                44.1
2137-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Highway                           71.1                 69.8
2158-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Third Structural Adjustment    304.5                  104.5
2159-TU   1982   TSKI                       Istanbul Sewarage                 88.1                 86.4
Total                                                     3761.6    177.4    1356.5
of which has been repaid                                 386.2       8.1
Total now outstanding                                     3375.4    169.3
Amount sold                       3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                      - 0 -    - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                         3375.4    169.3
Total undisbursed                                         1356.5    - 0 -    1356.5
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
-28-                                Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                       Amount ($ Millions)
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                  -        0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                  -        0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                  -        0.41     0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50      0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.67      3.17
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00      1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75       -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                        -        0.12     0.12
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52     0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                  -        0.43     0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00       -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33      0.27     0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60      0.43     4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00       -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30       -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00       -      15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60       -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50      1.37     8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58       -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00       -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                          -        0.06     0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                -        0.09     0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15       -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.85      0.45     9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                 -        1.80     1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               33.15      2.84    35.99
1980     TSKB          DFC                                  -        1.09     1.09
1980/82  ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -        1.20     1.20
1980     MENSA         Textiles and Fibers                 4.0                4.0
1981     Kirklareli
Cam Sanayii
A.S.       Glass Tableware                    13.09       -       13.09
1982     M.A.N.
Motors     Motor Vehicles & Accessories        9.07      -         9.07
1982     TSKB          DFC                                 -         0.35     0.35
Total Gross Commitments                        214.87    20.64   235.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    144.80      8.30   153.10
Total Commitments now held by IFC               70.07    12.34    82.41
Total Undisbursed                               10.41      0.07    10.48



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.       STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF March 31, 1983 1/
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360 - Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date:
March 20, 1974. Closing Date; December 31,1983.
The project is expected to be substantially completed by the current
Closing Date of December 31, 1983.  As of March 31, 1983, about $35.5 million
has been disbursed of this $44 million loan.
Ln. No. 1023 - Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project:  US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress nas been made on the power component in line with the
measures recommended in February 1982. The civil works contracts have been
renegotiated and additional contractors brought in. TEK has delegated site
management to STEAG, a German project management firm. The main contractor,
Foster Wheeler (FW), has revised the work plan taking into account the use of
erection personnel being made available by the main equipment suppliers. The
revised work plan concentrates maximum effort in completing Unit No. 1 by end
1984. Units No. 2, No.3 and No. 4 would follow at one year intervals. With
the arrangements made through the US EXIM Bank, and the proposed reallocation
of an additional US$6.8 million from the IBRD loan, financing for the FW
contract through end 1983 is assured. Social infrastructure and salary
problems persist. The contract for operation and training for the mining
component expires in July 1983. Decision on renewal has not been taken. The
contract for mine consulting is continuing. TKI has not negotiated frame
contracts for mine equipment maintenance. Maintenance of mine equipment is
inadequate. TKI's ability to mine lignite in sufficient quantities to
adequately supply the power station (17.6 million tons/a) will be assessed in
connection with the appraisal of a supplemental loan tentatively scheduled for
September 1983.
Ln. No. 1130 - Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of
June 23, 1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Satisfactory progress is being maintained except for delayed payment
to contractors by DSI. The Bank has agreed to the Government's request for
reallocation of proceeds so as to provide additional funds for short-term
credit, which is expected to be sufficient to cover needs until a proposed
second agricultural credit project, now scheduled for Board consideration in
June 1983, becomes effective.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-30--
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1248 - Agricultural Credit and Agro-industries: US$54.3 million loan
of May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The supervised credit and ferryship components are fully disbursed
and the study of TCZB organization and operations has been completed. Due to
reluctance of sub-borrowers to assume foreign exchange risk and availability
of other sources of credit without this risk, only 11 percent of the
agro-industries component has been disbursed.  The Government is considering
proposals for dealing with this issue.
Ln. No. 1258 - Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976. A
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
Although the Closing Date has not been extended, accounts are being
kept open pending settlement of final payments. As of March 31, 1983, $68.4
million, or 98 percent of the total loan amount, has been disbursed. A
project completion report is under preparation.
Ln. No. 1265 - Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976.
Effective Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Closing Date has been extended to March 31, 1984 to allow for
utilization of the remaining $6.8 million of undisbursed loan funds. Project
implementation has been satisfactory. However, the increased availability of
locally bred offspring of imported cattle at considerably cheaper prices than
for comparable directly imported cattle, has caused a serious reduction in the
demand for sub-loans. The Bank is currently considering a request from the
Government for restructuring all three ongoing livestock projects to include
financing for the foreign exchange component of loans for sheep and beef
fattening in addition to dairying; locally bred improved cattle and sheep, as
well as imported ones; and farm machinery and equipment, livestock housing,
pasture and forage production, feeds and other inputs in addition to livestock.
Ln. No. 1310 - South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule due to
initial difficulties relating to land acquisition and project organization.
At present most project works are either completed or under advanced
implementation.  The Closing Date has been extended for the first time by one
year to December 31, 1983. As of March 31, 1983, $10.8 million, or 42 percent
of the total loan amount, has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date:
December, 31, 1982.
The Closing Date for this loan has not been extended, but the
accounts are being kept open for settlement of final payments. As of March
31, 1983, the undisbursed balance of this loan is $7.0 million.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 - Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date; March 31, 1986.
Overall physical achievements are about 60 percent of targets. Local
funding, which is almost totally dependent on timber sales, has been
inadequate due to a depression in the construction industry. Although
equipment procurement is still behind schedule, proposals for foreign
equipment procurement have been agreed, providing for initiation of remaining
procurement in 1983/84 with completion of disbursement expected by early
1986. A management consultant to assist the project implementation is
expected in Ankara shortly.
Ln. No. 1586 - Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Implementation of the supervised credit program is extremely slow due
in part to the increased availability of locally bred offspring of imported
cattle at considerably cheaper prices than for directly imported cattle. A
Government request for restructuring of all three ongoing livestock projects
(see Loan No. 1265) is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1606 - Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30,
1978. Effective Date:  July 30, 1979.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Inflation and the devaluation of the Turkish Lira have caused serious
financial problems for the company. Proposals to tackle the situation are
being considered by the company and the Government in consultation with the
Bank. Implementation of the main components of the original project is one
year behind schedule with additional delays now expected on some non-critical
support facilities and several additional items recommended by consultants to
improve productivity, quality, and efficiency. A financial plan prepared by
the company is being reviewed.   Extension of the Closing Date to permit
utilization of the remaining loan funds is dependent upon development of a
satisfactory financial plan.
Ln. No. 1741 - Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Cumulative loan disbursements of $38.0 million up to March 31,1983
were only about 51 percent of the total loan amount due to initial delays in
tendering, awarding contracts, appointing consultants for port planning study,
and finalizing specifications of a 250-ton floating crane. Physical
implementation is now progressing satisfactorily. Extension of the Closing
Date is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1742 - Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Prequalification procedures for silo construction contractors are in
progress. The Government is currently examining the merits of possible
adjustments in the project contents to take account of changes in relative
prices and cost increases due to previous delays.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln, No. 1748 - TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60
million of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Delays in committing this loan have resulted due to sub-borrowers'
reluctance to bear foreign exchange risk and cancellation of loan contracts
because of financial distress caused by high interest rates and shortage of
local currency. These financial problems which are endemic in the Turkish
private sector have prevented TSKB's serious arrears position from improving.
The current Closing Date of September 30, 1983 is not likely to be extended.
As of March 31, 1983, about $43.4 million has been disbursed.
Lns. Nos. 1754 and 1755 - TSKB (US$65 million) and SYKB (US$15 million)
Private Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date:
February 29, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
A lower than anticipated level of commitments (about $38 million or
55 percent of forecasts) still prevails due to depressed conditions in the
textile industry and the sub-borrowers' reluctance to assume foreign exchange
risk. Local consultancy service has been reorganized on schedule, as a
private sector joint venture without further need of the Bank's financial
support.
Ln. No. S-15 - Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Out of the five components of this project, only two (Seyitomer Plant
and Air Pollution Monitoring Equipment) have so far been partly implemented,
representing US$0.9 million or 15 percent of the total loan amount. The test
results from the MTA pilot plant showed that investment in a larger scale
pilot plant would not be warranted. The Alternative Technology Study will not
be executed since no feasible processes exist for coke or hot briquetting
manufacture based on Turkish lignite. The Gas Production Study will be
implemented, but the cost for the study might be significantly higher than the
appraisal estimate. Revision of the cost estimates and extension of the
present Closing Date are under consideration.
Ln. No. 1844 - Karakaya Hydropower; US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Implementation after initial delays is now satisfactory. The cash
generation covenant was not met for 1982, and is not likely to be met for
1983. This matter is now being pursued with the Government.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1847 - Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization:
US$83 million loan of May 28, 1980. Effective Date: February 27, 1981.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After initial delays of about one year due to delayed loan
effectiveness and staffing problems of the project implementation unit,
project implementation is now progressing satisfactorily and the costs are
within appraisal estimates. The reorganization plan for the Cotton Textile
Division was approved by the Sumerbank Board in March 1982. Recruitment of
competent personnel for the Cotton Textile Division and the project
implementation unit has been hampered by salary limitations on State Economic
Enterprises. The situation is expected to improve after the passage of the
SEE reform decree.
Ln. No. 1862 - Livestock V: US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980. Effective
Date: October 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress on the credit component for livestock development, with the
exception of boilers, is extremely slow. The Government has decided not to
implement the meat processing component due to changes in its investment
priorities, and a request has been received to reallocate the funds.
Implementation of the animal health and breeding components is reasonably
satisfactory. A Government proposal for increasing the types of livestock
credit eligible for financing (see Loan No. 1265) is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1916 - Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million loan of
November 24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981. Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is slow due to delay in contracting consulting
services and initiating technical studies. Acceptable drilling locations have
not yet been identified in southeast Turkey. The Bank has recently approved
the Government's request to extend the scope of the loan to include the Thrace
basin, which has been found to have a highly attractive potential for
hydrocarbon exploration, and to reallocate a portion of the proceeds of the
loan to finance computer equipment for higher quality seismic data processing
needed for the Thrace program. Progress in separation of TPAO's
import-related operations is also behind schedule because of its relation to
the broader issues under consideration in the SEE reform legislation. Energy
audits for five major industries are currently in progress.
Ln. No. 1917 - Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project:
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981.
Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
The project is about one year behind schedule due to initial delays
in equipment procurement and delivery. Bids for the enhanced recovery studies
for other fields are under review, and the studies are expected to start
shortly. The fracturing of the Hamitabat gas field has been completed
successfully and has demonstrated the feasibility of full commercial
development of the field. Progress in separation of TPAO's import-related
operations has also been delayed because of its relation to the broader issues
under consideration for the SEE reform legislation.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1952 - Labor Intensive Industry Project: US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981. Effective Date: June 12, 1981. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
A poor investment climate still continues to hamper loan
utilization. As of January 31, 1983, subloans totalling $16.8 million had
been approved by SYKB.
Ln. No. 1967 - Second Fruit and Vegetable Project: US$40 million loan of
April 6, 1981. Effective Date: August 1981. Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is proceeding more slowly than projected, but
should improve as a result of experience gained to date: all consultants have
been engaged and are in place. Three of the four Regional Marketing
Corporations will become operational as soon as TCZB's contribution is
received in early May 1983.
Ln. No. 1985 - Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project:
US$110 million loan of May 15, 1981. Effective Date: August 28, 1981.
Closing Date; December 31, 1986.
The project components of AZOT and IGSAS are progressing
satisfactorily. GUBRE, one of the three beneficiaries, has not yet signed a
contract with an engineering company for project implementation because of
changes proposed in the scope of the project by GUBRE management to further
improve its economic viability.
Ln. No. 1998 - State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project: US$70 million loan
of June 3, 1981. Effective Date: August 27, 1981. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The Bank is
considering the Government's request for an extension of the deadline for
completion of a study of DYB's future role.
Ln. No. 2093 - Export-Oriented Industries Project: US$100 million loan of
March 5, 1982. Effective Date: May 28, 1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Although the special task force for dealing with problem projects is
now functioning relatively effectively, prolonged low capacity utilization
rates in industry and high interest rates make a substantial improvement in
arrears unlikely in the near future. Demand for direct foreign exchange fixed
asset financing has been declining due to reduced private sector investment
demand as a result of current economic conditions and the unwillingness of
sub-borrowers to bear foreign exchange risk. The technical assistance program
for potential exporters has been proceeding on schedule.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 2094 - Erzurum Rural Development Project: US$40 million loan of
March 5, 1982. Effective Date: November 24, 1982. Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Since the loan became effective in November 1982, implementation has
been on schedule for the irrigation, soil conservation, new roads, plant
protection, and veterinary services components. However, progress is slow
with extension services and recruitment of consultants, and it has proved
difficult to recruit and retain a project manager in Erzurum.
Ln. No. 2131 - Second Fertilizer Rationalization Project: US$44.1 million
loan of May 13, 1982. Effective Date: April 13, 1983. Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
This loan became effective in April 1983. The Government has
requested cancellation of Part A of the project which relates to GUBRE, one of
the four beneficiary fertilizer manufacturing companies of the project, which
is no longer interested in proceeding with its portion of the project.  The
total loan amount will accordingly be reduced from $44.1 million to $38
million to reflect this cancellation.  The other project components are making
satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 2137 - Highway Rehabilitation Project: US$71.1 million loan of
May 13, 1982. Effective Date: August 13, 1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress continues to be good. All civil works and procurement
contracts have been bid and feasibility studies have been completed for all
the remaining road sections included in the loan.
Ln. No. 2158 - Structural Adjustment Loan III: US$304.5 million loan of
May 28, 1982. Effective Date: July 16, 1982. Closing Date:
December 15, 1983.
This loan became effective in July 1982. The first tranche of the
loan has been fully disbursed. Release of the second tranche has been
authorized.
Ln. No. 2159 - Istanbul Sewerage Project; US$88.1 million loan of
May 28, 1982. Effectuve Date: January 24, 1983. Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
This loan became effective in January 1983.



-36-
ANNEX   III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY - SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by Government to           13 months (September 1981
prepare project:                     through October 1982)
(b)   Agency which prepared the            Agricultural Bank of Turkey
project:                             (TCZB) and the Ministry of
Agriculture.
(c)   Project first identified:            July 1980 for project
concept, September 1981 for
specific components.
(d)   Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:    November 1982.
(e)   Negotiations completed:              April/May 1983.
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:       September 1983.
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
1II. Special Conditions
A.  Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)     Signing of protocol setting forth roles of TCZB and the
Ministry of Agriculture in project implementation (para 62);
and
(ii)    Signing of subsidiary Agreement betwe.en the Government and
TCZB (para 63).



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
B.    Other Main Conditions
(i)     achievement and maintenance of positive real agricultural
interest rates by the end of 1984 (para 49);
(ii)    TCZB to implement an Action Plan for improving its
organization, lending policies and procedures (para 51);
(iii)   Government to compensate TCZB for losses arising from loans
to sales cooperatives (para 52); and
(iv)    Annual review of crops and areas eligible for financing
under the Second Crop and Fallow Reduction Schemes, and
support of these schemes through provision of adequate
extension support, continuation of applied research
programs, and availability of improved seeds and fertilizer
(para 58); and
(v)     Government to undertake study of credit cooperatives
(para 45).



I



.  r   SI :              :    : r       \                  ,                                                         ;              VV                                                        IBRD17071
40n                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1983
KI RKLARELI Y                    \;7E2\                                                       SINOP                                                                             ARTVINiiEi f:< 't     
LARELI .    m'  .   ::\  ;    E       \       s     i,)KASTAMONU                                              -
c-                                                                                                                             RIZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.   CANAgTCK IRDAK     ALEANEUL IJ   - -   0              i  '   ZONGULDAK                                                                                                                                KARS
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Af~~~~~~~~ARA                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~TRBO
;7           em                                                            NK t ...   Tu>TXAR0WA                                        S                     TU    5V9 > a NCE L   -fi  BIOL'  MUS  (   >W 0iRA
0~~N                                  KUAY          kNr                                         KIR9 QSEHR                              >                                   ASe<J (MY t.X   >
f
EVSEHR)        KANYSERI*                 MAA                                           )      L  j-_.Th
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                   Th                            OIABAI        PTr .* .*"  *i f < :xt/5i         1  y Li    't)TU   
g :Vi: % _ ~~~~~~~~.                     ' -0LA'  "'                       (                  T L A     # 1   iE -   N I O   - "   2 8   f               u                      j.-                              HA K KPR AIS o EO ARCLU
*               t              k'  /X}                       .,.,,,_  y,  t;,ji ; tKOCAEISYART  KONA                                               0.AN
AYO~~~~~~~~~~N   ~~~~~~~~ AU                     ?6NLR,~           oum    ()IEU                                                                       EApRZNUFj*                       RA
AK~~ANYAIY/APRIALO    EON                                                                                                                                       GICLUA
>3 .< ,''57w:   9> ;-, .,^5:z:   ),.                 i,ez. :\9       u<                 \    Si          (:                   HA,TAY                                              PROJECT   AREA   AND   COMPONENTS
TB :  C'  1 :   , ;,!<   '   0;          2\   1J                )''                              j                                           A       UNIEA  SUB    E        NO. OF PROVINCES UNDER THE SCHEME
4  CANAKKALE  IRSA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~NTOALCPTA                                                                                  ORMCNKR 
: : I:\ i   :/):-   i  ..(;:                                                                                                              -     "0:E( \5;:;:  '=PROVINCIAL BOUNLDARIES  0"    FALLOW REDUCTION           14
Q    40    80   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  165 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      N4
____________________                                                                               X                                                                           5 I L)  i 0 io AEb: .... S 0P ;')  IRRIGATION COMPLETION  4
KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KRS                                                                                        ~A
~~~~~~Timana See ;cpac ky Tk.. Wnde Banks lnBsallt,c/ucck LmrL rS17rf ennctsSredn,encec of;  AREAS UNDER PROJECT                                     I       XTEENRSION-LINKED                10
=  \:                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F/nance tC rbcankon rhe den7 nnns l/onn Jsed annd lIe EeundOlinn shoaw,, cn Ike6 mop do not
i \ ' L 5 ;; 2 ' ..... . : : ; : a imply, on Lhe e;.ad cl The Weld Saf.nk erid the nlerrena sb /;l tanc e Ccrprairnl/ .ny cdcmrhent bl4
.   z   h                       1: o~~~~~~~~~~~n km r rnal eflele sf eing ste/v itoyr nity nernmtrsrent er acceptance eot/e SeOLcUderms                        40z)l       



