0OFF1ICIA L
ILOAN NUMBER 2318 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
Dated                              , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2318 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1983, between
INTERNAT:ONAL BANK FOR RECONS UCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-,
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Coni-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of
the Guarantor;
(b) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower from the proceeds of the Loan and from its own funds
in accordance with the procedures described in Annex 2 to Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement;
(c) "Beneficiary" means the recipient of a sub-loan;
(d) "liras" means the currency of the Guarantor;
(e) "Credit Guidelines" means the administrative directive
of the Borrower set forth in the Annex to Circular No. 4770 dated
September 24, 1979, as such directive may be amended, and the
"Rules and Regulations of the Borrower on Agricultural Credits",
promulgated in the Official Gazette No. 16674, dated June 22,
1979;
(f) "Farm Development Plan" means the farm development
plan, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by a


﻿-2-
Beneficiary applying for a medium-term sub-loan pursuant to the
procedures described in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(g) "Production Plan" means the production plan, in a form
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by a Beneficiary apply-
ing for a short-term sub-loan pursuant to the procedures
described in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(h)  "GDAA" means the General Directorate of Agricultural
Affairs of MAF;
(i)  "Subsidiary  Agreement" means    the  agreement  to   be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(j) "Loan Number 1130" means the loan provided by the Bank
to the Guarantor under the Loan Agreement for the Corum-Cankiri
Rural Development Project, dated June 23, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Loan Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred fifty million four hundred thousand dollars
($150,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the prowisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required under Part B (3) of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿-.3 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three hundred seventy-five thousand sixty-two
dollars ($375,062).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reaionably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
-J


﻿(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and agricultural practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall follow in the carrying out of Part A of
the Project, lending policies and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, including those stated in Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall conclude a protocol with MAF, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth
their respective responsibilities and administrative procedures
under Part A of the Project and providing for the coordination
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary
agreement with the Guarantor which shall include provisions
whereby: (i) the Guarantor will bear all losses and receive all
gains due to the fluctuations in value in lira of the amounts of
the Loan withdrawn from Category 1 (for Part A of the Project)
and repaid by the Borrower in accordance with this Agreement,
and (ii) the Borrower will pay to the Guarantor, from time to
time, not more than the amount by which the interest payable on
sub-loans under Part A of the Project exceeds the amount which
would have been payable had such interest been charged at a rate
three and one half percent above the interest rate payable on the
loan under Section 2.07 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, a-.- except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the
branches of the Borrower responsible for the approval and super-
vision of sub-loans under Part A of the Project will be staffed,
at all times during the implementation of said Part of the
Project, with qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than
March 31 of each year, its annue . lending program for that year
showing, inter alia, the alloca-on of funds for Part A of the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) implement the action
plan referred to in Part B (1) of the Project in accordance with
a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank; (b) prepare and provide
to the Bank for its comments, beginning October 15, 1983, and on
each April 15 and October 15 thereafter, semiannual reports on
the progress achieved in such implementation; and (c) take all
action required, on the basis of such reports and the Bank's
comments thereon, to improve such implementation.
Section 3.05. In order to facilitate appropriate disposition
of the crops to be produced in the areas of implementing Part A
(2) and (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to
qualified borrowers in such areas adequate credit facilities for
financing the purchase of harvesting, drying and processing
equipment.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the studies
provided under Part B.1 (a) and (b) under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and shall employ, not later than
June 30, 1984 or such other date as may be agreed with the Bank,
consultants to assist in carrying out such studies; and
(b) such consultants, and any other consultants as may be
agreed between the Borr-wer and the Bank to be financed under
the Loan to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, shall have qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and shall be


﻿-6-
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the importcd goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part B (3) of the
Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and aelivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) monitor the progress
in implementing Part A (1) and (4) of the Project in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank; (b) assist GDAA in
monitoring the progress in implementing Part A (2), (3), and (5)
of the Project; (c) prepare, in cooperation with GDAA, semiannual
reports on the findings of such monitoring and furnish each such
report to the Bank within two months from the end of the period
covered by it; and (d) prepare, in cooperation with GDAA and on
the basis of methodologies satisfactory to the Bank, annual
evaluation reports for Part A of the Project and furnish each
such report to the Bank within two months from the end of the
period covered by it.
Section 3.09. (a) Upon the award by the Borrower of any
contract for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under Part B (3) of the Project, the Bank may publish
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, in cooperation with
MAF, and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall carry out the training
provided for under Part B (2) of the Project in accordance with
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall m-intain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including,    without  limitation  to   the  foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as


﻿-8-
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall deposit in a revolving fund
50% of all amounts received by the Borrower on account of repay-
ment of sub-loans under Part A of the Project, except for amounts
required by the Borrower for servicing the Loan, and shall use
the amounts so deposited for the provision of sub-loans for
purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property or as security for the payment of debt incurred
for the purpose of financing the purchase of suL,     roperty; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any legal provision governing or applicable to the
organization or operation of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated so as to materially and adversely


﻿- 9 -
affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement; and
(b) the Credit Guidelines shall have been, without the
prior consen+ of the Bank, amended, suspended or abrogated so as
to materiall  ind adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to
perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the protocol referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and MAF;
and
(b) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and the Guarantor.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Guarantor and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                         , is hereby
specified for the purpose of USection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
ZERBANK                            42 703 ZBA TR
Ankara                             43 249 ZBA TR


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Colu,bia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Re lonal Vice President
Europe, Mi dle East and North Africa
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
Authoriz d Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under
Part A of the
Project
(a) Medium-term                              50% of amounts
sub-loans                               disbursed
(i) Under             60,424,938
Part A (1)
(ii) Under             10,000,000
Part A (3)
(b) Short-term
sub-loans
(i) Part A (1)        17,000,000 )      50% of amounts
)      disbursed until
(ii) Part A (2)        24,000,000 )      December 31,
)      1983 and 50% of
(iii) Part A (3)        16,500,000 )      the incremental
)      amounts dis-
(iv) Part A (4)         4,600,000 )      bursed sub-
sequently


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Ca'.!gory             Dollar Equivalent      to be Financed
(v) Part A (5)       12,000,000        50% of the
incremental
amount dis-
bursed
(2) Equipment under             4,700,000         100% of foreign
Part B (3) of                                expenditures,
the Project                                  100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost), and 60%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(3) Consultants                   400,000         100%
under Part B (1)
of the Project
(4) Training under                400,000         100% of foreign
Part B (2) of                                expenditures
the Project
(5) Fee                           375,062        Amount due
under Section
2.05 of this
Agreement
TOTAL          150,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods and services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Guarantor;


﻿- 14 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods and services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c) the term "incremental amounts disbursed" means the
excess of the amount disbursed by the Borrower in any calendar
year over the maximum amount disbursed for the same purposes in
any prior calendar year and claimed for withdrawal from the
proceeds of the Loan or from Loan Number 1130.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item under Category (2) is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 15 -
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to increase agricul-
tural productivity through the financing of productive invest-
ments at the farm level and to improve the capabilities of the
principal agricultural credit institution in Turkey.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Agricultural Credit
1.   On-Farm Development: Provision to farmers, in the provinces
shown in Annex 1 to this Schedule, of (a) about 6,500 medium-term
sub-loans for financing investments in farm mechanization, cattle
and sheep fattening, orchard establishment, broiler and egg pro-
duction and (b) about 70,000 short-term sub-loans for financing
the purchase of seeds, fertilizers, animal feed and other sea-
sonal expenditures relating to crop and livestock production.
2.   Second Crop Scheme: Provision to farmers in the provinces
shown in Annex 1 to this Schedule participating in the Second
Crop Scheme provided for under the Guarantor's Decree No. B/4535,
dated May 2, 1982, of about 60,000 short-term sub-loans for
financing the purchase of seeds, fertilizers and other seasonal
expenditures related to participation in said Scheme.
3.   Fallow Reduction Scheme: Provision to farmers participating
in the Fallow Reduction Scheme in the provinces shown in Annex 1
to this Schedule of about 50,000 short-term sub-loans for financ-
ing the purchase of seeds, fertilizers and other seasonal expen-
ditures relating to crops under the Scheme.
4.   IAEE Irrigation Project: Provision to about 25,000 farmers
whose farms benefit from the Guarantor's improved irrigation
programs in the vicinities of the towns of Igdu, Aksu, Eregli,
and Ercis of: (a) medium-term sub-loans for financing the pur-
chase of farm machinery, establishment of orchards and construc-
tion of greenhouses, and (b) short-term sub-loans for financing
the purchase    of farm inputs and other seasonal expenditures
relating to crop production.
5.   Corum-Cankiri Project: Provision to farmers in the areas of
Corum and Cankiri Provinces in the Guarantor's integrated rural


﻿- 17 -
development project of about 60,000 short-term sub-loans for
financing the purchase of farm inputs and other seasonal
expenditures relating to crop and livestock production.
Part B:   Institutional Development
1.   Implementation of the Action Plan for strengthening the
organization and improving the operating procedtres of the
Borrower, as approved by the Borrower's Board of Directors on
April 20, 1983, including in particular:
(a) a study of the Borrower's operational systems and
procedures; and
(b) a study of the Borrower's accounting systems.
2.   Provision of training abroad for the Borrower's managerial,
administrative and technical staff.
3.   Provision of about 80 vehicles and other equipment for the
Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Provinces for the Provision of
Sub-Loans under Parts A (1), (2) and (3) of the Pj.ject
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
sub-loans shall be provided in the provinces of the Guarantor, as
follows:
1.   Sub-loans under Part A (1) of the Project shall be made in
the provinces of: Ankara, Afyon, Balikesir, Burdur, Denizli,
Diyarbakir, Isparta, Kutahya, Mardin and Urfa; provided, however,
that sub-loans for livestock production or fattening:
(a)  shall not be provided in any province while funds are
available to the Borrower for the same purposes in that province
under the Project Agreements between the Bank and the Borrower
entered into for the Third Livestock Development Project (dated
May 26, 1976), the Fourth Livestock Development Project (dated
June 5, 1978) or the Fifth Livestock Development Project (dated
June 6, 1980), as these agreements may be amended from time to
time; and
(b) shall be provided in any province where funds were
previously available for the same purposes under such Project
Agreements only in accordance with paragraphs 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5,
1.6 and 2.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement for the
Fifth Livestock Development Project (dated June 6, 1980) and with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement.
2.   Sub-loans under Part A (2) of the Project shall be made in
the provinces of Adan, Antalya, Aydin, Balikesir, Denizli,
Diyarbakir, Gazianter, Hatay, Icel, Izmir, Manisa, Maras, Mardin,
Mugla and Urfa.
3.   Sub-loans under Part A (3) of the Project shall be made in
the provinces of Afyon, Amasya, Burdur, Diyarbakir, Gazianted,
Isparta, Kutahya, Mardin, Tokat, Urfa, Usak and Yozgat.


﻿ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Lending and Operating Policies and
Procedures for Part A of the Project
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause its concerned branches and offices to follow
the following procedures for the approval, administration and
supervision of sub-loans under Part A of the Project:
A.   Application for and Approval of Sub-loans
1.   Applications for sub-loans under Part A.1 and A.4 will be
submitted directly to the Borrower's branch nearest to the
applicant or, in respect of sub-loans under Part A.2, A.3 and
A.5, to such branch through the nearest extension office of MAF.
2.   Applications for medium-term sub-loans will include a Farm
Development Plan, to be prepared by the appli-cant with the assis-
tance of the Borrower's or MAF's technical staff, and which will
demonstrate the technical feasibility and financial viability of
the proposed investment. Applications for short-term sub-loans
will include a Production Plan showing the type of crop to be
planted or livestock activities to be undertaken and the inputs
for which the sub-loans are required.
3.   Applications for sub-loans will be reviewed and approved by
the concerned branches of the Borrower on the basis of the eligi-
bility and creditworthiness criteria contained in the Credit
Guidelines. In addition, any application for sub-loans under Part
A.2 "Second Crops Scheme", A.3 "Fallow Reduction Scheme", and
A.5 "Corum Cankiri Project", will include a certificate from the
concerned extension office of MAF indicating that the applicant
is a participant in a MAF organized scheme.
4.   Sub-loans under Part A.2 and A.3 shall be provided for crops
and areas to be agreed among the Guarantor, the Borrower and the
Bank on the basis of the annual reviews referred to in Section
3.02 (a) (iii) of the Guarantee Agreement.
5.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not make a sub-loan to any Beneficiary if said sub-loan, by
itself or aggregated with any other sub-loan to the same Benefi-
ciary, exceeds the equivalent of $150,000.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Terms and Conditions to be included in the Sub-loans
Contract
Sub-loans will be made and' be repayable in lir.s, on the
following terms:
1.   Amount: not exceeding 90% of the estimated investment or
production cost shown in the Farm Development Flan or the
Production Plan, respectively.
2.   Interest at the preferential agricultural interest rates set
in accordance with paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) of Section
3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement on short-term sub-loans and on
medium-term sub-loans.
3.   Repayment terms shall be determined from the projected cash
flow of the project financed by the sub-loan, and shall be: not
more than one year for short-term sub-loans, and 6 to 12 years,
including a grace period of 2 to 5 years, for medium-term sub-
loans.
4.   Security:  Security shall be required for all sub-loans as
provided for project credits in the Credit Guidelines.
5.   The Borrower shall retain the right to: (a) require the
Beneficiary to carry out the Farm Development Plan or the
Production Plan in accordance with appropriate agricultural and
financial practices; (b) examine, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, the
goods and construction or farming sites included in the Farm
Development Plan or the Production Plan; (c) require that the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loans
be used exclusively for the purposes approved in the sub-loan
application; and (d) suspend or terminate the right of the
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon
failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.
C.   Disbursement and Records and Supervision
1.   The Borrower will inform the concerned office of MAF of
the approval of sub-loans; such information to be provided on a
monthly basis in respect of short-term sub-loans and on a
quarterly basis in respect of medium-term sub-loans.


﻿- 21 -
2.   The Borrower shall furnish semiannual statements to each
Beneficiary showing all entries on the sub-loan account.
3.   The Borrower will supervise, through regular field visits,
the implementation of all Farm Development Plans. Production
Plans will be supervised through sample visits to ensure the
appropriate use of the proceeds of the sub-loans and to identify
any common problems affecting Beneficiaries.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1987
through   December 1, 1999                  5,785,000
On June 1, 2000                                  5,775,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           .18
before maturity
More than three years but                           .35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             .65
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                          .88
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The vehicles referred to in Part B (3) of the Project shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For such vehicles to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possjble, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the vehicles in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any such vehicles remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of the vehicles to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to
state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the
imported vehicles, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price
of other vehicles offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the vehicles shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of the vehicles to the place of their use or installation shall
be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of vehicles in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, vehicles manufactured


﻿- 25 -
in Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of vehicles shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering vehicles manufactured in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such vehicles includes a
value added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other vehicles.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the vehicles. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported vehicles
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further.
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the vehicles offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such vehicles
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be


﻿- 26 -
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evalu-
ated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment, other than vehicles, required under Part B (3) of
the Project may be procured by the Borrower on the basis of (a)
the Borrower's normal procedures or (b) limited international
bidding procedures whereby contracts shall be awarded on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the purchase of vehicles
under Part B (3) of the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 27 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
or price quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this. 2     . day of TMm,, 1983
FOR SECRETARY


