Document of
The World Bank                    FE  COPN
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2638-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
KHAO LAEM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
November 6, 1979
This document hus a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    -    Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00          -    B 20.25
B 1.00           -    US$0.0494
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       -    3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)              -    35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (kg)                  -    0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)        -    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                   *    2.471 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                   -    2.206 pounds (lb)
i metric ton                      -    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic meter per second (cms)   -    35.315 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 kilovolt (kV)                   -    1,000 volts (V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)           -    1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 megavolt-ampere (NVA)           -    1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt (kW)                   -    1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                   -    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt (GWh)                  -    1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)              -    3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYKS
RTG     -   Royal Thai Government
EGAT    -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
MEA     -    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
PEA     -    Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT     -    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
NEA     -    National Energy Administration
NESDB   -    National Economic and Social Development Board
CPPD    -    Committee for Power Policy and Development
UNDP    -    United National Development Program
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
EDL     -    Blectricite du Laos
SMEC    -    Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
IBC     -    International Board of Consultants
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAlL USE ONLY
THAILAND
KHAO LAEM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:         Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:            $80.0 million
Terms:             20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 7.95% per annum.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is part of EGAT's 1979-1986 power
development program and comprises: (a) preliminary works
and a program for the resettlement of about 2,000 families
living in the proposed reservoir area; (b) construction of
a rockfill storage dam 82 meters high with a total embank-
ment volume of about 8 million cubic meters; (c) construc-
tion of an open-chute type spillway; (d) an intake
structure with one irrigation outlet and three power
conduits; (e) construction of a surface powerhouse with
three generating units of 100 MW each and of a switchyard;
(f) installation of a 230 kV double-circuit transulssion
line about 88 km long from Khao Laem to Srinagarind and a
230 kV single-circuit line on double circuit towers, about
108 km long on to the Ban Pong No. 2 substation; and (g)
consultancy services for project design and construction
supervision and for undertaking a study of organization
and coordination of the electricity sector.
The project will help meet the country's increasing demand
for electricity including that engendered by the accelerated
program for rural electrification.  Multipurpose downstream
benefits after the completion of the Khao Laem reservoir
would include: (a) an increase in irrigated areas for wet
and dry crops by about 94,000 ha; (b) a reduction in flood-
prone areas by about 47,000 ha; (c) provision of 130 million
cubic meters in 1985 and of 810 million cubic metiers in the
year 2000 of additional water each year for the Bangkok
area; and (d) an increase in the minimum flow of the Mae
Klong river by 20 cm to help industrial pollution control.
On account of cavernous limestone conditions, particular
attention has been given to dam foundation treatment and
potential reservoir leakage. EGAT has also initiated a
socioeconomic survey to develop a comprehensive settlement
program for the 2,000 families requiring resettlement.
These risks are not considered significant enough to
preclude proceeding with the project.
This dlocumwnt ha a mroricted diF -utbn and may be Nwe by recipients only in the peipformance
of theoir offcial dutie. Its contents nuty rat otherwise be direbcod without World Bank sauthorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
--------   Million --------
Local      Foreign      Total
Preliminary works and
resettlement                          27.5          3.6        31.1
Civil works                              78.7        68.1       146.8
Hydraulic and electro-
mechanical equipment                   4.6        32.9         37.5
Transmission facilities                   9.3        16.6        25.9
Consultancy services                      2.7         8.7        11.4
Administration                            7.6           -         7.6
Duties & taxes                            9.1           -         9.1
Contingencies
Physical                              16.9        17.3        34.2
Price                                 30.1        28.2        58.3
Total                           186.5       175.4       361.9
Financing Plan:
Government contribution
and equity                        127.0          -        127.0
EGAT                                 59.5          -         59.5
Suppliers' credits and
commercial banks                     -         95.4        95.4
IBRD                                   -         80.0        80.0
Total                          186.5       175.4       361.9
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:
-------------- $ Million --------------
Bank FY      1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual               5.5   14.5   27.0   18.0   11.0    4.0
Cumulative           5.5   20.0   47.0   65.0   76.0   80.0
Rate of Return:  16%
Appraisal Report: No. 2568a-TH dated October 25, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE KHAO LAEM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $80 million to
help finance the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years including five years of grace with interest at 7.95% per
annum. EGAT is also seeking commercial and suppliers' credit financing of
about $95 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a StraLtegy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid ecornomic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress.
It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to
the need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of
specific measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural
areas. It further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation
of these policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recenit changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process witlain the
country and not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977, under the prime ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, has moved successfully to improve and stabilize
relations with Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and to strengthen relations
among its ASEAN partners. A new constitution was promulgated in December
1978, and elections were held in April 1979. No party won a majority of the
seats in the lower house; the largest block, some 82 seats out of 301, was
won by the Social Action Party led by the former Prime Minister Kukrit Pramoj.
/1  Parts I and II are modified versions of the recent President's Report
(No. P-2610-TH) dated July 23, 1979 for the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project in Thailand, distributed to the Executive Directors
under cover of Secretary's Memorandum R79-196.



-2-
The upper house was appointed and contained mostly Kriangsak supporters. The
majority of the combined lower and upper houses selected General Kriangsak as
the new Prime Minister. After nearly a month of negotiations, Kriangsak
formed a coalition government with 29 ministers, including 10 without
portfolio in the Prime Minister's office. Many personalities from the
previous Cabinet remain, although some with different responsibilities. The
composition of the Government and Kriangsak's statements indicate that this
Government will continue the emphasis of the previous one on rural development
and poverty alleviation; however, this program reflects a more delicate
balance among contending political forces than its predecessors.
4.        A broad consensus has developed over the last several years on the
priorities for socioeconomic development, as expressed in the country's
Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81).
There is now increasing commitment to achieving a widespread distribution of
the benefits of growth. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, and the flood relief program in 1978.
All these programs have been designed to produce quick and visible results,
the latter two in response to specific crises, but they were also aimed at
increasing production capacity in rural areas and demonstrating the concern
of the Central Government for the plight of the rural population. There is
an increasing realization that an improvement in the conditions of the
poorest farmers and those living in the more remote areas is not only
desirable in itself, but would also counteract political instability in the
long run. The new Government has yet to define its program, but no break
from these trends is foreseen. Recent developments in Indochina and the
arrival of refugees have occupied the new Government's attention. Coping
with these problems will probably lead to some reallocation of resources to
refugee relief and to strengthening Thailand's military position in border
areas; however, it is too soon to tell what the effects of these developments
will be on other programs.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  There
has been some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP
growth rate from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real
agricultural growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion.
The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year, water control was improved,
irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including
maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. Agriculture has also
been a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained
economic and price stability throughout the period and encouraged private
savings and investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated
between 19% and 24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high
level of private investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10%
and a real growth of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All
this was achieved with a limited inflow of foreign resources and until
recently, the resource gap remained below 5% of GDP.



-3-
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country, and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future develop-
ment, there appears to be a close correlation between development and proxim-
ity to urban centers. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the lqorth,
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions also there is considerable variation: farmers
who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial
growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unalble or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent
research has shown that the lack of cropping patterns and agricultural tech-
niques appropriate to the land and climatic conditions is a major factor in
much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed
rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since there is a well-functioning
labor market, the low incomes of this large group have tended to depress
unskilled wages throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a.,
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil
price increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for
this deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been
pushed into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural
growth to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During
1973 and part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high
prices for Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom.
This was accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government
to curtail sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975. Price
stability has since been restored and private domestic investment remains
high at 17-18% of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978, and inflation
again threatens to become a serious problem.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe restric-
tions on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community, cassava
and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973-
74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1,241 million, or 6% of GDP in 1978. The Government has signifi-
cantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the
Eurodollar market and from the IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign
exchange reserves have also been used extensively. To contain the balance
of payments deficit, the Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141
"nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a number of items, most
notably gasoline. It raised the gasoline price again in February 1979 and
started an energy conservation program to try to contain the oil import bill.



-4-
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the third year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the raoid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plan to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns. The
concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level have been major
factors impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delega-
tion of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries
necessary to implement poverty-oriented development projects has been lacking.
These problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a
number of long- and short-term measures to improve its development administra-
tion and expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of the
civil service personnel, planning and staffing procedures, establishment of
special project committees, and implementation of a revolving fund scheme to
speed implementation of Bank-assisted projects. Further improvements in
development management is one of the principal objectives of the Bank's
policy dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started in the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable dis-
tribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster gener-
ation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development. Pro-
jected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the
Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and con-
crete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help design policies and programs to help
achieve the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are focusing on problems
of unemployment, income distribution, industrial policy, and regional
development. The Bank will be supporting a Provincial Planning program, and
the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) has just initiated
a New Village Development Program designed to engage wider participation in
the design and implementation of small-scale projects, initially in the
poorest villages. Japan has committed some $70 million to support the first
two years of this program.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth over
the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth. These
factors include a relatively equitable distribution of rural land, responsive-
ness of Thai farmers to improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry



- 5 -
and agriculture. Also major gains have been made in family planning in
recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3%
during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./I The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the last decade, the labor force
is expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a high
rate of job creation. Past growth has benefited households unevenl)
creating further income disparities that could threaten the social cohesion
of the country. At the same time, additional fertile land, which has
supported the growth of agricultural production and exports in the past, is
becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these factors, continued reliance
on the past pattern of development would lead to a deceleration of agricul-
tural and overall growth in the next decade, resulting in persistently large
balance of payments deficits, higher rates of unemployment or underemploy-
ment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer segmen)cs of the
population, especially in rural areas and among unskilled workers.   -ts, a
shift in the development pattern is necessary not only for social, btt also
for economic reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substituting industries to one based on increasingly intemsive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary
to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced,
or at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined to largely short-term economic management,
where its performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic
and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition,
the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated policies and
actions on a long-term basis.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 70% of total exports, employs 75% of the
labor force, and provides a livelihood for 80% of Thailand's population.
Future growth of the sector will have to be based on more intensive utiliza-
tion of cultivated areas, continued diversification of crops, improved crop-
ping patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural
credit. All of these imply an increased government role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth of those who have not benefitted from the recent
economic growth. These programs should aid the development of upland and
rainfed lowland areas through research, extension services and ruratl infra-
structure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible irrigation
development, with the associated introduction of high-yielding varieties,
greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be continued.
The Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these efforts.
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recordecl for the
period 1970-76.



-6-
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, con-
struction and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment
for the growing labor force. Greater effort will be required to encourage
the location of industries outside Bangkok and to promote small-scale and
rural industries. While continued growth of manufactured exports is essen-
tial, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for a balanced
industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agricultural inputs
and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption and export. Our
policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private
sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
Financing Requirements
17.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Govern-
ment domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low com-
pared to other developing countries at similar levels of development due to
low tax rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compli-
ance. The Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobiliza-
tion through revision of the tax structure and improved collections. It is
currently exploring other forms of taxation, such as the value added tax.
Such changes would facilitate a reduction in export taxes on rice and other
commodities, which have inhibited agricultural growth.
18.       During the coming 5-10 years, the demand for external resources is
likely to increase as the cost of reducing the present resource deficit
through a reduction in public investment would be high in terms of growth and
employment opportunities foregone. Despite an average real growth of exports
in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the terms of trade, large trade
and current account deficits are expected through the mid-1980s due to the
need for capital goods imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise
agricultural productivity. In the longer term, the exploitation of the



-7-
natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of
Thailand's lignite resources, the continued growth of manufactured exports
and the development of Thai industries could restore external equilibrium
and significantly reduce the current account deficits in the second half of
the 1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these
deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience, they aLre not
high in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison
with other countries at a similar stage of development. With a dynamic
private sector and a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal
policy, Thailand should be able to use the resources effectively and service
the external debt.
19.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond market:s, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Commitee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand
is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad Ln order
to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external public borrowing
requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and the level of
concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group meeting. It
was agreed that the aid requirements, although high, were consistent with
Thailand's development strategy and sustainable by the economy. The need
for continued substantial support on concessional terms was emphas:Lzed.
It therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in
the Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencLes, includ-
ing the Bank Group have in recent years increasingly concentrated project
lending to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high
social benefits but low foreign exchange savings. To achieve the higher level
of external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in
selected projects, when the foreign exchange component is low, to Finance some
local currency expenditures.
20.        It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more t'han double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8% in 1977)
should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, public and private, currently about 15%,
should not exceed 20%. Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports
and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports, these debt service require-
ments will be within Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its credit
standing. It should be noted, however, that these projections assume a
significant level of concessional assistance from other donors, particularly
Japan, in view of that country's explicit intention to expand its foreign
aid program.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILANID
21.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1979 had received 52 loans amounting to about
$1,411 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distributiol of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $236.4 million
for irrigation; $391.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six
IDA credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1979.
22.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35% of
lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting; livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
23.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching



- 9 -
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern arz
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok.  The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimied at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.
24.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development Will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in or6er
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
25.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below 30%
of total public external debt by 1982 as Thailand diversifies its borrowing
program. The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding would fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
26.       As of September 30, 1979, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to continue
to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in financial
institutions and money market developments.



- 10 -
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Consumption and Resources
27.       Total energy consumption in Thailand has increased from 7.4 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to over 14.4 million tons in 1978, an
average annual growth rate of 9.0%. Petroleum products accounted for almost
70.6% of total energy in 1978 and hydro and lignite (low grade coal) for
about 4.6% and 1.9%, respectively. The price of oil and products increased
almost five-fold since 1973 and has become a heavy burden on the Thai
economy. Between 1972 and 1977, the oil import bill rose in volume by 25%
and in value by 635%. In 1977, oil imports, which were about $950 million
in value, absorbed 29% of export earnings, leaving Thailand with a
substantial current account deficit. The impact of oil prices will be even
greater following the 1979 increases. Preliminary estimates indicate that
in 1979, Thailand's oil import bill will increase 43% to $1.6 billion,
absorbing almost a third of export earnings and contributing to a current
account deficit of more than $2 billion.
Potential Energy Resources
28.       Opportunities for reducing Thailand's dependence on imported energy
in the 1980s are very good. Significant reserves of natural gas have ",en
discovered in the Gulf of Thailand which are projected to come on stream in
mid-1981. The proven recoverable gas reserves are 1.6 trillion cubic feet
(tcf) of good quality gas and 1.3 tcf of lower quality gas. Probable
recoverable reserves are estimated at a further 4.7 tcf. Petroleum ex-
ploration is continuing both on and offshore. In addition to the natural
gas discoveries, substantial increases in Thailand's lignite deposits have
been indicated by recent drilling. The lignite reserves at Mae Moh are
still being evaluated, but could be as high as 650 million tons, capable of
supporting 2,000 MW of electricity generating capacity in the late 1980s.
With the development of the natural gas and lignite resources, a fundamental
transformation in the primary energy supply mix for electricity generation
is possible which could reduce the use of fuel oil from the present 74% to
less than 10% by the late 1980s. However, unless an appreciable amount of
additional natural gas or lignite reserves is discovered, primary energy
supply in the 1990s would depend on imported fuel or the development of
international rivers.
29.       Thailand's other energy resources include hydro, fuelwood, and oil
shale. Domestic hydro potential is about 9,300 MW, of which about 900 MW are
in operation and another 2,200 MW will be installed by 1990. International
hydro power has enormous potential and may be the cheapest source of elec-
tricity for Thailand in the 1990s. The international rivers, the Mekong,



which forms the border between Thailand and Laos and then flows thrcugh
Kampuchea, and the Salween in Burma, together have an estimated hydro
potential, in nine potential projects of about 24,000 MW with an annual
energy output of 144,000 GWh. This represents about 12 times Thailand's
electricity consumption in 1978 and 3.5 times the forecasted electricity
requirement in 1990. The Mekong's development is governed jointly by
Laos, Kampuchea, Thailand and Viet Nam, and exploitation of the energy
potential of this and the Salween river could provide the riparian states
with a cheaper source of electricity than anything these countries could
produce individually. The Mekong Secretariat had been instrumental in
identifying and assisting to complete project preparation studies for
international hydro projects, but the final impetus for implementing these
will have to come from Thailand, the only country of the Mekong group that
has the absorptive capacity for substantial power resources. Serious
resettlement problems, as well as political ones, will have to be solved if
these hydro resources are to be developed. Oil shale reserves at Mae Sot
are estimated at 2,500 million tons of oil, but these are uneconomic to
develop at present prices. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly
being depleted and deforestation is becoming a serious problem.
The Power Sector
30.       Organizational Structure.  Thailand's power sector is managed by
three autonomous state enterprises. The Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand (EGAT) has major responsibility for generation and transmission;
it sells energy in bulk to large industrial consumers and to the two power
distribution authorities. The Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MIEA) is
responsible for supplying electricity in the Bangkok metropolitan area, and
the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) supplies electricity to t:he rest
of the country. EGAT accounted for 95% of all electricity generatecl in
1978, the balance being generated by PEA in areas not yet connected to the
grid, and by self-generating industries.
31.       Sector Objectives.  Although Thailand's three power utilit:ies
operate with a considerable degree of autonomy, each is expected to pursue
common power sector objectives. These objectives are to: (a) ensure suffi-
cient production and supply of electricity throughout the country; (b)
diversify electricity generating sources to promote the use of new Sources
of energy such as natural gas and lignite in place of imported oil; (c)
encourage international cooperation in the development of water and other
natural resources for power generation and the establishment of an
international transmission system connection; and (d) regulate the tariff
within a reasonable range in order to: (i) encourage industrial
establishments in rural areas; (ii) create more employment; (iii) reduce
environmental pollution in the metropolitan area; and (iv) encourage
efficient use and conservation of electricity.
32.       The Bank has worked closely with the Government and the power
utilities to meet these objectives. EGAT is implementing a comprehensive
expansion program, of which the proposed project is an important component,



- 12 -
to meet the nation's growing demand for electricity.  Under the Accelerated
Rural Electrification Program (ARE I), PEA is proceeding with the electri-
fication of about 4,600 villages and is implementing an ambitious program
that would provide electricity to almost all the villages in Thailand (abouL
49,000) by the end of the 1980s. Projects for the exploitation of natural
gas and lignite reserves for use in power generation are currently under
preparation, and rural electrification programs are being ex<panded rapidly.
Sector Coordination
33.       The 1976 Power Sector Report (No. 1974-TH) stressed the need for
better planning and coordination among the power utilities and the various
government agencies concerned with energy production. Several steps have
been taken to address this need. In 1977, the Committee on Power Policy and
Development (CPPD) was formed to oversee the functioning and development of
the power sector and to provide overall control through the review of (a)
utilities' development programs and projects, (b) the adequacy of tariff
structures, and (c) the allocation of sector funds equitably among the three
utilities. As yet, however, CPPD has not developed into a decision-making
body with sufficiently broad competence and control to exercise these
functions efficiently or to provide the required focus for sector planning.
A new Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy was created to assume
responsibility for the development of nonconventional energy and new uses of
existing energy sources, but so far, it has played a minor role in larger
sector issues. To reinforce these initial efforts, it was agreed under Loan
1690-TH (Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project) that the Government would submit
proposals for a study to improve sector coordination to the Bank by the end
of 1979. This study would be financed under the proposed loan, and it was
agreed that the recommendations of the study would be implemented during
1980 (Section 3.06(c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
34.       Improved policy planning and coordination in the energy sector as
a whole is also being addressed. The National Energy Administration, under
the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister's Office, has responsibility for over-
all energy policy. NEA has been operational for only a few years and during
this time has concentrated mainly on collecting energy data. It has also
commissioned a number of studies and is currently planning to carry out an
Energy Master Plan Study with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank
and UNDP financing. The objective of this study is to define a program to
meet Thailand's energy requirements up to the year 2000, and it is expected
to be concluded by the end of 1981. The Petrolem Authority of Thailand
(PTT) was established in December 1978 to institute closer coordination of
the petroleum business and related energy policies. In conjunction with the
proposed Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project, PTT will receive technical
assistance including: (a) a refinery expansion study, (b) a gas utilization
study, and (c) conservation studies. These efforts, in addition to NEA's
program, should provide an initial framework for the development of a
comprehensive energy strategy for the country.



- 13 -
Sector Financing and Tariffs
35.       Tariff policies proved adequate throughout the late 1960s and
early 1970s, and the financial position of the sector remained strcng. In
fact, all three agencies were able to reduce their tariffs periodically
through conservative financial management, economies of scale and consequent
reduction in unit costs. However, following the fuel price increases in the
1970s, the sector's financial position deteriorated. The Government took
various steps to cushion the effect of the fuel crisis (removing fuel taxes
and duties and subsidizing the cost of fuel to EGAT). Bank staff, after a
review of the sector in 1976, recommended: (a) restoration of fuel taxes
and customs duties; (b) removal of the fuel oil subsidy to EGAT; (c)
provision of a fuel adjustment clause in the tariff schedules enabling
variations in fuel prices to be passed on to consumers as they occur; and
(d) an increase in tariffs for FY77-79 to cover the sector's financial gap
between cash generation and borrowings, and construction costs. It was also
recommended that a tariff study be undertaken to (a) establish a simplified
tariff system which would reflect the costs to the economy of meeting the
demand for electricity; (b) ensure that sector revenues would be adequate to
meet the sector's financial objectives; and (c) formulate income
distribution objectives.
36.       The Government has acted upon all the above-mentioned recommenda-
tions. An increase in tariffs averaging about 29% was implemented in
August 1977; fuel subsidies were discontinued; taxes on fuel were restored;
and a fuel adjustment clause was introduced. The tariff study, included in
Loan 1485-TH (Pattani Hydroelectric Project), is being carried out by an
interagency group with the intention of developing broader competence in
the area of tariff determination. Recommendations of this study, which are
to be agreed between the Government and the Bank, are expected to be
implemented by mid-1980.
37.        The measures adopted by the Royal Thai Government restored the
financial viability of the utilities and largely removed the need for
further budgetary assistance. However, the large financial requirements for
PEA's accelerated rural electrification program called for cross-funding
within the sector to ensure that adequate funds would be available for PEA's
program. It was agreed that EGAT and the sector as a whole would earn an
annual rate of return on revalued net fixed assets of 6% for FY80, 7% for
FY81 and 8% thereafter (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). An increase in tariffs averaging
about 71% for EGAT and 56% for the sector as a whole was introduced, effec-
tive as of November 1, 1979.



- 14 -
Bank Participation in the Sector
38.       Sector growth has been considerable.  Since 1970, electricity
demand and energy generation have increased annually by about 14% and 15%,
respectively, reaching 2,101 MW and 12,372 GWh in 1978. The Bank has helped
finance nine projects through loans to EGAT, totalling about $367 million,
and one loan to PEA of $25 million. EGAT's projects have included dam
construction, equipment for hydro and thermal power generation, transmission
and substation facilities. Six projects have been completed and are
operating satisfactorily; another three are under construction.
39.       The most recent loan to EGAT (1690-TH) will help finance the dual
gas/oil-fired Bang Pakong thermal power station designed to use the natural
gas from the Gulf of Thailand. The loan to PEA in 1978 helped finance the
first phase of the accelerated rural electrification program. The project got
off to a slow start due to an initial lag in procurement. These difficulties
have now been overcome and the project is expected to proceed rapidly.
Currently about 28% of all households in the country have electricity; by 1983
the rural electrification program is expected to increase this proportion to
45%. The proposed loan will enable EGAT to meet the growing demand for
electricity by the increased use of indigenous hydro resources.
40.       The most recent power project performance audit report, made in
March 1978 for the South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan 790-TH),
indicated that the main objectives of the project had been met and that the
project was completed on time and within the original cost estimate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       EGAT began investigating the project site in 1972 and has been
assisted in preparing the project by the Snowy Mountains Engineering
Corporation of Australia (SMEC) financed under the Colombo Plan. An
international board of consultants has been retained by EGAT since 1975 for
reviewing the investigation, the layout and design of the project. The
project has been under preparatory discussion between EGAT and the Bank
since 1972, culminating in its appraisal in February/March 1979. Negotia-
tions were held from September 24-27, 1979. The Thai delegation was led by
Mr. Tongrojana Pochanart, Deputy General Manager of EGAT and Mr. Kraisri
Chatikavanij of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
42.       The Khao Laem project site is located on the Quae Noi river, 265 km
northwest of Bangkok and about 70 km north of the Srinagarind dam, now under
construction by EGAT on the Quae Yai river. The river flow is sufficient to
support the installation of three generating units of 100 MW each to meet EGAT
peak demand in early 1984 when the station is expected to become operational.



- 15 -
The proposed project will help meet the country's increasing demand for
electricity including that engendered by the rural electrification program.
It comprises:  (a) land procurement, preliminary works and resettlement;
(b) a dam 82 m high with a total embankment volume of 8 million cu m; (c) an
openchute type spillway; (d) an intake structure with one irrigation outlet
and three power conduits; (e) a surface powerhouse with 3 x 100 MW generating
units; (f) a switchyard; (g) a 230 kV double-circuit transmission line about
88 km long from Khao Laem to Srinagarind and a 230 kV single-circuit line on
double circuit towers, about 108 km long on to the Ban Pong No. 2 Substation;
and (h) consultancy services for project design, construction supervision
and a study on sector coordination.
43.       EGAT - The Borrower.  EGAT was established in 1968 by the mer6er
of three power utilities (the Yanhee Electricity Authority, the Northeast
Electricity Authority and the Lignite Authority) with the object of coordin-
ating the generation and transmission systems and increasing the electricity
supply throughout the country. EGAT has succeeded in these objectives to
the extent that it can now be considered to be a highly developed and
efficient institution. It no longer requires close Bank supervision and
future lending operations will not need as detailed project appraisal as in
the past, but instead will be designed, inter alia, to focus increasingly
attention on development issues for the power sector as well as the energy
sector as a whole.
44.       Planning.  EGAT's planning department, which is staffed by highly
qualified professionals, is responsible for the survey, field investigation,
planning of generation and transmission projects; economic studies; power
development programming and systems planning; and financial projecticns.
EGAT uses consultants whenever necessary to assist in the feasibility study
of large hydroelectric or multipurpose projects. It reviews and revises the
load forecast and the power development program at least once a year to keep
pace with the changing economic conditions and the known primary energy
resources available to the country.
45.       Engineering, Design and Supervision.  EGAT uses consultants for the
engineering and design of major hydroelectric and thermal power projects.
Since 1974, EGAT has retained the services of an international board of
consultants for reviewing the investigation, layout and design of major
hydroelectric projects and inspecting the site throughout the construction
period of projects. Construction of generation projects is undertaken by
contractors under the supervision of EGAT's staff, assisted by consultants.
EGAT utilizes its own work force for the installation of equipment for power
stations and substations under the supervision of the manufacturers. Trans-
mission lines are constructed by the suppliers on a supply-and-erect basis.
EGAT has an excellent record on project implementation and management: and is
considered to have developed to a stage where detailed Bank supervision is
not required.



- 16 -
46.       EGAT's Development Program.  EGAT's FY79-86 power devel_,u_kit
program is based on the principle of the least-cost sequence of development,
following an extensive study of the alternative generation and transmission
pr,,ects.  The program is currently firm up to FY36.              dt
further studies would be necessary on the basis of the availability of
primary energy resources and the prevailing economic condition"   The
total investment for the FY79-86 program is estimated at abou- $3.7 billion
with a foreign exchange component of $3.0 billion. Major generation equip-
ment would include 1,475 MW of hydro plants and 2,345 MW of thermal plants.
The transmission program would include construction of 1,238 km of 230 KV
lines and 3,365 km of 115 kv lines, of which 2,670 km would be for system
extension to support PEA's provincial and rural electrification projects.
47.        EGAT's Financial Position.  A financial forecast for the ten-year
period, 1979 through 1988, has been prepared. EGAT's energy sales are
forecast to increase at an average of 11% annually. Capital expenditures
are estimated at $6.9 billion at current prices and include the investment
required to develop the lignite deposits and interest during construction.
These estimates do not include the government contributions toward the cost
of facilities for downstream benefits. The sector's capital expenditures
for the same period are estimated at $8.6 billion, 80% of which is EGAT's
total estimated expenditure.  In addition, about $0.7 billion will be
invested by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) to construct a
pipeline to transport natural gas from the Gulf to EGAT's Bang Pakong and
South Bangkok power stations. These measures, coupled with the lignite
development, will enable EGAT to reduce fuel oil-based generation from 74%
in FY78 to less than 10% in FY90.
48.       To finance its construction program, EGAT intends to borrow 55% in
overseas funds to cover foreign costs and another 16% locally, obtain 1%
from the Government as equity to cover that portion of the costs of
multipurpose hydro projects attributable to downstream benefits, and provide
the remaining 28% of required funds from internal cash generation.
49.       EGAT's and the sector's financial positions were sound at the end
of FY78 although substantial tariff increases were required to cover
operating and fuel-cost increases. Increases in tariff levels of 71% for
EGAT and 56% for the sector, effective November 1, 1979 will enable EGAT and
the sector to earn rates of return of about 5.6% and 6.6% respectively in
FY80, 7% in FY81 and 8% in FY82 and thereafter on assets revalued annually.
Annual review by CPPD of the adequacy of tariffs and adjustments of the EGAT
price for bulk power to MEA and PEA will ensure that each of the power
utilities generate sufficient funds to carry out their share of Thailand's
power development program (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). EGAT
has agreed to secure the Bank's approval on borrowings if its debt/equity
ratio exceeds 60/40 or if short- and medium-term borrowings exceed 15% of
total debt (Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
debt/equity ratio is expected to reach 58/42 in FY81 and improve to about
50/50 by FY88.



- 17 -
Cost Estimates
50.       The total cost of the proposed project, excluding interest during
construction, is estimated at $362 million, including $9.0 million equiv-
alent in duties and taxes and a foreign exchange component of $175 million.
Estimates are at end 1979 price levels and include contingencies amounting
to $92 million, about 34% of base cost. Physical contingencies of $34 mil-
lion or 13% of base cost and price contingencies of $58 million, 21% of base
cost, were calculated at assumed annual escalation rates for foreign
expenditures of 7% for civil works and 6% for equipment and materials; local
cost escalation rates were assumed at 10% for 1979-80, 9% for 1981-82 and 8%
for 1983 and thereafter. Cost estimates are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary.
Financing
51.       Project costs will be met by the proposed Bank loan of $80 million
(22.7% of total project cost net of taxes and duties); commercial bank
financing of $31.7 million; suppliers' or export credits amounting to
$63.7 million; and a mixture of government contribution, equity, and EGAT's
self-generated funds of $186.5 million. The proposed Bank loan will finance
the total foreign exchange cost of the construction equipment for resettle-
ment, civil works excluding diversion channel-stage 1 and right abutment
cut-off, and consultancy services. Suppliers' or export credits will be
used to finance the foreign exchange costs of the hydraulic equipment,
electro-mechanical equipment and the transmission facilities. As th,e bidding
on these contracts will extend over a considerable period of time, EGAT would
not be able to obtain firm financing commitments for these prior to the time
the Bank loan is scheduled to become effective, estimated to be March 15,
1980. However, in view of EGAT's experience in seeking suppliers' and
export credits, a cross-default clause rather than a condition of effective-
ness would be provided for these financial arrangements. Commercial bank
financing will be used to finance the foreign exchange costs of preliminary
works and civil works for right abutment cut-off. The local costs would be
financed from the Government contribution, equity and EGAT's self-generated
funds. The Government has agreed to contribute about $118 million towards
the cost of the-project attributable to downstream benefits (Section 2.02(b)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Implementation and Construction
52.       EGAT will be responsible for implementing the project.  It: will
be assisted by SMEC, consultants who will provide engineering services and
construction supervision. Tenders for the civil works were opened in
September 1979 for award in December 1979, by which time the proposed loan
would have been considered by the Executive Directors. The project is
scheduled for completion in March 1984.



- 18 -
Procurement
53.       Civil works and equipment to be financed under the proposed Bank
loan will be procured under international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. A preference of 15% or the customs
duties, whichever is lower, will be granted to local manufacturers for equip-
ment. However, contracts for the purchase of minor items of equipment not
exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 each and not exceeding $0.75 million in
the aggregate will be awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
54.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would take place against (a)
100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported construction equip-
ment for resettlement and the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured
locally; (b) 85% of total expenditures of equipment procured locally
off-the-shelf; (c) 50% of total expenditures on civil works; (d) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of engineering consultants, and (e) 100% of the cost
of the sector coordination study. Disbursements by the Bank are expected to
be completed by the end of February 1985.
Justification and Benefits
55.       EGAT will require additional peaking capacity in 1984 to meet the
peak demand on the national grid of 4,356 MW expected in that year. The Khao
Laem project will provide dependable capacity of 236 MW in a dry year and an
average energy output of 765 GWh per year. Multi-purpose downstream benefits
after the completion of the Khao Laem reservoir would include: (a) an
increase in irrigated areas for wet and dry crops by about 94,000 ha; (b) a
reduction in flood-prone areas by about 47,000 ha; (c) provision of 130 mil-
lion cubic meters in 1985 and of 810 million cubic meters in the year 2000
of additional water for Bangkok area each year and (d) an increase in the
minimum flow of the Mae Klong river by 20 cms to help industrial pollution
control. EGAT's power development program forms part of the least-cost
program of system development of EGAT's power grid found by comparing three
alternative power development (planting up) programs. The program which
includes the Khao Laem project and the lignite development was found to be
the least cost sequence of development at discount rates up to 12.7% and at
mid-1979 oil prices. If downstream benefits are included, the equalizing
discount rate increases to over 20%.
56.       The internal economic rate of return is estimated at 16%, using
the average consumer tariff levels adjusted to 1979 price levels as the
minimum estimate of project benefits, and including downstream benefits.
Ecology and Environmental Factors
57.       Extensive ecological studies of the project area have been carried
out and the general conclusion is that although there are some negative
environmental effects, these can be mitigated or avoided by protection and
control programs which will be undertaken by EGAT.



- 19 -
Resettlement
58.       The proposed reservoir will inundate an area encompassing 41 vil-
lages with an estimated population of about 10,800 persons (or 2,000
families). The problems of resettlement are complicated by the fact that
(a) the people to be resettled comprise different hill tribes from Thailand
and Burma, and since some of these groups do not integrate, separate areas for
resettlement would be desirable; and (b) the project area and proposed
resettlement areas are in designated forest reserves where it is agaitnst Thai
law to grant land titles. However, EGAT has carried out successful resettle-
ment programs in the past for the Srinagarind and Pattani hydroelectric
projects, and it has initiated a socioeconomic survey of the current
inhabitants of the proposed reservoir area in order to develop a compre-
hensive program to resettle the 2,000 families. EGAT submitted a draft
resettlement plan for the Bank's review during negotiations. It was found
to be thorough, and the general timetable for resettlement was acceptable.
EGAT will provide B 386 million (US$19.1 million), or approximately $1,750
per inhabitant, to cover compensation, relocation and the provision of basic
infrastructure such as roads, utilities, site preparation and resettLement
administration, health and social services and agricultural extension
services. Resettlement will be the responsibility of multi-agency coordin-
ating committees which have been working on this plan since July 1979. The
Government has agreed to submit a final resettlement plan to the Bank by
June 1980 for implementation by EGAT (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement and Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Risks
59.       Project risks have been minimized and there are none remaining which
are significant enough to preclude proceeding with the project. EGAT uses an
international board of consultants on all major hydro projects and will use
it throughout the construction period of the proposed project to advise on
any unusual technical problems that may arise. Tenders for civil works were
opened in September 1979, allowing a review of the cost estimates before Board
presentation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Bank and the Kingdom of Thailand, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.        Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                         ANNEX I
Page IL of 5pages
THAnADI - SOCIAL UDICATOIS DAT  SREET
?PAZTV                    rUU3G  GROUPS (USTD A GES
LAND A  D (TWOOSD SO,Mi.)                          > -mDST ECN T                                  a
TDAL            514.0                                                 SANS       SANE     amET UGUER
GRICULTURL      179.6                              NMST RRNT        cOGRAPuIC    7Jc0m       Iico
1960 A     1970 A  ESTmA   A       UoCin IC GRO Pd    =OUUP /,
GNP PER CAPITA (MS$)                100.0      210.0    490.0            528.9     467.5      1097.7
ENaCT CONSUMTION PER CATA
(KILOGRAMS Of COAL EQUIVALEUT)    64.0       247.0    308.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPUlATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPMATION, rD-TEl (MILLIONS)    26.4          35.7      43.3
uRSAM POPMATO   (FRCUT 0 TODL) 12.0          13.0      14.0            27.4      24.6        49.0
POPULATION PMOJTIONS
POPMlATION IER T  2000   UIO)                         69.0
STATIONARY POMULATO  (MILLIONS)                      105.0
YEAR STATIOHIT POPULATION IS HEACD                  2095
POPULATIO  DDsmIT
p  sq. IN.                       51.0       69.0      84.0          154.8       45.3        44.6
PU SQ0. DI. AGlICMTURAL LAW    204.0       251.0    244.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATIOt AGE STRUCIUM  (PrCENE)
0-14 nRS.                       *4.7        46.2      45.0           41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 nIS.                       52.6        50.8      52.0           54.9       51.9        55.3
65 nRS. AND ABOVE                 2.7         3.0       3.0            3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROSM  RATE (PRCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8        3.0       2.8            2.*        2.7         2.4
UAn                               5.1        3.6       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUE BRH RATE (PU TROUSAOD)        46.0       42.0      32.0           30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DE4T RATE (PM ToOSAN)        17.0       12.0       8.0            8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS UPRDOCTION                     ..        3.2       2.2            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLA.ING
ACCEPTOLS, AUAL (THOUCSAS)         ..      203.0/   527.0
USERS (PaCERr 0 KAIZRED WE)    ..          27.4      32.3           34.1       L3.2        34.7
FOOD AND MTRITION
INEX OF POOD PRODUCrION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         68.0      100.0    110.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIE (PERCENT OF
REOOIREN[ENTS)                 96.0      103.0    107.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         43.5       52.2      50.0           57.4       54.3        64.4
OP WICE ANIMAL AND PULSE        8.4         ..      14.6           16.9       17.4        23.5
CEILD (AGES 1-4) MOTALITY RTE      15.0        9.0       6.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIPE EXPOANCY AT 815E (YEIS)   51.0           57.0      61.0           61.1       54.7       60.2
ITNFNT MORTALITY URT (PER
THOUSAND)                           *-        86.0/1   68.0            46.6       68.1       46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PECENT OP
POPLATION)
TOTAL                              *-       17.0      22.0           21.9       34.4        60.8
URBAN                             ..          ..      49.0           46.2       57.9       75.7
RURAL                             ..          ..      12.0           12.8       21.2       40.0
ACCESS TO E1CR1TA DISPOSAL (PCERCIT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       17.0      40.0           28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..       65.0      58.0           65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                             ..         8.0      36.0           14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIN          7800.0     8420.0   8370.0          3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   4900.0      3340.0   1510.0          1107.4    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1340.OLf    890.0    800.0           613.3      726.5      453.4
CBSAN                              *-      280.0    240.0           203.6      272.7       253.1
RURAL                             ..      1380.0   1290.0          1110.3    1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED         ..        31.0      33.0           23.9       27.5       22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.5/f       5.8       5.5            5.2        5.4        5.3
URIAN                            5.3/f       5.9       5.;             ..        5.1        5.2
RURAL                            5.6Lf       5.8       5.5             ..        5.5        5.4
AVERAGE NUM1ER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                             '-          *'       2.4             .. .4                 1.9
13BAN                             ..          ..       2.2             ..        ..         1.6
RURAL                             ..          ..       2.4             ..        ..         2.5
ACCESS T ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..           .0    24.6              ..       45.1       50.0
RURAL                             ..        13.0       ..              ..        9.9       17.3



-22-
ANNEX I
PAGE 2 of 5 pages
TMALIU - JOI' IICATUOU            SEW55
UKZRN S -
sM    9   ucwr m              nco         Die
1960 Lk     1970 Lk  nTR    I-b      MCW    /e   MM  /d        C0 /
tDEAYT       TOT"L                63.0        81.0      83.0            97.9       U.7         102.5
MLL                   a.0        85.0      36.0            96.7       87.3        103.6
nDWA                 79.0        77.0      79.0            97.4        75.8        97.1
SUC:SM :   l  L                   12.0        18.0      26.0            42.2       21.4         33.5
muz                  15.0        21.0      26.0            46.7       33.0         38.4
1381                  9.0        15.0      22.0            40.9        15.5        30.7
VOCAnTuuA  ZVROL. (Z O  S3C8fl)    19.0           24.0      13.0             12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-'IZACW RATIO
38.0        35.0      30.0            32.5       34.1        35.8
20.0        16.0      21.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
AELT LrTnAcT 32  (PmkIT)            68.0        79.0      82.0            36.1        54.0        64.0
C3UUTX U      MTOS
IOPULTZ0                           2.0         5.0       6.4             6.1        9.3        13.5
NADIO IMlS           TBOUIAND
POPMAT10                           6.0        78.0     131.0            34.4       76.9       122.7
TV Cn8Ivs PU  =c8
1 10ULATI0                         2.3         7.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
313161M ("DAD.. CMA1.
ITERET ) C DQMATaU PU
iu0JD3  POIOLATI                    11.0        24.0        ..            24.2       1i3         40.0
CDI& hhL ATTinA    PU CAU    ..                   ..       1.7             3.6        2.5         3.7
LADOSa0
ML   LUOI  0M   (WD8M8)    12757.0           16163.0   18514.0
1mt1   (t2Df)                     4U.3        47.3      46.9            36.7       29.2        25.0
ACIICILThU (PECET)                83.7        79.9      77.0            54.6       62.7        43.5
snTY (PRCET)                       4.4         6.0        8.0           16.3       11.9        21.5
PAITICIPATIO  RATE (PECT)
-TrAL                               51.3        U.6       45.6            40.7       37.1        33.5
K&LE                                52.7        49.3      48.6            49.9       45.8       4U.0
rU6z                                49.8        43.9      42.6            31.0       20.4        16.8
ICOPDYIC  nPsOCT AT81O                 1.0         1.1       1.1             1.1        1.4          1.4
INCOIE DISTRIBUTION
PUCST Q PUiVAt  ILCK
UCRIVED By
HIICST 5 PECENT 0Q 315WU0LDS   21.8/b         23.8/i   14. O            14.9       15.2        20.8
8238  20 P1C2T OF UOSULS  50.97i              49.771    42.2            46.8       48.2        52.1
WDT 20 PECENT 07 OtUSZIOS    6.27h             6. zT     7.6t1           6.2        6.3         3.9
LOES! 40 PUCUF Op SDuDoLDS   14.97             15.9     19.17          16.8       16.3        12.6
POInTY TARGET GROS
USTtAUD ABSOLUTE POVRIT INCOHI
LIVEL (US$ M CAPITA)
UN                                  ..          ..     126.0           193.1      241.3       270.0
AL                                  ..          ..      94.0           128.7      136.6       163.3
ESTIMA        EUITIVK r r0 ! IUc
LEM  (UM  PU CAPTA)
..                                              ..    115.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
IDEL                                ..          ..    108.0             96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BJW  AISOLUU
POVUM  IlNCOM  LEM   (P?U5t)
URAN                                                    15.0            32.0       24.8        20.5
IUPAL                                                   34.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
/a   The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted geomtric means, excluding the extrem
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
Lndicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwis  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwen  1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and ftw Most Recent lstimte, betwen 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Aaia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Tntermdisto Middle
Incom  (S551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /f  1962;  /g  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;  /I  1968;         Prliminary data for 1975/76. du% to lack of dat oan national
basis, the methodology for Aggregating the available regional data ovep states incomes of low incom
groups and understates income of higher incom  groups *  husa this data is not suitable for any
analytical couparisons;   /k  Governmsnt;  /l  1964-1965.
4ost Racent Estimate of CYP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-23-
ANNEX I
a?ml   OF PIAL ThDICd1o                                                           Page  3 of 5 pages
Notes.  Altheogh the dot. -o  t-e  fen  sc-e. gecerly jdged th  Met cetho,itstie  n d r"liable, It Should elms be noetd thst they s   not be ickWas-
ffTmaj' o~...rabie b-o-. of the Isok of .teodardi.ed doftitio-o cd  -rcpt.  sead by different countries 00 coll.etIng the dats.. Th. dot. awe,   ot4msl..s,
c.efts to de...ribe  rd.,. of ageitode, LodiOsta trade, aNd oh-st-1. ie       . codomJor 41ff rersc  betmaoa  Comatri*e.
ThesOcetd  ro   aeosesfoe cash io.iostOr wea PePoLatioa-entgtd asoeetrin ma., earOding the  atr    eatse., of the lodbostoracd th. mast pglatod
oneote  iscoo  gay.   oeto lok of Oat., geocp seergec of all ioled tor. for Capital  cOrpl.. Otl bymort-  and Of LaddeaiwsO   of Access to Vatct* wA  lwrt.
DMepo..c, IHesimg, Imoome Idstribtioo cod Paserty for Othr  o.-try group.  -r  pp~elatios-eIght.1 gemsetrie mases, ithet selusoim  of the watr-m  &eas,e and
the met poV.Uted o.-try.  SIMe. tk. ovegofoutic                       the ladieeo               os.iail of dets. a             isMt adOi. .ti  ouit ho exercised
in_fedlties_seerm.s If_me_Scisotor_to_m    =r.srs,  oo mtir  *a"oe   .   aeMaIUM                          of4 G.aeidvOo   .    etgiesl.fMe
leddaMi  at a tkm         the    -try' ced rafwascs, grOu..
"" ":Ttal corf co  wa. osperi.iNg  icd -re . m   ialcad Weters..Nub- ofpei   ttl                                  ,cd.01   mnib    ert.aesa   .
107oUtnral -  1b.4 renst ectient. of agrienltsral come..cod tesprco'ly                  paramateg.. of their reymetive popsletiona. foo-et. diapeo-sl        Latin
orpoemsetiy for crops, pst-ose, maket cod kitohe  g-edss, 00' tO                     the ooflcnti- and dipome.3, mOth or  ithcat treetmest, of h-    - t.*
lie fml.loo. co~~~~~~~~~ad aeotoecter by ecter-boec qmt- or the -e of pit Pain-sd ai.
imstallatia.-
2%EhCA    ~        ON pr caplt.. etibentos at  oret mweret price,                 l'.]el   Ore mso.~i ac  - Popaltion divided by Me-    of pmeticicg phlci.ebme,
osuo.     US$)dy   ae ooerto   shoi sWorld Back Atlas (1976-7t becic);                        w       U        sehoo  at -oeroi ty leve.
1960, 1970, cOd 1978 dat..                                                                       he           ero  - Pepclation divided by seabwo Of practicing maIe
Ngf!Y C MJ!PPR PU CAPP!  - Aecm- . o-oI--ption of  o              aniseor'a   famLe gemOcetc Mrs.m, Practic.al owes., cod assistant   os
ie..co   Eti. peioono  ceea    -gemd hydro-, mols. sod soo-                   P ltioc hr           t.1t.Ind0- total. ahe. mad 00r.1 -Popsulediio, (tot.3l boke
th-smal eletfiotty) Do kiloceme of coal eqce.ioit per -pyit.; 1960,                     re arel   d1=1. by their ropetie. mob- of hoite.l cake s.miih.o
1970, and  976 dat..                                                                   poclio aod pWI-et. general and epeetellsd hoctyitel cod rSh.ilitatics, maftara.
Hospital. see *.tablicOceots permanently cstf fed by ai Laget Me, omician.
PPUIATIOyNg 4XI VifAL OTATISTTIC                                                           Rtbcihbtcmts .p-oootda  pr-seipe11, cetodi1 al c'ss.   s ot imo.dcd. Ih-'a
ot.].poplation. atdYee.  a1.ino.) - A. of loly 1; 1960, 1970, -d                       h-spiteic  h-mvr, i-1l4de heeath mo medicl  eoters oMt peomessetly staffed
19 di.V                                                                           by * ptci.ico  (hoti by a sedico.] ecietot,  -.em,  idetfs. eto.) Shiob offee
bmpplto   pernet  of total.) - Ratio of -bha  to total. pop ti.tto;          it-patite,t a.ooads.tion mod proide s iidted raoge of medical fmoilitim..
difretdetitiono. ofAhan, cr0  may effect c-moroility of data                 AI           rM.  t.      - Total aMe- of sdei..ioo  to or discharge., fee
ameg oc.-tri.o; 1960, .197C, cod 1975 dots.                                          b PjtO7dtii00by t0n   o.so  of boOi..
Pvopultino Prol-ticog
P.-I.ton in__ 2"- oCact pooeobtioo prcjiecto   -r  based oo                itt0OK
1i975  -tI oPoPOlsi.. by age -cd ae  cd tbeir eortm.ity cod fertility            A-FM.s Sloe of aoee ?d Corocerhueod      oa.0                      .00m--sI -
rat... P-roIetico psomeeter. for eartality rct.m  coaprico of there                A h-ueodoeit   fagopo   oieIcl  coaoelvn    erescod
1ec_lo aseennng life eopmatt-oy 0t birth to-receog etth  -otey' e                  their maleNseals. A boerdar or Iodge, My creepyot be ieloded be ti,e
Per Capita   " 1000 leve   cod feall  life eaPetooy atahillicio  at                houoebld for mtti.tio.l pcrp.e...
77.5 peare.  The prmtor. for fertility rote also hoo. three leei                 Aeeg   me  of  "orom           ron    otl  "be. cd ncr.]  - Acereeowe
.eeciog deoli.e ho fertility  ..coding to i-noe leve  cod Paset                    of persc. eera   to In        h, codmuet.    -copie  -eetIoo-l OsebLiog.,
fceily .1eostg performa-o. 0.00 co-ty Is the ascicg-d  -e  of thoce                respetively.  Deelliog    -Idale no-p-aoeoot cirmtirec cd ocecpied Porto.
ohee  obin.tions of sortality sod fertility t-nd. for projeotico                 Acoec toSlotrqicit  (eeo-reot ogfidelaa "      . totl. ohme m        -r,I - on-
Statoocp poniti   I . to   . ettionory Poocoltic  there ha oo croth            hotel, orba, cod r-1 dc.ellicga re.peetively.
:J..e the birth rote he epoo to the d05th rat, acd olmo the sge
siot-re -r.o    Ionstant. Thie io -hbleod only  nftr fertility ratina         ZlX1ATI0O
dep1ic  to the ropicomamt Iron  of -iht cot reprdotioO  rate, oboe               AQ,ototd boLIsent Retioa
each gnor-tioo ofl           repico- it.-If  -octly.  The sattionaroy eop-       .  rie r ho                                    " o..ee..0fl      os  totl  malco  fi .lemro
latioc oboe ec  entieted on the beoie of th  projected ch-.sterietios                ceto  1   gsc  h   eea ee    . permatoc  of rempetiveP piece
of toe ppolotico to the year 2000, cod the rote of dm011.. of f-rtility              moool-oge pepolatice; moemally iooluem. ehileye  eged 6-U yew.c hut
.r.t:teto  ep1-oeeot love.                                                             ojosted for dbfferent length. of primacy  deonation; for cootriem  mith
aem   mt.tons  PooOl.atl. is reched - The ye-  ,.-e et.tloocr  poroUl.ato              jovre  edociboc oooLbe.o            esome  100 Par00th 000-  cam  opit
mice has  T00rOrhd                                                                   are bele  or chor  the official webel age.
Po,oo1stioc Snomty                                                                     le      yscol-tt,meecdfa-Coapt.d asb. aie; eecodce
P   .k.- Hid-y-o  p.1.1.ti.. per ocour kllcoter (100 hecteroc) ofeocio  eoree   etfe'pmef                                     ueae 0.   LoNy itrocthoo;
tot.d Mr.                                                                            proides gmeral  -tnoilm], or tancher training ioctrctioau  for papil.
Per0.h.aroioe  eo      optda  bv r                                                       _ercltrlla  salty of 12 to 17 yasra of age; oerreepoodsona, corm g-ecnrally
PocaioAeSrotot-  (Ococt) - Cild-e  (0-14 y-ac), ecklog-ege                       -toiioal enroimo  OnoatUp      ofso.d.y       osion.1 itct.tti... iloolde
(15ho  eor  *  od  etied  b5  eor  co  ovr) .o P-ocetoge  of sid-yeo        techical,   getial, or othr pe             cick operate indepOadent]  or 0
peonl.ato;1960 .1970, cod 197?7aa                                                       drpartetc  of cecomdmo  loetitotiocs.
Poi=lt,io  Groth ;t.t (P-ernet) - tota  - Ae-oa Orceth oct00 of total aid-             Pil-tichr ratio - Or             co ad moo    AU- Tote]. atdeot. eaolcin
ye .p~oaio  foe 1950-o  i9b0.70, cd 1970.77.                                    prienryi aM o_.ary obeIidltiddhey noabere of teacher. ie the  Irro-
Pooolation Grwt P.%.  ero- ot  - cbaL - Ac-oa growth rotc. of -oa.onl4lees
poPolatioee far 150-, 19b0-70, no  1970-75.                                          44.4emxptAgoei-Ltrt  adolt. (cole to reed cod eie) a
cr.d.  Lrth    :r(p-t.,  )- Aooom] lien births Par tho,oan  of old-              :praigothtiokit PPOIeatios  Ged 15 Yeso  -in cod
yesr pepoletioc; 1974, 1970, cod 1977 dts.
Cr.d  D-Is at.  parth-nd)- Aom-I deotho pee thocecod of eid-year           C100Pf 013m
p.PAV,ica  1970, 1970, c,  1977 dot..                                              Paeg   Cars (=r  tho,ecd popletioc) - Pseacag.r car  coqpi.ri  Me ic -car
Grosn OeprodOotio  Os.te - Acerae oooahr of dao.ghotreoo         ill hbar              oectlng leeteegt Per-; emlossec aOlaaoce, hears.s sod i010tcry
10 her ...rI r_pr_dutire p-riod if she _op-rbreoc  Pre....t  gcr-                    veiolea.
specific f-rtulity. r-tes;  -os117l fic-year  -eeege  c-dich in 1960,              001   eeer  ectoecdpplto)-A   ico  eevr  o   aedi
1970,. ad 1975.                                                                      brae.st   eea   olcpetoso   f pOOolcthn;  -Ioodee uo1:-ceed
Piu  Psotg - A pt,r,e dom1 (thocoocds) - dotoel ocber of                       reei-or  to Iountrie. mod ic Year.  hine registration of radio. cete m.  to
ace,pto.  of biribctr-I d-eoec coder aoepice. of national family                      effect; data for receot Ieee may act he -mparbl. cior   oo   oot:
plaiooprome                                                                           boi.hed Iiioe-og.
P0I.1  rc o-   er(ecent ofcried cone) - Peoctege of morned                           RVocier  (err thouand poqu1tl..) - TV reciver. for b-roneoct to gasrl.
cmnof chil-brrn   ag     y1-4     ar) cho   bo llth-cetro1 device.                poblit  Per th-aemd peelati cM; eoldea coliceamed TV' receivers 10in tee
to  1 all c,pitd  -or  i0 ceo  g  groop.                                             sod to peeps oes regictrtico of TV .etc wa  to effect.
iecoapr Ci    tircl.tl   (oer thooscod: 'oAlet,- ) - Shoes the avera.ge ei-vlatica
FOO  AN Oifi'1TION                                                                     of  d..1W  geomra1 interect  -esapr, dfied -a.a periodical Pboli-tion
Indeco   oo   rddo  per Cnpita (1969-71.1100  - Indec If Per cpite                     d-oted priserilie ho recording   ..eral eeoc.  It is Oceidered to he 'daily"
co     P"a prdotiIcf all food r-mditie-  Prodo-tiooeo.l.d-s eyd ad                   if it appers oh moot foi  time, a meek.
f-ed   d die. o  clenda  Ye.  bast.  Poadittee covr priseop 00040                  C'lln- Anoce  AtteodoI P"r Capi~ta  n  l -         sedonthe oomhe  of ticket.
(e.g. odgnoec diceen  of gar) cihic   r  edbl   dc-ntoio-tpirntc                     od.d digteya, iciding odadi.eoe  to driv-to oi-ee. nod .,
(eg. cffeadtear  eolded).  AIggreg.te peodoction of each  -oty                      dolts
to be.e,d 00 na~,tionlaeaepoue   rc    ihs
pe  ait. accl   f c.oie  pec of rocironto) - Coeootd Pro                     lh    FORCE
enrgy ecolvi-o   fnt food   ppie_ aoe.biel  in codotry Per capita                Total lahor Force ,(tihoca Eo)     - Eooically  rti-e pere.c, icoldleg mread
per dap. A, ilble .oppli-, -opri-e dometic p-odotioo, ioprts Ieon                  foocee ad oclydht ...lodieg hsrv,Ot.oeot.. et. iefiO1i ic.
hoprt,  d  bge  tn stock.  Net soPPlie- .ooIlde alma] feed, 000d0,          in vaious .-ctries  -r  not c-mperbi..
qootitieoumed in food proecsing, cod I ...e- in diotribtiuc.  eqcire-                                  - .Feal  labor forc  ac Pereotcge of total lohr foec.
men. in -o  estictted by PhiO bha..d on phyoiolgeica  ceed. foe ucre..l          9 I_I  ,,)pfet)- Lahor force in fecelog, for-ctry, hotleg cod
activity med health ....eidering  -cir-etai temperature, body oeigbto,             fishing an perfetege of total labor fo-c.
age and  h,o d,oteibotioon of ps,ni,nd  alig10 percnt for                        lobutro (percent) - Loite foCe i. eaitog, oa.trochIt-, macfateringed
000   t  oehold 1ev1.                                                        electric~ity,  ater cod cot as per-tage oftoal labor fo-,e
_epcpita  _lypi of eotein (gre cr dso) - P-tcinc-tent of pr-                     Participtic .,te (per-t) - total, el   sod fees.]. - Partieipe.tlc  or
osiontoppy of foo-d per day.iNot ecppiy of food to defined as                atl t  rts  r  -*oted as toa,mae   0fel  Ibhor forc e oPe-
abo-e Fileqcr.n   for .11 ocootr es estAbilahd by U0th proide for a                 etgno  ot..  aecd feaep]lto  of all ago. repectiviy;
etnlec.1 -icec  of togo-  of total Proteo Per day ad 20 grc. of                    196D, 1970, cod 1975 dotn.  Them  are Ito's parti.ipetioo rating refl-ctlag
alal sod pulce prote6o, of chickh 10 W"c'  bholo ho aoib proteic.                  aeseatet    of thr pePOltioc, cod long ttee treed. A fee estiate.
Thes  atado-d  ar  bee  the. those of 75 gras- of total protein and                  acfro   _tia._]._sre..
23  re  of iame. P00t10i. aavrg  for thr  -cId, prop.sed by FAG                  loc-cie Depodno  Ratio    R atio of popolatios coder 15 cod 67 ad .-e to
In the Third Ocrld food S-ory.                                                     th   cor force bio age group of 15-64. pear.
Per -mpit. protein scnY fro- oIa-. cod acl.. - P-ot.it supply of food
decl beged P1-4.                    thtcdpslosingamspr' dep.                     1-IS  PItmRIoNIT    -tICE
Chil (ao. -4)t&,tediy  ate  pertboee,d)   do"'o deatho per th-uscd       erntgofrvteto o(hotot to caah aOd kind) - R-oiv-d by riba.t
to age groop II er,tocidn  in tbc  g  geuP; for mant dec1.                           5 Percent, richtb   2  pecent,  _or..t 20 P-recest, cod pooret 4.0 pewasat
opiog  -utries dato d-rl-e  free life  stblen.                                        If h-choldo.
MUTI]O                                                                               PVOtEOrY TARGOT GROUPS
lifeEapeteoc  atOirt  (Oos A-Avrage eobcr of Yearn of lifo                  Fstiaated Abscoite Poerty I---  lve  (0  eercapta)                  " ohocdeal
yearof ge  er houandlir   itho                                               affordable.
Nokro   epe(oa,  ra               drrdet  eaoai   ceot                                 cAblt pn--tic   I- povrt 1ioo . lrli   n-hr   fseaspropt
eaestosup ,)tt coroteae   Acrfsc  a-tern nof cotrete d.ru                             pesnInm   fteccoe.Ub,lcl                           eivdfe   h   ea   ee
-tconceboted etor -.ch a. that fec. protected  hrln   prings,                        Vito dcjoshmet for highet o...t of living J. co.,aras
ad ealtopy oils) ce pcrontagea of their r-petive pop,l.tioOO   ton                 inEmatd Pconoltloo heloc Ab,oIte Povety I120m   11Love (p rcet) - ebso, and
an urban  -re  a Public Pfo,si   or stcP.d.t locteod not mere than                    ua   Peroet of Pepujation (O-b  ad             Iral) eh sr hco te p-s(
200  et-re  Pr.a house Wm he  -ciderd as being cithio reconble
accea  ofthat ho.-..  ID rora  ara  r-aoabie arvem  scold iply
that the h  -o afe or -ce-doerf th. hococekld do  ot hav  to spend a                                                       P000b  sod Soiub  altta Dieti.l
dbsp-p-pti-t.l pact of tie day in ftching the family's cater nd.                                                      Scocomic An,alyiesi  cd Projectibon  Department
Aegost 1.979



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                                                      P&.6 of 5
EC063311C DEVEIOPNE8T DATA SHEET
A1ta  Sl                                            Pro1ectedi                           Growth rote.  (0.                 1965 stmee
1965       1970       1976        1977       1978 L.      1979        1980       1985      1965-77      1977-79    1979-85    1985-90      of G00  (S)
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A. National Accourts
(Million US$ at 1975 price-)
1.   Gross domestic product         6,843.8   1, 323.0   15 712.6   16,685.5    18. 138.9    19 395.2   20,692.9  29, 256.7          7.7          7.8        7.1         7.0        168.8
2.  Caine froo terms of trade          -44.3       42.8     -507.7    -978.1       1,108.9     1 230.4  -1,473.0  -1.962.8                                                           -3.2
3.  Gross domestic boone             6,799.5   10,365.8   15,204.9   15,707.4    17,030.0    16,156.8   19,219.9   27,793.0          7.2          7.5        7.0          7.0        96.8
4.  lopoots                          1,659.9    2,969.9    3,699.1    4,460.8      4,896.8     5,092.6    5,440.4    7,507.8         8.6          6.7        6.7         6.8         23.5
5.  toporos-voluor                 -1,593.2   -2,274.0   -3,808.4   -4,506.9    -5,157.9    -5,077.4    5,512.1   -8,044.7           9.1          6.1        8.0         8.7         24.2
6.  Etporto - adjoeted for TOT      -1,548.9   -2,317.5   -3,300.7   -3.528.8    -4,048.9    -3,039.0  -4,039.1   -6,081.5           7.1          4.3        8.0         8.8         21.0
7.  Rot..rce gap - adj -tod
for TOT                          110.0      671.9      398.4      932.1        847.9    -1,243.6   -1,401.3  -1,489.3                                                           2.5
9.  Total coootooption              5,302.5    8,007.0   11,709.5   12,370.3    13,062.6   1,213.4   15,090.4   20,721.2            7.3          7.2        6.5         6.1         16.5
9.  Icoreimeot                       1,608.2    3,030.6    3,893.8    4,269.2      4,815. 3    5,187.2    5,530.8    8.062.0         8.5         10.2        7.6          7.5        24.8
10.  Notional t.avIngs               1,576.4    2,500.8    3,477.7    3,312.5      3,908.1     3,901.5    4,011.1    6,125.8         6.4          8.5        7.8         9.6         22.1
11. Domestic oaologs adjoated
Ior TOT                       1,497.2    2,358.7    3,495.5    3,337.1       3,967.4     1,943.4    4,129.5    6,572.7         6.9         8.7         8.9         9.3        22.2
12. GOP at correno  5S$              4,352.9    6,543.3   16,284.3   18,156.9    21.081.8    23,214.1   29,590.9   59, 776.6         13.3        17.8        15.5        13.4
8. Soer O-toot
(Shar- of GOP)
1. Agr-ict-ore                         0.391      0.346      0.301       0.281       O.Z71       0.264      0.238       0.229
2.  Industry                          0.208       0.227      0.269      0.288        I.299       0.304      0.309       0.335
3.  Soro'oes                          0.401       0.427      0.430      0.431        0.430       0.432      0.432       0.437
C. Fo-cee (1975 100)
1.  erport price indro                46.43       48.04      91.65      89.35        96.55      111.65     125.04     171.40         5.6        12.7         7.2         5.1
2.  Imlport price lodeI                47.76      47.15     103.75     114.12       125.05      147.66     169.81      226.72        7.5         6.7         6.0         5.0
3.  T.rms of trade ideo              97.22      101.88      86.67      78.30        78.50       75.61      73.64       75.60       -1.8         5.5         1.1         0.1
4GP deflator (70)                 59.27       63.39      03 .64    108.02       116.07      130.00     143.00      204.32        5.2         6.8         7.3         6.0
3.  Aun,l -cefage enchange rate        20.80      20.80      20.40      20.40        20.39
D. Selected Idi-canoro                              1965-77    1977-79    1979-85      1985-90
1.  ICOP                                           3.56       3.32       3.80         5.97
2.  Import elsticity                               1.09       0.87       0.95         0.97
3.  coerage-naticoal t.viogs rote                  0.24       0.21        0.21        0.24
4L.  Ki-gial nationa maclogs rate                  0.18       0.12        0.23        2.28
5.  rlportsl/0G                                    0.27       0.26       0.26         0.26
6.  Io-eotstet/GOP                                 0.27       0.26       0.27         3.28
7.  Re-oorce gap/GDP                               0.04       0.06       0.05         3.03
VO1s   dded /b                        Labor forte /t                       V.A. -er w-rker /b /c
E. lAtent. Labor Force sad Prod-tlvinr in 1975               08  Millie.      I                     Mtillo       -                       US$        2 of soer
1. Agri-ulture                                               4,559       31.3                    13.4       75.7                          340       41.5
2.  Sod_arry                                                 4,442        30.4                    1.4        7.9                        3,170       356.7
3.  Servicen                                                 5,588       38.3                     2.9       16.4                        1,930      235.4
Total/--eraoo                                       14.589      100.0                    17.7      100.0                          820      100.0
F. Public rIn,ca (X of GCP) (Central Go-er-meet)    1965         1970        1974        1975       1976       1977 /9    1978
I.  Cnrreuccosuoen                                 13.5       13.8       14.5         13.6       13.4       14.0        14.6
2.  Ta. revHtae                                    12.3       12.5        13.5        12.0       12.1       12.9        13.6
3.  Curront tnpeditures                            10.5       12.6        10.7        12.1       13.0       12.8        13.2
4 3. Budg:etary esoings                             2.9        1.2         3.7         1.5        0.4        1.2         1.4
5.  Totel public -noestseet                         6.5        7.7         3.6         4.9        5.3        5.4         5.3
G. F.el Inoret  iCorrut 000 silllon.                   65.0      112.0       626.6       711.7      833.7       923.0    1,116.0
0% of totul i,porta Intl IFS)                       8.3         8.0       16.4        20.0        21.1       19.7       19.1
ft PrelIminary.
/b  Ato -rr-t  rket prices.
/c Eteisate.-



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                                           'age 5  f 5
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE. DBT AND CREDITWiORTHINESS
(Current US1 millions)
ACtuel                                                Pro) eted
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977       1979L      1979      1980       1995       1990
Su-mary of Balaoce of Peviseuts
Exports (iurluding NFS)                               2,084.7  3,025.4  2,796.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4,930.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
Imports (is-l1ding NFS)                               2,258.3  3.353.2  3,487.3  3,911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  244,6'0.4
Re.o.rco belasce                                       -173.6   -327.8   -609.9   -421.3 -1,064.4    -989.2  -1,840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5            317.3
Net factor porvico lucono                               -20.8      -0.7       5.4    -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0   -300.0    -925.0  -1,412.5
NSt intocest payprent                                    7.0     36.0      69.0     26.1      -4.0     -69.4    -100.0   -210.0    -766.9  -1,170.7
Of AOlch on public   6 LT loans                     -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -133.1    -174.5    -487.1    -892 .0
Direct invoutrst i1-cose                              -28.0    -37.0    -64.0    -66.1    -68.5         -72.8     -75.5      -80.0    -192.5   -290.0
Workers re-ittascon (ert)                               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      22.9       24.5       34.4       18.2
Corrrot transfers (not)                                  145.5    241.0      80.1     22.8      39.3       40.4      60.0       80.0      100.0      110.0
Balance os corront accoont                              -48.9    -87.5   -605.3   -440.0 -1,097.6  -1,103.4  -1,990.0  -2,020.0  -1,894.5    -9f5.1
Pri-ate direct iuvetne-t                                 67.0    135.6      85.5      79.1    106.1        50.0      60.0       75.0      276.3     497.0
Grosts 6 grout-like flos                                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Public 0l I LT anss
Disburpete                                             69.0      95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6        739.5     900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
Anortilation                                          -28.9    -32.3    -38.7    -43.4    -87.8         -90.7    -164.1    -222.1    -620.1  -1,092.7
NSt dlmhortemeals                                      39.2      63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8        648.8     735.9      788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other M & LT loose
Disbu.es-etm                                          178.9    326.2    299.6    279.7    311.8         501.3     900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0       462.2
Awortietios                                         -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2    -467.2    -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1,167.8
rNt dlsbsrmeents                                      -44.2    129.3       64.5     33.8      47.6       34.1     380.0      350.0      542.4    -705.6
Use of IMP reF oarcem                                     0.0       0.0       0.0     77.1       1.8      181.4     200.0      200.0      -30.0        0.0
Shoot-term  capital tress1 tlens                         42.0      55.0    127.5    136.2    256.2         84.0     120.0      250.0      180.1     252.6
CapItal tras.actions NEI                                 57.9      96.3      77.2    -11.4    136.2   -371.9           0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
ghaoHe in roer-ss f- - icea.e.                         -113.0   -392.7    140.1    -73.0    275.0        476.9      494.1      176.3    -414.8    -654.5
Nst foreign  -ohaue rsse.em /b
(sod of period)                                     1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8        659.9      166.0       10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Grout and Loan Co-oitments
Official gra-ts                                             .       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0
Total poblic M 6 LT loans                                87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   1,220.0
IBRD                                                   15.0    142.0      95.0    158.0    137.8       256.0
IDA                                                    25.0       7.0       0.0      0.7       0.0       33.1
Other aultilatoral                                      6.4      77.2      62.7     92.1      47.0      194.7
Govertneotn                                            24.0    200.5       47.7     22.2    106.4       312.0
Of shich  -eo-rally plos.ed ecoso-ien /               0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Soppli-e                                                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
fi.a.ciol isstitatioes                                 16.7       9.7     18.0    100.0    341.9       423.7
Othnr M 4 LT louts (share avalable)                     178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9        531.8
Memorandun Items
G.rant oloenst of total cot   it-eu5u (X)              44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Average ipterret (1)                                    0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081    0.080        0.072
Average maturity (years)                               29.100   23.800   23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
Medium- asd Lose-Term Debt (Disbarsed only)
Total debt outetaudiug  ('OBD red of peried)            903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
Ilutlding ondiborsed                                 1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Public debt sorvlte                                     -54.9    -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Ibteroit                                                -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44 .3    -64.5    -100.7
Other M & LT dabt servIce                              -255.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
Total debt service                                     -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
Debt Borden (X)
Debt ervlte rette                                        14.9     10.8      13.9       9.6    12.2        16.1
Bebt mervlce ratio tl                                    16.2      12.0      16.2     11.5    13.9         17.6
Debt  -erv-lo/GDP                                         2.9       2.5       2.7      2.0      2.7         3.6
Public debt -evi-G-/overn-ent reveooa                     4.3       2.5       3.5      3.7      4.4         6.3
Tern 1')
Interest on total DOD/total disborsenants                 5.7       5.5      5.6       5.4       5.7       5.6
Total debt mervi-e/GOvsrnment revesos                    12.4      11.8      11.9     10.7      12.0      19.6
Deoe,ndoy Batos for -M & LT Debt (2)
Irons dlubursen"ntm/ISpurtm (Inuladiug NFS)              11.0      12.6      12.9     13.3      10.9      21.0
Net trasmfer/inpurts (Inol.ding NYS)                     -2.8       2.8       1.8      4.8       2.0       10.2
Net trasaEar/groas  disbursements                       -25.3      22.5      13.6     36.0      18.4      48.7
Eseesure I2)
088D disabrse_ent/gromm total dinbuesements              14.8       8.0       9.1      8.3      12.0       9.3
B.ak Greup ditbarmenautm/geoss total disbursments    14.8           8.3       9.7      9.5      13.6       9.9
IBBD DOD/tota1 MDO                                       24.2      20.8     20.0      18.6      17.9      20.2
Osuk Group DOD/total DOD                                 24.2      20.9     20.4      19.2      18.9      21.3
IBRD debt servite/total debt iservle                      8.0       8.5      8.3      1O.9       9.8        7.8
Bank Group debt tervice/total service                     8.0       8.5       8.3     10.9       9.8        7.8
Enternal Debt (Disbutmed only)                         Outetandise 12/31/78
(Current US5 ndllious) .Asost                                        %
IBRD                                                    434.8      24.5
JasI Group                                              459.3      25.8
Other nsltilsteral                                      257.3      14.5
Govectnennu                                             549.2      30.9
Of  hthich uentr-lly planned ecoonsoi-s Ic              0.0       0.0
Suppliers                                                 9.0       0.5
Fina-tial  Su-titution.                                 502.1      28.2
Bnd.                                                      0.0       0.0
fetal public M & IT debt                              1,777.1    100.0
Other M 6 LT debt                                       913.9      51.4
r.t1l peblit debt (inuludieg sediburaed)             3,680.4    207.1
Total M & LT debt (inoludieg ,ssdishbrsed)            4,594.3    258.5
/a Preliminary.
/   Net foreign .ssets.  09$ equivalent of Line 31.                                  Nam.                                                    Ot.br, 1979
/c  I-uludem CNEA  -ootriee, Peoples REpublin of China, North Korea, NBrth Viet
Ld IncludIng et direst iao.st-ent inenme.



-26-                                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                 Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrowers                         Purpose     Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                  388.9      5.5        -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                    Education       15.4       -     4.3
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom          37.0        -      1.6
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                    Highways       28.6        -     0.8
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                    Education          -    19.5     3.5
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                    Irrigation         -     7.0      1.0
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.0       -    11.5
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.7       -      0.2
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water            55.0        -     5.5
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                    Irrigation    95.0         -    70.8
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                    Rural Dev.    21.0(TW)   -       9.7
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                    Livestock       5.0(TW)   -      3.1
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                    Rubber         50.0        -    37.1
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom          26.0        -     5.6
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                    Education      31.0        -    22.2
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.0       -    15.6
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                    Agriculture   28.0         -    22.8
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                    Irrigation    55.0         -    41.2
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.0       -    37.4
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.8       -      3.9
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                    Population        -    33.1/a  33.0
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                    Transport.   110.0         -    84.5
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority       Rural Elect.  25.0         -    24.4
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                    Housing         8.6        -     7.8
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.9        -      1.3
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom          90.0        -    90.0
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                    Irrigation    17.5         -    17.2
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                    Urban          16.0        -    14.2
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand              Railways       16.7        -    16.7
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power /b       80.0       -    80.0



-27-                                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                   Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                    Less Cancellations
Number   Year       Borrowers                          Purpose         Bank    IDA  lindisbursed
Cr. 913  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Education /b          -    35.0    35.0
Cr. 929  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Rural Dev./b          -    25.0    25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Agriculture /b   40.0         -    40.0
Total                                                          1.411.1   125.1   766.9
of which has been repaid                                       202.7
Total now outstanding                                          1,208.4   125.1
Amount sold /c                        68.6
of which has been repaid           40.0                         28.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 1,179.8   125.1
Total undisbursed                                                669.4    97.5
/a Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/b Approved but not yet effective.
/c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials               28.33    4.22      32.55
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials           36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             73.98    9.49      83.47
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           48.69    2.56      51.25
Net held by the Corporation                         25.29    6.93      32.22
Total undisbursed                                   38.85    0.25      39.10



-29-
ANNEX IT
Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1979)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflect ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. The specialist services program under the project
is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment
and the remainder have been recruited. Recommendations of experts for
improvement of teaching, research and extension activities are considered
worthwhile and have been implemented by the university staff. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Due to the Bank's concern about the delays in the TTC component, this project
was included in the OVP problem projects review paper of April 19793. Good
progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of project
components except at Songkla University where the attraction of teaching at
Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Ex`e  tive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Of 146 fellowships 137 have been
awarded, and 119 completed. Staff training programs are on schedule but need
to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its non-
formal education programs.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and $35.4 million (96%) had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of the
long distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The
project is expected to be completed by the end of December 1979, about three
years behind original schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Prolect; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$20.4 million (82%) had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979. Local
telephone network expansion is a few months behind schedule. After a year's
delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long dis-
tance transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is
now expected to be fully disbursed by September 1981 and completed by the
end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4. 1978; Effective Date: January 3. 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to delay in management decision on standardization of switch-
ing equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by about
9-12 months. Bid documents for all project items are now expected to be
issued by end of 1979. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone
areas and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on imple-
mentation of other loan covenants is satisfactory.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is almost complete and 97% of the loan was disbursed
as of September 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Proiect: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintetnance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19. 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 19I74;
Original Closing Date:  June 30. 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30. 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement
in the pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on
rehabilitation of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be
completed by the end of 1979. The estimated project cost is $30.3 million,
compared with $12.5 million at appraisal. The increased cost is due to price
inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new
tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed
at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases



-32-
ANNEX II
page 7 of 13
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now c2himated
at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has been affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several
disciplinary groups.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: April 25,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979. Design by contract
is delayed but "force account" work is expected to begin in January 1980.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
About one third of major civil works are behind schedule, but
project completion is still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on
the diversion dam and the first of three canal contracts is progressing
satisfactorily. Work on a second canal contract started in April 1979.
RID expects to award the third canal contract in time to commence construc-
tion during the next dry season. About 5,000 ha of on-farm development will
be completed this year. Thus, by the end of the 1979 construction season
the total area provided with on-farm development will amount to 10,500 ha, or
11% of the project area. All studies financed under the project are proceed-
ing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong was recently completed. A project monitoring system is being
set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National Agri-
cultural Extension Project.



-33-
ANNEX II:
Page 8 of 13
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Mlillion
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30. 1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Furthermore the number of permanent project staff has been increased from the
initially approved 121 to 223, an the New Zealand Government has agreed to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development has agreed to
conduct a livestock sector review to prepare an integrated development plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement dif-
ficulties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is impro-
ving. Replanting attained in 1978 was close to the revised target of 35,000
ha.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
Loan No. 1393  National Agricultural Extension Prolect; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Staffing is almost complete in 18 of the possible 25 provinces.
A few of the provinces incorporated under the project in 1979 lack about
70% of Extension Agents, but all efforts are being made to appoint staff
to these provinces which are generally less attractively located. Although
staff training schedules are adhered to, the quality of training, particu-
larly that for subject matter specialists, can be further improved. The
effectiveness of the new provincial extension services is strongly related
to the quality of leadership and technical support. Strong efforts to
rectify shortcomings are now being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent
extension results have already been achieved, in particular through the
extensive use of small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups,
in rubber quality improvement and in improvements in home gardens. The civil
works program is about two years behind schedule, mainly because of high rates
inflation, low unit cost of ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau,
and the relatively large size of the provincial civil works packages which
consisted of many small buildings scattered throughout the provinces. It is
expected that contracts for all remaining civil works under the project will
be awarded in Thai fiscal 1980. The ceiling for unit prices has increased by
about 35%. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is on schedule.
Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works program.
Consultants continue to provide DAE with excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. Construction
of the dam embankment was completed on May 14, 1978 and all other works are
being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine generating
units is expected to be completed on schedule. Project costs are likely to be
about 28% higher than appraisal estimates, due mainly to additional grouting
work required beneath the main embankment. The progress on resettlement has
been satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction of the resettlement project is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was
an initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents
but procurement is now under way and should present no further problems.
Field construction crews have been working on pole setting and conductor
stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The engineering work is proceeding on schedule. The follow-up
project has been appraised.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals for
raising the water tariffs in line with increased operating costs are expected
to be made effective in October 1979.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates. In order to minimize resistance to beneficiary charges, cost
recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical works are
completed - starting in early 1980.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment have been installed, some two years earlier than expected, as
a result of the consulting and procurement work done under contracts for which
the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastructure
has been progressing. Bunding, drainage, and three of four deep wells have
been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road construction,
sewerage, and water distribution, and work is expected to be completed by end
of 1979. Land sales have been very encouraging with nearly all of available
plots either firmly committed or being negotiated, and are well ahead of
appraisal estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average sales
price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of B 250,000
per rai in the-appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial demand for the
Export Processing Zone, IEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's
full development is still expected by mid-1980.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date:  September 4, 1974:  Original Closing Date:  September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The full amount of the $12 Million Loan has been committed, of whici,
98% has been disbursed. The commitment was more rapid than orignaliLy esti-
mated. Disbursements have also been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when
the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital struc-
ture and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share
capital increases. Satisfactory progress has been made on the institution-
building aspects of the project.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most
*of the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated
Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial delays in staffing the
project administration and financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the
Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau
approval for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities
were held up initially and major elements of the project are about six months
behind schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appro-
priate action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and
remove impediments to implementation.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on August 22, 1979.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
This development credit becomes effective on October 12, 1979. Good
progress has already been made: (i) the Central Procurement Unit has been
established; (ii) sites for all first phase institutions have been acquired,
and expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and
lists for most furniture and equipment have been prepared; (iv) consultants
for the Center for Educational Technology have been selected; and (v) poten-
tial technical assistance contractors have been identified.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This development credit becomes effective on October 12, 1979.
Preparations for the first year of project implementation have been satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies have
no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: November 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is yet to become effective.
Loan No. 1752  Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan is yet to become effective. However, the Government has
given this project high priority ans intends to accelerate project implementa-
tion.



-39-
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
KRAO IAEM HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project  :   5 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project  :   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
with assistance from SMEC
(consultants)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank            June 1977
First mission to consider the
project                            :   September 1977
(d) Date of departure of the
appraisal mission                      February 8, 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations            :   September 27, 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness            March 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower/Guarantor have agreed that:
(a)  recommendations arising from the study for coordination within the
power sector will be implemented by December 31, 1980 (para,. 33);
(b) the sector and EGAT will earn rates of return of 6% in FY80., 7% in
FY81 and 8% in FY82 and thereafter on assets revalued annually
(para. 37);



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) EGAT will secure Bank's approval on borrowings if its debt/equity
ratio exceeds 60/40 or if short- and medium-term borrowings exceed
15% of total debt (para. 49);
(d) the Government has agreed to contribute about $118 million equivalent
toward costs of project attributable to downstream benefits (para.
51);
(e) a detailed plan for the resettlement of about 2,000 families will be
submitted to the Bank by June 1980 and implemented by EGAT (para. 58).



20'~~~~~~~~
C  KJO DA'M                                                           LAO    PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC
inAaiSooy,..y.                                                           REPUBLIC
D,-o  7MWO                                                                                                                                                            m
ME HTh  I    Non                                    NAM  NGUM DAM1
Cluorginod   K    ~~~ <  "                                                                                          t                         South10 
Th-o/lrt  o   0   W                               /P  MNOg
BHUMBLDAM                                                           G~T,-1M
- ntlo                                                   UBOSRATANA DAM                  CutS
J,  ~  ~       <MoSot            Kophoong                                                                '?Sodot/
CMtLABHRN~         '"Notoor          oos,ho
MW                                                         Anonot
To~~~hI2   Nohhon ~~~~~~~EGIO                                 -h-        bo
I   m~90woi 0'                /
(SRINI RI    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ .NiCt DM                                 '150_
Nolkh- Rotothoo-o 2                           Cop-6  W
Son,n         Initiol ~~241 MMW
A,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
AK lGoon             Phoc-            c'---h, ~ ~ ~
Komuho~~~ooor     to1np F.SA                                                              THAILAND            N
Konch~~~~n"hL' ~~-'ELECTRICITY  GENERATING   AUTHORITY   OF  THAILAND
Ihomuna-hOJRi-                                           .2            KHAO [AEM  HIYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1EGI   N  1' wok    OR                                       N,   --
So Nho                                      T no  OpEtW Cuh,.I                               Undo,      F,hure
Exnining   Cunstrwr.on   P olect    Project
NC KAH -,AM             P  doni230 KV  TromsinLnes
C-P   MW                   NUUAwot0Lnin 3____                                                  -                           115 KV Transmission Lines
P0WE~~~ PLANT    Sotrotrip h 1  b-69 KV Transmission Lines
Sea           hooP0oi               "'&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~A,            -          -           -         - ~~~~~~~~~~~230 KV  Substations
0(2  )  -J\           Sonoohp2                                     A         ~~          ~~         ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  A  A  115 KV  Substahions
GC                                                                              'ANnhr5 nj    '   A                                         69 KV  Substations
I'>          ~~         ~~0  0       0          0>      The,rmal Power Plants
.p Kh,,~ 460.                                    [3         0          0          03      Hydra Power Plants
hoo tCrrto                                  oNuclear Power Plant
~" Riners
Regional Boundaries
O  /s/                                                                      ---.-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boondalnies
0       50      1020                               0
V                                  (07U1t  of  Thcna ia ndtKLOMETERS
u            no          tOO                          200
--  535Q,So<.                                        i                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
R-      ANG SOWAN 
tt      PROJECT 
-9/               - -                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N phYRogi
o  pA  HAg 
CRIEWCLARNORO* T   Op-pMhUOC
intnioonBO rISk              N                                         5                                                   /~~~5,Th0 012 75& -85M
Pho-g Ng            hon                  N>U r,Lt hn                                                                                                              ib
Phoho        -    othM         \REG            9N           3                                        Dctin  - 
Dtoset 10.6 MW          '1-tniOBOR
-  \N                                                                5MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ,b
>2-015MW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 15M
7> 5
weuugooo'o~~~~~~ -b1,2ouSWn -     -            \,                                                       -   i                                                  200 &3 300MW
titonsono 0',oOiOW 'tO onocOtd.   -        A \t'lonorhowon                                                                        ci~~~~~~G. Tuboi- 3015MW
-- OooodhlnoooOnoonou P0000w    -   -                        R~~~~~~~~~~~~AT  Si  /           10    4    0                           16 i    20
WoO OSnEonAW .0000000. oO/                                 ~~~ ~~~3~ 24MW                          ~           .---'          ' 
ooetoniirowr.OOOnMOOOOO   -  -   0000                  -~~~~~~~~~INI   MALAYS IA                 6-"  a-                                            h ---;



