LOAN NUMBER 1770 TH
Loan Agreement
(Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
Dated                              ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1770 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             LIvu,    /, 1980
between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bark) and ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY
OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from a commercial bank
or banks a further loan or loans in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to about thirty--two million dollars ($32,000,000) to
assist in the financing of the Project, on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement or agreements (hereinafter called
the Commercial Bank Agreement or Agreements) to be entered into
between the Borrower and said commercial bank or banks;
(C) the Borrower intends to arrange credit financing from
suppliers or manufacturers in an aggregate amount equivalent
to about sixty-four million dollars ($64,000,000) for goods and
services required for the Project;
(D) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Guarantee Agreement) between the Kingdom of Thailand (herein-
after called the Guarantor) and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the
Loan and to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
Project as therein set forth; and
(E) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Gu,rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEA" means the Metropolitan Electricity Authority, a
wholly-owned government corporation established pursuant to
the Metropolitan Electricity Authority Act, B.E. 2501 (1958) of
the Guarantor;
(b) "PEA" means the Provincial Electricity Authority, a
wholly-owned government corporation established pursuant to the
Provincial Electricity Authority Act, B.E. 2503 (1960) of the
Guarantor;
(c) "Guarantor's Electricity Sector" and "Sector" mean
the consolidated operations of the Borrower, MEA and PEA;
(d) the terms "First Loan Agreement", "Second Loan Agree-
ment", "Third Loan Agreement" and "Fourth Loan Agreement" mean the
Loan Agreements dated September 12, 1957, March 7, 1963, March 22,
1965, and March 24, 1967, and designated as 175-TH, 333-TH, 406-TH
and 489-TH, respectively, between the Bank and the Yanhee Electri-
city Authority (established under the Yanhee Electricity Authority
Act, B.E. 2500 of the Kingdom of Thailand to which the Borrower
has succeeded pursuant to the Electricity Generating Authority
Act, B.E. 2511 of the Kingdom of Thailand); the terms "First EGAT
Power Loan Agreement", "South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Loan
Agreement", "Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Loan Agreement", "Pattani
Hydroelectric Loan Agreement" and "Bang Pakong Thermal Power Loan
Agreement" mean the Loan Agreements dated February 10, 1970,
November 11, 1971, April 15, 1974, September 23, 1977, and
August 9, 1979, and designated as 655-TH, 790-TH, 977-TH, and
1485-TH, and 1690-TH, respectively, between the Borrower and the
Bank; and the term "Prior Loan Agreements" means all such agree-
ments;
(e) "Prior Guarantee Agreements" means the respective
Guarantee Agreements betveen the Guarantor and the Bank providing,
inter alia, for the guarantee by the Guarantor of the Loans under
the respective Prior Loan Agreements;


﻿-3-
(f) "Baht" means the currency unit of the Guarantor; and
(g) "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Guarantor's fiscal
year beginning October 1 and ending September 30.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on December 1 and June 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization s: hedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Not later than June 30, 1980, the Borrower
shall make available to the Guarantor such funds out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (4) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as shall
be required to enable the Guarantor to carry out Part F of the
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D
and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the pro-
curement of equipment under, and the design, construction and
supervision of, the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, tranoportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iJi) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
Project completion report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plant, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon the Bank's
request after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall from time to time exchange
views with the Bank on the progress of the implementation of the
resettlement program under Part B of the Project, as such program
shall have been established by the Guarantor pursuant to Section
3.06 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, at all times, carry out its
operations, manage its affairs and maintain its financial position
in accordance with appropriate engineering, business, financial
and public utility practices, and under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plant, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with appro-
priate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.04. Without limiting the generality of Section
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank cause the dam, waterways, and reservoir
banks constructed under Part C of the Project to be periodically
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practices in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of
such structures which may endanger the safety of such structures.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as


﻿- 7 -
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scc;  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
. (b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, in order to
assist the Borrower in the maintenance of its accounts and in the
audit thereof, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced
financial consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such measures (including without
limitation adjustment of the structure or levels of its electri-
city tariffs) as shall be required to produce annual rates of
return of not less than 2% in FY 1981, and not less than 8% as of
FY 1982 and in each of the Fiscal Years thereafter on the Bor-
rower's average current net value of its fixed assets in service.
To this end, the Borrower shall, carry out measures substantially
in accordance with a Plan of Action satisfactory to the Guarantor,
the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-8-
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing the Borrower's net operating income f or
the fiscal year in question by one-half of the sum
of the Borrower's current net value of its fixed
assets in service at the beginning and the end of
that fiscal year, expressed as a percentage;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means the gross
revenues from all sources related to the Borrower's
electricity operations less all expenses of elec-
tricity operations, including cost of all fuels,
administrative  expenses, adequate maintenance and
taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, and pro-
vision for     depreciation. Interest and other
charges on debt are not considered to be operating
expenses for the purposes of determining the ne.
operating income;
(iii) the term "average current net value of its fixed
assets in service" means the gross value of the
fixed assets in service for electricity operations
less the amount of accumulated depreciation and
consumers contributions, all valued annually from
fiscal year 1971 in accordance with the fixed
capital.formation deflator used for public invest-
ment in the Guarantor's annual accounts; and
(iv) the term "electricity operations" -shall exclude
all mining activities of the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of realistic forecasts, review, not later than
April 30 in each of its fiscal years, the adequacy of its tariffs
to produce for the current and next following fiscal years the
annual rates of return specified in Section 5.04 (a) above, and
shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review promptly upon its
completion.
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of paragraph (a) of this Section, except as the the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall at all times
maintain in its tariff schedule a provision for fuel adjustment
to increase or decrease the energy charges to its customers to
compensate for changes in the price of all fuels.
Section 5.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement, and except as the


﻿- 9 -
Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time otherwise agree, the
Borrower shll not incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the debt of the Borrower then incurred and outstanding would
be greater than 1.5 times the capital and surplus of the Borrower.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "incurring of debt" includes the assumption and guar-
antee of debt and any renewal, extension or modification of the
terms of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof;
(b) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
such debt becomes outstanding and repayable in accordaLce with the
loan contract, agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered into, but only
to the extent that the underlying guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(d) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Baht debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or if such currency is not obtainable, at the
rate of exchange reasonably determined by the Bank; and
(e) "capital and surplus of the Borrower" means the aggre-
gate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower.
Section 5.06. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement, and except as
the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur short or medium term debt, including
overdraft arrangements and bonds, if by such incurrence the
Borrower's total outstanding short and medium term debt would
exceed 15% of all debt of the Borrower, including its short and
medium term debt and the debt proposed to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "short and medium term debt" means debt which on
issue matures by its terms within five years;
and
(ii) the provisions of paragraphs (a), (c) and (d)
of Section 5.05 shall apply.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events of suspension
are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall have occurred in the performance of any
covenant or agreement (other than a covenant or agreement to pay
monies) on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under any of
the Prior Loan Agreements, any of the Prior Guarantee Agreements,
or the Bonds provided for therein;
(b) The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand Act
B.E. 2511 (1968), or the Provincial Electricity Authority Act
B.E. 2503 (1960), or the Metropolitan Electricity Authority Act
B.E. 2501 (1958), of the Guarantor, shall have been suspended,
terminated or repealed, or materially amended, so as to affect
adversely the ability of the Borrower or the Guarantor to carry
out their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement or the
Guarantee Agreement; and
(c) (i) The loan or loans referred to in Recital B and the
credit financing referred to in Recital C of this
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1980, and January 31, 1982, respec-
tively, or such other date or dates as the Bank and
the Borrower may establish; provided, however,
that this subparagraph (i) shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to      the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds and credit for the
Project are available to the Borrower on terms and
conditions consistent witLh the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
(ii) Subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the loan or loans referred to in
Recitals B of this Agreement or the right of
the Borrower to receive all or any part of the
credit financing referred to in Recital C of
this Agreement shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the respective
Agreements providing therefor, or


﻿- 11 -
(B) Such loan or loans or credit financing shall
have become due and payable prior to their
respective agreed maturity.
(iii) Subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under the respective
agreements providing for such loan or loans and
credit financing, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this. Agree-
ment.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events of acceleration are
specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c)
(ii) B of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date           1 -11 IG1RL>, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Add resses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Nonthaburi
Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
EGAT                                TH-2711
Nonthaburi
Thailand
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
Authorized   presentative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   [he table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Construction equip-         2,700,000
ment for resettle-
ment under Part B
of -he Project:
(a) directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                           100% of local
factured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported equip-                         85%
ment procured
locally off-
the-shelf
(2) Civil Works                62,000,000        50%
under Part C of
the Project
(excluding diver-
sion channel -
Stage 1 and the
right abutment
cut-off)
(3) Consulting ser-             8,600,000        100% of foreign
vices under Parts                           expenditures
C and D of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Consulting ser-              100,000         100%
vices under Part
F of the Project
(5) Unallocated                6,600,000
TOTAL      80,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$12,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1 and 2 on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after December 1, 1979.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in aay Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expendiLures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the Borrower's power develop-
ment program covering the FY 1979 through FY 1986, provides
for the construction of a dam and power plant at Khao Laem on the
Quae Noi river in Changwat Kanchanaburi ani is designed to
increase the Borrower's hydroelectric generation capacity. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Land procurement and preliminary u-orks required for:
(i) site investigation and preparation;
(ii) reservoir clearing and road relocation; and
(iii) construction of camps and facilities.
Part B:
Establishment and implementation of a resettlement program
for about 2,000 families in the reservoir area.
Part C:
1.   Construction of a rockfill storage dam about 80 meters
high with a total embankment volume of about 8 million cubic
meters.
2.   Construction of an open-chute type spillway controlled by
2 radial gates.
3. Construction of a water intake structure with an irrigation
outlet and 3 power conduits.
4.   Construction of a surface powerhouse for three generating
units of 100 MW each and of a switchyard.
Part D:
Supply and installation of (i) hydraulic equipment, (i'.)
electrical and mechancial equipment, including turbo-generators,
and (iii) telecommunications equipment.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:
Installation of 230 Kv double-circuit line of about 88
kilometers in length from Khao Laem switchyard to the Srinagarind
switchyard and of one single-circuit 230 Kv line of about 108
kilometers to be strung on double-circuit tower linking the
Srinagarind switchyard and the Ban Pong No. 2 substation.
Part F:
A study aimed at improving organization and coordination
in the Guarantor's Electricity Sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 30, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1985
through   June 1, 1999                      2,665,000
On December 1, 1999                              2,715,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.35%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Paragraph A.4 hereunder, goods and
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such informatioi, as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. or c. and f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufac-
tured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods evaluated on a c.i.f basis, and sales and similar
taxes (applicable to finished domestic products) on goods eval-
uated  on an ex-factory basis, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
4.   Contracts for the purchase of minor equipment items estimated
to cost less than $250,000 equivalent each and not exceeding, in
the aggregate, the equivalent of $750,000, may be awarded in


﻿- 21 -
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bor-nwer and the Bank.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Kingdom of Thailand
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) G-oup B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 22 -
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. or the c. and f. bid
price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of
such price. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from
group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works (excluding the
contracts for the diversion channel Stage 1 and the right abutment
cut-off), and contracts for goods and services estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommen-
dations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or invited.


﻿- 23 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /ZA     day of (AZ?s, 1980L.
FOR SECRETARY


