OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 1770 TH
HOUETS
Guarantee Agreement
(Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated         4&t         <, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1770 TH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
the KINGDOM OF THAILAND (her4inafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTtUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty
million dollars ($80,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto here by agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿- 2 -
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guaran,-ees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual 3ayment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Arreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a), the Guarantor shall provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with funds, as and
when needed, in an amount of about two thousand four hundred
million Baht (Baht 2,400,000,000) to cover the cost of the Project
attributable to downstream benefits.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarartor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be


﻿-3-
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guaratitor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank, secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Guarantor shall from time to time take all such
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of electricity tariffs of the utilities in the
Guarantor's Electrical Sector) as shall be required to produce
for the said Sector as a whole annual rates of return of not less
than 2% in FY 1981, and not less than 8% as of FY 1982 and in each
Fiscal Year thereafter on the average current net value of the
Sector's fixed assets in service. To this end, the Guarantor shall
take or cause to be taken by the utilities in the Guarantor's
Electricity Sector, measures substantially in accordance with a
Plan of Action satisfactory to the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower.
(b) for the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
by dividing the sector's net operating income
for the Fiscal Year in question by one-half of the
sum of the current net valu, of the Sector's
fixed assets in service at the beginning and at the
end of that Fiscal Year, expressed as a percentage;


﻿(ii) the term "net operating income" means gross feve-
nues from all sources related to the Sector's
electricity operations less all expenses of elec-
tricity operations, including cost of all fuels,
administrative expenses, adequate maintenance and
taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, 'and pro-
vision for depreciation. Interest and other charges
on debt are not considered to be operating expenses
for the purposes of determining said net operating
income;
(iii) the term "current net value of the Sector's fixed
assets in service" means the gross value of the
Sector's fixed assets in service for electricity
operations less the amount of accumulated depreci-
ation and consumers contributions, all valued
annually from Fiscal Year 1971 in accordance with
the fixed capital formation deflator used for
public investment in the Guarantor's annual
accounts; and
(iv) "electricity operations" shall exclude all mining
activities of the utilities in the Sdctor.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such action
as shall be necessary to make adjustments to the Sector's elec-
tricity tariffs to reflect changes in the price of all fuels and
in the price of purchased electric power.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall establish a resettl-
ment program under Part B of the Project and carry out Part F of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, public utility,
and socio-economic practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Guarantor
shall, not later than June 30, 1980, establish and furnish
to the Bank, for its review and comment, a resettlement program.
(c) For the purposes of Part F of the Project, the Guarantor
shall:
(i) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank; and


﻿-5-
(ii) not later than December 31, 1980, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Guarantor and
the Bank, implement such recommendations as shall
be agreed upon between the Guarantor and the Bank
as a result of the proposals made by the Guarantor
for Sector coordination pursuant to Section 3.04 of
the Guarantee Agreement dated August 9, 1979
between the Guarantor and the Bank under Loan
1690-TH.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok, Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINANCE                            TH 2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, ha-, caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By  is" V{   (                 tLL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /  A    day of   A/ML, 1940
FOR SECRETARY


