~~cA- d2  /(c    c-  C   t/-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12593-CMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED REHATILITATION PROJECT
MAY 3, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1994)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 8.7
Y 1.00 = $0.115
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (Can)  =  0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)  =  15 mu
I ton (t)  =  1,000kg
=  2,205 pounds
1 kllogram (kg)  =  2.2 pounds
=  2 jin
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAAS  -  Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CIECC -  China International Engineering Consulting Company
CPMO -  Central Project Management Office
EIA    -  Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO   -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GIS    -  Geographical Information System
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    -  Intemational Development Association
IPM    -  Integrated Pest Management
mcm   -  million cubic meters
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
MWR  -  Ministry of Water Resources
NEPA  -  National Environmental Protection Agency
PLG   -  Project Leading Group
PMO   -  Project Management Office
PPMO      Provincial Project Management Office
PRC   -  People's Republic of China
SPC    -  State Planning Commission
TA     -  Technical Assistance
TP     -  Technical Panel
UMRB    Upper and Middle Reach Bureau (of YRCC)
WFP   -  World Food Program
YRCC  -  Yellow River Conservancy Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED
REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDE ANMD PROJEc SUMMARY
Borrower:   People's Republic of China
Beneficiay: Ministry of Water Resources, the provinces of Gansu, Shaanxi, and Shanxi
and the autonomous region of Inner Mongolia
Amount:    SDR 106.3 million ($150 million equivalent)
Terms:      Standard, with 35 years' maturity
Objectives and
Description: The primary objective of the project is to increase agricultural production
and incomes on 15,600 km2 of land in the Loess Plateau in nine tributary
watersheds of the Yellow River. A secondary objective-to reduce sediment
inflows to the Yellow River-is achieved by locating the project areas in the
parts of the Basin with severe soil erosion. Factors such as poverty level,
strong leadership and commitment at the local government level, and
development potential were also considered in the selection of project areas.
The project will (a) create sustainable crop production on high-yielding
level farmland and thereby replace the areas devoted to crops on erodible
slope lands, (b) plant the slope lands to a range of trees, shrubs and grasses
for land stabilization and the production of much-needed fuel, timber and
fodder, and (c) substantally reduce sediment runoff from slope lands and
gullies in the nine watersheds. The project will include 83,200 ha of
terraces; several thousand sediment control dams; 5,500 ha of small-scale
irrigation; 270,000 ha of commercial and land stabilizing trees and shrubs;
155,000 ha of pasture; 27,000 ha of fruit and nut orchards; and an
institutional development component including training, technology transfer,
monitonng and evaluation, and a research program to tackle soil and water
conservation and production issues specific to the Loess Plateau.
Benefits:   (a) Poverty Alleviation. Per capita incomes in the project area are mostly
below the poverty line (about $35 per year) and nearly 30 percent of the
population is iliterate or semi-literate. The project attacks poverty at its
core, as virtually no sources of income other than from agriculture are
within reach for the 1.2 million people in the project area. Incomes will be
This document bas a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefbnan of ther
official duties. Its contents may not othivise be disclosed wnthout World Bak authrzaton.



-ii-
more than doubled as has been demonstated in many villages where
comprehensive control measures were implemented.
(b) Environment. Large areas in the project area are severely degraded
and current agricultural practices are unsustainable. More than 100,000 ha
of presently cultivated land will be taken out of production and, together
with an additional 270,000 ha of mainly wasteland, planted with a mix of
local tree, shrub and grass species. This will not only significantly reduce
erosion, but also improve the microclimate in the now often desert-like
gullies. The land use pattern witl significantly change under the project.
The annual crop area will drop from 28 percent to 21 percent of the total
area, while perennials will increase from 37 percent to 54 percent. The
proportion of wasteland will be reduced from 28 percent to 17 percent.
Improved livestock management will help to reduce the presswe on the
existing grasnd areas. After comprehensive watershed treatment the
annual sediment discharge from the project area will be reduced by half,
contnbuting substantially to an improved sediment regime of the Yellow
River.
(c) nt_al Produ:tion. The project will raise grain output from
427,000 tons to 660,000 tons, and fruit production will increase from
80,000 tons to 320,000 tons. Per capita grain output will increase from
357 kg to 507 kg and per capita incomes will increase from Y 360 to
Y 900. This will be achieved despite the significant reduction in the
planted area as a result of improved water retention and improved cropping
pa.ers.
The project has an overall economic rate of return of 19 percent and will
benefit about 280,000 households directly. The provinces of Henan and
Shandong will benefit from sediment reduction.
Risks:      The project is based on years of Chinese experience in soil conservation and
agriculture on the Loess Plateau. It is also based on the careful analysis of
the World Food Program Mlzhi Project in Shaanxi and the Bank-financed
component in Dingxi county, Gansu, which from all accounts have been
su ful. All components have been exhaustively tested, thus in its
technical aspects the project has few serious risks. On-farm production and
the establishment of trees, shrubs and pasture are, however, susceptible to
drought.  Potential project management risks will be addrssed by
strehening project management under the project.



Fst1iuted Costs:                                    LnaI  Foreign  ITlIa
-   ($ miion) 
Termraing/irrigation                         69.7     6.7   76.4
Afrorestaton                                46.0      4.8   50.8
Grasslands                                   9.7      2.2    11.9
Silt .etention dams                          11.3     0.7   12.0
Support services                             14.0     3.8   17.8
Traing and management                         8.0     3.3   11.3
Base Cost                                   158.7   21.5  180.2
Physical contingencies                        7.8     1.0    8.8
Expected price increases                    58.0      1.7   59.7
TotalProect Cost                        224      24L2   248;
P1nciu PLan.
IDA                                         125.8   24.2  150.0
Centrl CGovernment                           17.2      -    17.2
Provines                                    29.8        -   29.8
Prefecures and counties                      18.5       -    18.5
Farmers (in cash or Lab)                     33.2       -   33.2
Iod                                     224w    2wZ   24A2
Esthmated IDA
Dhbuisements:
IUDA  MFYl        l99S  122   1997 1998  1922     Q  2QQ1 200
($ million)
Annual              20   25   25   25   20   20    10    5
Cumulative          20   45    70   95   115  135   145  150
Poverty Catgory:
Program of Targeted Intervention. The project wiR help tO alleviate poverty
of 1.2 milion absolute poor in the remote and resource-poor upland areas of the
Laess Plateau in northi i China.
Rate of
Return  19 pect



- iv -
CONTENTS
1       Background  ..................................... 1
A.   Introduction ....................... *. .  1
B.   The AgricWture Sector ...........................   1
C.   SoilEsion in China         ............................  3
D.   RurdaPoverty ............. 44   *                           4      4
E.   RationaleforBankGroup Involvement    ............ .                S
F.   Bank GroupL =dingfor Waknhedehabon  .......                        5
2        The1ProJeacAreas               ............................    6
A.   l'heLoessPlateau  ..................*.....                 .....  6
B.  DevelopmentStrtW ............. ..... 9
C.   Project Area Data .............................4  10
Shanxi ................. . ...                           . 11
Inner Mongolia ........ .....                              11
Shaanxd  ... . . .          . . .           .              12
G3ansu    .........12.
3        The Project  ................ 13
A.   Project Objectives and D)esign ..........  ..........    13
B.   Project Description .....        .      .     . . .13
LandDevelopmentandErosionControl Works                     13
Institutional  ieveopment .............      .    ....   17
C.   Planningand Design ......444.               .    ..     .....     20
D.    nplentonSchedule .....              . ... . .......   21
E. CostEstimates.             . 4 ..                                   21
P. CountepartFundsFinnan..ngP.....  22
G.  Procurement......          .  .  .. ........ .           . ...   22
H.  Disbursement . ...... . ..                  . 4.......         .  23
I.   Accounts and Audits              ............ .                   24
J.   Enavirnmenal and Social Inpacts  ....................  26
K.   TechnicalAssstance ......... ...................  27
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission in October 1993. Members of the
apprs  team included J.M. Voegele (misinader, IDA), W.T. Smith, R. Grimshaw,
G. Morgan and Zhou Weiguo (IDA), Li Qun, H. Ochs and L. Stafford (cosutants).
Substantial inputs were povided earlier by N. Jones, G. Temple (IDA), . Doolett, and
G. Dashwood (Consultats). Peer rviewers compised Messrs. .EL Wagner, W. Ochs, J.
Srivastava, B. Trembath and W. Magrth (IDA). The Division Chief bi Joseph Goldbeg
and the Department Diector is Nicholas Hope.



4        Project Organization adManageent .................  28
A.   Project Organization ................ .............. 28
B.   Fiacial Management  ...........................  30
C.   LandContracts and baagement ...           ..................  31
D.  Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting  .......... .... . ....  32
E.   Project Launch Workhop ..........................  34
5        Prices, Production, and Markets ...................       .  35
A. P~rices ......................                                       35
B.   Production.............................36
C.   Miarketing ...............................                         37
6        Beneits andJustification          .................. 40
A.   Benefits ...............................                           40
B.   Eonomic Analysis ....................                    .....  41
C. Risks ................................ 45
7        AgreementsandRecmmndaio   ..........                 .............  46
ANEs
1.       Project Area Data ...............................    49
2.       Prsent and Proposed Land Use  ...........           .............  54
3.       Land Development and Erosion Control Works ......          .........  76
4.       ProjectTechnology and Technology Support ......         ...........  91
5.       Project Mangement Infornation System  .......         ............ 112
6.       Cost Estimates and Expenditure Schedule      ................... 148
7.       Prices, Crop, and AreaModels .      ........................ 160
8.       Fam Household Models .............................   203
9.       Procurement, Disbursement and Supervision Schedules ....       ...... 215
10.     Documents and Data Available in the Project Fiie  ....      ......... 219



TAUL= JN TEXT
Table 2.1    Project Area Data    .......................               *  10
Table 3.1    Cos& Summary  .. .2.2.....  22
Table 3.2  Procurement Profile            . . .25
Table 5.1    Present and P ro posedp   and Us       e ...................  36
Table 6.1  Economic Rates of Retum .... 44
MAs
IBRD No. 25577 - The Project Areas
IBRD No. 25578 - Agricultural Income Distribution
IBRD No. 25579 - Population Density



1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCrON
1.1        The Government of China has requested the International Development
Association (IDA) to assist in financing a watershed rehabilitation project in the
autonomous region of Inner Mongolia and the three provinces of Shanxi, Shaamd and
Gansu. The primary objecdve of the project is to increase agrdultural production and
incomes on 15,600 kin2 of land in the Loess Plateau in tibutar watersheds of the Yellow
River. A secondary objective, which is to reduce sediment inflows to the Yellow River,
will be achieved by locating the project areas in the parts of the Basin with severe soil
erosion. The project will (a) create sustainable crop production on high-yielding level
frmland and thereby replace the areas devoted to crops on erodible slope lands, (b) plant
the slope lands to a range of trees, shrubs and grasses for the land stabilizaion and
production of much-needed fuel, timber and fodder, and (c) subst ntally reduce sedment
runoff from slope lands and gullies in the nine waersheds through the constucton of
sediment retention dams.
1.2        The project was prepared by the provincial water conservancy bureaus,
under the guidance of the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR), and the proposed project
components have been successfully tested and implemented on a large scale in similar areas
of the plateau. The new element which has been introduced in recent years is the
comprehensive and intgrted planning of individual watersheds in close consultation with
the beneficiaries in the villages. An IDA preappraisal mission visited the project areas in
August 1993 and appraisal took place in October/November 1993.
B. Tim AGRICULTu   SEMcro
1.3        Agricuture in China-including crops, livestock, forestry and fisheies-
provides sustenance for about 1.2 bilion people; it is an important source of income for
some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30 percent of the country's gro
dom'nstic product (GDP). Only about 137 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arable. Food grains oocupy about 70 percent of total cropland and accout for
about one third of the value of agicultural output. Intensive farming bas allowed China
to meet the basic food requirements of its population, about 22 percent of the world's total,
and to produce a wide variety of cash and commercial crops, from less than 11 percent of
the world's arable land.
1.4        China's rural reform program, initiated in 1978, has strongly stimuated the
agdcuttural sector. This program produced impressive growth and structual change by
introducing the production responsibility system, increasing producer prices, and  anding



-2 -
the role of the free market. State procumiment prices for grain almost doubled from 1938
to 1993. China is moving towards the full liberalization of grain markets. Sales prices
are now set near free market prices and all dirc';t government subsidies to producers have
been eliminated. State procurement prices consist of a protection price, which is defined
as the prce necessary to operate state grain procurement without subsidies, plus a subsidy
to replace the previous provision of subsidized ferlr and diesel oil in return for gain
cozVract fulfillment; a system which was eliminated nationally in 1993. However, state
procurement quotas have not been fuily eliminated, even though payments are now in
principle at the market price. Some procurement obligations have been maintained in order
to ensure that state grain supplies are adequate to meet sales obligations and to provide
farmers with a secure marketing outlet while markets develop. Grain officials stil feel that
without state procurement, farmers accustomed to store a}l surplus production would be
reluctant to sell grain, while farmers who frequently market grain will fear market
instability. Thus, the procurement quota is seen both as a guarantee and an obligation.
This remaining vestige of the planning system reflects a continued fe3r of market failure,
especially in remote regions. As farmers become accustomed to markets, and planners
gain confidence in the overall balance of grain supply and demand, phasing out of this
system is the next logical step, as has been demonstrated in some large provinces (Sichuan,
Guangdong). A cntical next step for the central government will be to allow regions and
even whole provinces to reduce grain production and rely on grain inflows ard to allow
poorer areas to move from self-sufficiency in grain and instead diversify and specializ in
cash crop:. The Government is now considering a floor price for grain to maintain
incentives for grain production.
1.5        Input pnce increases have outpaced those of output prices, and per ha
production cost of grains increased at 9 percent annually from 1982 to 1991, while net
etuS increased only 4.4 percent. This combined with the fact that industral growth has
outaced agricultural growth by a factr of three to five in recent years has led to a
substantally lower growth of incomes of the rura population. The ratio of per capita
income between urban and rural populations increased by over 15 percent between 1988
and 1990 from 2.4:1 to 2.8:1, and this trend is accelerating.
1.6         China's gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) increased by 83 percent
in real terms during the 1978-90 period (6 percent per annum), substantially faster than
dunng the previous 25-year perod (3 percent per annum). While significant growth in
grain production was achieved in the early part of the period (peaking at 407 million tons
in 1984), stagnating grain production has been the Govemment's central concern in later
years with production rangig between 379 and 402 million tons during the 1985-88 period
as farmers substituted other crops for grain. Recently, however, grain production appears
to have risen to a new plateau, with 446 million tons in 1990 (a year of excelent weather),
435 million tons in 1991, and 442 million tons in 1992, despite severe floods in the
Yangtze River Basin and in Northeast China.
1.7        A maor factor in this success has been China's achievements in plant
breeding-China was the first country to develop hybrid rice-backed up by the vast
network of local seed production, extension, and distribution which put new seeds and



-3 -
technology into the hands of the masses of farmers. Nearly 30 percent of the rice now
planted in China is hybrid, as well as virualy all of the corn, while most of the wheats
have high genetic performance potential for the varous agrocimatic regions in which they
are grown. The Government's strategy to increase grain production aims to expand the
supply of chemical fertilizers and other inputs, increase state investment in agriculture,
mainly in irrigation rehabiitation and expansion, and introduce further reforms in grain
procurement, distribution, prices and subsidies. Prices paid by urban residents for
government supplied flour and oils, unchanged for 30 years, were raised sharply in 1991
and 1992. Grain commodity exchanges for al major grains have been established in a
number of Chinese cities. Continuing reform aims to further liberalize grain production,
open the intemra grain trade to al interested units and individuals, commercialize grain
distribution, and establish a futures market in grain.
1.8        An important objective in China's agricultural strategy is to improve
productivity in rainfed areas, particularly in the arid and semi-arid zones accounting for
30 percent of the total amble land. While productivity of China's irrigated areas is uow
mong the highest in the world, progress in dryland agriculture has lagged behind. In fact,
in several predominantly rainfed regions in northwest and southwest China, poor resource
endowments and high population pressure combined with unsustainable agricultural
practices have resulted in widespread poverty that has remained difficult to deal with over
the past decades. The central and provincial governments are currently preparing
investment programs for Bank financing in both Regions, based on successful experience
of earlier and ongoing projects, including those supported by the Bank and other extna
support agencies such as WFP and FAO.
C. SoIL EROsioN iN CHNA
1.9        The total land area in China subject to erosion is estimated to be 147 million
hectares (16 percent of the total land area); an estimated 5 billion tons of topsoil are eroded
annually. The Chinese estimate that the losses of key nutrints from this process are
nearly equivalent to the nation's total annual ferlizer production. Historically, soil
erosion problems have been most severe along the upper-middle Yellow River, wifth
roughly one third of the nation's total erosion taking place along the Yellow River alone.
Despite efforts to counteract soil erosion since the 1950s, erosion problems have
intensified, with an estimated 30 percent more land affected by erosion today than in 1949.
Other areas of particular concern are (a) along the Yangtze River, in which erosion is
estimated to have doubled since the 1950s, and (b) in Sichuan Province, in which erosion
is estimated to have more than quadrupled since the 1950s. In south China, where soils
are generally thinner, susce'tibility to erosion-caused productivity losses is much higher.



-4-
D. RUAL POVERTY
1.10       While absolute paverty in China is low among the urban population, it is
restricted almost entdrely to resource constained remote upland areas.-I The incidence
of povety in China fell from roughly a tid of the population in 1978 to less than one
tenth in 1985 and since has remained roughly constant at around 9 percent. Absolute
poverty in urban areas is on the order of 0.4 percent of the registerd population while in
the rural areas, it is betwenn 11 and 12 percent. The decline from 1978-85 coincided with
the implementation of the producuon reWonsibility system and the increased application
of improved agricultuWal techniques which resulted in rapid productivity gains. The
majority of the decline so induced was among the rural poor in less remote and less hilly
areas. The rapid reductions through agricultural growth mostly finished by the end of
1984. The residual poor have remained trapped in more remote upland areas where
making such gains is much more difficult.
1.11       Chinese authorities see a special challenge in developing the remote,
resoure-deicient areas in northern, northwesten and southwestern China including the
provinces of the Loess Plateau region. The Loess Plateau agricltural environment has
limited production potential due to dlimatic constraints and extensive environmental
degadation. Agricul  product   and incomes were further diminished in the 1960s
and 1970s when Loess Plateau farmers were encouraged to switch from semi-palism
to grain cultivation on marginal land as part of a national policy to achieve local self-
sufficiency in grain. Furherm    the population growth and consequent reduction in per
capita area of amble land reduces the likelihood of the resource base meeting minimum
rquimets for farm outputs and income. Relef finds and grain sold at subsidized prices
ar provided to the poor to hp term meet minimum food requirements. Social services
to the rual poor receive Little outside help. Village schools will largely depend on their
own limited resources.
1.12       Based on 1992 statistics, (see Annex 1, Table 7), the rural per capita income
in the project areas was only Y 305 which is about 52 percent of the project provincial
average of Y 587 and less than 39 percent of the national rural average of Y 784. More
than half of the rural population lived below the poverty line of Y 300 per carta per
annum. Birth rates, population growth rates and illitacy rates are all substantally higher
while the population of school-age children enrolled was lower than the national and
provincial averages. Unfivorable natural conditions (insufficient water supply, and
ersion), frequnt namal disasters (drought, wind storm, and sand storms), inconvenient
transrtation facilities, poor education and public health facilities, infectious and endemic
diseases (fluoride toxicosis, hyperthyroidsm) are among the main causes of the severe
poverty in the area.
1.13       In the long run, sabizing the envment and creafing an ecologically
sustainable agriultual system-at as high a lvel of production as the soils and climate
V/  OVxa. SbwqleSWfor Rahwig Peny In d 190, Wod Bak Cout Stdy, Octoe 19.



allow-must be associated with a reduction in the population enirely deendent on the
agriculral resource base (through rural entepris growth, and voluntary out-migration)
and better infmstuce (roads, water, and markets) and human resource (health and
education) development.
E. RAnONALE PoR BA= GROUP NVOLVo nr
1.14       IlDA support for the project will fiurher the key elements of the
Government's national development policy. It will aleviate poverty through develomt
of areas with relatively poor resource endowments, raise productivity of marn  lands,
and ehance the environment through effective land and soil connea6on pces.
F. BAK GROUP LEING FOR WATS     RA AON
1.15       IDA bas financed two projects in China with distinctive watershed
rbilitation components. Inestig lessons bave been learned from the soil and water
conseraon component of the Gansu Provincial Development Project which focused an
the development of poor areas in Dingxi County (the Guanxuan River Basin) on the LIess
Plateau. The implementation record of this component has been excellent and bas imvolved
local governnent agencies at all levels-province, prefecture, county, townsi and village.
Close consutation with the benefiiaries was a key to success, whfle the strong focus on
high technical standards and improved technology has led to physical implemention
standards above those estimated at apprisd. The Red Soils Project in Southern China also
was successfully based on watshed development activity, although constaints and
solutions differ from those on the Loess Plateau. Farmers in the red soils area have to
cope with low soil fertility, but have sufficient water resources availble, as opposed to the
uaton on the Loess Plateau where the production potental of the basically fertile soils
is underutilized as a result of limited soil moisture.



-6-
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. THE LOESS PLATEAU
2.1        The Loess Plateau covers an area of some 640,000 km2 in the upper and
middle sections of the drainage basin of the Yellow River. It takes its name from the
German word loess which is used to describe soils deposited by wind action. The Chinese
term for loess is huang tu, or yellow soil. Geologically the Loess Plateau is recent, with
the older deposits dating back to the Pleistocene Epoch, about 2.4 mlldion years ago, and
the newer deposits having been laid down between 100,000 to 10,000 years ago. Deposits
range in depth from 100 to 300 m. Erosion in the form of deep gulies is a prominent
charactristic of the Loess Plateau, and it is this erosion which produces the vast quantity
of sediment caried by the Yellow River. Over the centunes there have been peaks and
troughs in human activity and these have had some effect on rates of deforestaion and soil
erosion.
2.2         One current view is that poverty is both cause and result of the ecological
deterioration on the plateau; a direct consequence of wilfil deforestation and indiscrimina
land reclamation and cultivation. Yet, erosion had already occurred several hundred
thousand years ago on the plateau. It is estimated that the annual sediment load in the
Yellow River 5,000 years ago was already in the range of 1 billion tons as compared to
1.5 billion tons annual average during this centry. This would indicate that the plateau
basically had developed its current shape of steep gullies and deep dissection before
significant number of humans entered the scene. Human damage to the vegetation cover
began about 4,000 years ago, when the plateau was still covered with grass, shrubs or trees
depending on the rainfall gradient. During the Tang dynasty, about 1,200 years ago, Xi'an
was a political and cltural center and an estimated 2 million people lived in the area.
Since then, popuation pressre has drastically increased (nearly 70 million today) and
already before the tum of the century the nal vegetation cover had decreased to about
10 percent. Thus, it would appear that the basic landform is of geologic origin, but the
process of erosion has been accelatd by human intervention. Some Chinese experts see
the erosion of the plateau primarly as a geologic process that has been going on long
before human settlement, and restoring the vegetation alone would not be sufficient to
significantly reduce the sediment flow into the Yellow River. Assuming 50-70 percent
effectiveness of a well established vegetation cover, revegetatton would result in about
20 percent erosion control in a typical watershed. Terraces directly reduce surface erosion
by 95 percent. But they also retain 90 percent of the runoff water, thus, significandy
reducing wall erosion in the gullies and total sediment runoff. Most remaning sediment
can be trapped in gullies by a series of silt retention dams.



- 7-
2.3         The regon is divided into three geomorphological zones called the Shaui
platform, Erdos platform and Longxi basin. The natural vegetaton covers four belts
including deciduous broadleaf forest, forest praire, desert prarie and desert srppe from
southeast to northwest. The area hosts more tban 860 plant species, including about 300
woody plants. Annual precipitation, mostly in the form of rain, ranges from 200 mm in
the north to 550 mm in the south. Over 60 percent falls in the months of July, August and
September often in the form of short intense storms (Ann  - 1 Table 2). Evaporation
ranges from 1,500 to 2,000 mm. Water resources are not only deficient in this area but
also unevenly distributed between regions, years and withn a year. Runoff cha i
in the project areas are summarized as follows: uneven regional distribution ranging from
6,100 n3 in Hequ county to 55,000 m'ekm2 in the Weifen watershed. The diference
between the maximum and the minimum annual runoff can be more than 10 tmes in the
same watershed. Runoff during the flood season usually takes up more than 80 percent
of the total annual runoff. Runoff in the flood season has a sigificantly higher sediment
concentration, of up to 600 kg per m3 of water as compared to the average of 50 kg/n.
2.4         The region receives an average annual sunlight period of 2,000 to 3,000
hours in most areas (Anx 1, Table 1). The effective accumulated temperature hih  or
equal to 100 cengrade is 2,500 to 4,5000, thus meeting the needs of agricuual
production. The average annual tempeture is below 10° centigrade. In summer the
temperae can reach 35C, and in winter it often falls below -1OC.1/ The harsh
climate, low rainfall, and difficult terain present problenms for the development of
sustainable agriculture. However, in recent years, China has made considle progess
in evolving, and testing on a large scale, a range of technical and social solutions to the
development of the Loess Plateau that are economically sound and envrnmentaly
sustnable.
2.5         The Loess Plateau shows a variety of landforms. The commonest landforms
and the most typical of the plateau are the 'gullied hill" and the "gullied plteau.a Wind-
blown sands and arid grasslands are other landforms found in the low rainfall areas of the
northern part of the plateau. Gullied hilly loess consists of rounded hills of coademble
height with a high density of steep-sided gulies showing evidence of active erosion. The
gullied plateau landform is found where the loess was laid down in the form of flat terain
that has been dissected by gllies. The arid gasslands also show relief in the form of
rounded hills but there is less erosion, due to the lack of rainfll. Wind-blown sands have
the general appearance of desert terrain, and until control measures were introduced in
recent years the desert area was expanding.
2.6         Loess soil has the appearance of soft rock. It can be easily excavated by
hand and caves cut in the loess house many of the inhabitants of the plateau. Loess can
be cut to steep slopes that are almost vertical and remain stable for many years if they are
not exposed to noning water. This ch istic can be seen in road cuts and in the
1/    The number of frt-fiee days nmges f&m 130 in Shanxi to 200 days in Shexi.



- 8 -
terraces built to combat soil erosion. It is the susceptibility of the loess to water erosion
that explains the distinctive gullies of the plateau. Gullies tend to erode into steep unstable
slopes and, during floods, the sides of the gullies are undercut and landslides are one of
the main mechanisms of soil erosion. The main component of loess soils (maldng up 50-
60 percent) is silty loam with loose structure and highly soluble calcium carbonate content.
2.7         Short intense storms produce most of the soil erosion. There we also
significant areal variations in the rates of erosion from the Loess Plateau (Annex1,
Table 3). The low rainfibl areas are less productive of sediment because of the low
frequency of storms. The higher rainfall areas are also relatively less prone to erosion
because there is sufficient rain to promote a protective vegetative cover. The highest rates
of erosion are found in areas where the rainfall is on the order of 400 nun; these areas also
have the highest proportion of the coarse sediment that creates problems in the Yellow
River and its tributaries. Sediment runoff from an area is expressed as tons/km2/year (the
sediment modulus) and is averaged over a number of years because there is a wide
variation in soil erosion from year to year. The parts of the plateau with the highest
sediment runoff have a modulus of about 20,000. This is, however, an average of runoff
from a wide variety of terrain and land use. Researchers have found that in the gullied
hilly loess, about 70 percent of the soil loss is from the gullies and about 30 percent from
the surrounding land. An indication of the complexity of the topography is given by data
from the Malian project area in Gansu: the density of gullies is 2 km/kni2, with 1,900
gullies of more than 1 km in length, and 42 percent of the land has a slope of over 25.
2.8         Since the 1950s soil and water consevation on the Loess Plateau has made
significant progress and large areas have been controlled. Untl 1989, 163,000 km2 have
been primarily controlled in which over 3 million ha were terTaced, 870,000 ha of damland
and floodplains established, 7.5 million ha of afforestation completed, 2 million ha of
grassland sown and more than 3 million small-scale soil and water conservation works such
as water-holding cellars, ponds, check dams and gully head protection works constcted.
More than 2,000 small watersheds have been treated. These meaes have made a
significant impact in reducing sediment flow into the Yellow River. Based on observations
at Xanxian Hydrographical station, the annual average sediment tanport during the last
20 years has been about 500 million tons less than during the 20 years before. Although
this was partly due to lower rainfall levels, the annual sediment yield was reduced by 250
million tons at the upper Sanmenxia station. Big tributaries such as the Wuding river, the
Fen nver, the Xingxui nver, the Dahe river and the Sanchuang river after comprehensive
treatment have shown 50 percent sediment reduction.
2.9         With the long cold winter, crops can be grown only between April and
October. Much of the cropland is devoted to cereals such as millet and corn, and oil crops
such as sunflower, rape seed and castor. Vegetables, melons and tobacco are widely
grown as a cash crop. High-quality fruit can be produced in the area and apple and pear
orchards have been established at a rapid pace in recent years. With the establishment of
free markets throughout the area, vegetables are grown where water is available.
livestock raising is an important part of the farming system, especially in Inner Mongolia
where sheep raising is a specialty. Except for the wind-blown sands of Inner Mongolia,



- 9 -
the soils of the Loess Plateau are suitable for a wide range of crops. The alluvial plains
of the larger rivers of the Loess Plateau support surface and groundwater irrigation.
Elsewhere opportunities for irrigation are limited, and generaly confined to areas that can
be supplied from reservoirs formed by dams built in the gullies.
B. DEVEOPMENT STRATEGY
2.10        Since the creation of the PRC, there have been several campaigns, especially
in the 1970s, to terrace the slope lands and to increase the vegetation cover on the plateau.
At the same time thousands of dams have been built to intercept sediment runoff in the
gullies. These measures were aimed pnmarily at erosion control and little attention was
given by planners or farmers to optimizing agncultural production and mamizing farm
incomes.
2.11        The Government's development strategy for the Loess Plateau has been
modified in recent years. It now recognizes that soil conservation is compatible with
sustainable and productive agriculture and that they are mutually reinforcng. Thus, a key
element in this development statey  is the comprehensive and integrated planning of
individual watersheds. The objective is to (a) create sustinable production of field crops
and orchards on high-yielding level farmland and thereby replace the areas devoted to
crops on erodible slope lands, and (b) plant the slope lands to a range of trees, shrubs and
grasses for the production of fuel, timber and fodder. The area devoted to crops is
reduced but the per ha productivity is greatly increased by proven techniques of soil and
water conservation. While the watershed is the basic physical unit (often divided into
subwatersheds) the village is the basic social unit, and the success of the integrated
approach depends on close consultation with village leaders and residents. This integrated
and comprehensive aproach has been successfillly tested and implemented on a fairly large
scale in a number of watersheds in the plateau and has proved to be sustainable.
2.12        While this form of land development helps to arrest soil erosion, the large
volume of gully erosion can only be reduced by directly interepting the sediment by check
dams. The vast quantity of sediment canried by the Yellow River creates major problems
in the managementof the river in its lower reaches. The river bed is rising at a rate of
about one meter every ten years and, therefore the flood protection dikes have to be
frequently raised and strengthened at great cost and increasing hazard. Also, the high
sediment content of the rver in the monsoon season causes silting up of imgation canals
which often have to be closed during periods of peak sediment flow. Of the approimaty
640,00()0 km2 of the entire Loess Plateau, 80,000 km2 produce 60 percent of the annual 600
million tons of coarse sediment carried by the river (it is the coarse sediment which causes
the problem in the lower reaches). Given the urgency of the sediment problem in the
lower reach, the Govement has adopted an approach that can be implemented at a fast
pace and at lower cost per ha than comprehensive watershed development. Such an
approach involves the constuction of silt retention dams on the primary and secondary
gullies draining the Loess Plateau in the areas of high sediment runoff. The reservoir
areas of the dams are uninhabited since the land consists of eroded gullies. The dams
would fill with sediment in five to ten years in most locations, but their height can be
easily raised to increase storage at a ftaction of their orginal cost.



- 10-
C. POJECT AEA DATA
2.13        The proposed project will implement the above strategy through land
development and construction of sediment control dams on 15,600 kcm2 in the areas of the
plateau with high sediment runoff. Project watersheds include the serious soil eroson
areas of the Weifen river, the Xinshui river, the Hebaopian region of Shanxi province,
Hantai, Hashila, and Husitai rivers of Inner Mongolia, Yanhe and Jialu rivers of Shaanxi
province and several subwatersheds of the Malian river of Gansu province, involving seven
prefectures Oeagues), 21 counties (banners, cities) in nine basins. The soil and water loss
area is 13,992 1k2 or 90 percent of the total area. The total population in the project area
is 1.24 million, of which 1.16 million are rural. The labor force is 388,000. The
populion density is 80 persons/kn2, per capita land and cultivated land is 1.3 ha and
0.3 ha, respectively. The total grain output in the project areas is 4.2 million tons and the
unit output is 1.2 tons per ha. Per capita grain output and net income are 360 kg and
Y 288, respectively, based on a thee-year average 1987-89. As of today the controlled
water and soil area is 2,700 kmI with an erosion control degree of 21 percent. Basic data
for the watrsheds in the project are given in Anmic, Table 6 and summized below in
Table 2.1. The watersheds in Shanxi, Shaanxi, and Gansu are typical of conditions found
over much of the Loess Plateau. In Inner Mongolia the watersheds include gulied bils,
dsert terrain and flood-prone alluvial plains.
Table 2.1: PROJECT AREA DATA
Area  County  Township   Vilage  Households  Populo
mmom                     5.052    7        4      97       9          413.X
Xinshui                  2,187    3       25      214      27,500     129,000
Weifen                     869    1        8       152     18,700      80,000
Hequ-Baode-Pianguan      1,996    3       31      607      50,300     204,000
Inner lMo&ha             2.370            U 12     84      175D
Hantai                     875
lahbils                  1,089
Husitai                    406
Sh=aS                    3.834    A       45      O2       L7IM0
Yanhe                    3,034    3       33      485      47,700     209,000
riAu                       800    2       12      206      15,800      63,2W0
gusu                     4L304    6       51      38      100710      Soo
Maian                    4,304    6       51      385    100,710      500,000
ToI1                  15.559    21 17       3 2 3      280.330    l.381Q
2.14        The structure of local government in the plateau is the same as that found
throughout China-province, prefecture, county and township. Iner Mongolia is an



- 11 -
autonomous region and, in the Mongolian tradition, a county is a banner and a prefecture
is a league. The plan is for 2,133 villages to participate in the project: Inner Mongolia
(84), Shanxi (973), Shaanxi (691) and CGansu (385). Present and proposed land use for the
project areas is given in Annec 2, and sunmarzed in Chapter 5. The project areas are
at elevations ranging from 900 to 1,300 m above sea level.
Shanxi
2.15        The ftree project areas in Shanxi Province, Hequ-Baode-Pinguan (HBP),
Weifen and Xinshui, are in the poorest and most heavily eroded parts of the province.
HBP and Weifen have the gullied hill land form, and Xinshui has mostly the guilied
phteau land fonn. Only 30 percent of the land is cultivated. Rainfall averages 410 mm
in HBP, 500 mm in Weifen and 590 mm in Xinshui. There is no natural forest in the
project areas. Afforestation carried out since 1950 has increased the vegetative cover from
less than 3 percent to 18 percent, but much of this area is of poor quality trees and shrubs.
Annual crops take up 29 percent, but some of this land is steep and prone to erosion.
Unused land covers 45 percent of the areas, mostly gully sides, and steep uncultivated
slopes. About 50 percent of this land is suitable for afforestation using techniques
proposed for the project.  The project areas have good potential for substantial
improvement in crop yields through terracing of slope land, and for orchards and more
productive tree and shrub plantaions. The prefecture capitals and county towns in the
project area are all served by highways, and most of the villages are reachable by motor
vehicles. A new raiiway close to completion will connect the HBP area to the provincial
capital of Taiyuan.
Inner Mongolia
2.16        The three wateds in Inner Mongolia, those of the Hantai, Hashila and
Husitai Rivers, are all right bank tributaries of the Yellow River. They have more varied
land forms than the areas in the other  reeprovinces. Each of the rivers rises in an area
of gullied hilly plateau, traverses tracts of wind-blown sand and then flows across an
alluvial fan before entering the Yellow River. The alluvial fans are higher than the
surrounding land, and dikes have been built to contain the rivers dunng floods. These
dikes have served their purpose, but in doing so they have caused the rivers to build up
their beds between the dikes. Thus, the dikes have to be raised periodically at considerable
cost and they are now reaching a height where they are vulnerable to breaches in a high
flood. The only lasting solution to this problem is to reduce floods and sediment runoff
through integrated development of the catchment areas. The check dams built as a part
of this development will also reduce the magnitude and frequency of floods. Where the
nvers cross the sandy areas, warping will be used to create land (para. 3.14). The
population of the Inner Mongolia watrsheds shown in Table 2.1 is for the catchment areas
of the rivers, but a much larger populaton will benefit from the reduction in flood rik
Rainfall in these areas ranges from 300 to 400 -m.
2.17        Over 70 percent of the prject area in ler Mongolia is unused land, much
of it sand and Arer beds, 7 percent is cpped, and trees and shrubs (mostly planted) comer
8 percent. These sandv areas of Inner Moneolia with their low rainfall hiuh usnA. a1



- 12 -
cold winters present fornidable development problems. But, solutions have been evolved
and proved over large areas by researchers, local government agencies and fanners. They
have found species of grasses, sirubs and trees that not only survive the harsh conditions
but are profitable for the farmers to grow. These species and the associated planting and
tending techniques will be used to convert over 80 percent of the unused land to productive
use.
Shanuxd
2.18       The two project areas in Shaanxi, Yanhe and Jialu, include some of the
poorest counties in Shaanxi and have serious soil erosion problems. Rainfll averages 520
mm in Yanhe and 400 mm in lialu. Crops take up 31 percent of the area, and forests and
grass only 15 percent. Unused land is 41 percent of the area. The topography of the are
is typical of the gullied hill land form. The project areas are close to several examples of
successful watershed development carried out with support from FAO and the World Food
Program. Therefore, well-established techniques exist for terracing, afforesation, and
grassland development. The potential exists for tansforming much of the unused land to
productive use. The two watersheds are close to the Wuding River Basin which has been
the scene of major erosion control works since the 1960s, and the effects have been closely
monitored. The dams in the gullies have reduced floods and there bas been a marlkd
reduction in sediment runoff. This reduton in sediment has gready eased the maintenance
problem in the canal systems, and has also led to consideable savings in river training
works. Important developments in Northern Shaanxi include several large coal mines and
the railways to serve them, and these will ceat a market for produce fvm the project
areas.
Gansu
2.19       The project area in Gansu contains part of the Malian River watershed. The
area has mostly the gulied plateau land form. Only 12 percent of the land is unused,
compared to over 40 percent in the project areas of Shanxi and Shalxi, and 70 percent
in Inner Mongolia. The more intensive land use in Gansu reflects the higher rainfall which
ranges between 475 mm and 600 mm. Trees and shrubs cover about 15 percent, some of
which is in need of upgrading using improved afforestadon techniques. About 40 percent
is in low quality grssand, much of which is suitable for trees, shrubs and imprved
pasture. Orchards in the area are technologically advanced and use improved variedes,
drip irrigation, and modern plant protection techniques; there is good potential for further
expansion of orchards.



- 13 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJEcr OBIECnvEs AN DESIGN
3.1         The primary objective of the project is to increase agricultural production
and incomes on 15,600 kmn2 of land in the Loess Plateau in nine tributary watersheds of
the Yellow River. A secondary objective-to reduce sediment inflows to the Yellow River
-is achieved by locating the project areas in the parts of the Basin with severe soil
erosion. Factors such as poverty level, strong leadership and commitment at the local
government level and development potential were also considered in the selection of project
areas. The project will (a) create sustainable crop production on high-yielding level
farmland and thereby replace the areas devoted to crps on erodible slope lands, (b) plant
the slope lands to a range of trees, shrubs and grasses for land stabilization and the
production of fuel, timber and fodder, and (c) substantally reduce sediment runoff from
slope lands and gullies.
3.2         The project has been prepared in considerable detail and examples of the
proposed project components have been successfully tested and implemented on a large
scale in similar areas of the plateau. The new element which has been introduced in recent
years is the comprehensive and integrated planning of individual watersheds in close
consultation with the beneficiaries in the villages. Many of the existing terraces, built in
the 1970s under large-scale campaigns, have been abandoned and left unused because they
were not parts of integmted, village-based production systems. For the same reason other
measures such as the planting of trees, shrubs, and grassland establishment have been only
partialy successful.
B. PRojEcr DESCRIPTION
3.3         The project has two main components:
(a) the construction of land development and erosion control works on
15,600 km2 in Inner Mongolia, Shanxi, Shaanxi, and Gansu; and
(b) institutional development programs to suppor training, technology transfer
and research.
Land Development and Erosion Control Works
3.4         Terrang is planned for 83,200 ha and will be anied out on slope lands
with slopes between 5° and 25. The conversion of slope lands to terraces serves a
number of purposes. First, it creates a better environment for crop producdon through



- 14 -
moisture conservation; in a year of average rainfall, grain yields on terraces are more than
three times higher than on slope lands. Second, teraced land is more resistant to
damaging soil erosion during intense storms than slope land. And third, sediment runoff
is much lower from terraces than from sloped land. Generally, teraces are confined to
lands where slopes are less than 20°, but where there is a shortage of crop land, terraces
are built on slopes up to 250. Over most of the Loess Plateau the soil is deep and is
therefore well suited to terracing, but the topsoil is often set aside and replaced upon
completion of the terrace. For a typical terrace on a ISO slope, the terrace would be about
8 m wide, the riser would be 2 m high, and the earthwork quantity per hectare would be
around 3,000 cubic meters. The construction cost ranges from Y 2,000/ha to Y 5,000/ha
depending on the slope. Uniform standards for planning, design and construction have
been developed in recent years and will be adopted throughout the project. The labor
required for the construction of terraces is gene-ally available in the project areas. But,
when labor is in short supply, such as in the peak harvest season, construction using
bulldozers is competitive in terms of costs.
3.5         Afforestation is planned for 270,000 ha. This will consist of shrubs and
trees that have been found suitable for the various soils and topography found in the project
areas. Afforestation will be contracted out to farmers for tending and for controlled
grzing. This component will increase the forest cover in the project areas from
14 percent to 38 percent and will significantly reduce soil erosion. It will help to relieve
a shortage of timber, forage, fodder and fuel wood in the project areas. Participating
vllages will develop an area management plan and assign individuals to control livestock
grzing, particularly during the first few years after planting; this system has worked well
in recent years. Some of the past programs of afforestation have produced mixed results;
there have been some notable successes, but in some areas survival rates and growth rates
have been low. Current practice is more scientific and solidly based on field trials. More
attention is now paid to suiting plantings to location, soils, slope, and exposure. Seedling
quality, tending and protection has been improved by the production responsibility system
which gives individual farmers a financial stake in the survival of plantngs.
3.6         Afforestation is based on detailed plans involving a classification system
taking into account all factors relevant to species selection. Trees will be planted on about
100,000 ha. Tree species commonly used include native drought-resistant species such as
Chinese pine, poplar, black locust, willow, larch and arborvitae. Commercial trees include
apricot, walnut, and mulberry. Poplar and willow are planted on the top and edges of
plateaus, Chinese pine or north-facing slopes, black locust and arborvitae on the middle
and lower part of south-facing slopes. Larch is planted in mountainous areas with altitudes
over 1,500 meters. The success of afforestation depends on good quality seedlings; these
will be provided by nurseries set up in each county with about 1 ha of nursery for each
1,000 ha of afforestation.
3.7         Shrubs will be planted on about 163,400 ha, including 74,200 ha of caragana
(Caragaa korshshnii), 56,100 ha of seabuckthorn (fippophae rhamnoides), 18,700 ha of
amorpha (Amorpha fruticosa), and 14,400 ha of desert willow (Salix microstachya).
Shrubs will be mainly planted on ridge tops, the upper part of north-ficing slopes, and



- 15 -
under harsh ecological conditions, such as those encountered on the high-altitude plateaus
of the Inner Mongolia project areas. Besides providing fuel, raw materials for particle
board and baskets (desert willow), bermes (seabuclthorn) and livestock feed (mainly
caragana), shrubs will be used to stabilize edges of gullies and highly erodible, steep
sloping areas. Shrub pasures planted under the project are expected to generate between
0.75 and 1.5 tons hay equivalent of relatively low quality forages per year, w:th the
highest yields being obtained from caragana and the lowest from desert willow.
3.8         Shrubs, such as seabuckthorn, together with black locust trees will also be
used for the planting of living hedges for subdivision of grazing areas. With the expected
large-scale grantng of exclusive user rights for grazing land to individual livestock owners,
living hedges will become of utmost importance and, therefore, their planting will be
encouraged and promoted under the project. Planting of shrub will be done from March
through November with seedlings to be provided by nurseries to be set up in each county.
New shrub plantations will be protected for the first three years after establishment. As
with pasture improvement, planting of shrub will be contracted out to farmers, who will
obtain exclusive, individual user rights for the land they plant.
3.9         Orchards are planned for about 27,000 ha, of which 20,000 ha will be fruit
orchards (mainly apple) and 7,000 ha will be planted to Chinese date and various nut
species. Excellent quality fruit can be produced in the project areas and, cunently,
domestic demand far exceeds production. The project wil expand the area under high-
yielding apple varieties such as 'Red Star and "Fuji," both of which have been
successfully introduced and perform well in the region. Seedling quality and extension
services have improved notably in recent years and sufficient experience has been
accumulated to further increase the orchard area on the Loess Plateau. However, although
growers in the project areas show notable expertise, there is a rneed to continue to identify
and adopt up-to-date orchard technology and to improve marketing strategies. The
expansion of orchards will also lead to an increasing demand for pest and disease control
solutions. The project will, therefore, provide for identifying, testing and disseminating
environmentally acceptable and cost-effective pest and disease control methods as part of
an integrated pest management (IPM) program (see para. 3.19).
3.10        Grasslands, to be established on 155,000 ha, will greatly increase the fodder
supply and hence increase the sustainable livestock carrying capacity of the project areas.
The main species would be alfalfa, astragalus, amaranth, and sweet clover. Alfalfa is
planted on low areas with good soil moisue, astragalus is planted on steeper slopes at
higher elevations and on the sandy areas. Productivity of grazing land has significantly
deteriorated during the past decade due to substantial build-up in livestock populations
(parficularly of sheep and goats) and the prevailing grazing practices under which
communally owned lands are gramzed by individually owned livestock. As in other
countries with similar grazng systems, such practices have led to severe overgrazing, soil
erosion and declines in herbage digestibility on virtually all project area pasures, as
livestock owners tend to graze as many animals as possible in an attempt to maximize their
share in profit from the common granng resource without reinvesting in pasture
improvement and maintenance.



- 16 -
3.11       Realization of sustainable livestock production systems and higher
productivity per livestock unit, while simultaneously reducing overgrazing and soil erosion,
is one of the objectives to be reached in the project areas. The project will increase the
avaiabity and quality of winter and spnng feed and will promote a more rational use of
natural grazing land and improved pastures. The main technical thmst of the proposed
forage and lvestock development component will be (a) increased production of forages,
both in terms of volume and quality, from improved pastures and forage shrubs; (b)
introduction of modem, intenasive forage crop production via adaptive research and tial
work on farmers' fields; and (c) dissemination of more rational utilization of grazing land
and improved pastures by fostering the granting of individual user rights to livestock
owners.
3.12        Sediment Control Dams. There are two types of dam; key dams and
warping dams. Key dams are located close to the outlet of subwatersheds with catchment
areas of 3-5 lkn2. The inital gross storage capacity of a key dam is generally between
0.5 million cubic meters (mcm) and 1 mcm, but it can be as high as 5 mcm. Warping
dams ( the term "warping' is explained below) are located on smaller tributary catchments
upstream of the key dams; their inital gross storage capacities are generally less than 0.5
mcm. Key dams serve several functions; sediment retention, flood control, and storage
of water for irrigation and village water supply. A key dam is normally built first on a
watershed as part of a development plan which provides for smaller warpng dams on
upstream tributaries soon after the completion of the key dam. The dams are homogenous
earth-fill embankments built in deeply incised gullies. The areas submerged by the dams
consist of eroded slopes and gully beds and are uninhabited. The project includes 236 key
dams and 2,208 warping dams. Of the latter, over 90 percet are small dams with a
storage capacity under 0.1 mcm, built in the gullies upstream and downstream of the large
dams. Their main purpose is to capture sediment flowing in from the sides of the gullies.
3.13        Design and construction standards for dams have been improved
considerably following some dam failures in 1977 when exceptionally intense storms hit
the Loess Plateau (see Amos 3, paras. 10-17 for details on design and safety procedures).
A notable feature of the smaller dams is that most of them are built without spillways. At
most sites it is cheaper to size the dam and reservoirs to store the entire volume of the
design flood than to provide a spillway. The geometry of the gullies is such that key dams
and warping dams have to be relatively high to serve their purpose; the range is usually
5-15 m but some are as high as 30 m. For most reservoirs, the bulk of the active storage
volume is in the top S m and, when sedimentation begins to infringe on the flood storage
capacity, the option is available at most sites to increase the height of the dam. This can
be done at a fraction of the initial cost since it involves a low embanknent placed on the
sediment behind the dam. In recent years a mode of construction using hydraulic fill has
been perfected. The loess material on the sides of the gully is sluiced with high pressure
hoses into the dam body. At many sites, raising could be carried out a number of times
since a damn typicaly occupies a small part of the total height of a gully. Each dam has
an outet conduit with an intale stucre designed to accommodate future sng of the
dam.



- 17 -
3.14        Warping land. aWarping,0 a term used to denote the formation of land
by the accumulation of river-borne sediment, is carried out on a large scale along the
Yellow River and its tributaries. It can consist of trapping silt in a reservoir or the
divers:on of river water into an offstream setting area. In the three watersheds in Inner
Mongolia, about 2,000 ha will be formed by diverting silt-laden river water to waste lands
along the rivers. Since the land is close to the rivers it will be irrigated. Elsewhere in the
project area, about 3,400 ha will be formed by sediment trapped by dams and gully control
works.
3.15        Irrigtion. Most of the irrigation is planned for Iner Mongolia, where
about 5,500 ha of land will be irrigated in small units of 20 to 30 ha along the three rivers
on lands reclaimed or protected by the project works. Shallow tubewells wiNl be the source
of water for most of them, but some will be supplied by pumping from the water
impounded by key and warping dams, or diversion dams. Much of the inigation will be
for orchards. A total of 900 ha will be irrigated in the other prvinces, mainly by
pumping from the reservoirs and here also the main users will be orchards.
3.16        Guly Control. In the project areas of Inner Mongolia and Gansu the gully
beds are narrow and lend themselves to control by check dams. These are low brush dams
built across the gullies at 20 to 30 m intervals. The effect is to slow the velocity of flow
during floods and thereby reduce undercutting of slopes which often leads to landslides.
Measures are also adopted, especially in the gulied plateau ladform, to arrest erosion at
the heads of gullies. Shrubs are planted along the edges of the gully heads, and small
dams are built in the gullies.
itutional Development
3.17        The organizational arangements for the project are described in Chapter 4.
The Upper and Middle Reach Bureau (UMRB), located in Xian, Shaauxi is the branch of
the Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) responsible for soil and water
conervation on the Loess Platu. The UMRB, and the project provinces, prefectures and
counties have demonstrated notable epertise in planning and implementing soil and water
conservation works. However, since the project is on a larger scale than previous
underakings, these agencies see a need to enhance their capabilities in planning, design,
project management and monitoring, with particular emphasis on improved management
iinformation systems (Annex 5). Improvements in these areas will have long-term benefits
in view of the large areas to be developed in the Loess Plateau. This component of the
project will strengthen the UMRB's capacity as a leading agency for soil and water
conservation in the Yellow River Basin, and the provinces and prefectures will be better
equipped to meet the formidable challenge of developing the Loess Plateau. Also, since
the project will be implemented largely by the villagers living in the watersheds, thxre will
be a need for farmer training on a much larger scale than in earlier projects. Effective and
timely training will call for new approaches and new facilities at the county and prefecture
levels. The institutional development component will finance the following items:



- 18 -
(a) construction and equipping of training centers at the provincial, prefecture
and county levels;
(b)   vehicles and equipment for extension services;
(c) hardware, software and related training for geographic information systems
(GIS), computer aided design (CAD), and project information systems
mnanagement;
(d) local and overseas training and study tours; and
(e)   rearch and the services of extera ers for Technical Panels.
3.18        Trning. Training centers will be established at Project Management
Offices (PMOs) at the provincial, prefectwe and county levels. Senior officials will be
trained in project planning and management, including computer based management
formation systems. Technical staff will receive additional training in improved methods
Of watershed planning and design, including aids to planning and monitoring such as GIS
and CAD. At the township and village level, training of village chiefs, farmer technicians
and farmers will focus on the construction of soil and water conservation works and the
management of the newly created farmland, forests and grsands. Some 22 subject areas
of training have been identified. All personnel and farmers engaged in the project will
attend courses to fmiliariz them with the technical standards. During the life of the
prqect it is estmated that 260 senior officials, 2,240 middle level managers and key
wtnicians, and 131,000 farme technicians and farners will receive training. Overseas
trang, consitng of shor tmning courses and study tours will be provided for selected
speiaists and managers. Some 10 topics, relevant to project development, have so far
been identified, involving missions to 12 countries. Overseas taining will total about 260
staff-months. For the most part, instuctors will be drawn from managers with
considerale expeence in soil and water consevation, and from technical staff of the
special bureaus, but outside specialists will be employed, where necessary, to introduce
new technology. At negotiations, assanc  were obtained t at taning to be conducted
under the nstudonal Development Component vwil be caried ou in accordance with
programs agreed with MA. To ta end, each project province shal prepare, and submt
to the CPMO, forfojarding to die Association by November 30 of each year, a proposed
program of training acdvides to be carred out during the folowing calendar year.
3.19       Research.  The project's research progamm is aimed at refining and
improving the wide range of land development techniques that are currently being applied
in the Loess Plateau. Most of the work will be carried out by existing research institutions
and exerimental stations under contract to the PPMOs. Ongoing research activities will
be supported and, where necessary, expanded to serve the project. The following main
topics will be covered:
(a)   crop protection and integrated pest management ()   techniques for
orchards;



- 19 -
(b)  fertility enhancement through growth hormones, nitrogen fixing rhizobium,
and mycorrhza;
(c)   green manuring and composting;
(d)   forestry seedling production and plantation establishment;
(e) orchard management;
(f)   grssland and forage establishment and management;
(g)  livestock management, livestock control, and pen feeding of stock;
(h)   shrub management, vegetative contour barriers and live hedge development;
0)   terrace and dam construction and maintenance; and
(j)   socioeconomic aspects of watershed development.
3.20        In each province, the research program will be managed and coodinated by
Provincial technical panels composed of researchers from existing institutions and saei
project officials. Field trials will be conducted in the project areas so that successful trials
can be incorporated in demonstration plots. The program will include exchange progrms
with researchers in other provinces and overseas research institutions (Annx 4).
3.21        Technology Transfer. The transfer of technology within the project, and
from outside of the project, will improve its implementation and enhance its benefits. In
preparing the project, the planners and designers have drawn on the skiBls and techniques
that they and the farmers have accumulated in recent large-scale land development
schemes. The experience with these schemes has revealed a considerable potential for
further innovation, refinement of techniques, and the introduction of new technology. In
the area of project management, geographic informiation systems have applis to
project planning and subsequent monitoring; computer aided design has applications to
detailed design; and wider use of desk-top computers can permit more effective project
scheduling and accounting. As regards afforestation, orchards and gasslands a number
of promising oppoftunities for innovations and new cultural practices have emerged during
the pation of the project. And, although the existg agiculturl and livestock
services provide timely and effective advice to farmers in crop and livestock production,
the improvements in soil and water conseation provided by the project will provide new
opporties and challenges. The research program described above will be an important
source of new technolegy. The project's training program will be designed to effect the
transfer of technology. The Central Project Management Office (CPMO) and the PMOs
at the provincial, prefecure and county levels will be responsible for managing technology
transfer. In this they will be asisted by the technical panels.



- 20 -
C. PLANNING AND DESIGN
3.22        There are three stages m the watershed rehabilitation plang and design
process. Land use and land capability surveys have been carried out for each watershed
and subwatrshed. The vilage leaders work closely with county and township agricultural
planners in the designs and their implementation. Those surveys then form a basis for the
stage plan of the project which defines the future land use pattem and specifies the crops,
shrubs and trees to be grown. This has been completed for the entire project area. The
second stage is detailed planning on a subwatershed level which is based on 1:10,000
maps. Detailed design is based on technical standards and on larger scale maps depending
on the type of land development. In April 1994, detailed plans were available for one
third (over 300) of the subwatersheds. Detailed plans specify the main category of land
use for units of less than one ha, and provide further specifications within each category.
For example, detailed designs for an area selected for afforestation specify the types of
trees and shrubs depending on slope, soils, aspect and other relevant factors. For
teracing, detailed designs give all the information needed to construct the terraces to the
latest standards which apply throughout the project area.
3.23        Key dams are designed by the provincial water resource bureaus according
to standards developed by the Ministry of Water Resources in 1986 ("Technical Standard
for Major Gully Control Structures," SD175-86). These standards have been endorsed by
the Planning Academy of MWR as well as the Ministry of Energy. These specfy all
aspects of design and construction including planning procedures, site selection
requirements, dam body layout, calculation of hydrologic design parameters, foundation
design, choice of construction mateials, construction techniques, hydrologic and hydraulic
design. These standards have been reviewed by IDA engineers and found acceptable.
3.24        The current procedures require multilevel technical reviews and approval of
the design and construction of sediment control dams. Preliminary designs are carred out
by county water and soil conservation bureaus. Initial review and approval of struct
design and siting is carred out by provincial water and soil conservation authorities who
in turn, submit construction applications to the UMRB for final independent review and
approval. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring compliance with design procedures and
technical specifications rests with the UMRB. Dunng negotiations, assurances were
obtained that al dams (a) which will either exceed 10 m in height or create a reservoir
with a gross storage volume of more than 2,500,000 cubic meters or (b) which possess
unusual design features, involve difficult geological conditons, or are situated so as to be
signfcanty destructive in the event of a failure, wil be ri) designed and constucted
according to standards and procedures acceptable to IDA (including independent reviws
of the designs and construction) and (it) periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practices in order to determine whether there are arn deficiencies whkh may
endanger their sqfey.
3.25        In addition to the dams, detailed standards for design and construction of the
other soil and water conservation works have been prepared by the UMRB and the



- 21 -
provinces. These technical standards have been issued to all entities participating in the
project and will be the standards adopted for quality control.
D. IMP nTAIION SCEDULE
3.26        Ihe project will be implemented over a period of eight years beginning in
January 1994. Project activities would be completed by December 31, 2001, and the
closing date would be December 31, 2002. However, work has been under way since
October 1993 to establish and equip the project management offices at the county level,
and to expand the facilities and staff at the existing provincial and prefecture project
offices. Much of the construction will be by manual labor. The construction season
depends on the climate and the farmers' cropping cycle. Work can be carried out for four
to five weeks in March/April after the ground has thawed, for four weeks after the wheat
harvest in July/August, and for six to eight weeks in October/November. Thus, for
manual labor the construction season lasts for about 120 days. For equipment, there are
about 150 days in a year when construction can proceed. Construction of preliminary
works began in September 1993. Implementation schedules are shown in Annex 5, Table
1.
E. Cosr ESTMATS
3.27        Cost estimates are based on experience with similar works in the provinces.
The costs for the land development components are derived by applying per ha costs to the
total areas to be developed. For each type of land development the unit costs per ha are
derived from recent field data on inputs of labor, materials and, where appropriate,
construcion equipment. For dam construction, costs are derived in a similar way with unit
prices per cubic meter being calculated for earthwork and concrete. A daily rate of Y 6
for unskilled labor and Y 8 for skilled labor has been used for the estimates, and the recent
field data confirm that this is a reasonable rate. Opportunities for off-farm employment
for people in the project areas are limited, and are mostly available to the younger males
who are prepared to live away from home. For example, when farmers choose to pay
their land lease payments by contributing labor, the imputed daily rate is below Y 6 and
can be as low as Y 4.
3.28       The base cost is in end-1993 prices.  Since there are no significant
unaccounted physical factors, a physical contingency of 5 percent has been applied to the
total project cost. Labor rates for off-season employment on the project works are not
likely to be subject to the sharp escalation now being experienced in more prosperous parts
of China. Also, many of the villagers employed on the project will stand to bnefit from
the improvements in land productivity and, therefore, the counties will have some leverge
in setting rates. Taking these factors into account, the price contingencies adopted by the
mission are based on the lower of three sets of escalation factors proposed by the Bank for
projects in China. Thus, expected price increases for the total project cost expressed in
Yuan were derived by applying price escalation of 12.0 percent for 1994, 9 percent for
1995, 8 percent for 1996, and 6.0 percent for the following years. For the cost expressed
in US dollars the escalation factors are 1.2 percent for 1994, 2.4 percent for 1995, and



- 22 -
3.4 percent after 1995. Cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 and details are given
in Annex 6
Table 3.1: Cosr SuMMARY
Local   Foreign    Totd  Local  Foreign  Toa        %
(Y million)             ($ million) -      foregn
Land Develonent
Terracingiripgation         606.4    58.3    664.7  69.7    6.7    76.4         8.8
Afforestation               400.2    41.8    442.0  46.0    4.8    50.8    9.4
Grasslands                   84.4    19.1    103.5   9.7    2.2    11.9    18.5
Silt retention dams          98.3      6.1     104.4  11.3    0.7    12.0    5.8
instutionul DkveloFn
support serices             121.8    33.1    154.9  14.0    3.8    17.8   21.3
Training &   _               69.6    28.7       98.3   8.0    3.3    11.3   29.2
ZbseCDst                   1.380.7   187.0   1.567.7  158.    211 5   182    11.9
Physical contingencies       67.9      8.7      76.6   7.8    1.0       8.8    11.4
Expected price incease      504.6    14.8    519.4  58.0    1.7    59.7         2.8
Total PMeto             1.953.2   210.5   2.163.7  224.5   24.2   248.7    9-7
F. COuNTERPART FUNDS AND FIANCING PLAN
3.29         The provinces have prepared detailed financing plans and have basically
committed their counterpart fumds to the State Planning Commission and the Ministry of
Finance. The cost-sharing formula is as follows:
IDA                         61%
Central Govemment             7%
Provinces                    12%
Prefectures and counties      7%
Farmers (in cash or labor)   13%
Total                   100%
G. PRoCUiEMET
3.30         The project works consist of various forms of land development and will be
caried out on thousands of small plots of land in the vicinity of about 2,100 villages.
Terracing and irrigation ($101.6 million), afforestation ($65.1 million), and grasslands
($13.6 million) will be performed on the basis of force account or direct negotiations by



- 23 -
labor drawn from the nearby villages under the leadership of the county and township
technical staff. This approach is consistent with the strong tradition in China of public
participation at all stages of a project's implementation. In many cases, the villagers will
lease the land they have helped to develop and be subsequently responsible for cost
recovery. The construction of the key dams, estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or
more, will be procured ($0.5 million) through LCB. Other works for key dams, warping
dams and other small structures such as gully head protection works and ponds ($20.6
million) will be carried out by county and township construction teams, or private
construction teams formed by the villagers on the basis of force account or direct
negotiation. Most sites are accessible only to small construction equipment such as the
local 75 hp bulldozers, and most of the dams are built using a type of hydraulic fill
construction suited to the loess soil. The irrigation component consists of a variety of
small projects involving tubewells, pumping from water stored by the dams, and river
diversions. These will be constructed by county teams or private groups contracted by the
counties.
3.31        Agricultural inputs ($9 million), vehicles ($4 million), and reinforcing steel
($3.7 million), will be procured through International Competitive Bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for these items shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and bidders for supply of ferilizer
shall be prequalified. Qualified domestic bidders competing under ICB will be eligible for
a 15 percent preference in bid evaluation, or the customs duties and import tax payable by
a nonexempt importer, whichever is the least. Equipment and materials for training
centers, seedling nurseries, and laboratories ($2 rflfion), which are estimated to cost
$250,000 equivalent or less per contract, will be procured through LIB or local and
international shopping. Contracts for works for buildings for trai.ing centers,
demonstration farms, etc. ($5.1 million), will be procured through LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Contracts for research and local and foreign training will be awarded
following comparison of technical proposals, and consultants and specialists for the
technical panels and training will be employed in accordanice with Bank Group Guidelines
for the Employment of Consultants ($7.6 million).
3.32        IDA Review. Prequalification and bid documents, bid evaluations, and
award recommendations will be subject to IDA prior review for goods contracts with an
estimated cost of $250,000 or more and works contracts of $500,000 or more, and ail
contracts for consultants services. This represents about 80 percent of the IDA-financed
contracts for goods and 30 percent of the IDA-financed contracts for works. The
procurement profile is shown in Table 3.2, and a procurement table is attached in Annex
2. The Intemational Tendering Company (rrC) of the China Technical Import and Export
Coopeation has been chosen to represent the borrower in procurement matters.
H. D:BURSEMBNT
3.33        The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows (see also
Annex 9, Table 1, for the disbursement profile):



- 24 -
egzy                             Amont        Perentage of Dis
($ million)
I.  Works                                     65% of expenditures
(a) Land developmenttearthworks    123
(b) Buildings/structures          3
II.  Goods                            19      100%  of foreign expendittres;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% for other
goods procured locally
111. Taining, consultants & research  5       100% of expenditures
3.34        Retroactive fmancing has been recommended for expenditures for land
development and locally procured goods incurred between November 15, 1993 and the date
of signing of the Credit Agreement. The construction season in the project areas depends
on the climate and the farmers' cropping cycle. The provinces began construction in
winter of 1993 to ensure a full working season. Retroactive financing would also cover
the necessary funds for completion of detailed designs for one tiird or about 300 of the
small watersheds. The total disbursable amount will be SDR 7.0 million ($10.0 million
equivalent) based on work programs reviewed and agreed by IDA.
3.35        Withdrawal applications for land development works would be supported by
progress reports showing actual physical quantities and unit prices, the latter to be updated
annually and agreed by IDA. The land development components account for 81 percent
of the total cost. Each major form of land development (terraces, trees, shrubs,
grasslands) will be assigned an average unit price per hectare. IDA will disburse a
percentage of the expendiures in a given period which will be calculated as the product
of the area completed multiplied by the unit price. For dams, the disbursement will be
against a unit price per cubic meter of earthwork. These unit rates will be updated each
year on the basis of actuaI average costs realized during the previous year. Sutaments of
expenditures (SOEs) will be required for disbursement to be made against (a) contracts for
goods costing $250,000 equivalent or less, (b) training and study tours, and (c) force
account.
3.36        To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account to be operated by MOF will
be established in a bank acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will be set up in an
amount of $10 million, the estimated scale of disbursement over a four-month period.
L AccouW TD AuDrrs
3.37        The county Project Management Offices (PMOs) will maintain records of
all exenditures in connection with the categories listed in the Credit Agreement. These
will be consolidated by the provincial PMOs and submitted annually to the CPMO. These



- 25 -
Table 3.2: PIRocuBEmm     J1ROILIE
($ million)
Item                                      Procurement method
ICB      LCB       Other La    NEF Lb      Total
Land development             -        0.5       200.9        -        201.4
(0.3)    (122.9)               (123.2)
Agricultural inputs          9.0       -          -          -          9.0
(9.0)                                      (9.0)
Steel                        3.7                             -          3.7
(3.7)                                      (3.7)
Vehicles                     4.0       -          -          -          4.0
(4.0)                                      (4.0)
Equipment                    -         -          2.0        -          2.0
(2.0)                 (2.0)
Buinldigs                    -        5.1         -          -          5.1
(3.3)                            (3.3)
Taining, consants            -         -          7.6        -          7.6
and research                                    (4.8)                 (4.8)
Manalgemenet                 -        -           -        13.8       13.8
(0.0)      (0.0)
Land acquisition             -         -          -         2.1         2.1
(0.0)      (0.0)
IDtai                   1647       $.6      210.5       lS.9      248.7
(16.'#)    (3.6)    (129.7)     (0.0)    (150.0)
Note: FigureS in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the IDA credit.
/a Other includes works carried out by direct contracting, force account, Limited
International Bidding, shopping and procurement of consultant services and training.
Lb NIP: Not IDA-financed.
accun will be audited annually by independent auditors. Assuances were obtainedfrom
dte borrower and dwe provinces dw they uil cause the project accounts, the Special
Account and SO-s to be duy audted by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and ivU
su1bm         to IDA within s* mons of the close of each nnciyear. The State Audit
Administrat"io wiUl be accetable for this purpose. In the case of SOEs, the audit report



- 26 -
will contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether SOEs submitted durng the
financial year, together with the procedures and intenal controls involved in their
preparation, can be reid upon to support the reated withdrawalL A computeized ptqject
accounting system will be established at all PMOs at county, prefecure, and provincia
levels. A commercial software aplication would be used, which will enable a complete
set of accounts to be operated and maintained at the county levels. Through its account
management, category, and classification system a proper cost accounting system can be
establshed that will enable the effective planning, management and monitoring of project
funds. Apart from its primary use as an accounting system, it will be particularly used for
budget analysis and planning, and for the forecasdng of financial requirements. This
would be fully acceptable to the Associaton with regard to meeting audit and financial
management requirements.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SoL IMPACLS
3.38        The prqect will lead to significant changes in land use (AmexZ). Large
areas of waste and unused land carrying poor quality grass, shrubs and trees will be
planted to more suitable and productive varieties. The overall effects of these land use
changes will be to pzeserve the land resource, and increase productivity in an
environmtally susinable manner. The land under forest and shrubs will incrase from
210,000 ha to 510,000 ha. Of the area of 430,000 ha presently devoted to field crops,
about 110,000 ha of the more steeply sloping land will be converted to forests. The
remaining 320,000 ha under cros will be on higher-yielding lands which will be teced
to inproved standards. There will be a small increase in the area of grassland, but much
of the existing grassland will be replanted to grasses with higher livestock carryig
capacities, and will be managed by individual farmers or farmer groups. The key dams
and warping dams will intercept virtually aU of the sediment from the areas they control,
and this will have significant downstream benefits; the dams wil eliminate destuctive flash
floods, provide water for irigation and other uses, and the sediment deposited upstream
of the dams will form high quality farm land.
3.39        The project has been planned and designed in close consultaton with those
villages with the right to cultivate the land being developed. The increased productivity
is esimated to more than double farm incomes at full development. Thus, the project has
a ignificant impact in terms of poverty alleviation. There is no relocation of population.
3.40        The sediment control dams will be sited in uninhabited gullies and,
therefore, no relocation of population wiUl be necessary in the submergence areas. The
topography of the watersheds allows considerable flexibility in siting the dams, and all will
be located at sites remote from existng or potential setdlements. Design and construction
procedures for the dams are consvative, but in the unlikely event of failure there would
be no danger to life and limited damage to property (see Annex 3.
3.41        There are no natal forests or wetlands in the project areas, and thus
wildlife resources are meager. The project will, however, increase forest cover from
14 percent to 38 percent, and evidence from recently developed areas suggests that this will



- 27 -
lead to a higher and more diverse population of birds and smal mammals. The higher
standards of crop management will not lead to any increase in the rimoff of ferdlizers
(herbicides and insecticides are seldom used in field crops) since most of the crop land will
be teraced. The expansion of orchards will lead to some increase in pesficide use, but an
objective of the project is to disseminate techniques for safer and more efficient use of
chemical controls. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that allpesdcides used under
the project shall have been approved by the Association, and that the storage, hanling,
distribuion and use of such pestcides shallfollow guidelines acceptable to IDA. These
are the respective FAO Code of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticides, and
FAO Guidelines for the Packaging and Storage of Pesticides.
3.42        Environmental Impact Assessments (ETAs) have been prepared by each
province and these form the basis for a Summary EIA for the project prepared by the
UMRB under the guidance of scientists from the Yellow River Conservancy Commission.
This high quality report, prepared in accordance with the Bank Group's recommended
format and guidelines for ElAs, finds that the project's environmental and social impacts
are wholly beneficial and there are no adverse impacts, and contains detailed proposals for
environmental management and monitoring. The report was approved by the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) and was sent to IDA prior to appraisal.
Assurances were obtained at negotatons that each project province shall  plement the
part of the Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan applicable to Its respectve.
part of the project in a manner satsfactory to the Associaon.
K. TECNCAL ASSIrANCE
3.43        Assistance from  nonproject agencies, such as Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), and consultants within China is required and is included
under the research, technology transfer, and training components. Areas where foreign
TA would be of value would be in forestry and orchard nursery and field management, in
new computer applications-GIS in particular, and in pasture and forage development.
One of the best ways this could be provided would be through participation, by proven and
experienced specialists, on the project's technical panels. The specialists would be
expected to provide a medium-term commitment to the project and would provide an
independent view of project investments and technology, as well as providing specific
recommendations in their area of specaliztion. These specialists would be funded by the
project or through bilateral agreements with donor agencies. Bilawtal agencies might
prove useful for forest nursery and orchard management, Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) technology, forage development, livestock, and forest nursery management, soil and
water conservation practices and for soil fertlty maintenance, and for GIS. There are also
a number of university consorda that would be interested in expanding their ties with the
project in areas of research. IDA staff would help the project organize some of these
bilateral arrangements during project implementation.



- 28 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZAIION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJEcr ORGANIATION
4.1         The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) includes in its jurisdiction
stewardship of the land and water resources of China's major river basins. MWR
exercises this responsibility through seven river basin conservancy commissions. The
Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC), based in Zhengzhou, Henan Province,
and its Upper and Middle Reach Bureau (JMRB), based 500 kn upstream at Xian,
Shaanxi Province, are the lead agencies for the proposed project. The UMRB and the
governments of Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces would be
responsible for the overall project implementation under the general supervision of YRCC.
YRCC is the principal administrative, advisory and coordinating agency within the Yellow
River Basin. It manages centrally financed or joint central-provincial water resource
construction works and soil and water conservation programs within the basin. UMRB is
the leading agency responsible for soil and water conservation activities in the upper and
middle reaches (more than 90 percent of the basin area) of the Yellow River. Since 1986
it has planned and supervised watershed management on an area of 60,000 knm2 covering
four major tributaries of the Yellow River, including 1.3 million ha of afforestation and
the establishment of 60 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) stations to monitor the impact
of erosion control measures. About 500 key control dams were constructed under their
supervision and several thousand more are planned to be built in an area of 270,000 mh'
during the next 10 years. The management structure would include Project Leading
Groups (PLGs) and Project Management Offices (PMOs) at the provincial, prefecture,
county and township levels. (A project organization chart is attached in AnneA 8.) In
addition, Technical Panels (TPs) have also been set up at central and provincial levels
(para. 4.5).
4.2         Project Leading Groups. Project Leading Groups (PLGs) were established
at the central, provincial, prefecture, county and township levels and have played an
instrumental role during project preparation. The central PLG is headed by a vice minister
of MWR and composed of one vice governor from each of the four project provinces,
several directors of YRCC, MWR's Bureau of Foreign Affairs, Planning, Water and Soil
Conservation, Water Resources, Finance and four provincial PMOs which formulate
project-related policies and plans, provide guidance for project overall design, review and
resolve major issues related to the project, and coordinate efforts among the four project
provinces and other govemnment agencies. Provincial PLGs are headed by a vice governor
in charge of agriculture and assisted by representatives from the Planning Commission,
Departments of Finance, Agriculture, Water Conservancy, Forestry, Water and Soil
Conservation Bureau and the Agncultural Bank of China. The main responsibilities of the
provincial PLG are, within their own jurisdiction, to work out detailed measures for



- 29 -
implementing the policies and plans formulated by the central PLG, approve project
feasibility study, organize counterpart funds, decide the distribution and repayment of
proceeds of the IDA credit, and enlist support of other relevant agencies. The Provincial
PLGs will meet as needed to review progress, coordinate the activities of other agencies,
approve annual work programs and budget, and provide guidance and supervision to the
Provincial-level PMOs. Provincial PLGs will also keep the provincial governments
apprised of the overall progress of implementation. PLGs at prefecture, county and
township levels will have a similar structure and responsibilities.
4.3         Central Project Office. A Central Project Management Office (CPMO) has
been established at UMRB headquarters in Xian to provide technical oversight and
interprovincial coordination during project implementation. Its main responsibilities
include the overall supervision of the project activities in the provinces; preparing progress
reports including the project completon report; arranging combined procurement under
ICB and major LCB; coordinating institutional development aspects, particularly overseas
training, study tours and techimcal assistance; reviewing the provincial applications for
withdrawal of the proceeds of the IDA credit; keeping close contact with central
govemment agencies; and liaising with IDA on behalf of project provinces.
4.4         Project Management Offic". Provincial PMOs have been established at
the Water Conservancy Departments. They are responsible for project implementation
while coordinating activities and inputs of other technical departnents (bureaus).
Provincial PMOs would (a) draw up annual, detailed project work programs and budgets;
(b) review and approve lower level PMO designs and work plans; (c) undertake
procurement not covered by the central project office and distribute procured materials;
(d) prepare and submit to the cental PMO detailed project accounts, audits and progress
rorts; (e) undertake project monitoring of physical and financial progress and evaluations
of project impact; and (f) organize research, local training, and project supervision. PMOs
at lower levels have been established under the Water Conservancy (Water and Soil
Conservation) Bureaus with a similar structure and responsibilities. All these PMOs have
been involved in the dtiled preparation of the project and will be responsible for all
aspects of implementation. The township PMOs have been worldng very closely with the
villagers through vilLage committees in developing project proposals. They will continue
to play a key role in project implementation through organizing the collecve effort at the
village level which is crucial to the success of the project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations dtat CPMO and PMOs at provincial, prefecture, county and township leveks
would be maintained with fuwtions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA and staffed by
competent staff in adequate nwnbers.
4.5         Technical Panels (rPs) have been established at the CPMO in the UMRB
and the Provincial PMOs. The Central Technical Panel (CTP) includes the leading
specialists in the UMRB, technical representatives from each province, representatives
from the CPMO, and several external specialists. CTP will also retain two or three
foreign consultants on short-term assignments as members. The foreign consultants will
provide special expertise in such areas as soil fertility, forage development, and integrated
pest management (1PM). The main tasks of the CTP include periodic review of project



- 30 -
technologies. These reviews will (a) recommend revisions to the Technical Standards, (b)
review and comment on annual research and training plans, (c) identify innovative
techniques for consideration by the provinces, (d) review the effectiveness of technology
dissemination practices, and (e) generally act as a sounding board for the advancement of
new techniques. The CTP will advise the CPMO on the need for obtaining technical
expertise from outside the project for new techniques or to address specific problems; it
will also advise on overseas training. The Provincial Technical Panel (PIP) will consist
of leading specialists from the technical bureaus and some external specialists. The PTP
will prepare an annual report on technology issues and research for consideration by the
provincial PMO and any special issues will be referred to the CTP. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the provinces and the CPMO will maintain Technical Panels
with memberships, functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA, and described above.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENI
4.6         Flow of Funds. MOF would make available the proceeds of the IDA credit
to the governments of the four project provinces at an annual interest rate of 3 percent with
a repayment period of 20 years, including an 8-year grace period. The foreign exchange
risk will be borne by them. A portion of the IDA funds will be used directly by CPMO
and the provinces to cover the costs of research, technical assistance, training and
equipment expenses. The provincial financial departments, representing the provincial
governments, will channel the remaining funds successively to prefecture, county and
township governments. Funds would be made available to villages and farmers only for
activities that have been appraised and approved by the PMOs. According to Chinese
pcice, contracts will be signed at each level of government and at each stage of
relending operation, indicating the terms of lending and repayment obligations.
4.7         Domestic funds, which account for about 40 percent of project costs, will
be contributed by government grants at central, provincial, prefecture and county levels,
and by project beneficiaries who will contribute in cash or in kind or both. According to
Chinese practice, terms and conditions for use of government grants will also be indicated
in contracts signed at each level of government and between project beneficiaries and
relevant government agencies.
4.8         Cost Recovery. Full recovery of the IDA portion of total project investnent
costs would be guaranteed by the Finance Departments of the participating provinces. A
detailed repayment plan has been established based on investment cost for each productivity
increase and timing of the revenue stream. Under the proposed repayment plan, the IDA
credit would be recovered from the beneficiaries and the local governments (for the portion
used for research, training and technical assistance). Combined with the farmers'
contribution of about 13 percent, more than two thirds of the total project cost would be
recovered.-/ In conformity with contracts indicating the principles, terms, instruments
jf    Users of newly developed uigation facilities will repay about 50 percent of the investmt coast
through their household responsibility contracts and will, in addition, pay water charges uffici.nt
to cover O&M costs.



- 31 -
and channel of recovery, the percentage of costs to be recovered in each watershed, the
period of cost recovezy and the imputed interest rate, repayment would be made by farmers
to MOP for the use of the IDA credit through the government's internal financial system
at village, township, county, prefecture and provincial levels. Approximately 22 percent
of the investment cost would be contributed by the central, provincial, prefecture and
county governments as grant. An assurance was obtained that charges will be collected
from the water users for the irrigation systems completed under the project at levels
sufficient to cover full annual operational and maintenance costs.
C. LAND ComrRAcrs AND MANAGEMENr
4.9         The reforms of the late 1970s and early 1980s introduced the household
responsibility system to China's fanners. Under this system, a household is given use of
and responsibility for specific plots of land in contrast to the former practice of collective
farming. The introduction of this system is considered key to China's successful rural
reform program which, together with other reforms, has led to the dramatic growth in
China's agricultural production over the past decade. In the Loess Plateau area, the land
contract system has been extended beyond crop land to the areas reclaimed by
afforestation, grasslands and even wastelands. In the areas to be developed under the
project, farmer households or groups of households would be allotted land under long-term
contra  which will specify management standards. In return, the farmers will have the
right to fully benefit from the output of the land for which they are responsible.
4.10        All land developed under the project would be contraced out to farmer
households or household groups. New land contracts would be signed between farmers
and local governments to explicitly state the terms, land use right and obligations under
which farmers' interests would be legally protected. All farmers aff:4ted by the project
would receive properly signed, sealed and registered contracts, copies of such contrs
would be held in the township or county registries and would be available for inspection.
The success of the project will depend on famers having adequate incentives to realize the
benefits of the land development. These incentives would in turn depend on the farmers
having confidence in their land contracts. The current terms for land contract vary
between 10 years and 30 years and are frequently adjusted. This insecurity of land tenure
is the single most important disincentive for any long-term improvement to the land.
Under the proposed project, longer terms for land contract would be applied in all areas
covered by the project, i.e., a minimum of 50 years for steep and waste land; 50 years for
forestry plots; 30 years for orchards, terraces and warping land. An assurance was
obtained at negotliaons that the project provinces woud cause exclusive land use rights
for terms between 30 years and 50 years to be granted to participating households.
4.11        Most planing, implementation and supervision of land development would
be the prmary responsibility of county and township PMOs, and would be reviewed by
prefecture PMOs and approved by provincial PMOs under the overall coordination of
CPMO. Land development would be mostly carried out by the farmers in the project
areas. Construction works would be undertaken by work teams, local farmers or
conacted out to construction teams depending on the complexity of worls and local



- 32 -
circumstances. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provincial PMOs would
prepare and submit, through CPMO, a detailed annual budget and work plan to IDA for
review by November 30 of each year in respect ofproject inplementation in the following
year, and carry out such plans, as approved by the Association.
D. MONmR1NG, EVALUAIION, A   REPORTING
4.12        The primary objecdves of the project are to conserve soil and moisture,
reduce sediment flow transportation to downstream areas, and improve farm incomes
through land improvement investments and improved farm practices. AU of these aspects
would be carefully moitored. The project will apply a strategy of comprehensive
development to 812 subwatersheds located in four provinces and in 21 counties and
municipalities. Within each subwatershed a senes of activities will take place over a
period of 3 to 5 years. Thorough monitoring will be essential for upgrding subwatershed
design during implementation. Also monitoring of the execution of physical investments
is essential to enable IDA to reimburse against completed activities that meet the quality
standards laid out in the Project's Technical Standards Manual.
4.13        Monitoring.   Monitoring of activities at all levels-especially at
subwatershed level-will be supported by appropriate computer applications, currently
identified as the computeized project management software, and an accounting package.
It is proposed to link these applications to a GIS data base system (such as ATLAS-GIS)
that will allow a spatial identification of project activities, as well as provide for the
collection and display of social and economic data. Details of the proposed Management
Information System and monitoring indicators are provided in Annex 5.
4.14        Project management software (such as MS Project) will be used for project
planning and scheduling. It will be used at four levels-Upper and Middle Reaches Bureau
(l)-CPMO, Provincial PMO (4)-PPMO, Prefectue PMO (optional), and the County
PMO (21). Tables in Annex S demonstrate typical reporting formats that will be used for
each subwatershed. They include job site/contractor codes, unit of investment, and
planned and scheduled costs, start and finish dates. The annex also demonstrates how MS
Project can be used for planning and monitoring at higher management levels and how it
can be linked to accounting software and the GIS data base.
4.15        At the county PMO, a separate file will be created for each subwatershed
and, together with other subwatershed files, aggregated to the UMRB level. Thus, the
project wi}l at all levels keep track of investment and development activities. This data
when linked to a GIS-generated data base will effectively deal with the tracking of inputs
and financial inflows and outflows. The GIS da!a base will provide the spatal link
between costs and inputs, and results.
4.16        Monitoring Sediment and Environmental Changes and Benefits. All four
provinces will monitor changes in water quality, sediment tansport reduction, on-site
erson, precipitation, and cages in soil fertlity. The project will provide additional
instrmentation to allow effective measurement and collection of data; some automatic



- 33 -
measuring devices will be installed m remote areas. Hard data fom collecting stations will
be reinforced by the use of satellite imagery and mobile field teams that will undertake
special investigations at selected sites. All the data will be entered into the Project's GIS
data system.
4.17        The UMRB, and the Provincial and County Soil and Water Conservation
Bureaus are experienced in the data collection envisaged under the projecL Data will be
collected on a continuing basis and every third year a full analysis will be undertaken to
track changes that are occuring. Selected subwatersheds will receive special attention in
order to identify early trends in environmental changes. Past monitoring of subwatersheds
under comprehensive treatment has provided the basis for developing the expected benefits
of this project, and they are substantial. The project's monitoring system will continue the
process, but on a wider scale; and will assure regular feedback to the Provincial and
UMRB technical panels for consideration in the review of research and technical standards.
The project will also assess the impact of nonproject road constrution, mining, and
industa and civil construction as point sources for erosion and sediment, and their impact
on overall sediment flows in the project areas.
4.18        Social and Economic Monitoring. The project will depend on two sources
of data to determiine social and economic changes. First it will use data that are collected
annually by the statistical authorities on economic changes. Secondly it will undertake
reresentative village surveys and field investigations to measure the impact with and
without the project. Special attention will be given to measuring changes in output due to
investments in land development and to the new technologies introduced by the project.
At the same time household investigations will measure the impact of the project on
increased household wealth, and improved access to social services. These data will be
reained in the project's GIS data base thus allowing close corrlation between investments,
their quality and cost, and social and economic benefits. Because investments will be
identified in detail (i.e., it wil be possible to define precisely where each site is located,
the costs incurred, the management practices applied, and annual yield data), it wil be
reaively easy to undertake analysis of different sites and extrapolate that data to the
watershed as a whole. This information would then support household and other surveys.
4.19        Organization and Costs.  CPMO wiU have overall responsibility in
ensuning that the provinces cary out effective monitonng and that standardized
methodologies are used. CPMO will prepare annually a monitoring report for the overaU
project. In the provinces monitoring will be catried out at provincial, prefectre, and
county levels. Where necessary PPMOs will contract other agencies and institutions to
undertake special studies, particularly of sociological and economic impacts. Each year
the Monitonng Plan and feedback will be reviewed by the technical committees and panels.
4.20        A plan for IDA supervision is given in Annex 9. CPMO would undertake
a mid-term review of the project to assess progress and chart remaining implementation
and would also prepare a project completion report for submission to IDA no later tan
six months following the closing date. An assurnce was obtained from the govermment



- 34 -
at negotiatons that the CPMO would undertake jointly with provincial PMOs and IDA a
mid-term rewew of the project by September 30, 1997.
E. PRoMEc  AUNCH WoRKsHoP
4.21       To initate project implementation, IDA and the CPMO would conduct a
Project Launch Workshop in China in May 1994 for staff of the CPMO and PMOs at all
levels. The purpose of the workshop would be to review the total program for
imnlementation and to clarify  b and responsibilitaes at each level. Topics would mclude
procurement and disbursement guideines and procedures, finmcial manaement,
supervison, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, and other relevant subjects.



- 35 -
5. PRICES, PRODUCTION, AND MARKETS
A. PRICES
5.1         China's agricultural pnce reforms over the past decade have adjusted
procurement pnces of goods marketed through state channels, reduced the number of
goois subject to state monopoly purchase, freed many agricultural commodities from all
state price control, and increased the volumes of commodities under the state control which
are marketed at near-market prices. In 1993, only 10 percent of retail value of agricultural
commodities and 15 percent of retail value of agricultural raw mateials traded at official
state prices. The economy is now more market oriented, allowing producers to respond
to changes in market demand.
5.2         State procurement prices for grain almost doubled from 1988 to 1993 in line
vith national policies. These increases have brought the procurement prices of wheat,
maize, and oilseeds close to world prices. On April 1, 1993, Shaanxi, Shand, Inner
Mongolia, and Gansu provinces announced the full liberalization of grain markets. Prices
are now set at or near free market prices, and all direct government subsidies have been
eliminated. After harvest the wheat price in the project region is about Y 0.75/kg whether
sold to the free market or to the government.
5.3        The average market price in the region for apples in 1993 was Y 1.8-2.0/kg.
This represents an average price across all varieties and qualities produced in the area.
Apple prices have been fairly stable during the last five years, but showed a slight
downward trend in 1993. Apple quality ranks highest in China in Shaamxi province, and
usualy a prenium price above Y 2/kg can be fetched even at local markets. However,
due to the rapid production increase in the area, price declines are likely to occur over the
next few years. Therefore, for analytical purposes, a more conservative price of Y 1.1-1.3
per kg has been adopted. This is felt to be a more realistic sustainable market price.
Tobacco is the only commodity under the project which is still subject to state contract
purchase at prices announced annually by the provincial government, with farmers required
to produce according to production quotas.
5.4        In recent years input prices have outpaced output prices. In the future,
farmers wil have to procure al inputs at market prices. These prices are 15-20 percent
higher than the formerly subsidized prices. However, ceiling prices will be fixed annually
by public authorties to avoid speclation. The project counties have seed companies
which produce or procure certified seeds of suitable varieties of the main crops at
affordable cost. They have marketing and distribution facilities which also seU vegetable
seeds and agrohemicals, and opeAte seed cleaning facilities. Seed is grwn under
contract by smallholders, field inspected and certified to national standards. Increaing



- 36 -
demand could be dealt with by existing facilities through expansion of the contract system.
Incremental requirements of other major inputs can be handled by existing distribution
facilities.
5.5        Input and output prices used in crop budgets for financial analysis of the
project components are either average 1993 market prices or end- 1993 prices and are based
on data provided by the project authorties. These pnces are summarized in AnnexZ,
Tables 1 and 2. For economic analysis, World Bank commodity price projections have
been used to calculate the future farmgate values of wheat, maize, beef, urea, rock
phosphorus, and double ammonium phosphate (DAP). Detailed calculations are shown in
Annex 7, Table 3.
B. PRODUCTlON
5.6        The project will lead to the land use changes summarized below in Table
5.1. Details of land use changes by province are given in Annex 2.
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PRoPosED LAM USE
Present             With project          Chan
%           ha        %           ha             ha
Crops            27.5       427,900      20.8       323,600     -104,300
Orchard            1.0       15,600       2.9        45,100      29,600
Forest            13.5      210,000      38.0       591,200     381,2sO0
Grass             13.2      205,400      14.6       227,200      21,800
Waste              0.5        7,800       0.6         9,300        1,500
Unused            37.5      583,500      15.8       245,800     -337,700
Others            6.8       105,900       7.3       113,700       7,800
ToS       100-0=    1,556,00     nuQ.      i,56,000
5.7        Crops. Grain production dominates the cropping system with one or two
harvests per year or three harvests in two years. The main crops are millet, corn,
buckwheat, potato, and beans. The total area sown to grain is 350,000 ha with a total
production of 430,000 tons. The sown area of millet is 240,000 ha (68 percent), potatoes
are planted on 63,000 ha, the bean area is 50,000 ha. Important oil crops are rapeseed,
linseed, sunflower, peanut, and castor. The total area is 55,000 ha with 35,000 tons of
annual production. The main cash crops are melons, vegetables, and herbs coverng an
area of 23,000 ha and a total output of 220,000 tons.
5.8        Under the project, crop output will incrse substantially through
significantly higher crop yields. More than 100,000 ha of low yielding and unstable crop
land on slopes will be taken out of production and converted into perennial cover crop.



- 37 -
At the same time, more than 83,200 ha of slope land will be converted into high yielding
terraces.
5.9         The total output of grain and fruit will increase from 427,000 tons and
80,000 tons to 660,000 and 320,000 tons, respectively. Per capita grain output and net
incomes will increase from 367 kg and Y 288 to 507 kg and Y 770. This will be achieved
despite the significant reduction in the planted area as a result of improved water retention
and improved cropping patterns. Yields are generally 200 to 250 percent higher on
terrces as compared to slopeland even at the same input level; and typically more stable
during periods of drought. Further yield increases are readily achieved through
intensification such as increased ferilizer application and the use of higher yielding crops
and varieties. At present, the cropping pattern is severely limited on the slopes, as about
60 percent of the area is sown with millet Production of the much higher yielding and
more profitable crops such as com, sunflower and castor is resticted to leveled land.
Yields of the major crops are expected to increase as summarnzd in Annex 7.
5.10        Production on the newly created warping land is fully incremental, as the
gully bottoms are generally wasteland before warping. Yields on land created behind silt
retention structures are on average about five to six times higher (without irrigaton) than
on slope land and with irrigation eight to ten times the slopeland level. These yield
increases are consistently realized in the project area and are considered achievable under
the project.
5.11        Forestry. The project will help alleviate a serious shortage of lumber,
poles, fuel wood, and fodder in the area. The forest cover will be increased by 270,00 ha
with an estimated incremental output of 11 million cm of timber and firewood. The
production of by-products will be significant. The main shrub species are caragana,
seabuckthorn, amorpha and H. mongolicum. At the end of the project the conserved area
of shrubland will stabilize at 250,000 ha. Since about 40 percent of the biomass can be
used as fodder, the forage production of leaves and branches will be about 140,000 tons
every year.
5.12        Grassland. Forage resources in the project area include planted grssland,
natural grassland, shrub forage, crop residues, processing products and feed grains. The
newly developed grassland area will be 155,000 ha, mainly of alfaf (Medicago sativa),
(Onobrychis satyra), Astragalus (Astrgus adsurgens) and sweet clover (Meilotus alba).
The yields per ha are about 3 tons for three-year-old alfalfa, 5-7 tons for two-year-old
Onobrychis, 3-6 tons for three year old astagalus and 3-4 tons for one-year-old sweet
clover. Through the establishment of improved grassland, two milLon tons of forage and
fodder will be produced annually.
C. MAURKEMG
5.13        As a result of increasing population pressres, the Loess Plateau has been
a deficit area for most basic food crops including grain and oil crops, unable to feed its
population without government support. Previous policies have emphaized food self



- 38 -
sufficiency, but have largely failed to achieve the desired effect, as farmers were forced
to produce grain on unsuitable steep slope land. Recent reforms allow farmers to diversify
into cash crop production, including fruit production and, as a result, enable them to invest
in capital land construction. This, in turn, increases their purchasing power and allows
them to diversify production even firther. Given the relatively moderate incremental
staple food production and the constant increase in demand as a result of population growth
(1.2 percent) and income growth (projected at 12.4 percent per year), there should be no
difficulty in finding domestic markets for grain crops and oil crops and meat. Increasing
export opportnities to both international markets and other provinces exist for cash crops,
particularly fruit. Import substitution, particularly for timber, is likely to be cost-effective.
The formerly rudimentary domestic marketing system is improving rapidly and is expected
to play a more important role in commodity circulation in the future. For example, there
are some auction markets for food crops, fruit, goats, catde, and timber in Xifeng (Gansu)
and Yanan (Shaanxi) cities and similar markets are developing in each subproject area
where production expands.
5.14        Crops. The former grain bureaus will remain buyers of grain to ensure
stategic supply to urban centers and pnce stabilization. They will procure about 10-
15 percent of marketable surplus. The remaining grain will be sold to a range of market
competitors. As famers become accustomed to markets, and planners gain confidence in
the overall balance of gmn supply and demand the activity of the bureaus will be fully
commercialized.
5.15        Thlber. The incremental production of timber would be absorbed by the
local provincial market, and through shipments elsewhere in China. Forest products
including poles and timber will be readily marketed in the local and provincial markets,
since the demand for these products is well above supply. In Malian (Gansu), tinber
imported from other provinces should still reach 15,000 cubic meters during the end year
of the project based on the 31 percent of total timber production impwted from other
provinces in 1992.
5.16        Apples. Apple production has expanded rapidly in China dunng the last five
years. Present annual output is 4.5 million tons, maldng China the third largest producer
of apples in the world. However, per capita apple consumption is only 4.1 kg cmpared
to a level of about 30 kg in the developed world. The growth rate in per capita apple
consumption after 1949 has been 7.8 percent annually. By the year 2000, per capita
consumption will be 10 kg annually. Domestic demand will exceed 13 million tons.
There is, therefore, a large market for good-quality apples in China, sufficient to absorb
incremental apple output that would be produced under the project. In 1991, apples were
sold through three channels. About 10-30 percent of the total production passed through
local govemment, 30-60 percent through wholesale traders from other provinces, and 20
percent through local farmers markets. Thus far, the largest sources of apples sold in the
project area to wholesalers are the Malian, Jialu, and Yanhe areas. In Malian, apples sold
to other provinces will consitute 50 percent of total production at the end year of the
project, up from 38 percent in 1992. In Weifen, 75 percent of the apple production was
sold in the domestic market in 1992. At full development, this will be 85 percent (6,100



- 39 -
tons), with the remaining 15 percent to farmers' own consumption. The major domestic
and regional markets are in Shanghai, Beijing, Tianjin, Guangzhou, Fujian, Shenzhen,
Hong Kong, Macao, and Southeast Asia.
5.17        The conditions on the Loess Plateau are partcularly suitable for apple
production for several reasons. During the first few years until production commences,
apple trees are typically intercropped with food crops, thus, the opportunity cost for the
land is minimal. At current market prices, the relatively low investment costs can be
recovere witiin two to five years after production commences. In periods of high market
prices, intensive maintenance and inputs can guarantee high incomes from small holdings
But even if prices should fall in the future, earnings from an average sized household plot
(0.1-0.3 ha) would still double or triple incomes of poor families. Apples not only provide
regular cash income, but they also add variety and balance to the farmers' diet. And in
penods of seasonal drought when gan yields are low, apple troes will st be productive
enough to provide cash income and food. Similarly, in periods when input supplies are
short, apple trees will perform for some time even without ferizer application. A further
advantage lies in the fact that effective and low-cost storage caves allow farmers to keep
apples for six to eight months without suffering a significant reducdon in product quality.
Thus, while concems about the impact of large-scale development of fruit trees on fuure
market prices are legitimate, there is little doubt that to the poor on the Loess Plateau the
expason of fruit production is one of the most beneficial developments in history.



- 40 -
6. BENEFIIS AND JUSTDIFCATION
A. BEraEFm
6.1        In addition to the incremental production described above, benefits wil be
substantial in four areas:
(a)   Poverty Alevition. The project attacks poverty at its core, as virally no
sources of income other than from agriculture are within reah for the
1.2 million people in the project area. The project will direcdy help to
allevie poverty in several of the poorest areas m China. Of the 21
counties in the project, 17 are clasified by the government as among the
poorest m China [pr capita income below Y 300 ($35)]. This includes all
countes in the Shanxi project area (Xn, Hequ, Baode, Pianguan, Xi, Pu,
Daning), all counties in the Shaanxi proect area (alu, Yulin, Ansai,
Yanchang, and Yanan), and Kuan, Qingyang, Ning, Zhengnin, Heshui
counties in Gansu. Data on the e!isting poverty situation are summaried
in A-nag", Table 1. About 2F ),000 households would direcdy benefit
from project activities. Ite nt per capita income of farm families who
adopt improved or new technologies under the project would be more than
doubled from Y 360 to Y 900 at full development. AnexJ, Table 2
presents a summary of the project's impact on household incomes.
0)   Downstream Benefits.  The sediment discarge modulus in the nine
watersheds ranges between 5,000 and 26,000 tkm2/yr resultng in an atnual
sediment discharge out of the project area of about 120 million tons. After
comprehnsive waterhed treatment this would be reduced by half,
contributing substantally to an improved sediment regime of the Yelow
River. Without large-scale counter measures, severe erosion will continue
to silt up the lower reach of the Yellow River as well as the resvoirs along
its way. The direct and indirect costs involved in dealing with 1.5 billion
tons of sediment annually (rising embankments, rduced reservoir lives,
silted-up irrigation canals, oppotnity cost of billions of cm of water
needed to flush the sediment into the ocean, ever increasing flood risk,
etc.), amount to sevemal billion Yuan annually. In the long run this problem
can only be dealt with at its sources by comprehensive soil and water
conservation on the Loess Plateau.
(c)   Environment. Iarge areas in the project area are severely degrded and
current agricultural practices are unsustainable. More than 100,000 ha of
presendy cultivated land will be taken out of production and, together with



- 41 -
an additional 300,000 ha of mainly wasteland, planted with a mix of local
tree, shrub and grass species. This will not only significantly reduce
erosion, but also improve the microclimate and reduce the flood risk in the
now often desert Mm gullies. The land use pattern will be adjusted for
agriculture and pennials, respectively, from the curent 28 prcent and
37 percent to 21 percent and 54 percent. The proportion of wasteland will
be reduced from 28 percent to 17 percent. Improved grassland management
will help to reduce the pressure on the existng grassland areas.
Furthermore, due to the serious fuel, forage and fodder shortages, several
hundred thousand ha of grassland are destroyed every year on the Loess
Plateau by farmers digging up grass sod to burn the roots. This practice
will be completely eliminated in the project area, due to increased supply
of superior, woody plant biomass.
(d) Employment opportunities generated by the project will help reduce
seasonal underemployment among the rural labor force in and around the
project area. The incremental quantity of labor days can be handled mainly
within the existing family structure.  In each subproject area, land
construction and prepartion would require additional hired labor which is
amply available from the underemployed labor pool throughout the year in
each province.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYS
6.2         Watershed rehabilitation proects with substantial environmental and
downstream benefits lend themselves only pardy to precise economic analysis. While it
is relatively straightforward to estimate economic costs and benefits of increased
agricultural output, it is more difficult to quantify the economic value of sediment control.
Recently concluded studies indicate that the cost to society of dealing with the tremendous
sediment load in the Yellow River downstream is so high that investments in the Loess
Plateau (the source of all Yellow River sediment) to reduce the sediment inflow into the
river can have a high economic return. An attempt is therefore made below to quant
the impact of the project on the sediment regime of the Yellow River, including the
corresponding reduction in downstream investments. It remains virtually impossible to
quantify positive externalities such as the drmatic increase in vegetation cover in the area
with the corresponding improvement in microclimate, increased soil moisture, cleaner air,
etc. These extemalities are therefore dealt with on a qualitative level below.
6.3         Economic analysis has been carried out for all major components (terracing,
warping land, irrigated land, forestry, orchard, and grass development) and for the project
as a whole. World Bank price projections or export prices actually realized in China were
takm to estimate economic farm gate prices in 1991 constant terms for traded inputs and
outputs. Conversion factors for nontradeable inputs were estimated and applied to convert
financial values to economic costs (Anne 2, Table 12.). Average costs for rail tansport
were estmated at Y 0.036 per kg, trucks and handling at Y 0.067 per kg. All economic
values were converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of Y 8.7



- 42 -
to $1. A conversion factor of 0.8 was applied for unskldled labor (other conversion factors
are summarized in Annx 8, Table 9, and a discount rate of 12 percent was used, which
is considered to approximate the opporunity cost of capital in China. All project costs
including investment costs, farm production cost and 5 percent physical contingencies, but
not price contingencies or taxes, have been included in estimating the economic viability
of the project.
6.4         Downstream Impact. The economic benefit of retaining sediment on the
Loess Plateau can be calculated in two different ways. First, by calculating the
opportnity cost of water that can be used for irrigation downstream instead of flushing
sediment (see below) into the sea. Second, if the flushing cannot be realized successfully,
by calculating the cost savings resulting from a delay in raising the Yellow River
embanknents (paras. 6.5-6.6). The recently completed Yellow River Investment
Study 1/ concludes that soil conservaion investments of up to $1.2 billion would allow
about 4 bcm of water-one sith of the volume now required annually to flush sediment
into the Bohai Sea-to be diverted for irrigation and other productive uses. Given the
increasing water shortage in the basin, the benefits based on an opporunity cost calculation
for water would be in the range of $280 million annually. If this calculation can be
confimed in further studies, this factor alone would justify the project on economic
grounds. But even if these assumptions turn out to be overly optimistic, the downstream
benefits clearly justify the investments in silt retention structures, which account for over
50 percent of sediment retention but less than 15 percent of total project costs. For the
economic analysis, it has been assumed that each ton of sediment retained on the plateau
would make 24 cm of water available downstream for urban, industrial or agricultual use.
The opportunity cost for 1 cm of water is very conservatively estimated at Y 0.04. Thus,
a benefit of Y 1 per ton of sediment retained can be added to the various project
components. The ERRs are presented in two columns with and without inclusion of the
downstream benefits (Table 6.1).
6.5         The long-term annual average sediment load entering the lower reach of the
Yellow River is about 1,500 million tons of which about 400 million tons is deposited
annually in the river channel. This sediment deposition raises the bed of the channel an
average of 10 cm per year and, as a result, the flood embankments along both sides of the
river have to be raised every 10 years. Construction of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose
Project is soon to start at the head of the lower reach and is expected to be completed in
10 years. The reservoir will be opeated in such a way that it will store coarse fractions
of the sediment inflow (50 percent or 750 m tons annually) until an equilibrium position
will be reached in which the sediment will flow through the reservoir. The storage space
allocated to sediment deposition is sufficient to hold 7.5 billion tons. In the absence of
further erosion control measures in the Yellow River Basin, this storage space would be
filled in 10 years. During this period of storage there will be no sediment deposition in
the lower reach and there may be some scounng of the downstream channel. Thus, this
1/    Chin-YeLow River Basin Ivestmnt Plamning Study; Repot No. 11146-CA, Ibe World Bak
June 30, 1993.



- 43 -
storage of sediment will alow a delay of 10 years in the raising of the Yellow River dikes
and the associated river training works.
6.6         The project area of 15,600 kmn2 is drained by rivers which enter the Yellow
River above the Xiaolangdi Reservoir. This area has an average sediment modulus on the
order of 10,000 tons/km2/year. Thus, average annual sediment runoff with the existing
limited control measures is about 120 million tons. Of this total, 50 percent (60 million
tons) is the coarse fraction which creates problems in the Yellow River. The project will
virtually eliminate this sediment outlow from the project area. Over the next 10 years,
while Xiaolangdi is being built, other dams and land development works will also be built
in the main sediment-producing areas of the Loess Plateau and these will lead to a further
annual reduction of total sediment flow by about 300 m tons. Thus, the overall effect of
sediment control works will be to reduce the annual inflow of coarse sediment to
Xilangdi Reservoir by some 225 million tons. This will extend the filling period for
Xiaolangdi from 10 to 14 years. Furthermore, once the Xiaolangdi reservoir has reached
the equflibrium position, the annual deposition rate in the lower reach will fall to about 300
million tons from the current rate of 400 million tons; thus, the frequency of embankment-
raising campaigns would go to 13 or 14 years from the present 10 years. Each raising
canpaign costs about Y 3 billion in current prices. Delaying these investments, as
indicated above, results in a saving with a discounted value of Y 667 million at year 10
of the project. Thus, each ton of sediment (total sediment including the coarse fraction)
stored in the Loess Plateau has a discounted value of Y 1.5. For the purpose of this
analysis, the more conservative benefit of Y 1 per ton of sediment has been chosen in the
caculation.
6.7        The sediment trapped in reservoirs in the plateau will, in fact, deplete their
sediment storage capacity. Fortunately, the topography of the dam sites is such that the
height of dams can be raised periodically to restore their capacity. A typical dam would
have to be raised by about 5 m. The cost of raising the height of a sediment control dam
is much less than its initial cost, about 15 percent. This recurring cost is reflected in the
project cost stream for the purpose of economic analysis.
6.8        Rates of Retur. Based on the above assumptions and comparing costs and
benefits over a period of 30 years, the project's Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is
19 percent Crable 6.1). The ERRs range from 16 percent for the grassland development
component to 26 percent for the orchard component ass aU provinces. The smal
irrigation component in inner Mongolia shows a rate of return of 28 percent. At a
discount rate of 12 percent, which is considered to approximate the opporuity cost of
capital in Chima, and calculated over a period of 30 years, the net present value of the
project is Y 857 million.
6.9        Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity of ERRs for each of the project watersheds
and components has been tested for cost overruns, increased input costs and shortfalls in
output to identify the minimum adoption rates before the project becomes economically
nonviable. Table 14 in Aex 8 indicates that all investments in each component are
economically viable (with the exception of HBP watershed), even if investment costs



- 44 -
Table 6.1: ECONOWC RATS OF RWrN
(Percent)
Total
Xinshui Wei fel  Hebao pian Yimeng  Jia lu  Yan he Ma an  prqet
IRR      RR                 R      MR    MR    IRR        IRR
With sediment reduction benefit
Terme                18      16        1S       1S      21     16     22       18
Warping land         12      13        14       12      43     34     24       17
Irrigated land        -       -         -       28      28      -       -     28
Afforestation        18      16        16       18      1S     18     20       19
Shrub                19      19       12       20       19     1S     18       17
Orchard             25       25       22        20      35     34     21      26
Commenrcial tree8     -      19       18         -       -      -     21        -
Grasland             14      1S        9        16      18     13     19       16
T21a    ct       19      11         16      11       22     2Q     19      12
Without sediment reduction benefit
Terace              17       15        14       14      16     14     20       17
Warping land         3        2        6        0       11      8     10       4
Iriigated lad         -       -         -       17      24      -       -      17
Afforestation        17      16        15       18      13     17     20       18
Shrub               16       14        9        17      4       9     16      10
Orchard             2S       25       22       20       33     34     21      26
Commerciadtrees       -      19        18        -       -      -    20
Crassland            11      9         5        8       11      5     17       10
Total Eriet     11       18       1        13              17     12      12
increase by 10 percent, or benefits decrease by 20 percent, or the benefit is delayed by two
years, or costs increase 10 percent and benefits are delayed by two years. ERRs of the
forestry component, even though overall benefits are lower (particularly for shirub
plantings) than other components, appear quite robust in terms of sensitivity analysis as
well. Detailed analysis can be found in the project files. None of these variants reduced
the combined ERR of a comprehensively treated watershed below acceptable levels.
6.10         Incomes. To assess the impact of the project on household incomes in the
project areas, a representative set of detailed household models was prepared. In each
subproject area three typical farm households were selected from three different income
stra  (igh, middle, and low income; samples are given in Azma8, Table 8). Tle farm
model analysis shows a substantial increase in household income as a result of the changes
in land utilization, cropping patterns, production technology, and consumption. The
project would double or triple the incomes of adoptees in many villages where



- 45 -
comprehensive control measures were implemented. This increase in incomes is achieved
despite various agricultual taxes, special goods tax, land rent and the project loan
repayment (16-20 percent of the total expenditure of individual households in each
subproject area). The standard charge for these items in each subproject area is presented
in &nnex , Table 12. The fam model analysis (examples from Xinshui watershed)
results indicate that the annual per capita income in a representative village household will
increase from Y 280 to Y 654 at full development for the poorest 20 percent of households
(Annex 8, Table 5), from Y 365 to Y 434 for the 65 percent of middle-income households
(Annex 8, Table 6), and from Y 450 to Y 852 for the highest-income 15 percent (income
above Y 450) of households at full development (Annex 8, Table 7). The financial budgets
for all households representing different income levels are summarized in Annex 8, Table
2, which shows an annual real income growth rate at full development of 11.2-27 percent
for the low-income households, 6.4-15.7 percent for the high-income households, and 5.1-
21.2 percent for the middle-income households. In particular, the establishment of a small
fruit orchard on most farms will result in a manifold increase in household incomes in the
medium term. In households without frit orchards, incomes will increase by about
50 percent.
C. RISK
6.11       The project is based on years of Chinese experience in soil conservation and
agriculture on the Loess Plateau. It is also based on the careful analysis of the WFP Mwi
Project in Shaanxi and the Bank financed component in Dingxi County, Gansu, which have
been quite successful. All components have been exhaustively tested, thus in its technical
aspects the project has few serious risks. The risk of inadequate management capability
in the project entities is minimized as experienced management teams have been in place
since the early stages of preparation, and further strengthening would be provided under
the project. As the project operates in four provinces covering an exceptionally large area,
strong supervision is required from the Yellow River basin authority represented by
UMRB. This is ensured through the agreed project management structure and would be
further enhanced through UMRB financial control over project funds. The risk of
unsatisfactory cooperation among the different line departnents at the provincial level is
minimized through the existing powerful project leading groups at various levels.



- 46 -
7. AGREEMENTS ANM RECOMMENDATION
7.1         The following agreements were obtained at negotiations. The Borrower
and/or the Project Provinces will:
(a)   conduct trainirg under the Institutional Development Component in
accordance with programs agreed with IDA. To that end, each project
province shall prepare, and submit to the CPMO, for forwarding to the
Association by November 30 of each year, a proposed program of training
activities to be caried out during the following calendar year (para. 3.18);
0)   ensure that the project will comply with agreed procedures and technical
standards for review of design, construction and maintenance of hydmu ic
structures (pam. 3.24);
(c) maintain separate accounts for the project and furnish the audited project
accounts, statements of expenditures, and Special Account to IDA within six
months after the end of each fiscal year commencing in 1994 (para. 3.37);
(d)   ensure that all pesticides used under the project shall have been approved by
the Asciation, and that the storage, handling, distribution and use of such
pesticides shall follow guidelines saisfctory to IDA (para. 3.41);
(e)   implement the part of the Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan
applicable to the respective project province in a manner satisfctory to the
Association (pam. 3.42);
(t)   ensure that CPMO and PMOs at provincial, prefecture, county and township
levels would be maintained with functions and responsibilities acceptable to
IDA and staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers (pam. 4.4);
(g) ensure that the provinces and the CPMO will maintain, or cause to be
maintained, Technical Panels wjih memberships, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 4.5);
(h) ensur. that charges will be collected from the water users for the irrigation
systems completed under the project at levels sufficient to cover full annual
operational and maintenance costs (pam. 4.8);
(i)   ensure that for participating households the minimum land contract terms in
the project area will be 30 years for orchards, teraces and warPing land;



-47 -
all other land will have a minimum contract period of 50 years; and that al
farmers affected by the project wil receive wnitten and signed contracts, and
that copies of such contracts will be held in the village or township
registries and will be available for inspection (para. 4.10);
U)   ensure that the provincial PMOs would prepare and submit, through CPMO,
a detailed annual budget and work plan to IDA for review by November 30
of each year in respect of project implementation the following year
(para. 4.11); and
(k)   ensure that the CPMO would undertake jointly with provincial PMOs and
IDA a mid-term review of the project by September 30, 1997 (pa. 4.20).
7.2        The approval of the Credit Agreement by the Borrower's State Council
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
7.3        Subject to the above, te proposed project would be suitable for a credit of
SDR 106.3 million ($150 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the People's
Republic of China.



-48-
ANNE=



- 49 -
PROJECT AREA DATA
Table 1: CjLIATE
Province      Project         Staion   T     a    *C   Sunshine  Evaporation    Fros-fiee
area                      Max.   Min.    hours       (min)         days
Shanxi        Xinshui         Puxian       40    -23    3,045       1,766         176
Daning       38    -21    3,853       1,640         201
Xiiian       38    -24    3,159       1,852         170
Weifen         Xingioan     37    -29    3,225       2,090         174
Hebsopian      Hequ         36    -25    3,250       1,697         166
Baode        37    -20    3,230       2,059         182
Pianguan     37    -27    3,099       1,956         127
Imer          Yi Hu           Dongsheng   35    -30    3,134        2,240         146
Mongola                       Daqi         40    -35    2,450       2,137         163
Sbaanxi       Yanhe           Yanan        40    -25    2,450       1,562         183
Iialu          Jiaxian      39    -23    2,755       2,396         159
Yulin        39    -33    2,926       1,896         159
G5nsu         Malian          Xifeng       32    -18    2,390       1,467         161
Qingyangt    35    -18    2,423       1,466         184
Zhengg      32    -19    2,434        1,447         157
Table 2: PRECIPITATION
Province      Project         Station                   Annual 2rcinitation
area                       Maximum    Year  Mimum    Year   Avemge
Shanxi        Xinshui         Xixian          816      1964     343      1972      545
Gekou           812      1958     270      1965      512
Weifen         Xingxian        845      1964      181     1965      501
Hebaopian      Hequ            608      1979     247      1974      417
Baode           861      1959     195      1969      452
Pianguan        571      1969     275      1971      410
Iner          Yi HU           Dongsheng       710      1961     198      1962      394
Mongola       Daqi                            526      1964      142     1980      302
Shbai         Yanhe           Yanan           774      1980     447      1988      572
riau           Jiaxian         576      1978      235     1972      391
Gaosu         Malian          Xifeng          805      1964     361      1986      557
Qingyangt       853     1964      337      1986      530
Zhenging        921     1983      437      1965      634



-50-                              A     XI
Table 3: SEDIMWff DATA
Province      Project      Station Cachment  Maximum  Max. annual sediment  Sediment
area                   area    measured   dacbare (million t. I modulus
Omn)    sediment   Maximum M      _nmm  t/knm
concentration
(kg/cu.m)
Shanxi        Xihui        (3 icou    3,992      170         70.50   0.30     4,770
Weifen       Bicun      1,477      207         24.10    1.10    9,750
Hebaopian    Hequ       1,562     1,190        24.00   0.27     3,710
Baode     2,901       552        29.40   0.33      2,495
Pianguan   1,896    1,460        55.10   0.37     6,930
Inner         Yi Hu        Wayao       829      1,140        21.70   0.73     7,760
Mongoia                    Horgtagou   603       794          7.00   0.04     3,170
Shaanxi       Yanhe        Ganguyi   5,891      1,030        87.00   15.90    5,800
Jialu        Shenjiawan  1,121    1,480        77.00   0.29    17,000
3ansu         Malian       Banqiao     849       849         12.60   0.13     1,710
Yuluoping 20,400     1,050               23.10     6,150
Dongchuanqy3,750     1,180        84.00    1.72    5,300
Xichuanqingy        1,220                17.80    7,990



-5}-                             A!m
Table4: SLoPE CowosMMoN
Province    Proect     Totd area          Slope conmo2tion (% of area}      Totl
area         (ha)   <50 5°0450  15-25° 25°-350 35-450 >45'
Shauxi      Xinshui    218,680   10.2  21.7   32.4   17.6    10.8    7.4  100.0
Weifen      86,910   15.3  32.7   36.0    8.3    4.5    3.2  100.0
Hebaopian  199,580    6.4  29.1   21.1    16.1   15.9   11.3  100.0
Subtotal    505,170    9.6  26.5   28.6    15.4    11.7    8.2  100.0
Inner       Yih lu     236,930   54.8  28.9   12.6    2.6    0.9    0.2  100.0
Mogolia
Sbaauxi     Yanhe      303,400    5.7  23.6   23.8   24.9    15.7    6.3  100.0
rzlu        80,000   23.5  33.6   21.8   19.3    1.5    0.3  100.0
Subtotal    383,400    9.4  25.7   23.4   23.7   12.7    5.0  100.0
Gansa       Maian      430,400          13.6   24.3   26.4    13.9    1.9  100.0
IQT 1a555.9    19.3  23U1   23.7   18L6    10.9    4.5  100.0
Table 5: SLOPE ComposmnoN
province    Project    Total area    Cultivated Slope Comnuotion (% of area)  Tota
Area         (ha)    <5  5°-15° 150-250 250-35° 350-450 >450
Shauxd      Xihui       41,800   30.4  29.3   34.1    5.2    1.1            100.0
Weifen      30,840   26.7  42.7   28.3    2.2                  100.0
Hebaopian   75,200   15.3  50.3   26.5    7.9                  100.0
Subtotal    147,840   22.0  42.8   29.0    5.9    0.3          100.0
Inner       YihJu       17,010   64.9  35.1
Mongola
Shamaxi     Yanhe       89,200    9.6  24.4   39.1   24.9    2.0            100.0
lidu        30,140    7.5  48.4   33.8    10.3                 100.0
Subtotal    119,340    9.1  30.5   37.8   21.2    1.5          100.0
Gahmu       malan      144,010   42.0  24.7   29.3    3.9    0.1            100.0
ism1                428.200   268   33.0   304       9.3     C           10.



-52-                                       ANNEXI
TAll L P=nMr SacuCaGN.sic smJAlor
hovi        Puojeat   Am   Ptao- Conty Town- Vill Popud   S sgzu- Lad/Cap-  COl. kW    hoe
ame      on'   am             f d 4       (MIIflw     tue      liei (Ia)   capita Qa)  (Y/cqoal)
Shanx       Xhul  2,187    1          3   25   214    12.90         83       2.00      039         410
We&.       869    1      1    8    152    8.04         96       1.10      0.40        690
HIP      1,996    1      3   31   607    20.4S         88       1.10      0.42        45
Subtotal     X      A~1            702   §    92    fIA          11       I4        941   SXX
3           YI7u   7 I   I _ 13 5X77   96 4 30                                               604
Sblwd       Yank.   3,034    1        6    33   485    20.94        90       1.60      0.47      1,384
Jilu       800    1      2    12   206    6.32         98       1.30      0.48        642
Subtotl            3.834                45   691   272           22       L50Q      048       LZQ
(ahu        Malin   g                            385   48.96        21       2190      0.29        S1



Tabe 7: Sdocted ProvoW mid Promt Ama Povwensto StiUZ   11
_$ *wed                '---' S ba,, Manol  I            a
Piovinee   Polet Ama 5/   PrvI        P^ojec  At"     Povine    Projet Age    Pro           Proect A,,"
Ud..    TOW                                                          62*2.2            4.1       Bile             2S       6442.1             22      276.4           6.525
Of .hidu Eth.     b                                       MA            MA              14N2             03      20.171       NA             97J2t            I.6
Awiege nmobw pw haual                      MD.                2.61                        2.6              4        3.22            3.19       3.37             2.1
Meal    Totl                                       lOO              22597.4           82        12694             ".6    26                25.       124,S            500.3
Of e1c Etnc gmoup                        '000                           " A           26523             5.7    12t.l          MA          21S631              5.1
Aveae maur^_ pW hIoW                       No.                 4.6           4.35        4.13              4        4A0            4.S          4.7            4*
Taot    ToWa                                       '000             2691.6            66.6      22070            56.2    33402.            260       22861B2        SOB.62
Of which.Etdhni emp                       VW°             "A                          4124.2              6     1S.406        MA          27606"            5BS9.
Av_rage .rwanh pW househ_ld                NO.                3.66           3.91         3.9              4        2.6             4.2         2.S           4.6
Uean    Annual blut et                                                10.42           14.6         1.7                      1.451            1.7         1.9           1.S1
Annual pmopuaton lnc.eae roawl                               13.64            6.6         1.3                      0.045.   1.32
_           o D1.4ee                                                                      t                        004t                         1.2              2           l
Noel  _ .1cr pm  hmta popiation            No.               14.S4           0.49        8.19                      1.04            5S           9.7            e.5
HOW" l bad Pmo pop                         me.               Isis           so.6         4.16                      IA             5.15        13.1              a
POeD*tlon mil 8e..1o46  e. wa              *000           0t10.38             4.1        77                       6442.1              *      2916.4          6.853
_ie     An_ua bot saa                                                424.01           19.7         1.7            1.7       1.9              Si7         2.2           1.2
Annual populaton Ince" .. e w19,47                                           1.7          0.9              1       1.260            1.          1.3      t     .12
MoM doto pm ouand populaan                 MD.                 1.5            0.1        4.32              4        0.74            23.        204             43 
Moph bed Pm tusan popaston                 "D.                044            0.          2.16              2        0.72            1.7         2.3             1.7
Poo. tom v*M seem to eae WSWr               000            19382.0           60.4 8A40                    20       283.6          39.7   13728.72              210
U.k..   Rat  chool ap .ddrs in achoed              CA                  9.61             9t         to0                       66.1           9il         96.              99
Po _l of w                                 '*CO              349.2           0.57        1140                    94t.1es           2.86       125.2            0.I
l eof Popuiatofol acy et                                      5.46           13.9          14                      13.07            18.1        3.4           7.
Poption wmh prw  *edca2on                  coo0            1t97.43            0.4        S493                    1339.ff          4.73       1056.7          2.95t
S of populati. mile pnmnq. eduation  S                       79.66           9.78         67                        20.8           21.7        20.8          46.17
POpAtOn wIt as onde educaon 2/00                           2472.24           2.83        1320                   2321.25            10.5      2322.2              2                          l.A
S el PoP. _Wth aconda  edwcton      S                        54.32          71.46          16                      64.66             49        57.            23.4                          W
Population woth high eduets 3/            '000              576.75            0.2         235                    416.AS5           0.61       44963              2
% odF Population with h  educi                                6.24           4.B8          2                        7.07            2.6        11.3           23.4
Moul    Rat Of sdcoo _g chlden in _ced 21           %         9       6.42              75         9S            SO 97.6                      92         90       t       0
fJt        of _s,                                           2901.4             tS        2SO0             7.6    7549.02          104.87    4074.96          10t.4
lbof PGPUteof dktacy                                         12.64          18.16          18            16.1         26           40.         24.2          21S7
Populeo wth patmy edaiotCn                                 8373.37          32.17       10962           31.7    7198.53           60.21      6260O3         254.57
% Of Popeaon itl pioas educa o                               37.0$5        32.S           79            77.7        20.7           J3J2        43.8           10.S
Po     n wth eosr edcatIo3n 2000                           7472.46          21.16        417            1.26   10S46.065          67.17    6o.54            137.23
% Of Pop. wmh Sconday education            l                 28.07          2S.65          2             3.1       S9.12             26         22           27.43
PopuetIon    NO  du     p 32 oo/.t                                           0.02          14           p.04     94.2612           0.34          0               0
of  poaonith hWi ed"tion                  SA 0.45                           0.02         0.1            0.1        0.3            0.13          O
Ibs PMt Cm* fm  Iru a"   0                                                                                                                                                               y
brat P.~ Cea ew                            mu                 0.21           0.37        0.37            0.2       0.129           043        773.6          2.163
lititd me                                  mu                 OS             O.1          0.1           0.04      0.0403          0012        216.6              0
mhIea c offmgbdxw                          100%-100           1OO             100        9#              100         140            weS         100            100
Grain aWI                                  Ionle             1.832           O.9         2.*7            1.27       2.54          0.82         6.63            1.4
FPrtlic  me (nutila                        kg               311.79            234         60              50      1268.0         205.t4       4002              25
Eclt po                                    kwh              133.19             38        67.6      B       9       120.9         2si    3B11l            C      0
Oa.i poducti_ n                            he               297.17            277        75           320.7    322.62             275.7    14581.             1314
Prduction                                                    2.18           1.63        94.7           91.7        22.1          26.95     10l8ow              BS
ar    loput VAu                            uwn              722.16            980       too7             919      1567.6        to87.51    46762.3          256.7 
of-- et o ftwt
P capIt In                                 YU"               603.5            289         672            284      515.75         300.72      S02.74            302
Povey e 4/                                 YUn                300             26          S0o            300         360            SW         s0              400 
Ppuat _cn eeIpovOy Om                                     3S84.97           57.8       2004           21.56    27110.99         191S        60689          200.12
% of popul*ton undpot  n                                     12.37          10.00          tS             36        B.11             74        35S              40
lowahold wida pwowtv line                                   776.34           12.6        S04             5.4    5812.04           41.14      1230*            432*
lb of houtlhol ud IovertO Ie1.SS                                               52          tS            6S         7.07           02.A       t6.1              40
Molar    S. PFu_ we b_ ed en 1962 dat poa*d by PM*KW  Paat MengAnr Offiue.
3. Rate ofcte  ag children in aced    total numb    ot dp        aoo        by thdeetal  nanbarofschoolagcledn.
2. Secondaw detl  kelud    dt  A    high  soolw n td        t  l    Fd eweemt    Wd    a      d  ualantt d a .
4. SZe by ea g_vwewambt.
S. bead on tWle da 0*w.



-54-                          ANNEX2
Taatle I *        PRESENT AND PROPOSED LAND USE
Total Project
Present           With Project       Change
%    I    ha        %          ha          ha
Crops             27.50     427,873    20.80     323,627     -104,245
Orchard             1.00     15,559     2.90      45,121       29,562
Forest             13.50    210,047    38.00     591,242      381,196
Grass              13.20    205,379    14.60     227,161       21,783
Waste              0.50       7,780     0.60       9,335        1,556
Unused             37.50    583,463    15.80     245,832     -337,630
Others             6.80     105,801     7.30     113,581        7,780
TotaI             100.00   1,555,900   100.00   1,555,900          0
Gansu
Present           With Project       Change
_         ha    %              ha          ha
Crops             33.40     143,754    26.30     113,195      -30,558
Orchard             1.10      4,734     3.40      14,634        9,899
Forest             12.40     53,370    38.70     166,565      113,195
Grass             40.40     173,882    18.80      80,915      -92,966
Waste              0.30       1,291     0.30       1,291           0
Unused             5.60      24,102     5.60      24,102           0
Others             6.80      29,267     6.90      29,698         430
Total            100.00     430,400   100.00     430,400           0
Shaanxi
Present           With Project       Change
%         ha        %   I    ha            ha
Crops             31.10     119,237    22.80      87,415      -31,822
Orchard             1.80      6,901     4.40      16,870        9,968
Forest             12.40     47,542    34.10     130,739       83,198
Grass              2.90      11,119    15.70      60,194       49,075
Waste              0.60       2,300     0.50       1,917        -383
Unused            40.90     156,811    11.90      45,625     -111,186
Others             10.30     39,490    10.60      40,640        1,150
Total             100.00    383,400   100.00     383,400           0



- 55 -                        MM  2
PRESENT AND PROPOSED LAND USE
Inner Mongolia  i_i
Present           Witb Project       Change
______    ha X                ha          ha
Crops              7.20      17,059     7 .30    17,296         237
Orchard            0.00          0      0.80       1,895       1,895
Forest             7.80      18,481    42.50     100,695      82,215
Grass              3.40       8,056    24.50     58,048       49,992
Waste             32.70      77,476     0.00          0      -77,476
Unused            40.90      96,904    14.00     33,170      -63,734
Others             8.00      18,954    1090      25,825        6,871
Total            100.00     236,930   100.00    236,930           0
Present            With Project      Change
%    [    ha        %         ha          ha
Crops             29.30     148,015    21.00     106,085     -41,929
Orchard            0.70       3,536     2.30     11,619        8,083
Forest            17.80      89,920    38.20     192,975     103,054
Grass              2.70      13,640     5.80     29,300       15,660
Waste              1.10       5,557     1.10      5,557           0
Unused            45.40     229,347    23.20     117,199    -112,148
Others             3.00      15,155     8.40     42,434       27,279
Total            100.00     505,169   100.00    505,169           0



- 56 -                         ^ANNEX2
Table 2:
JIALU SUBPROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A.  AMLE LAN
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         22,320        10,485       -11,835
- cropping terrace                5,855         8,625         2,770
- fruit tree terrace                235         2,940
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank
- dam land                          885         1,475           590
- irrigated                       1,080         1,335           255
c.  Subtotal Arable land                      30,375        24,855        -5,520
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                               30,140         2,875        -8,265
b.  sown pasture                                   -             -             -
c.  fruit orchard                                235         2,940         2,705
d. nurseries - central                             -            20            20
- farmer                            -            20            20
e.  Subtotal Arable land                      30.375        24.855        5.520
B.   NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber            I
- single row trees (roadsides,}
4-sided)                     }
- land stabilizing trees       }       1,745         6,745         5,000
shrubs                               6,075        24,635        18,560
economic (fruit/nut) trees
Subtc _4. Forest                               7,820        31,380       23,560
2.   Pasture - sown     .                             845         6,875         6,030
- natural                             9,600         2,760        -6,840
Subtotal Pasture                              10,445         9,635         -810
3.   Wasteland                                     27,920         9,890       -18,030
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                       46.185        50.205         4720
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                 1,040         1,040
2.   Urban Land                                     2,400         3,200
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                  3.440         4.240
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 80.000        80.000



-57-                           ANNEX2
Table 2 cont.
SHAANXI
YANHE SUBPROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A.   ARABLE LAND
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         70,175        30,200       -39,975
- cropping terracc.              12,915        27,205        14,290
- fruit tree terrace              6,680        13,880
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank
- dam land                         3,960        5,295          1,335
- irrigated                       2,155         2,820           665
c.  Subtotal Arable land                      95,885        79,400       -16,485
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                               89,200        65,355       -23,845
b.  sown pasture                                   -              --
c.  fruit orchard                              6,680        13,880         7,200
d. nurseries - central                             -            40            40
- farmer                             -           125          125
e.  Subtotal Arable land                      95.885                     -16.480
B.   NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber             }                              }
- single row trees (roadsides,}                                }
4-sided)                     }                               }
- land stabilizing trees       }       34,200        54,040   }   19,840
- shrubs                                3,905        43,605        39,700
- economic (fruit/nut) trees            1,645         1,645             0
Subtotal Forest                               39,750        99,290        59,540
2.   Pasture - sown                                    715       50,415        49,700
- natural                                                -             -
Subtotal Pasture                                 715        50,415        49,700
3.   Wasteland                                    128,995        35,675       -93,320
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                      169.460       185.380         15.920
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                 1,000         1,075             75
2.   Urban Land                                    37,060        37,545           485
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                 38.060        38,620            560
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 303.400       303.400             0



- 58-                          ANNEX2
Table 2 cont.
SBAANXI
PROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A.   ARABLE LAND
1. Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         92,495       40,680        -51,815
- cropping terrace               18,765        35,835        17,070
- fruit tree terrace              6,915        16,820         9,905
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank
- dam land                        4,845         6,765         1,920
- irrigated                       3,235         4,155           920
c.  Subtotal Arable land                     126,255       104,255       -22,000
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                              119,340        87,230       -32,110
b.  sown pasture
c.  fruit orchard                              6,915        16,820         9,905
d.  nurseries - central                                         60            60
- farmer                                        145           145
e.  Subtotal Arable land                     126.255       104255        -22.000
B.  NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber                }   35,950        60,790   }  24,840
- single row trees (roadsides,    }                           }
4-sided)                }                           }
- land stabilizing trees          }                           }
- shrubs                               9,980        68,240        58,260
- economic (fruit/nut) trees           1,645         1,645             0
Subtotal Forest                               47,575       130,675       83,100
2.   Pasture - sown                                 1,560        57,290        55,730
- natural                             9,600         2,760        -6,840
Subtotal Pasture                              11,160        60,050       48,890
3.   Wasteland                                    156,910        45,560      -111,350
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                      215.645       236.285        20.640
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                 2,040         2,115            75
2.   Urban Land                                    39,460        40,745         1,285
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                 41.500        42.860         L.36Q
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                               .3 8 3S        383.400



-59Q-                          ANE 
Table 2 cont.
INNER MONGOLIA
PROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A. ARABLE IAND
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         12,540             0
- cropping terrace                  140         3,765          3,625
- fruit tree terrace
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank
- dam land                        1,780         3,770          1,990
- irrigated                       1,530        10,610          9,080
c. Subtotal Arable land
2.   Land Use
a. annual crop
b. sown pasture
c.  fruit orchard                                 40         1,900         1,860
d.  nurseries - central                            5           185           180
farmer
e.  Subtotal Arable land                   _
B.   NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber                }    5,370        30,300  }    24,930
- single row trees (roadsides,    }                          }
4-sided)                }                          }
- land stabilizing trees           I                         I
- shrubs                               13,080        70,300        57,220
- economic (fruit/nut) trees
Subtotal Forest
2.   Pasture - sown                                 6,250        57,950        51,700
- natural                                           14,310
Subtotal Pasture
3.   Wasteland                                    173,510        18,970
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces
2.   Urban Land                                    21,670        25,755
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land              _
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 236930                   ,



- 60 -                         AN-     2
Table 2 cont.
GANSU
PROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A. ARABLE LAND
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         94,450        23,635
- cropping terrace               45,920        85,070        39,150
- fruit tree terrace              4,750        14,750         10,000
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank   }       930         1,350           420
- dam land                             . 
- irrigated                       2,700          3,135           435
c.  Subtotal Arable land                     148,750       127,940       -20,810
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                              141,160        89,590       -51,570
b.  sown pasture                               2,800        23,515        20,715
c.  fruit orchard                              4,750        14,750        10,000
d.  nurseries - central                           45            90            45
- farmer
e. Subtotal Arable land                      148.750       127.940       -20.810
B.   NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber                )  40,045        123,015        82,970
- single row trees (roadsides,    }
4-sided)                        }
- land stabilizing trees           }
- shrubs                               12,510        23,775        11,265
- economic (fruit/nut) trees              810        19,580        18,770
Subtotal Forest                               53,365       166,370       113,050
2.   Pasture - sown                                 3,275        19,560         16,285
- natural                            170,860        61,540      -109,140
Subtotal Pasture                             173,955        81,100       -92,855
3.   Wasteland                                           -             ^             -
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                      227.320       247.470         20.150
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                25,390        25,450             60
2.   Urban Land                                    28,940        29,540            600
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                 54.330        54.990            660
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                              _430.400         430.400            h



- 61 -                         2dN3iAUM  2
Table 2 cont.
SHAM
H.P.P. SUBPROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A.   ARABLE LAND
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         62,570        23,925       -38,645
- cropping terrace                 9,780       25,700        15,920
- fruit tree terrace                 930        4,120         3,190
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank           490           360          -130
- dam land                         1,935        2,070            135
- irrigated                  .      425           555            130
c.  Subtotal Arable land                      76,130        56,730       -19,400
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                               75,200
b. sown pasture
c.  fruit orchard                                930
d.  nurseries - central                            0            45            45
- farmer                            0
e.  Subtotal Arable land                      76.130        56.730       -19.400
B.  NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber                1   11,565        25,010        13,445
- single row trees (roadsides,       }
4-sided)                     }
- land stabilizing trees             }
- shrubs                                 11,475       42,240         30,765
- economic (fruit/nut) trees                590         2,675         2,085
Subtotal Forest                               23,630        69,925        46,295
2.   Pasture - sown                                 1,125         9,425         8,300
- natural                                355           355             0
Subtotal Pasture                               1,480         9,780         8,300
3.   Wasteland                                     89,645        54,450       -35,195
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                      114.755       134.155        19.400
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                 1,470         1,470             0
2.   Urban Land                                     7,220         7,220             0
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                  8L690         8.690             0
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 19.7         199.575              0



-62 -                          ANNIEX2
Table 2 cont.
SHANXI
XINSHUI SUBPROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A.   ARABLE LAND
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland  - sloping                         30,220         6,260       -23,960
- cropping terrace                9,735        18,735         9,000
- fruit tree terrace              2,145         4,245         2,100
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank             0           100           100
- dam land                          765         1,055           290
- irrigated                       1,080         1,160            80
c.  Subtotal Arable land                      43,945        31,555       -12,390
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                               41,800        27,280       -14,520
b.  sown pasture                                   0             0             0
a.  fruit orchard                              2,145         4,245         2,100
d.  nurseries - central                            0            30            30
- farmer                            0             0             0
e.  Subtotal Arable land                      43.945        31.555       -12.390
B.   NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber                }   24,180        26,680   }    2,500
- single row trees (roadsides,    I                            }
4-sided)                I                           I
- land stabilizing trees           I                           }
- shrubs                               10,320       42,580         32,200
- economic (fruit/nut) trees            3,275         9,775         6,500
Subtotal Forest                               37.835        79.035        41.200
2.   Pasture - sown                                   695         6,695         6,000
- natural                             11,230        11,230             0
Subtotal Pasture                              11,920        17,925         6,000
3.   Wasteland                                    116,265        79,270       -36,995
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                      166.025       17i.23Q        10.205
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                 2,775         2,915           140
2.   Urban Land                                     5,935         7,980         2,045
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                  8.710        lg.891 2.185
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 218.680      218.680       _



- 63 -                          A       2
Table 2 cont.
SHANXI
WEIFEN SUBPROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
A.   ARABLE LAND
1.   Land Configuration
a.  upland - sloping                           27,860         17,235       -10,625
- cropping terrace                  1,830          7,830         6,000
- fruit tree terrace                  505          3,185         2,680
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank              20            20             0
- dam land                            40            140           100
- irrigated                        1,095          1,095             0
c.  Subtotal Arable land                       31,350         29,505        -1,845
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                                30,845
b.  sown pasture                                     -
c.  fruit orchard                                  505
d.  nurseries - central                              0            20            20
- farmer                             0
e.  Subtotal Arable land                       31.350         29.505        -1.845
B.   NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber                 }   14,190         19,240         5,050
- single row trees (roadsides,    }
4-sided)                 }
- land stabilizing trees           I
- shrubs                                13,995        23,695         9,700
- economic (fruit/nut) trees               550         1,270            720
Subtotal Forest                                28,735        44,205         15,470
2.   Pasture - sown                                      35         1,255         1,220
- natural
Subtotal Pasture                                    35         1,255         1,220
3.   Wasteland                                       23,660         8,700       -14,960
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                         52.430        54.16Q          1.730
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                   1,185         1,185              0
2.   Urban Land                                       1,945         2,060            115
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                  3.130         _ 3.245            115
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                                 86910



-64-                                   2
Table 2 cont.
SHANM
PROJECT AREA LAND USE (Ha)
~~~~~~ _
A. ARAALE LAND
1.   Land Configuration
%a.  upland  - sloping                         120,650        47,425       -73,225
- cropping terrace               21,340         52,260        30,920
- fruit tree terrace               3,585        11,550         7,965
b.  lowland - valley bottom/river bank            510           480          -300
- dam land                         2,740         3,265           525
- irrigated                        2,600         2,810           210
c.  Subtotal Arable land                     151,425        117,790       -33,635
2.   Land Use
a.  annual crop                              147,840        106,045       -41,795
b.  sown pasture                                    -             -             -
c.  fruit orchard                               3,585        11,550         7,965
d.  nurseries - central                             0            95            95
- farmer                             0           100           100
e.  Subtotal Arable land                      151.425       1177.90       -33.635
B.  NON ARABLE LAND
1.   Forest - commercial timber             }                              }
- single row trees (roadsides,}                               }
4-sided)                     }                              }
- land stabilizing trees       }       49,935        70,930  }    20,995
- shrubs                               35,845       108,510        72,665
- economic (fruit/nut) trees            4,420        13,725         9,305
Subtotal Forest                               90,200        193,165       102,905
2.   Pasture - sown                                  1,855        17,375        15,520
- natural                             11,585        11,585             0
Subtotal Pasture                              13,440         28,960        15,520
3.   Wasteland                                     229,570       142,425       -87,145
4.   Subtotal Nonarable Land                       333.210       364.550        31.340
C.   NONAGRICULTURAL LAND
1.   Water Surfaces                                  5,430         5,570           140
2.   Urban Land                                     15,100        17,255         2,155
3.   Subtotal Nonagricultural Land                 _20.S30       _22.282         2.295
D.   TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 505.165       505.165             O



Annual Plan of Control Measures in Project area
-itam/year                         19M        1994      1995       1996     11997        998      1999       2000      t1oal
basic fwanand
teasc" ha)                        1119S.0   11766.0   11730.2   11243.7   9818.7   846.7    7519.0    64K).0    78607.3
d&aned land (ha)                  302.4     329.5      341.8     347.4      744.1     894.6      690.6     559.9      4210.4
fniated tandm                     1387.0    1162.0    1284.4    1278.3    828.0       618.3      635.0     683.0      7882.0
loodplain (ha)                  30.0       30.0       20.0      20.0                                                 100.0
snb4i-al                          12917.4   13293.6   13376.4   12889.4   11390.8   10359.6   gX4-1.6    7727.9    90799.7
affliestation                                _
arbor frest (ha)                  12361.0   12591.0   12187.0   12171.0   11901.0   11730.0   10777.0   10160.0   93878.0
shrub fcrest (ha)                22369.0   23387.0   24287.0   23979.0   22249.0   20241.0   17766.0   17085.0   171363.0
conornic fotes (ha)              3583.0    3670.0    3732.0    3709.0    3259.0    3188.0    281R.0    2616.0    265S75.0
suwbtotal                        38131.0   39648.0   40206.0   39895.0   37409.0   35359.0   41361.0   29261.0   291816.0
onirhd                             3871.0    4262.0    4374.0    4205.0    4021.0    3717.0    2861.0    2418.0    29729.0
astificial grassand                21971.0   22059.0   24437.0   21283.0   21438.0   18571.0   1419X.0   12165.0   156122.0
total of neasures area (la)        77072.4   79262.6   82393.4   78236.4   74258.8   67806.6   57264.6   52171.9   568466.7
annual control degre (             5.51       5.66      5.89       5.59      5.31       4.85      4.09       3.73      40.63
control deree at the yet (,%)      24.91      30.57     36.46      42.05     47.36      52.21     56.30      60.03     60.03



1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998      1099       2000       total
flginfcft)gs of soil conservation   __,.____
key engaeerins (seat)              30         30         42         36         2 5         19        15         15         212
check dam for bhilding fiarmland (No.)  398     345        307        307        262        264        205        205       2293
check dam (No.)                    1689       2252       3862       5170       2794        1716      1241       807        19468
ully head ptomcion (kmi)           399        434        460        480        455        489        403        298        3418
pond (No.)                         140        155        160        175        Ig0        185         170       135        1300
central ,uwsery ()u)               237.0          _                                                                  _         . _
anount ofengineering voik                                                             _                      _
ct1th %voak (10000 c1n)            8777.8     8668.0     8872.6     8453 2     7388.4     686.7    575'7 6     52035      59929.S
stone woek f10000 cu.n)            4011.7?    7312.48    7293.47    4356.76    2776.54    915.54     924.56     953.10     28544.22
coscett work (10000 Ce.n)          12.48      15.25       1S.18     14.22      13.58       11.73      11.53     11.62      I05.59
anaterials amount                                                   I
ceinent ton)                       13748.3   13735.7    16133.9   125332.7  8210.1        5704.3    48013.      3453.0    78319.1
steel (ton)                        347.6      164.5      308.6      143.1      112.7      84.6       75.5       75.9       1312.5
timbea (cu.m)                      1570.8     1598.8    108.7    1662.1       1584.6      1521.1    1491.3     1438.0    12675.4
dicscl (ton)                       9662.5     9902.9     10752.8   9993.7    6520.1       4743.3    3429.8    2467.2    57472.3
explosive (ion)                    41.7 -     42.3       93.9       90.5       88.0       87.7       78.1       79.1       601.3
seedlings (I 0000 sedlng)          I 5 I 89.3    15823.9   16116.7   16026.7   14935.4    34234.6   312676.0   12037.1   127639.5
am seds (ion)                      346.0      360.2      385.8      339.3      337.6      302.6      244.6      220.0      2S36.7



Current Situation of Forest and Orchard Production
provinces                                  Shanx;                            lImnr Miongolia            Shaanxi             _    aesu      total
proiecg area                   total       Xinshui R.  Weifen R.   lebaopian   Y;h Ju League   total    Yanhe R.   )ialu R.     Malian R.
arbor forest                  ._-_eague_
area (ha)                    49935.8    24181.1    14189.0    11565.7    5368.0             35920.4  34173.4    1747.0        40045.0    131269.2
timber volumc (10000 cu.m)   207.38      99.40       102.50      5.48        10.68           119.35    115.30     4.05        82.48       419.89
annual timber volume         5.13        4.33        0.17        0.63        0.36           3.57       3.50       0.07        3.30        12.36
(10000 cu.m)
mual fuelwood volume         7.02        6.59        0.43                                   4.67      4.30        0.37        2.40        14.09
(10000 cu.m)
shrub forest
area (h)                     35844.7     10377.6    13994.0    11473.1       13081.0        9979.6   3906.6       6073.0     1I511 0      71416.3
valunuw(IOOOOuns)            35._ 6      2.51        29.20       3.95        9.11           4.13       1.40    _   2.73        1970       68.60
annual volume 10000 tons)    3.02        1.33        0.73        0.96        0.92           2.11       1.20       0.91        2.82        8.87
annual volume ofbranches &   2.19         1.49       0.70                                   0.55       0.40       0.15                    2.74
eaVes (10000 tons)                    .                                      _
economic forest
area (ha)                    4419.7      3275.0      553.0       591.7                       1646.7    1646.7                 S 83l.0     6877.4
output (1OOC tons)           0.15        0.09        0.05        0.0 I                       1.27      3.27                   0.48        3.90
uniit output (toniaa)        0.34        0.27        0.09        0.17                       7.71       7.71                    S.92       2.76
orchard ..." .    .
area h)                      3585.8      2146.7      507.0       932.1       47.0            6913.0   6680.0       233.0      4747.0       15292.8
output (1000O ton)           0.74        0.40        0.09        0.25        0.02            3.31      3.14        0.17        2.09       6.16
unit output (tOaVa)          2.06         1.86       1.73        2.68        4.67            4.79      4.70        7.30        4.40       4.03
4-side afforestation
untbe r(IOOO seedltins)       1761.6     594.7       45.3        1121.6                      87.0      87.0                    576.9       2425.5
timber volume (10000 eum)     11.50      6.70        2.30        2.50            _           30.90     50.90                  0.92        23.32
area (ha)                     130.5      63.0        36.4        31.1        4.4             26.2      26.2                    44.        205.1
annual output (10000 seedling)    992.1   773.7      218.4       _           36.3            800.0    800.0                    598.0       2426.4               N .
*~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1'D 
'Ga



Current Situation of Grass and Livestock Production
ptvinmc                   __          Shai                                   mner Mongolia               shaanxi                Gansu      total
project aea               toal        Xinshui R.   Weaen R. lIL  eoptan    Yih lu LIa.ue     total       Yanuc R.   Jialu R.    Malia R    (mean)
artificial vaaland       .___._.__
area (ha)                 1853.3    693.3        36.0         1124.0       6245.0            1560.3     713.3      347.0       6073.0'    15731.6
ui output (tonha)                    4.50        6.00         7.00         2.66                         5.00       4.80        4.79       4.1
toal output (toa)                    3119.2      216.0        7862.0       16611.7                      3566.5     4065.6      29089.7    64537.3
nat   rasand                             _          .                           .
arca a)                   11586.7   11231.A                   355.3        150240.0          9600.0                9600.0      167229,0   339255.7
unit o aut (to )         _           2.70                     3.00         0.15                                     2.00       1.50       0.96
tota output (ton)                    30324.8                  1065.9       22S36.0                                  19200.0    251743.5   324870.2
othaa                      120827.0  72711.0       42110.0                                    26954.7    26954.7                1211376.0   329157.7
*u0gtWanimal                       .___                        _  _      _                       .__                         .    ___
ttalnumber (10000 head)    5.04     2.72         0.79         1.53         1.21              5.23       4.67       0.56        5.?1       17.19                      0%
00
per houhold(head)        0.5         1.0         0.4          0.3          0.9               0.8        I.0        0.4         0.5       *0.6
pig
totI wimber (10000 head)    7.13     1.69        0.45         4.99         1.88              5.70       4.58        1.12       11.23      25.94
per ca (ta ad)            0.2        0.2         0.1          0.3          0.3               0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2        0.2
seetp
totaltnumber(1ooO0head)    31.77     2.03        7.06         16.62        17.14             24.31      18.96       5.35       2.54        81.76
per cpita*(head          0.9         0.2         0.9          0.9          3.1               1.0        I.0         0.9        0.2        0.7
smlI animal                                                                                       _  _                  _              _
toal mnmbe(10000 uhd)    14.18       4.99        0.03         9.16                           1.00                   1.00       3.21        12.39
per cita head)            0.39       0.47                    _0.51                           0.04                   0.16       0.07        0.16
rowis                                __       _   _            ____ .__                                                                         -
total mber(lOOoChead)    39.20       19.27       9.59         10.34        6.47              20.56       18.56      2.00       35.04       101.27
per capita (hcad)         2.08       2.80         1.24        0.57         1.16              0.82       0.98        0.32       0?1        O.S7
total                                                     _                     .        _                                   . _   ___
total 1O0000sheepunit)    72.44      27.93        10.40       34.11        21.56             50.24       42.13      2.66       54A3        199.2 1
per capita (beep wit)      .99       2.61         1.34         1.90       13.87              2.02        2.23       1.39        III        1.71                   VI



-69 -                                        AN;2
Tatrle 6:
The CurTent situation of Crops Production
provinces  prjca    popu.   5vwing    ara     basic   fainn.      total   oput    basi    out
arcas  laton                    . lnd
10000    ha      W          ha     hW        kg        kW      to      tow
pason             xefnopaapen
Shauxi     btotal   36.44  122782.3  0.34     24122.1  0.07    123666.3  339.4    5515.8  124.9
Xiahut    10.70   5250.0  0.33     9217.7   Q09      47401.0  443.0    1257.0  198.7
Wetfm    7.74    2206.0  0.29      275.0   0.03      14325.0  185.1      37.0   57.3
__  Hebaopian  18.00   5326.3  0.36  12629.4  0.07   19403   344.1   19821.8  110.1
lner.  Y  .ih Ju L    5.57   14534.0  0.26    474.0   0.08      17096.0  306.9    385.0   168.5
hazud   sub-total   25.12  105553.8  0.42    17065.4  0.07      5613.0  380.6    5390.0   180.7
Yahe       1888  78427.8  0.42      10027.4  0.05      4523.0  394.7    3070.0  175.2
ialu       6.24   27126.0  0.43   038.0    0.11         1090.0  338.0   12320.0  197.4
Gansu    lalian    49.14  112893.0  0.23     38767.0  0.08     190664.6  388.0    14232.0  232.5
total              t116.217  55763.1  0.31    1:4428.5  0.017    2039.9  367.3    14522.8  184.5
oil      crops                       economic  egos
Provinc:s    Project   arma                output              amea               output
as           ha      ha/      tons      town        ha       h/        kg         kgl
_ _capita             capita              capita              capiu
subtotal   18845.0  0.05       9286.8   25.5       7211.8   0.02      36065.0  99.0
Shl;i       Xnshui     5870.0   0.05       4664.0   43.6       1679.1   0.02       13705.0  12.1
Wcifen     7785.0   0.10       2780.0   35.9      850.0    0.01       8489.0   109.7
Hebaopian   5190.0   0.03      1842.8   10.2      4682.7   0.03       13871.0  77.1
bu nr M.    Yih Ju L    2480.0   0.04      576.0     10.3
subtotal    8360.5   0.03      5255.8   20.9       10777.0  0.04      132200.1  526.3
Slaanxi     Yanhe      68472    0.04       4706.0   24.9       9277.0   0.05      129793.0  687.S
l________  Jialu  1513.3   0.02  549.     8        1500.0   0.02      2407.1   38.6
Gansu       Malian     25877.0  0.05       20156.4  41.0       5238.0   0.01      47896.9  97.5
total                  55562.5  0.05       35275.0   30.3      23226.8  0.02      216162.0  185.9



Forest Development
psov.e     projct am                  cwra4t    stion                              Pla__ g    increase                             readc to   in 2000
asbe foredst  db rorest  ecoomzic   inb.oi    arbor lfor;t   dsub hrast  economie   sub-soll    xdbor foregs   dbunb fraret  cnomic   sub4oml
I-rt                 _oest                                                                .  rcst
Shj        sub-tol      50035.3     35844.7      4419.7     90300.2    1 1520.0    56120.0     7306.0      75446.0    61455.8      91964.7     12225.7    165746.2
XINshui     24)11.1      10377.6     3275.0     37833.7   2000.0        21200.0     5000.0     28200.0    26181.1      31577.6     8275.0     66033.7
%Vdin       14189.0      13994.0     553.0      21736.0   2350.0        7440.0      720.0      10510.0    16539.0      21434.0     1273.0     37246.0
l.pl. san    11565.7     11473.1     591.7      23730.5    7170.0      2741.0       2016.0     36"M.0    18735.7       38953.1     2677.7     60366.5
timer      Yih3u L      5638.0      13081.0                 38449.0   33430.0      46720.0                 60130.0     17.0        5903.0                 78597.0
sheaarx    sub4otal     35920.4     9979.6       1646.7     47546.7   16380.0      57260.0                 73640.0    52300.4     67239.6      1646.7     321186.7
Yanhe       34173.4      3906.6      1646.7     39726.7   13880.0      39700.0                 53510.0    48053.4      43606.6     1646.7     93306.7
iatu .    1747.0         6073.0                U720.0    2500.0        17560.0                 20060.      4247.0      23633.0         -      2780.0
alas       Malin        40045.0     12511.0     811.0       53367.0   52563.0      11263.0      18769.0    32600.0    92633.0     23774.0      19580.0    135967.0
tow                     131269.2    734)6.9      68774      209562.9  93873A0      37336a0     265750      29  6.0   22547.2    242779.3    334524        5013739
-*~~ ~~ ,                        '
.    *        *                                    -                             | N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



Observed Runoff Characteristics in the Project Area
Shanxi                           Inncr  Mongolia      Shaae                                      G msu
prect area                        Xinsiui   Weifeu     _     lisbaopia    _          Yil Ju  Lcague        Yanhe   Jalu                                Malian
y*osrajc s"aion                   Cekou   B;mcu      llequs  0hae         Pianguan  Wayao   llon agou       aguyi  Shenjiawan   Bianqo  YuluopsnS  Dongdwuan Xicbua-
_ _ _. -   - _   -          -                                                                       q_w_g
catchng area (sq.kin)             3992.0   1477.50   1562.0  290.10       1896.00   829.00   603.00       5891.00  1t121.00      849.00   20400.00   3750.00    10400.00
flow rate (cu.aWS)           =                                                                                     I
maximum now nit                 13.1     889.0      1.1     1.5          4.0       2580.0   3090.0       2150.0    S770.0       1190.0   5220.0    4000.0    4860.0
mnainmm flow rate year          1958      1978      1981    195S         1967      1981      1989        19S9      I ISX        1966     1977        1956       1956
minimum flov rate               1.440    0.000      0.031   0.079        0.260     0.440    0.027        0.082     0.020        0.005   10.310      0.000      0.100
aninimun fow raeyear            1986      1983      1987    1972         1986      1983      1986        1982      1985         1973     2963        1964       1963
pertennial avrasge now rate     5.00      1.63      0.30    0.55         1.36      0.73      1.06        6.85      2.55         0.4S     14.30      2.75       6.70
annual nmnollmont  (10000 cU.m)                                       _       -f          i
naxmutrn rnnoff                 41400.0  11695.0   3320.0  5X03.0        12470.0   4027.0   3373.0       33000.0   16890.0      8404.0   96150.0    1950.0   39900.0
maxmium nroffyear               1958      1977      19B1I    1958        1967      1981    1299          2197      1970         1966      1964       1977       1988
uMnimum  nOff                   4550.0   1546.9    96.6    2 S0.0        811.0     461.0   128.8         16200.0   3720.0       671.0    21530.0   4512.0       11830.0
mininum ninoff ear              1986      1983      1987    1972         1986      1983      1986        1985      1983         1987      1972       1960       1960
perennial avege nmoff           15730.0  8188.0    955.7   2842.0        4303.0    1471.0   1066.0       21600.0   8042.3       1879.0   45245.0   3678.0    22135.0
nioffofjuly-Sept. (l0000 cu.m)
nxiamum imo4f                   35709.0  7560.0    3310.0  5593.0        9210.0    4027.0  13373.0       23600.0   12119.0      4630.0   60950.0    15710.0   39100.0
maximumnroffyat                 1958      13977     198I    1958         1967      1981      1989        1987      1970         1959      1988       1977      1964
inimum runoff                   1490.1   905.6      89.4    93.0         198.0     461.0    28.3         5200.0    755.0        130.0    12150.0    1205.0    3481.0
minimum nwffyear                1980        3       1987    1972         1980      1983      1986        1985      1983         1972      1982       1965       1986
peretial average runoff         9664.4   5291.0    895.8   1723.0        3442.0    1471.0   1066.0       21500.0   4208.3       872.0    26949.0    8952.0      13329.0
nmoff moduta (cu.mVsq.km)         39403.8  55417.9   61184A  6349.5       22695.1   17744.3  17678.3      36666.1   71742.2      22t31.9  22178.9    23141.3    21283.7
obsevationpewod(year)             36       17        10       17          32         4        6            10        28 2        32        36         35         37          '-1
-   -   -         -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



The Current Economic Situation of Project Area
p       .vince                      Shanxi                               Inner hMongolia                   Silaanxi                Gansu        total
projct area         sub-total     Xinshui R.    Weilen R.    ilebaopan    YilI Ju league    saab-total   Yanile R.    Jialu R.i     Malian R.
total output value
(10000 Yuan)                       .___._.__
agriculture
gramn            6633.3        1876.6       1370.0       3386.7       1119.1             7461.1       5799.0        1662.1      9715.3        24928.2
ol crop           1559.2       589.1        540.0        430.1        59.2               6536.7       6394.8        141.9        3335.3       11490.4
others           320.2         210.2        103.0        7.0                             263.7                     263.7        2766.0        3349.9
sub-total        8512.7        2675.9       2013.0       3832.8       117S.3             14261.5      12193.8      2067.7        15816.6      39769.1
foresY             1134.3       527.0        204.0        403.3         245.4             1689.5        1579.4       110.1        33182        6327.4
livestocks         2907.8       520.2         544.0        1843.6       1722.6         -    13.2        7343.0       1270.8       3^19 I        16963.3
sideline           4-124 6      3679         2.4.4).)      IX16.7       205.6             1255.2      |      ___  __._9 _6_.3     4W J         9.5
tIsswy             1.5                                     1.5                            39.1          39.3                                   40.8
orchard            979.5        493.9         136.0        349.6        10.4              4279.4        4083.5       195.9         1183.3      6452.6
sub-total          17960.4      4324.9       5337.0        8238.5       3362.3            30138.7       26133.9      4004.8       2S050.7      79512.1
perenae ofeach
industry (OA)                                                                                                                                         -
agriculture                            __                    .._.___.__
grain            36.9          42.8         25.7         41.1         33.3               24.8         22.2          41.5         34.6         31.4
oil crop         8.7           13.4         10.1         5.2          1.8                21.7         24.5          3.5          11.9         114.5
others            1.8          4.8          1.9          0.1                             0.9                        6.6          9.9          4.2
sab-total        47.4          61.0         37.7         46.4         35.0               47.3         46.7          51.6         56.4         500
fishery            6.3          12.0         3.8           4.9          7.3               5.6           6.0          2.7           1 1.         8.0
livestocks         16.2         11.9          10.2         22.4 .       51.2              2X.6          28.1         31.7          13.3         21.3
sideline           24.6         3.8          45.7          22.1         6.1               4.2           3.4          9.0           14.3         12.4
fisIlayr                                                                                  OA            0.2
fis__e__    _   __ . ___    .__   _  _    .__   _ _    ._ _  _ _                      _.            0.2__        _._._ _  _ . ._
orchard            5.5           11.3         2.5          4.2          0.3                14.2         15.6         4.9          4.2           8.1
saab-total         100          100           100          100          100                300          100          100           100          100
net income                                                 I
per cap*ta (Wan)   9624.7       3132.0        2660.0       3832.7       1439.9            7719.7        355.3        162.1         298.5        287.7
Ioal (OO yYuan)   264.1         292.7         343.7        212.9        258.5              307.3        6708.5       1011.2        14667.7      33452.0
Note: *: icluding economic crops.
00: incudingothas.



The Current Economic Situation of Project Area
vrovhc.                           Shanxa    ____-_                                                    SItmaai                Gns u        to4a-
v *saboeal                      Ximhui R.   Weirca R. P°Lwan    Yih im League          sinblob1     yan R. I   Jiu R.        I',atian IR.   _JMR_
WIu outpt vle
CW0000bU _Y .m_   _ _.
ran      i _    6633.3       1876.6       1370.0      3326.7       11=.1      _      461         1799. 0      1662.1       971S.3      24923.8
oil crp*         SS9.2   2 89.1           540.0       430.1        59.2              6536.7      6394.83   7 4.9           33353       1149.4
oahas           320.2        210.2        303.0       7.0         ________263.7                  ______263.7               2766.0      3349.
Sub4al           51i2.7      2675.9       2013.0      3832.1       1172.3            14261.5     12193.8      2067.7       35816.6     39769.1
htrsby            1 134.3      527.0       204.0        403.3       245.4             1629.5       1579.4       110.1       3318.2       6317.4
Iivedocks         2907.8       520.2       544.0        1843.6      1722.6            8613.8       7343.0       1270.8      3719.1       16963.3
%sWlinc           4412-1.6     147.9       2440.0       IR16.7      205.6             1255.2       U94.9        360.3       4a13.5       98.5
(i|e              3 .5                                  I .5             _            39.3         39.3                                  40.8
orchad            979.5        493.9       136.0        349.6        10.4             4279.4       4083.5       19S.9       1183.3       64526
sub4cota          17960.4      4384.9      5337.0       8238.5      3362.3            30138.7      26133.9      4004.8      28050.7      79512.1                  a
prceage ofead 
&Y  A 2}             .._                     _  _  _             ._            _ _                                _  _    _   _     _  _   _
wtra             36.9        42.8         25.7        41.1         33.3              24.8         22.2        41.5         34.6         31.4
_ a8p 8.7                    13.4          0.31        5.2     =    .8               21.7         24.5        3.5          11.9         124.S
othft       13.8         4.8          3.9         0.3          ______   0.9                               6.6          994.2
&b4da* _         47.4        61.0         37.7        46.4        35.0               47.3        46.7         51.6         56.4         50.0
OJd               6.3          12.0        3.8          4.9         7.3               5.6          6.0          2.7          11.8        8.0
livesks           16.2   _    11.9         10.2         22.4 .       51.2             21.6         28.1         31.7         13.3        21.3
sideline          24.6         3.8          45.7        22.1        6.1         .     4.2          3.4          9.0          14.3        32.4
ro                                                                                   o0.1          0.2             _
orchard           5.5          11.3        2.5          4.2          0.3              14.2 _          5.6       4.9         4.2          8.1
ub-otal           300           00oo       0oo0         0oo          t0               300          t0           lo0          0oo 0oo
4 uinace_           __     _          _  L_     _..
1pt Cal  (w}        9624.7       3132.0      2660.0       3832.7       1439.9           7719.7       355.3        162.1       298.5        287.7
h (30000 ywan)   264.1         292.7       343.7        232.9        258.5            307.3        670.5         1011.2      14667.7     33452.0
Now  : icg economic aoep 
":bichadgoas.                                                               *                                       *l  -              ,n*            *         .
3O..



Current Situation of Water and Soil Conservation
provinces              Inner Mongolia                   Shaanxi                   Oans                           Shanxi
projed area            Yih Autteague     total          Jiilu R.     Yanhe R.    Malian R.      total         liebaop ian    Weifen R.    Xinshui RI
sgatistics date            orl99         end of I989  c_  O1990end of 1989                      end of I99                               _
area. (sq.km)          2369.3            3834           800          3034         4304          5052          1996           869         2 La7
ersion area (sNkm)     2270.47           3660           760          2900         3953          4108.59       1822.2         632.39       1654
controlld arc (sxqkm)    292.115         694.67         167.197      52.47        786.39        940.69        3t3.16         125.86      431.67
harnes degree (%)       12.9             19.0           22.0         18.2         19.9          22.86         21.1           19.82       26.1
ten so (ha)            235.1             18766A         5853         12913.4      45922         21281.6       9718.3         1830        9733.3
duamd and (ha)         2561.2            4846.7         886.7        3960         930           2790.4        1934.7         89          766.7 
irigated lan  (ha)     1678.1            3234.3         1081         2153.3       2700          2600.1        425.1          1095        11080
aA'ore'stalion (ha)    384496            34146.7        7820         26326.7      I8267         61386.2       23630.5        9009        28746.7
uass.pIantine (ha)     6244.7            1560.3         847          713.3        6073          1853.3        1124           36.0        693.3
keyadun  (seat)        3                 8              3            5            6             29-           14             9           6
dwe*damfoesbullg       20                2939           685          2254         33            13i8          1222           8           88
~a d  d   (se t      .     _      _       ,  _          _    _        .   _           _     _    _     _          _      _    __          _     _
d,eckdaan (sea9        305           _   770  _76                                2293           19783         18320          321         64?
-   311
q0 



Prcsext Sediment Reduction in the Project Area
.ject  area   Total area    Erosion arca    Percentage or   Controlled  Con trolled   Sedinent       Sedimcnt      Benefit of sedirne
Erosion area    area         degree        discharge     reduction      redIction
st.km         sq. km              %         sq. km                        OOOOt        10ooo0             *,.
luner mogohia  2369.3        2270.5        95.83          292.2          12.89         1055.8         120.00        9.4
Shaanxi       3834           3660          95.46          694.67         18.98         5022.4         599.70        11.9
*ialu         800            760           9S             107.2          22.00         2006.4         265.00        13.2
Yanhe         3034          29D00          95.5i          S2t.__ _._9 __    .l  L                     3347          l           _
Gansu         4304           3953          91.84          786.40        19.89          2220.00        258.00        10.7
Shanxi        5051.7         4108.6        81.33          940.73        22.90          3374.3         713.5         16.4
Heba4pian     1995.8         1822.2        91.23          383.20        21.03          1850.4         330.00        12.5
Weifen        869.1         632.4          72.76          125.86         19.90         642.2          106.2         16.5
Xinshui       2186.8        1654           75.64          431.67        26.10          1081.7        279.3          25.8
0-



-76-                          ANNEX3
LAND DEVELOPMENT AND EROSION CONTROL
1.         Background. Since the creation of the PRC there have been several
campaigns in the Loess Plateau, especaly in the 1970s, involving terracing, afforesttion,
and silt control dams. In the past, the purpose of these measures was seen mainly as soil
conservation and litte attention was given by planners or farmers to maximizing production
and incomes. The lib   on of the agriculture sector in the 1980s and the growth of
a free market has given farmers more incentives to exploit the resources of the plateau.
While individual efforts are now rewarded by the market, the development of the Loess
Plateau calls for carefully organized, collective efforts to cope with the highly complex
land forms and land capabilities, and the sm.-',' wrea of arable land (about 1.5 ha) available
to a farm family. Thus, a new element which tas been introduced in recent years is the
comprehensive and integrated planning of individual watersheds. The objective is to create
sustainable production of field crops and orchards on high-yielding level farmland and
thereby replace the areas devoted to crops on erodible slope lands, and plant the slope
lands to a range of trees, shrubs and grasses for the production of fuel, timber and fodder.
The area devoted to crops is reduced, but the per ha productivity is greatly increased by
proven techniques of soil and water conservation. While the watershed is the basic
physical unit (often divided into subwatersheds) the village is the basic social unit, and the
success of the integrated approach depends on close consultation with the village leaders
and village members. In recent years, this integrated and comprehensive approach has
been successfully tested and implemented on a large scale in a number of watersheds in
the plateau, and it has proved to be sustainable.
2.          Table 1 lists, by province, the areas proposed for the various forms of land
development and the number of dams. Terraces, afforestation, and grassland for a total
of 510,200 ha account for most of the land development proposed in the project Its main
purpose is to enhance the productivity of the land in an environmentally sustainable
manner. While land development also reduces sediment runoff, the primary means of
sediment control are the dams constructed in the gulLies under this project. All land
development and erosion control works would be built according to technical standards
summarized in a Technical Standards Manual (TSM).
3.         Planning of Comprehensive Small Watershed Development. Chapter 1
of the Technical Standards Manual (TSM) describes the objectives and methods of
comprehensive watershed development and provides the foundations for rtional evaluation,
development and use of the land resource on a sustainable basis. The determiion of
slope, its direction and length is critical to comprehensive planning on the Loess Plateau.
Slope effects soil losses due to erosion, soil moisture and fertility levels.  Site
investigations would include desk analysis of topo, soil, sedimentation and erosion, land



- 7 -                        ANNEX 3
use, agncultural and other maps, as well as a review of data available at research and
monitoring centers. Standard requirements would include:
*    transect surveys, sample investigations would vary, but generally minimum
sample areas would be: 1- 4 m2 for herbal plants, 10 - 20 in2 shrubs; 400 nil
for trees, over 25 in2 for surface erosion, and 1 km2 for determining over
all erosion losses.
*    maps would be from 1:5,000 to 1:25,000 scale and would include land type,
soil type, soil erosion intensities, source point priority erosioi areas, current
agricultural land use, and current land development and conse.vation works.
These would al be located on one or more maps and would be entered into
subwatershed GIS.
*    standard legends will be used for identifying topographical, land use and
erosion status.
- t he subwatershed investigation report would be checked by Prefectural and
County PMO staff. A minimum of 5 percent of the area investigated would
be spot checked in the office and if necessary in the field, checking would
include itemized and categorized areas, measurement accuracy, and
statistical data. A minimum of 80 percent accuracy would be required as
an acceptancy level.
4.         Subwatershed plans would meet the broad Regional social and economic
plans, as well as the micro needs of the subwatershed population. Soil and water
conservation planning would treat the watershed as the planning unit. The main planning
asks would be to determine the ratio between farm, forestry, and pasture lands, their
location, and the distribution of land development and conservation measures. A key
planning principle wuld be ta where possible all land on slopes of more than 25e woud
be taken out of annual cultiion and replaced by perennial fuit, tree, shrub and pasture
species. Other principles include:
*    engineering, revegetation and agricultural practices would be fully
integrated;
*    conservation measures would normally be initiated on slope land and then
followed by measures in the gullies, main gullies, and lower river reaches;
*    subwatershed planwi should fully realize and optimize economic cosbenefits,
ensure acceptable reurns on investment, with very apparent conservation,
ecology, and social benefits.
S.         Subwatershed planning teams would comprise leaders from local authorities
and villages, and professional staff from all key departnents working with nahtral
resoures in the area Plans would include:



78 -                          ANNEX 3
*    predicted population expansion, demand for agrcultural products, and
demand for land type;
*    analysis of cunrent land use conditions;
*    land evaluation including evaluation indices, use analysis of specific land
lots, land classification, and land suitability;
*    proposed land use plan;
*     soil conservation plans, including: types, amounts and location of measures,
and types of agricultural cultivation practices matched wnth land type and
use;
*    key revegetation measures;
e    key engineering measures including conservation and sediment control dam
systems. The latte should be integUlly planned to retain or deliver flood
water in a safe way. All systems must have protective key dams. The
sequencing, number, and height of dams should be detennined according to
eclogical, climatic, topographical and economic parameters;
*      ithe economic analysis should be based on Regulados SD 23887 and SD
139-85 as issued by the Ministry of Water Reurces; and
*    cost calculations should include: labor requirements and availability,
construcion and maintenance costs.
6.          Terraces. Ihe conversion of slope lands to terraces serves a number of
purposes. First, it creates a better environment for crwp producton through moisture
conservation; in a year of average rainfall, grain yields on terraces are more than throe
times higher than on slope lands. Second, terraced land is more resistant to damaging soil
erosion during intense storms than slope land. And third, sediment runoff is much lower
from teraces than from slope land. Geeally, terraces are cnfined to lands where slopes
are less than 250. Over most of the Loess Plateau the soil is deep and is therfre well
suited to terraing, but the topsoil is often set aside and replaced upon completon of the
tenaces. Land close to villages have pnority for terracing. Uniform standards for
plannmig design and construction have been developed in reent years and will be adopted
throughout the project. For a typical terace on a slope the terace width would be about
8 m, the iser would be a 2 m high, and the earthwork quantity per hectare would be
around 3,000 cubic meters (cm). All terraces would be longitudinally and horizontally
level, except in the case of irrigated erraces where longitudinal slope gradient should be
from 1:300 to 1:500. The terrace lip would be designed to retain a designed rainstorm
event completely. The ndge dry bulk denity would be 1.4 tons/r. Teraaces should have
appae drainage and erosion prevention featres  Terrace ridges shod  be kept
consolidae  and their crest shoud remain level. ridges should be checed after



-79 -                                 3
rainstorms, and should be protected with suitable grasses and shrubs. The construction
cost ranges from Y 3,000/ha to Y 7,000/ha depending on the slope.
7.          Sediment Control Dams. There are two types of sediment control dams:
key dams and warping dams. Key dams are located close to the outlet of subwatersheds
with catchment areas of 3-5 kmn. The initial gross storage capacity of a key dam is
generally between 0.5 million cubic meters (mcm) and I mcin, but it can be as high as 5
mcm. Warping dams are located on smaller tributary catchments upstream of the key
dams; their initial gross storage capacities are generally less than 0.5 mcm. Key dams
serve several functions: sedinment retention, flood control, and storage of water for
irrigain and village water supply. A key dam is normally built first on a watershed as
part of development plan which provides for smaller warping dams on the upstream
tributaries soon after the completon of the key dam.
8.         'Warping' is a term used to denote the formation of land by the
accumulation of river-bome silt. It can consist of trapping silt in a reservoir or the
diversion of nver water into an offstream setting area. The purpose of warping dams is
to mtercept sediment and thereby create land, and at the same time they preserve the
storage capacity of the downstream key dams. A system of key dams and warping dams
in a subwatershed provides 100 percent control of the sediment runoff.
9.         In the Yellow River Basin, sediment runoff from an area is expressed as
tons/km2/year (the sediment modulus) and is averaged over a number of years because
tere is a wide variation in soil erosion from year to year. The parts of the loess plateau
with the highest sediment runoff have a modulus of about 20,000. This is, however, an
average of runoff from a wide variety of tenain and land use. Researchers have found that
typically about 70 percent of the soil loss is from the gullies and about 30 percent from the
surrounding land.
10.        Design and construction standards for sediment control dams have been
improved considerably following some dam failures in 1977 when exceptionally intense
stom hit the loess plateau. The dams are homogenous earth-fill embanknients built in the
deeply incised ges of the loess plateau. The areas submerged by the dams cosit of
eroded slopes and gully beds and are unihabited. In recent years a mode of construct
using hydraulic fill has been perfected. The loess material on the sides of the gully is
sluiced with high pressure hoses into the dam body. The fill is contained between
upstream and downstream shells formed by bulldozers. The lcess forming the foundafion
for the dam is cleared of loose material in the gully bed and the abutments before the fill
is placed.
11.        A notable feature of the smaller dams is that most of them are built without
spillways. At most sites it is cheaper to size the dam and the reservoir to store the enfire
volume of the design flood than to provide a spillway. The design standards call for key
dams to be designed for a 30-year flood and checked for a 200-year flood. A 30-year
flood is in fact the volume resulting from a 30-year storm. This volume has to be
contained without exceeding a reservoir level 3 m below the dam crest. The flood from



- 80-                         ANL 
a 200-year storm has to be contained with a reservoir level 0.5 m below the crest. A 30-
year, 24-hour storm in the loess plateau depends on location and ranges between 100 and
160 mm and a 200-year storm ranges between 140 to 210 mm. This design approach is
conservative since the significant flood-reducing effect of dams that have been built, or
may be built, upstream is ignored in the design of the key dams. Thus failure of the
upstream warping dams would not endanger a key dam. The active storage capacity for
the dams is the gross capacity less the volume of sediment estimated to be store in 15
years. Thus, in the years when the sediment is building up in the reservoir the actual
capacity of the reservoir exceeds the required design capacity, and it is during this period
that the upstream catchment is likely to be further controlled by additional sediment control
dams.
12.         The geometry of the gullies is such that key dams and warping dams have
to be relatively high to serve their purpose; the range is usually 5-15 m but some are as
high as 30 m. For most reservoirs, the bulk of the active storage volume is in the top 5
m and, when sedimentation begins to infringe on the flood storage capacity, the option is
available at most sites to increase the height of the dam. This can be done at a ftaction
of the initial cost since it involves a low embanknent placed on the sediment behind the
dam. At many sites, raising could be carried out a number of times since a dam typically
occupies a smail part of the total height of a gully. Each dam bas an outlet conduit with
an intake structure designed to accommodate future raising of the dam.
13.         The topography of the watersheds allows considerable flexibility in siting the
dams. Site selection criteria for the dams include a requirement that they should be located
at sites remote from existing or potential settlements. All the dams proposed for the
project satisfy that criterion. Therefore, in the unlikely event of failure there would be no
danger to life and limited damage to property.
14.         Key dams and warping dams are designed by the provincial water resource
bureaus according to standards developed by the Ministry of Water Resources in 1986
('Technical Standard for Major Gully Control Structures,' SD175-86). These standards
have been endorsed by the Planning Academy of MWR as well as the Ministry of Energy.
These specify aU aspects of design and construction including planning procedures, site
selection, dam body layout, calculation of hydrologic design parameters, foundation design,
choice of construction materials, construction techniques, hydrologic and hydraulic design.
15.        The procedures require multilevel technical reviews and approval of design
and construction of sediment control dams. Preliminary designs are carried out by county
water and soil conservation bureaus. Initial review and approval of stuctural design and
siting will be carried out by provincial water and soil conservation authorities who will,
in turn, submit construction applications to the Upper and Middle Reach Bureau (UMRB)
for final review and approval. The ultimate responsibility for ensurng compliance with
design procedures and technical specifications will rest with the UMRB.  Ihese
procedures, are currently applied to strces over 15 m height, but UMRB has agreed
to that they will be applied to all dams over 10 m height (Table 1).



-81-                                  A
TahSe 1: IVENrY OF SILT RITENTION SMUcruul IN THE PaRW
Key flood Contrll Dams
Dams wI soag    Dams wI oage   Dam w/ atomg
Bain         Dam w/ hh   Dams wle          capaciy under   cacibtwee       capacity over
Same         under is me1rs  ovwlS meeas      1 mOM       I and 2.5 mcm     2.5 mm       Totdal
HIBp              0             20             20              0              0          20
Weifen            0              0              0              0              0           0
XlsU;i            0              6              6              0              0           6
rulu              0             12              0              12             0          12
Yare              0             72             72              0              0          60
Ylmeng            4             90             72             21              1          94
Malina            0             32             25              5              0          20
T°ti           4            232             195             381
Wariag Dams
Dams w/ sage    Dam w/ sop    Dm wt soage
Basin             Dams wl heg    Dams wI het      capa  under      capacity over  capacity over
name              under 10 meters   over 10 meters  100,000 cm     100,000 cm       2.5 mom
MP                      0             0               0                0              0
Weien                   0            12               0               12             12
Xtnhui                 200            0             200                0            200
rialla                 60            180            140              100            240
YU He                   0           760             760                0            760
Yimn                   774            7             687               94            781
Malian                 30            30              30               30             60
TOul               Lo0m          L2S                              26            2
Souce: Upper and Middle Reas Bureau, November 1993.
16.           Constuction is carried out by constnrction teams selected and supervised by
the county water conservancy bureaus. There are numerous such teams qualfied to
constuct dams using the hydraulc fill technique.  The advantage of this mode of
construction is that it produces a dense and uniform fiUl which is less demanding, in terms
of close quality control and inspection, than mechanically compacted fill.
17.           Routine m&intenance and inspection of strucures wiU be carried out by
townships and villages under a contract to the county water conservancy bureaus. These
contracts specify the type of maintenance to be performed and how often these procedures
should be performed. Provincial authorities wil also carry out inspections of each key
dam dunng the year. In addition to such routine maintenance, UMRB wiU conduct pre-
and post-flood season inspections of aU key dams and an information system is being
established by the provinces, with help from UMRB, which wil document their
consruction and maintenance history.



-82 -                         ANNX3
18.         Gully Control. In the project areas of Inner Mongolia and Gansu the gully
beds are narrow and lend themselves to control by check dams. These are low brush dams
built across the gullies at 20 to 30 m intervals. The effect is to slow the velocity of flow
during floods and thereby reduce undercutting of slopes which often leads to landslides.
Measures are also adopted, especially in the gullied plateau landform, to arrest erosion at
the heads of gullies. Shrubs are planted along the edges of the gully head, and small dams
are built in the gully.
19.        Irrigated Land. Irrigated land under the project is referenced to small
pieces of land, and design standards would be carried out according to small duty irrigation
and water conservancy engineering. The following cntena should be followtxl:
*     Surface irrgation systems should guarantee water a minimum of every other
year, i.e., 50 percent;
*     Canal network water use coefficient should not be less than 0.65 for gravity
schemes, and not less than 0.7 for pumped schemes;
*     Canal cross section, pump station and well irrigation design criteria are set
out in Chapter 4 of TSM;
*     Irrigated areas will be properly drained, drainage gradients, depending on
soil type will range from 1:300 to 1:500;
v    F-armers will be responsible for operating and maintaining irrigation and
drainage systems.
20.         Land Formation from River Bed Reclamation. Under this system part
of the river bed is reclaimed as agriculturl land. The system entails the construction of
protective dikes and the diversion of silt laden river water to provide the land fill. The
following criteria apply:
*     Design standards are such to withstand up to 20-year floods;
*     Height of dike above river bed level is generally no more than 3 m; dikes
should normally be earth with vegetative, stone, or wire net protection;
*     Construction should normally take place outside of peak flood season;
*     Details for irrigation or flooding of reclaimed areas are in Chapter 5 of
TSM;
*     Management and maintenance of reclaimed lands would be responsibility of
farmers. Reclaimed land, particularly the dikes, would be checked prior to
the flood season, any damages would be repaired.



- 83 -                        ANNE  3
21.         GuUy Head Prtection. Gully head protection (GHP) specifications are at
aCapter 6 of TSM. GIHP on the Loess Plateau is nornally in the form of a ditch and
ridge. The distance from the ridge from the gully should be 2 dmes the height of the
gully. Ridges should be on the contour. Trees, shrubs and grasses should be planted on
ridges. Some ndge and ditch systems may be constructed in conjunction with small
storage ditches.
22.         Check Dams. Check dams are small structures, less than 5-m high, that are
either impervious or pervious. The cross section of earth or rock check dams is generally
trapezoid. General engineering standards applicable to small duty conservation engineering
should apply. Vegetative check dams would be made of poplar and willow, and should
follow prescribed procedures (chapter 6). Management and maintenance would be by
farmers
23.         Afforestation. Some of the past programs of afforestation have produced
mixed results; there have been some notable successes, but in some areas survival rates
and growth rates have been low. Current practice is more scientific and solidly based on
field trials. More attention is now paid to suitng plantings to location, soils, slope
direction and gradient, and exposure, and to improving seedling quality. Tending and
protection has been improved by the "production responsibility system" which gives
individual farmers a financial stake in the survival of plantings. Afforestaion is based on
a detailed plan involving a classification system taking into account all factors relevant to
species selection. Tree species commonly used include chinese pine, poplar, black locust,
and paulownia. Shrubs include seabuckthorn, caragana, amorpha, and red willow. Cash
forests include apricot, walnut, and mulberry.
24.         Land preparation for forestry should meet minimum standards, and would
compnse contour planting (along the slope cultivation is banned) on slopes of less than
15 percent. On steeper slopes terracing (both level and backward sloping), level ditching,
and fish scale pitting would be used.
25.         Forestry data would be collected systematically and would be kept under
technical files that would be reviewed regularly by professional leaders. Further
specifications for forestry development would be included during implementation.
26.         The average daily fuel consumption is about 10 kg per household
representng little more than half of the requirement. This is mainly composed of straw,
other crop residues, dried grass roots branches and needles from the shrub and forest
areas. Large diameter wood is almost totally imported from other provinces. There is
need for construction quality poles and small diameter logs. For reforestation the
following slope criteria should be respected: Economic trees should be planted mainly in
the valley bottoms and on slopes of less than 25° and soils of more than 2 feet depth.
Timber plantation should be established preferably on slopes of less than 30 degrees.
Above these limits fuel and protection plantings of shrubs and trees should be established.



- 84 -                        ANEX 3
27.         The fuel shortage is 0.3 million tons every year. The accumulated timber
volume is 4.4 mcm. This is only 3.8 cm per capita or 1/21 of the world average or 2/5
of the national level, thus timber shortage is a protruding problem in the area. After
completion of the project the forest area will increase from the existing 210,000 ha to
about 480,000 ha. Commercial forests will be located in the areas where the sites are
suitable and the water content is sufficient such as on the plateau surface, the guly
bottoms, as part of the four-sided afforestation program, on the floodplains and on table
land. The suitable tree species are chinese pine chinese poplar, willow, locust, and
paulownia. Protection forest, conseaion forest and windbreaks are planted on steer
slopes, broken landforms, seriously eroded areas. The main species are locust, arborvitae,
seabuckthom, cagana, amorpha, etc. Fuelwood forests are planted mainly in the
Maianhe and Yanhe watersheds where transportation is inconvenient, and there is a lack
of fuelwood. Generally, the gentle slopes will be used for plant fuelwood forest, the main
speies being seabuckthom with large biomass production and rapid growth. For economic
rees the main species are prickly alh, mulberry and wuallt. ReLwrftod ares will hbe
pianted with a mix of species complementing each other in growth, nutrient requirements
and disease and pest prevention. The main patterns are mixed forests of locust and pine,
pine and poplar, poplar and elm as well as poplar and seabuckthorn. Afforestation
densities vary with the rainfall pattern, they are generaly low in the arid areas and for
commerci  forest and grzing forest; high for conservation forest and fuelwood forest.
Planting densities for the individual species are outlined in the technical specifications (see.
Annex 4).
28.         Seeding Nurseries. Nurseries are a central part of the afforestation
component. At present, poor quality seedlings are a major constraint. Seedlings show
poor trunk, shape, poor root systems, poor adaptability with the result of poor growth
performance in the past. Irrational seedling densities in the nurseries lead to weak
seedlings. During project implementation 1.2 billion seedlings will be produced and
planted. It is planned to develop 1-2 central nurseries in every county with 7 to 10 ha
each. These cental nurseries will produce about 15 percent of the seedling stock. They
will adopt advanced technologies and produce high-quality seedlings. The remaining
85 percent of seedling production will be contracted out to farmer nurseries and production
will be basetJ on similar technical standards. These farmer nurseries will be located near
the afforestation sites.
29.         Shrubs. Shrubs will be planted on about 163,400 ha, including 74,200 ha
of caragana (Caragana korshshnii), 56,100 ha of seabuckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides),
18,700 ha of amorpha (Amorpha fruticosa), and 14,400 ha of desert willow (Salix
microstachya). Shrubs will be mainly planted on ridge tops, the upper part of north-facing
slopes, and under harsh ecological conditions, such as those encountered on the high-
altitude plateaus of the Inner Mongolia project areas. Besides providing fuel, raw
materials for particle board and baskets (desert willow), berries (seabuckthorn) and
livestock feed (namely caragana), shrubs will be used to stabilize edges of gullies and
highly erodible, steep slopy areas. Shrub pastures planted under the project are expected
to generate between 0.75 and 1.5 tons hay equivalent of relatively low quality forages per



- 85 -                        ANXI
year, with the highest yields being obtained from caragana and the lowest from desert
willow shrub pastures.
30.         Shrubs, such as seabuckthorn, together with black locust trees will also be
used for the planting of living hedges for subdivision of grazing areas. With the expected
large-scale granting of exclusive user rights for grazing land to individual livestock owners,
living hedges will become of utmost importance and, therefore, their planting will be
encouraged and promoted under the project. Plating of shrub will be done from May
through September with seedlings to be provided by nurseries to be set up in each County.
New shrub plantations will be protected for the first three years after establishment. As
with past  improvement, planting of shrub will be contracted out to farmers, who will
obtain exclusive, individual user rghts for the land they planted with shrubs.
31.         Plant Hedge Establshment. Hedges will be used for a number of purposes
using a variety of soecies that are available in the proiect arem including:
hedges on crop land using Achnatherum splendens, day lily, and tamarisk
would be primarily for soil conservation purposes. Hedges would be from
1-2 m wide and be planted in belts 10-40 m apart depending on slope.
These hedges would be primarily used as a soil and water conservation
measure;
a    hedges on grazing lands would be used for livestock control, for fuel and
fruits, and for protection from wind. The hedges would be up to 3 m wide
and would consist mainly of seabudcthorn, cryptotaenous cinquefoil, and
yellow rose;
*    hedges similar to those of grazing land would be used for forest protection;
*     oither hedges would be used as wind breaks and for stabilizaton of sand
dunes (using sand willow and seabuckthorn); as grazing hedges in belts
6-8 m apart (using caragana and seabuckthorn); hedges for gully control
(using seabuckthorn, splendid achnatherum, locust and oriental arborvita);
and for river bank and river bed stabilization in the form of revetments
comprising poplar, willow and seabuckthom.
32.         More detailed specifications for hedges will be developed during project
implementation as further experience is gained in this technology.
33.         Orchards. Chapter 8 of TSM sets out planning principles for orchard
development. Plans include site selection, sizing of orchard, and the planning of associated
infrastructure including roads, irgation (where available) and other structures.



- 86-
34.         Orchard fruit tree species require careful selection depending on location.
Generally in remote areas 60-70 percent of the trees should be late maturing. In hilly area
fruit trees should be planted on terraces. Planting densities vary according to site and
species. Details are in Chapter 8, Table 8.5.3. of the TSM.
35.         Planting of trees can be done either in late autumn (ending 20-25 days
before orchard soil freezing) or in the early spring. Pits should be 80-100 cm in diameter
and 100 cm deep. Fruit trees should be correctly ferilized with organic and inorganic
manures. Orchard hygiene is very important if high yields are to be achieved. Chapter
8 sets out systems that are to be used.
36.         Shelter belts for orchards are important featues, and their composition will
vary according to land type and ventilation requirements. The main tree species for shelter
belts include: poplar, dry willow, Chinese pine, locust, white elm, seabuckthorn, and a
nu.mbcr of 4"h%=   test1 e dpe cies. Shelter belts should be normaly of mixed species to
assure effectiveness at all heights of the belt. Belts should be from 15-20 m wide. Distance
between belts should be 400-500 m Planting densities for belt species should be 1-2.5 m
for trees, and 0.5-0.75 m for shrubs.
37.         Forage and Livestock Development. Between 1985 and 1992, livestock
populations in the project areas increased by 30 percent. More specificaUy, cattle grew.
by 28 percent, sheep by almost 40 percent, goats by 59 percent, pigs by 16 percent,
horses, mules and donkeys by 12 percent, and poultry by over 40 percent during that
period. But the strong growth in livestock populations since 1985 was not matched by a
corresponding growth in the livestock feed base, except for brans and stovers, the
production of which grew by resectively 58 percent and 34 percent between 1985/87 and
1991/92. Production of manufacured feed and oilseed meals remained relatvely stable;
and output of pastures has considerably decreased during the past 10 years as a result of
overgrazing due to increased livestock numbers.  Poor grassland management and
overgrazing has also led in many instances to depletion of good quality herbage species
(with consequent low digestibility values) and severe sheet and gully erosion. Data on the
extent to which pasture productivity and herbage quality have declined during the past 10
years do not exist; but declines in the order of 5 to 10 times are cited for Inner Mongolia,
while those of the Southern, higher rainfall project areas are believed to be much less
severe.
38.         Virtually all livestock in the project areas is owned by individual households.
Owning livestock, particularly cows (which can be kept as multipurpose animals for
production and sale of calves, provision of draught power, production of manure, and
capital accumulation) is of utmost importance to farmers in the project areas, as this is one
of the pnncipal means by which poor farmers can accumulate assets and increase their
incomes. The holding size of catte is generally 1 to 3, including calves; but there are also
larger herds with up to 15 to 20 head, and many households share a cow or a draught ox.
For goats and to a lesser extent for sheep, the extent and pattern of ownership is hily
dependent on the project area and altitude. There is a tendency to move from sheep to
goats and for individual flock sizes to increase as one moves from lower to hbgher altitude



- 87 -                        AN=  3
villages and into areas with harsher agro-ecological conditions. In low lying villages,
about 25 percent to 33 percent of all households typically own I to 5 sheep. At the other
extreme, in higher altitude villages, it is quite common that the majority of all small
ruminants belong to one or two farmers (often the former herders under the commune
system), who may own up to several hundred sheep and goats and, further, that the share
of goats in the herd can be as high as 75 percent to 100 percent. About 50 percent of all
households own one to several pigs. The degree of pig ownership in most parts of the
project areas is low by Chinese standards, indicating competition for feed with human
nutrition and draught animals. Many households which keep a draft animal cannot afford
to also raise a pig. By contrast, pigs are kept by households too poor to keep a draft
animal.
39.         Performance of livestock is low by international standards.  Average
slaughter weights of cull cows, sheep and goats are respectively only around 300 kg, 25
kg and 20 kg. First calving occurs at 3 years and first lambing at almost 2 years of age.
Fertility rates are equally low, oscillating around 50 percent for cows, 80-85 percent for
sheep and 85-95 percent for goats. Twin births in sheep and goats are rare. Mortality
rates, 8 percent and 15 percent respectively for calves and lambs/kits, are high when
compared to mortality rates of adult cattle and sheep/goats, which are in the order of
rVpectively only 2-3 percent and 4 percent. Pig fattening performance varies widely.
While average households can fatten pigs for sale at 90 to 100 kg in 9 to 12 months, poor
households may take twice as long. Chickens lay 60 to 100 small eggs per year (22 to 25
eggs per kg).
40.         There are about 375,000 ha of natural pastures and 17,500 of improved
pastures in the project areas. A further 254,000 ha is classified as shrub pastures and
another 210,000 ha as forests. To some extent, these two latter land categories are also
utilized for grazing and forage production. About 230,000 natural and shrub pastures are
above 1,000 m altitude, where vegetative growth rates and response to fertilization are
reduced. Sward composition of natural pastures varies considerably among project areas,
but can be illustrated by the following 3 typical flora:
Dry Grassland           Desert Grassland            Shrub Grassland
-fhaanxiL            (anner Mongolia)         (Shaanxi & Inner Mongoliag
Main Speie             Mblain Spi              Main Secie
Stipa grandis           Ajania fruticulosa     Caragana microphilla
Stipa kylovii           Ajania achilleoides    Hedysarum mongolicum
Stipa bungeana          Artetnisa desertorm    Hedysarum scoparium
Thymus serpyllum        Artemisa frigida       Caragana stenophilla
Artemisa frigida        Stipa glareosa         Caragana roborovsld
Stipa gobica           Hyppophae rhamnoides
MinorSpie               Stipa brevifora
Agriophyllum squarros.
Cleistogenes squarrosa



- 8-                           AN=y 3
Agopyon cristatum       MnoLbsida
Agropyron mongolicum
Ispedeza bicolor        Cleistogenes grcilis
Astgaus adsurgens       Cleistogenes songfrica
Hedysarum frutidosum    Allium fischeri
ILpedeza potudnii       Lesedeza potaninii
Pennisetum centrasiat.  Convolvulus tagacanthoide
Cynanchum komorvii      Salix microstachya
Peganum nigellastrum    Elymus dahuricus
Sophora alophcuroides
Yields of natural pastures are low, amounting to no more than 0.75-1.20 tons of hay
equivalent per ha per year.
41.         Except for relatively smal areas of improved pastures around villages anc
limited afforested areas, all grzing land of the project areas is communally owned and
used by villages. As a result, productivity of grazing land has significantly deteriorated
during the past decade due to substantial buildup in livestock populations (particularly of
sheep and goats) and the prevailing gazing practices under which communally owned
lands are grazed by individually owned livestoc.L As in other countries with similar
grn  systems, such practices have led to severe overazing, soil erosion and declines
in herbage digestibility on viruly all project area pasures, as livestock owners tend to
grze as many animals as possible in an attempt to maximize their share in Xrofit from the
common grazing resource without reinvesting in pasture improvement and maintenance.
42.         The major objective of the proposed forage and livestock development
component will be a substantial increase in feed supply. Particular emphasis will be given
to increased availability and quaity of winter- and spnng feed and more rational utilization
of natural grazing land and improved pastures. Realization of sustainable livestock
production systems and higher productivity per livestock unit, while simultaneously
reducing overgrazing and soil erosion, will be the ultimate objective to be reached in the
project areas.
43.         The main technical thrust of the proposed forage and livestock development
component will be: (a) increased production of forages, both in terms of volume and
quality, from improved pastures and forage shrubs; (b) introduction of modern, intensive
forage crop production via adaptive research and trial work on farmers' fields; and
(C) disseminaon of more rational utilization of gzing land and improved pastures by
fostering the granting of individual user rights to livestock owners.
44.         A total of 155,000 ha of improved pastures will be established under the
project, including some 74,100 ha of fal (Medicago sativa), 56,800 ha of astragapus
(Astragalus adsurgens or erect milk vetch), 11,600 ha of sainfoin (Onobrychis satyra1),
7,900 ha of sweet clover (Melilotus alba), and 4,600 ha of odier forage plants, such us
Coronilla varia (crown vetch), Vicia villosa, Bromus inermis and Elymus sibiricus.



-89-                          AN3X
45.         The above major plant vaneties are well adapted to the agro-ecological
conditions of the prtect area, and will be planted over an eight-year period. Pasture
development under the project will be carried out on four types of land: (a) gently sloping
land and hill tops; (b) teraced, retired amble land, which normally is about 2-5 kn from
vilages and has been abandoned due to its remoteness and low yields resulting from
insufficieAnt manure application; (c) terrced land similar to the above but closer to vilages
and therefore, suitable for eventually returning to crop production after 4 to 6 years under
forage legumes to improve soil fertility and structure; and (d) land close to villages in
valley bottoms on which crop yields are relatively low due to water logging.
46.         Alfalfa will be planted mainly on gully bottoms, retired arble land, shady
slopes and flat hill tops; astragalus on ridges and sunny slopes; sainfoin on retired arable
land; and sweet clover on gully bottoms. Improved pastures will not be grazed during the
first year of estabLishment. Most suitable legumes, grasses and shrubs for project area
grzig land and recommended planting and sowing techniques are given in Table S. Zero
grazing ("cut-and-carry") will be encouaged, as it can increase effective forage and
manure yields by a factor of 2-3, compared to traditional grazing techniques. Exected
yields are in the order of 3 tns of hay equivalent for 3 year old allf, 3-4 tons for 3 year
old astrglus, 5-7 tons for 2 year old sainfoin, and 3-4 tons for one year old sweet clover.
At full development, improved pasures financed under the project are expected to generate
a total of about 500,000 tons in bay equivalent in years of normal rainfal, or the
equivalent of feed for about 800,000 sheep units. To allow however for fluctuations in
fodder yields due to drought, the above production figures will need to be adjusted
downwards by about one tbird.
47.         Pasture improvemen will be caried out by individual farmers, who will be
granted exclusive, individual grazing rights of up to 50 years for the land they improved
under the prqect.
48.        In addition, under its technology transfet component, the project will finance
comprehensive tral and adaptive research work to demonstrate and develop technical and
financial viability of modem forage production via:
(a) performance testing under both rainfed and irrigated conditions of high
protein-content forage crops (such as alfalfa, clovers, vetches and their
minxtures with grasses and small cereal crops) and high energy-content
forage crops (such as short-vegetation forage maize hybrids with FAO-
values below 300, drought-retant forage sorghum and millet, and sorghum
x sudangrass-all of which are unknown in the project areas-as well as of
amaranth);
(b)   performance testing of forage mixtures, such as oats/vetches, fodder
peas/oats or barley, maize/sunflower, and summer rape/sorghum  x
sudangrass;



-90-                              3
(c)  investgating possibilities for undersowing forage crops like vetches..
clovers, forage rape and tunips in winter wheat, namely in irigated areas
and in years of change in crop rotation between winter and summer crops;
(d)   developing living fence planting and maintenance technology for subdivision
of grazing land;
(e)  testing yield response of fprage legumes to application of inoculants and
triple superphosphate;
(f)   developing low-cost and labor-saving hay-, haylage- and silage-making
technologies;
(g)   demonstrating ammonization of straws and stovers;
(h)   carrying out feeding trials; and
(i)   undertaking respective financial and economic analyses.
49.         Should demand for intensive forage production by project area farmers
develop during the course of project implementation, the project would also finance
procurement of resective seed materials.



-91-                          ANNEX&
PROJECT TECHNOLOGY AND TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
T7he Project's water and soil conservation investments wiM be based on an interrelated
scientific and techical development program consisting of a project backd program of
research, demonstration, training and extension. Improvedfaming is not possible withot
a scentikfc basis ..... Prject Feasibility Report.
Iltroduction
1.         Very sig-ificant steps have been made in improving agricultural productivity
m the project area over the past decades. The improvements are due primarily to a
systematic approach in applying appropriate technology to soil and moisture conservation,
and to technical gains in varietal improvements of cereals and other crops. These
combined with an inherent capability of the farmers to absorb and modify technology as
needed have resulted in some impressive production increases. The preservation of soil
moisture in this dry area receives priority attention by farmers and service agencies, and
is achieved through cultivation practices based on contour farming techniques;
improvements in soil organic matter and hence moisure retention capity; creating new,
flat, and moisture retaining lands by warping systems that arrest sediment in valley bottoms
and alongside rivers; and the terracing of slope lands (up to 25') to reduce rainfll run off.
All these methods will at the same time reduce the tansporttion of sediment to down
stream lotons.
2.          The project area is well served by research and education institutions
particularly in Shaanxi and Shanxi Provinces. The project will therefore concentrate on
introducing and improving existing technologies through field experimentation and
demonstration, and will look to test new technologies and management pracdces that will
lead to a second generation of less costly conservation techniques and better managed
p nial trees and forages. The project wilU emphasize a comprehansive approach to
watershed development, one that has the objective of taling steep land (more than 25 ) out
of annual cropping, and replacing it with perennial trees, shrubs, and grasses. This same
approach allows for intensification of annual cropping practices in vatley bottoms on
warped lands, and on hillside terraces. The combination should lead to the doubling of per
capita incomes of participating farmers.
3.          Under ftis project, technology' means: (a) maintenance of technical
quality against agreed technical standards; () technology testng, exeimtation and
innovaton involving leading farmer technicians and professional engineers and scies;
(c) technology transfer and dissemination; and (d) training. The applicaton of agood
science based prctces' should assure the tecbnical risk is reduced to a minimum, and that



- 92 -                        ANNEX4
ir conjunction with agreed technical standards a sound basis will exist for monitoring
project execution and for the disbursement of loan funds. This backed by agreed
improvements in land leasing arrangements (minimum of 30 years for the best land) and
Ide jure' responsibility contracts should give farmers the long term secunty and eturn for
their hard work.
4.          Four provincial 'Technical Panels" (IP) and one at cental level (CT?) have
been established to provide a technical overview and a 'challenge" to project 'technology"
as described in para. 3. These TPs would have no executive authority, but would provide
guidance to the respective Leading Groups and PMOs on a wnde range of technical
matters that would be expected to be both challenging and innovative. These TPs would
also have an important rok in assuring an open exchange of technical matters between the
four project provinces and between the project and the rest of China (details in paras. 21-
23).
Teckmical Standards
5.          The project's early success will depend much on the application of currently
known and well tested technology. Later success, particularly in subsequent phases beyond
the scope of this project, will depend on the development and testing of new technologies
that are both more cost and conservation effective. The feasibility study describes most of
the existing technologies in detail. Most are backed by manuals of various levels of detil
and quality. In order to assure that technology (a) is consistently applied at high standards,
and (b) can be properly monitored, a Technology Standards Manual (TSM) has been
prepared. The manual is in two parts, the first dedicated to technology, and the second
to project opeatonal procedures. The manual bnngs together the key cnsrvation and
development technologies to be applied under the project. Using cunrent standards it sets
out the range of acceptable specifications to be applied for the engineering and biological
methods to be used under defined site conditions. Each province has slightly different
speifcations - these will be set out in provincial supplements to the TSM. The Manual
has been prepared by UMRB in conjunction with the provincial PMOs and wil be
reviewed by the Technical Panels prior to publication. TSM will be distributed to aU field
staff, and will thereafter be used for detailed planning, implementation and technical
monitoring. At the end of each year CPMO would review feedback from the provincial
TPs on technology application, and would modify technical standards where necessary.
Thus field staff would have access to a dynamic process of technical standards that are
both quantifiable and monitorable. Disbursements of IDA credit funds would depend on
monitoring reports based on the standards. A draft of the TSM has been completed and has
been reviewed by the Bank. A summary outline of the agreed technical standards is
presented in Annex 3. Note technical standards will include: engineering/ biological
designs, construction/establishment instuctions, timing/seasonal opportunities, labor /
machinery I equipment / planting material requirements, and an indication of unit costs.



- 93 -                        ANNE 4
Research and Experimentation
6.          The project area is rich in institutions; there are 50 scientific research and
teaching institutions, with more than 10,000 senior and junior technicians. Of these there
are 20 institutions dedicated to soil and water conservation employing more than 1,000
scientific and technical staff. Many of the institutions have been awarded commendations
for standards of excellence and innovation. The project will not duplicate research under
taken by other agencies, and particularly will avoid financing basic research, such research
falls under the current responsibilities of the Ministries of Agriculture and Forestry and
institutions such as CAAS. Neither will the project provide general funding to MWR,
YRCC, or provincial institutions undertaking research in soil and water conservation.
Rather it will direct and contract such institutions to undertake research and
experimentation in the field in conjunction with farmers in order to meet the needs of
fanners and subsequent generations in the project area, and in technical and managerial
areas that are clearly deficient. The following areas will receive special attention during
the life of the project: (a) crop protection and IPM techniques, particularly for the apple
and fruit components; (b) soil fertlity and the use of fertiity enhancing techniques such
as nitrogen fixing rhizobium and mycorrhiza; (c) green manuring and composting, the use
of crop by-products and cultural technologies (deep plowing, seeding techniques, etc);
(d) forestry and fruit tree nursery techniques; (e) tree and orchard planting and
management techniques; (f) forage crops, forage grasses and legume establishment and
management techniques; (g) livestock management, livestock control, livestock reduction,
and substitution on grazing lands, and pen feeding of stock; (h) shrub management and live
fence development; (i) the use of vegetative contour barriers on sloping lands as a low cost
method of soil and water conservation; () improved methods in terrace and dam
construction and their maintenance; and (k) social, economic, and technical
interrelationships in comprehensive watershed development. Table 1 of this annex sets out
ur more detail the experimental features that have been agreed.
7.          Approximately Y 10 million has been allocated at provincial level to support
project research. These funds would not be used for the direct purchase of labory
equipment. Complimentary research at provincial level rather than compedtive progams
(see Table 2) will be supported. This table indicates research topics identified by the time
of appraisal, with priority topics in "bold" pdnnL The TP, would annually review all new
research proposals, see how they fit with current research efforts, and would agree with
the PMOs the best locations for research with the objective of getting research results
quickly and efficiently. The TP would also review the progress of aU ongoing research,
and would eliminate programs that fail to have an effective output or are unliely to
produce further cost effective results. Each research program will be backed by design
details, location, and cost (rable 6 shows a sample experimental log). This data wiU be
recorded in the GIS program at county level. The data will be monitored, and will be
reviewed annually.
8.         Initialy research will focus on key selected sites that are representative of
the project area and the technologies and problems to be investigated. Results from these
sites will then be further tested and demonstrated in other selected areas of the project,



-94-AR                                4
prior to being generally disseminated to the townships and villages at large. Experimental
and demonstration sites will normally be located on a farm under the management of a
certified farmer technician. Each site will have a 'site committee" made up of the farmer
technician and other selected farmers (in China farmers have always played an important
role in field experimentation) who will be reponsible for undertaldng periodic reviews of
the experiment / demonstration and for writing the observations in the experimental log
book. Primary expermental sites will be under the full responsibility of the contracted
agency undertaking the research, and a similar site review and assessment process will be
established. The TPs at central and provincial levels will review annually the site log
books, so that appropriate lessons and actions can be taken.
9.          An important feature of the project would be the sending of small teams
(farmer technician, researcher and ,)rofessional project staft) to search and find" existing
technologies that may be available at research stations in other areas of China, that might
have direct or indirect relevance to project needs. Some of the technologies may be
directly transferable, others may need testing and demonstration first. This 'search and
find" would for some technologies be extended to overseas visits to carefully identified
technology areas.
Technology Transfer and Dissemnation.
10.         The feasibility study sets out the principles of technology transfer. It must
be assumed that the county technical services will handle, as at present, annual crop
technology transfer. From the high standard of crop production it appears that the existing
extension system is adequate. The project will therefore mainly focus on technology
ansfer relating to soil and moisture consrvation technologies, fruit and forest trees, and
livestock and forage development. Farmers need good and improved technical information
rlating to: nursery management, orchard and woodland mnent, gsand
establishment and manamement,   b       ment, livestock management and forage
production, crop protection  M), land cultivation, and fertlity management. These topics
will be covered by the project 'Technical Standards Manual" that will be available to all
village farmer technicians, and will be backed by specific technical hand books for wide
distribution to farmers and technicians. Pamphlets to update these handbooks will be
prepared and distributed from time to time. Soil and Water Conservation Technicians at
village level and above would receive technical reorientation training at the beginnig of
the project and thereafter would attend annual technology workshops to provide two way
feedback on current technology and its modification (where necessary).
I1.        The more progressive farmers, often acting as Village Technicians, with
demonstrative leadership capabilities, are responsive to technical training - such training
will be provided in relevant and specalized areas, and the custom of awarding
"Certificates' to proven performers will be maintained. In China individual farmer
training has proven to have a good pay off, and the project would use this, in conjuncdon
with relevant demonstradons, as a key to technical improvement.



-95 -                         ANEX 4
12.        The use of video, slides, radio and TV will be used to back up technology
extension. The technical input to audio/visual media will be improved. Technicians with
a bent towards this work will be matched with good cameramen and designers so that
technically acceptable and practical products are produced. Audio/visual methods need to
be locally adapted where possible - farmers like to seethear familiar faces, voices and
scenes in technical presentations. CPMO will design an effective way of evaluating the
results of technology transfer; this will be done annually, and the evaluation will be
reviewed by the Technical Panels. The maximum use of contracting the production of
technical audio/visual aids will be made, and consideration is to be given to contracting
"Certified" farmers and other specialists to provide technical advisory services to farmers.
13.        The pro.ct will spend about Y 13 million on technology transfer. These
funds will be used for (a) the introduction of new varieties and techniques from within
and outside China, development of demonstration sites, and technical transfer activities
(publications, video, etc)-19 percent; (b) hiring of technical consultants and contracting
technology transfer specialists/agencies to undertake specific technical transfer activities-
45 percent; (c) construction of technical centers at County level-13 percent; and
(d) operating costs of technical services-23 percent. The cost distribution is quite
reasonable. There is some overlap between research demonstration and technology
demonstration and dissemination. Where possible the TPs will assure that there is a
smooth flow of information transfer from research, and that enxpeimental plots, when
sitated on farm, are used for demonstration purposes as well.
14.        Each year the PPMOs will on the advice of their TPs prepare, review and
modify where necessary, the technology transfer and dissemination strategy for the
following year. The strategy will be dyn3mic and would be responsive to priority needs.
The TPs would also review technology transfer progress.
15.        China has a good reputation in the field of agrculture and farmer education.
Technologies offered to farmers generally produce good results if applied corrctdy; in
consequence there is a good learning culture amongst farmers and technicians. Because
of the hierarchal nature of the project organization, training at various levels is not
difficult. As a result literally tens of thousands of farmers (many of whom attend night
school) can benefit from project training. Training will be caried out at CPMO, PPMO,
prefecture, county, township and village level. Project training will provide the means for
farmers, technicians, and administrators to achieve the objectives of the project and thus
will strictly focus on need. Training will take place in China and overseas. During the
life of the project it is estimated that 260 policy makers and senior managers, 2,240 middle
level managers and key techniciar' and 131,000 farmer technicians will receive training
of an average of about one month ch.
16.        Higher level managers and policy makers will be trained in strategic
planning, management, and project adminition. Professional technical leaders will
receive additional training to update their technical knowledge in light of the project's



- 96-                                 4
Technical Standards and their modification, in improved watershed planning and design,
in ecology, agriculture, hydrology, sediment control, and aids to planning and monitocing
including remote sensing and relevant computer applications. Younger, middle level
technicians and managers will be trained in subwatershed design, construction, and
management. At township and village level, training will focus primarily on construction
and the technical needs for orchards, forestry, grassland, and crop development, and will
involve farmers and farmer techniciains. Some 22 subject areas of training have been
identified-all of which are relevant and essential to project development. These are listed
in Table 3.
17.         Overseas training will be for selected younger managers of potential who
have high levels of theoretical knowledge, and professional and experienced technicians
who can benefit from short training courses or carefully selected site investigations, and
from attending relevant conferences. Some 10 topic subjects have thus far been identified
(see Table 4) involving some 12 countries that are leaders in the technologies. Overseas
taining will total about 260 person months.
18.        CPMO will design its training program to meet the annual needs of the
project. PMOs will establish priority training needs for all components of the project.
Training curricula will be modified each year following a review by the provincial and
central TPs. In making the necessary modification account will be taken of the annual
modifications to the project's Technical Standards Manual, of staff and farmer response
to training (determined by an annual evaluation of trainee feedback), of training impact in
the field with regard to better design and application of standards, and of suggestions by
the Technical Panels. Success will also be determined by the quality of instructors. Senior
professionals and technicians who have demonstrated competence in project implementation
will be used part time as instructors. Funds are available to hire specialists in specific
topics, such as nursery and orchard management, from non project agencies or consultants.
Under the responsibility contract system some 'private' instructors may be retained as
training contractors with set goals and would receive payment by result. This system
would work well for customized computer training, accountancy training, Ilntegrated Pest
Management in orchard crops, advanced agricultural practices such as drip irrigation, on
farm moisture conservation management, hot house winter vegetable production,
senculture production, and the introduction of new forages such as grain amaranth, forage
maize and sorghums, and the use of soil fertility enhancing methods involving the use of
plant hormones, rhizobium, and mycorrhiza. There are some excellent scientists and
teachers at the universities and agricultural institutes who could be contracted for these
training assignments.
19.        To reduce construction and overhead costs, as well as to improve the overall
management of the project at various levels, it has been agreed that, where possible,
training center buildings will form part of the project's administrative complex.



- 97 -                        AhN.U
Technical Assistance (TA)
20.         Technical Assistance from non project agencies, such as CAAS, and
consultan;ts within China is required and is included under the research, technology
transfer, and training components. Areas where foreign TA would be of value would be
in forestry and orchard nursery and field management, in new computer applications-GIS
in particular, and in pasture and forage development. One of the best ways this could be
provided would be through participation, by proven and experienced specialist, on the
project's Technical Panels. It is the intention of the project to retain such expertise twice
a year for a total of four to six weeks. The specialists would be expected to provide a
medium term commitment to the project and would provide an independent view of project
investments and technology, as well as providing specific recommendations In their area
of spealizaton. These specialists would be funded by the proect or through bilateral
agreements with donor agencies. Bilateral agencies that might prove useful would be
Australia for forest nursery and orchard management, UK for IPM technology, New
Zealand for forage development, livestock, and forest nursery management, USA and the
Netherlands for soil and water conservation practices, and for soil fertility maintenance,
and the USA for GIS. There are also a number of University consortia that would be
interested in expanding their ties with the project in areas of research. The Bank would
help the project put some of these bilateral arrangements together during the process of
project implementation. The Bank itself has a good deal of experience in the areas
mentioned above, and Bank staff would from time to time be expected to share their
knowledge, and come up with innovative approaches, particularly in the use of computer
technology, and in this latter area would continue to support where possible the training
initiative started during preappraisal and appraisal.
Technical Panels (TPs)
21.         TPs have been establshed at provincial PPMO and at CPMO levels. The
TPs will work to well defined and already agreed terms of reference. The main tasks of
the TPs will include the periodic (twice a year) review of project technologies and their
applications in their broadest sense including quality, transfer and expertise of staff. They
will (a) assure that technology specifications are continually updated, (b) review and
comment on annual research plans, (c) provide innovative suggestions and ideas external
to the province, (d) review the effectiveness of technology dissemination practices,
(e) assess the effectiveness and adequacy of training; and (t) generally act as a sounding
board for the advancement of. ;w techniques.
22.         At PPMO level the PTP wil consist of representatives of the provincial
Techrkical Committees and knowledgeable and credible professionals from relevant agencies
extemal to the project (who could act as extemal peer reviewers). In particular, experts
on forestry, orchard, grasses and forage production, pest control, and soil fertility
maintenance will be included. The PTP would prepare annually an independent report on
the standard of application of technologies, and the relevance and effectiveness of the
research programs. At CPMO level a TP will be established that would have a similar
function to the provincial TPs, and would have the special responsibility of providing a



-98-                                   4
complete project overview with regard to technology and its application. The Central
Technology Panel (CTP) will comprnse of a technical representative from each Province,
representatives from CPMO, and external peers of repute. CIP will also rtain two or
three foreign ronsultants as members. The foreign consultants wil provide special
expertise in soil and water .onservation, forestry, orchard and grassland/livestock
development, and forage production. They will be hired for approximately four to six
weeks per year, initially over a period of three years. Apalt from responsibilities similar
to the PMPs, CTP will advise CPMO on the need for retaining technical expertise to deal
with some specific aspects of the project; for annually reviewing reseah progkams and
technical standards; and for training and overseas visits of project staff. The Chairpersons
of TPs will be independent of the project administation.



-99-                               AH     4
Table 1: RESEARc AND EXPlERMENTAL NEEDs
Itgated put and        Curret ractices vaty    IPM methods of pest    Benefits will include
disse contl for        fom 100% Chemical       con    exist in Cina    educed use of chemi-
appe and oth  frMit   conl to sabsat           The project wil identi-   ca pesdcide, lowar
trees.                 reduwtion in chemicad   fy the range of systems   pest coto costs, and
says due to fiumer     and will ioduce        inread piuction
pest scoudng syems     them at field demon-    thrdo   tho wider us
and the use of biologa-   stration and experi-  of pest contol mae-
cal systems.           menta level, and will    sura.
train farmers in their
use. Initialy IPM will
focus on the apple
crop. New biological
insecticides such as te
neem extract hat as
be  mandacured at
the North West Agr-
cultual Umveruity will
be tsted. Vgoros
sach and find (S&F)
initiatives wil be
etablishd in this
area.
Soil ftlity enhance-    Curet metods           Tehniques woud be      Iv ed soil feetit
ieat                  minclude use of plastic  better demonstratd     and higher soil ac
mulhes, cover crops,    composting  se         mater woud result;
gre n manures, compW    woud be improved,      sonday benefits
osting.                investigadions into the    include imved ceop
type and use of daizo-    yield and   oi mou-
bium and mycofhiz     tare, thus redcing
would be mad ad        rs
demonstrate_  Investi-
gations would be made
into quality of aising
sources of inoculats
and their manufacture.
These technologies
would conine to be
exeimea nd
demonstrated. Investi-
gati-s into bace
element deficiencies
would be undertaen.
More attntion woud
be paid to techniqu
that fit slope and as-
pea



-100-                                 ANNE4
Foia    for forage     Hi8h pH values on       Carry out trial wotk
rops                    amost soils in the pro-    with Triple Super
act area are likely to  Phosphate (TSP), NPK
effect plat nutrient   mixtures and tuac
avilability            elements. Improved
retums aro e pected,
particulaly with
rgad to estab-
lishment drought and
disease
Benfits include
improved yields, si
moise reduced soil
loss, earlier crop
matuity.
Forestry and fruit      Quality of planting    Known technologies      Benefits would include
tree nursery tecdnol-    stock requires im-    would be demonstatd    better quality sd-
ogy.                   pvement. Nursefy        in the ceal nuseries   lins, new varieties,
management toch-       at county level. Specia   better rootng trees,
niques reur codify-    atention would be       and introduction of
g. New varieties to    given to seelig         'commrcal    -
me  fiuture maket      densities, culing, root    agemet pracices at
demands should be      development using root   nursery level.
introduced and tested.    trainers, potting mix-
Varieties with good    tures, wateing tech-
storae cbanctristics    niques, nursery hy-
should be given special   giene, use of growth
attio.                 hormones such as
ABT, budding, con-
iug, maintenance of
moter sock, seedling
handling, and seedling
gading.
JiMd plnting tecbh      Current plasting tech-    Site to vaiety nmtch-  Signifcatbeonefit
nes for peren          niques will need revi-    ing wil be investi-    hould rult, inu
tees, ohad trees       sion as a result of     gated, moistr retain-   lower cost planting,
and dsubs              better quality and      ing contour trencing    better grow  and
beter moted sedlings.   (V" ditching) in       improved snival
association with better    rates.
rooted seedlings sbould
enable a change in
planting techniques.
seedling handling in
the field will be tested
to reduce seedling
damage. Growi
hormones and mycorr-
him will be identified
and tested for im-
proved seedling sviv-
al on degmded lands.



- 101-                                ANNEX 4
Forage production       Frage Production is at   Demonstate tecbnical    Attractive rtr ar
an eady stage of       and fimancial viability    expected in vow of
development. Modern    of modern forage        inreasing ptofitablty
westn tpe forg         production methods on    of hivestock rlative to
prduction is virhtaJly    farmers' lands via: (a)    other pr Xodon sys-
unknown in project     testing une both        Wems, and likey strong
areas.                 rainfed and irgad       demand for livestock
conditions high protein   products in future
content forages such as   years.
alfifa,clovers, vetches
and their mixtures with
grasses and cera
crps (such as shnt
vegetation foage
maine hybrids with
FAO values below
300. fIrWe sorhum
and millet and sor-
ghum and sudan gras.
and amaranth sp.): (b)
application of low cost
and labor sving hay,
haylage and sil
makdng technology; (c)
amnn)miazation of
stas and stovers; (d)
carrying out of feeding
rals; and (e) econo-
mic analysis.
Livestock manage-       Effective control and  Exi    (includ-    lhere is dready ovi-
ment.                  _mnent of live-         ing economic compam-   de  on a Iarp se
stock will be key to   tons) wok will focus    that livestoc contrl is
the long term stabiliza-   on (i) the introduction    essenti for gully
tion of the project    of new drougt toler-    sailizbo   Ie
am                      nt foddetr ops such    ehiensad
as gsnm am ni (ii)    _beInI a         Lould
the    _        of     ihow to tecbisd ad
sheep and goats under    economc benefits
confined (pen and or   from managemit
fenced fields) condi-  changes.
tiow; (iN) tie substitu-
tion of sheep and goat
by cattle, pigs, and
other small stock; (iv)
cut and carry systems
of livestock feeding.



- 102 -                               ANNEX 4
Aerial Seedn           The eoonomics and       Domestic and intema-    Aeiial seeding might
tecbnical feasibility of    tional experience needs   be the most cost effec-
area) seedig for proj-   review to detemine    tive meaws for large
ect area remains un-   rejevance of areal     scale pasture imove-
ckar.                 seeding to various      ment in remote and
project demands and    difficult and accessible
conditions.            conditions
ShnWb  _anagae         To date gnod work has   Expermnts have just    Benefits could be
and development of     been carried out in the    sarted and wil receive   enormous if living
liig lbmes to con-    identification and       priority to develop    hedges can be devel-
fie livestok and to    utlization of sbrubs    management tech-       oped to confie live-
demarcate bound-       such as Sea Buckthorn,   niques for hedgerow   stock. This would be
aries.                 Caragana, Amorpha,      development. These     particularly import
Chinese date, Black    include: inter line     for        Maogolia.
locust and Chinese     spacing, seed v.        Sea Buck thom and
hawthorn as good       vegetative propagation,   Black Locust is cur-
ground cover for soil    planting time, planting    rently the most promis-
erosion control and for   technique, hedge lay-    ing.
economic benefit.      ing and management,
Little has been done to   production bene-
manage these shrubs as   fits-(fruit, fuel, and
confining hedgerows.    forage), and environ-
With the policy of     menal benefits (wind
awading long term      breaks, erosion con-
contra  to livestock   trol).
owners and on the
basis of single occu-
pant lessors the need
for confining perime-
ters to confine live-
stock and improve
pas8tWue is very impor-
tanlt Experience in
Inner Mangolia and
Herbei indicas that
live hedges are less
costly and more effec-
tive.
Use of vegetae             Lxp     would be    Testing of Adcash-
bariers for soil cow-    expanded to look at   non splendens would    Benefits from this
swatBon on doping      different configurations   continue on different  work could be subsan-
landW                  of contour planted     sites. Current indica-    tial both for future soil
barrier hedges. Vege-   tions are that the grass   and water conservatio
tative systems are     has potential. Experi-   practices and for eco-
required to protect    ments are needed to    nomic purposes.
land that is too steep to   develop and verify
terrace, or that might    planting mangem
one day might replace    techniques as well as
tesacing as a conser-    effectiveness of the
vation technology,     brier for soil and
moisture conservaiaon



- 103 -
Evalusatio of A spln-
dew' economic bene-
fita as a potential
energy fuel, fodder
and mulch would be
undertaken. Other
spcies would also be
identified as well as
the configuration of
dense shdub hedges.
Mechan    substitu     Labor is becoming      The tcniques need      The ma  benefit will
tion of labo for       awe expensive and      some additional refine-   be well defined stan-
tewrae and damn       less available as pri-  ments, and the eco-    dards that can be
cozdrucion. and for    mary industry (mining)   nomics of mechanical    applied as and when
on faum culivatn       expands in the project    methods need clew   labor is ether unavail-
ara This should lead    definition. Design    able or too expnsive
to a greater substitu-  changes may be
tion by mahinery,     required and should be
defined for greater use
of machinery. Th
type of equipment also
needs testing and
evaluating to see if
there is a case to move
to larger and more
versatile earth moving
and shaping macines.
de-     Design and planning     Anaysis of cunt        Better log tem plan-
ign and planing of    practice need futher    design methods should   ning and deig sys-
definition as exei-    be undetacen, atn-     tem would matalize
enced is gained uler    tion shoud be given to   that would benefit
the proect            the level of 'conpr-    ftue planing of
hensiveness' required    sb    h
for profitable and
effective conseraion
farm and watersheds
The prcicality of
using modern methods
involving GIS and
other intenrlated data
bases requires further
refining Verification of
moning methods
are needed. Investia-
tions to deterine the
level of famer partci-
pation i desig would
be usefut.



- 104 -                                             ANNEX
Table 2:
CINA
(OESS PLATEAU SOIL CONSERVATION AND LAND DEVERWP%ENT PROT                                                   _
fea-ity Suxl-Res" ftP
Resevl Cat   FP       oto  IGaz    . _         9_e I Ia    Sad
'code             Code       Yur    Mon j i Yuan         Yuan
..813                       tOn I   _ Yumjn  I 9n11,1
Tota Resarch Eaeditur . Yuan I_                                                               .
_                        ~~~~~~~                                          ~~9.813               I I     1903     2.4S  j2Z94      2.S2I
Crop mtrr&XtKoM These wed be 'aCe  fr and introduced on testdamonstat        AG/VR              -         .9        .4   I '
,~~~~~~~~ -                                                                      !                 i   -  
Dam construction and spile tecnques tn PlW rock area                         EMDS          I    il                    03
Foesy - optUii of speaes and plantit ted-Mqies                              .F/M           I    iN                   0.14
Se a nudthom - Sit ingtmt- Paisa Ro* sob                                   'F MiQ                                     0A  :
Foresty - mwagement ad ecnnm  studies to    yt optial manapaMent te    esF/M               I    tI    I               0.3j
odem  manu. tedvaues                                                        iF/WIR         I   GA           0.41           _ _  ;
Afforesation tedque  feld and  ffrsoy tec   s. Soe moisure bIprov nt        F/WTC         +   GA    i Q257'              * 
systems, tree protection sistens Induction of new asd 5utae mSnuy mMfgemt ieui
technq uea suma root pnnavng   rdg  useo at 1 rcoff       growthsu.j
Treeestabli"tneit tedniesoanred soft                                       .F/1WTG         i   SA                  _              i
Forestqy/fn-it nusery management tedhques Quaity contols plant heath. mauwy lay ;FNRW                                             I .
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
out,                                                                                          _  _  _   _ _  _
Drot resstae and high yding ries This reearch soAd be ud en and  IFJYR                         aA    j    0.29
Sea Buckthm - vity selecton and seedIg productio  Use of Sea ucduorn as bl    F tf              I 1                  0.Is             -
fence. mangement techqe lfr estaokr_nt ad mnantetiuic;                                                                   .I
Orcard Terology appeplantiog.pnmaiA   systems. LOW iWpu Nloutput Yin        IFRVAWTC           SAA                             0.41
I~_ I I i 
Ordcard TednocoWapplK Intemediate denity techniques. Spadng, pnig Yanhe an ;FR,AiWTC           S MA               I i9
ism Rbe                                                                     *.                          
Orhrd Tedrodogapmls: Hih gtensty plt   techiq   Ya rner                     IFR TA C    i   SAA                               0.0O
O(dherd Tedmology Apncot and PeadL manageent anddemosuti  ofRMpP TC                            SAA                             M4 i
t.ecnoAr_ai                                                                 '              j                .
Forest and grasan sp s evaluation                                           fR(GR          I   SA                                 I
Orchrd techology. mangent sto-gfM _.GA                                                                     0       _317
Orcwd management    rdifferent cdoa  gss shub nter treeco tourhed    FRWSC                      SA   134 i               j
Orchard managm en technes an mwan       ent pest controle   s. g i   systems,R !FPMTC           SA    ,
fert*izer a c   Pn     system. pltirg dWies. muidchg   fi twapg.
Chiese Crab apple manageient and tenolr. Eaiymatuing9 fAiY,  r-crppgu   .WrCEC                 SA    i_
Cherpnca compostio and Ph      tical baoe of Hickory kem                    FRnTC              SAA                            O.OS
T-teal    e Ln w  fid plnt,M tedwe*                                         lFRrTC/        ! s                  l        
Grasm and man ment Lehiqxs                                                  jaGRfWfFC      I   SA                              0.1 
Grasd2g te&hncooio                                                         iGRVTC              GA          0.3S          i        I5
-vestociL Upgrad-n> of sheep/fert*ty                                       luwzr                                         I -|  0.06
of 5peces th at cid be used as iNg to                                                       
Uveatock  chulhen and pig ftvaopmen  ma met pactic  undr cold wintem        ,JWC               SAA                            0.06
Plastic sheds                                                                            i                                                 I
Gully hea,d  d      roteo ushg vegetatlv memie                               SCfGL/VG                 1S 0.1                      I
sod erosion mansenment                                                       SGA                           0.1. 
Cour tehnoogie  vegsatatn,trees                                             1SCWTCg            SA                              0.2
Soat Water cationteehdqu_                                                    SCiTC             GA          0.077
Runof recion measures on agrcura l                                           SC/TC              t                     03
Terace starizti     g vegetatre systems.             -                       SC/TC              SA.-
Plant HeIge Tehnque                                                         ScUVG              GA         0.1 es
Mxed spec  management for sand and guL bank sabifation                       SCVG                lt



- 105 -                                          ANNEXA
Table 2 cont.
CHINA
LOESS PLATEAU SOIL CONSERVATION AND LAND DEVERLOPMEM PROJECT.
Fe_est  Study Resach PRq a
Research Cat;  Pfowida   Gansu   Ine  , Shana-  i Shamd
:code             co.  I Yuan  'Mnglia  Yuan    Yuan
,  Ifln   Y:ua    IMUonji erm
Pftt hedge MUwMganeRt Speid grass and oiwh  spieme wantgment of hedge.   ;SC/VG              k    .- i          0141         i
planting tecnues,  bendt me _.tem t modture and so  Reten   crop competbo   i      
a*iation to different sl SWope and landme conIdIo
Prevnron of deserufcata U bveyebti "sstem                                ,SCVVG             SA    I_     I.                        56
VegetsUvecnsationsystemn                                               'SC/VG/M           SAA                            0.1O
Vegetie protecUon of hb ad gin                                           SCfVG/WTC         SA                            o.os,
Sol ad water conseration reate tos iaN waterteds                         .SCWS              SA                      -
to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      0~~~~~~~~.S6
fority aftnd improneentsto lw quaKId            IO                      SF                SA              
bnpovments to sane /alak'e lands Control measues and cost of appWoiomage  W/OiSvL           IN                  0.15D
Maim                          anaipedbni~ gi ebD m ent of mmement tedUesand WMORM          sAA                   0       O.3
kwbpon t nto ywdd 0rernce  nwped Lnds                                    I/rTc         i   °t4    i              0Q31
Cnarehnsm watemdel  oPdipt         m     i tedonc and econm   ddin        WS/SYTc           IN              :   027:
Optdi  laWM use n   t                                                    :WSYEC        i        SA    0-
CO-NreWVO washrs    manemt research                                      :WsM            _LA          0.077_
Tec    ori_u fr dr4eelinig sin  watersheds                               WSn            -SA .             I
GA.Gansu I4- mer tiolla  WM  San  SA- Shansl
AG-geneae agrcuture VR-valte Eegeri    Sd,m.-orsr 
Umw"ana    tv NR-=ureqY TC-tWendogo fR- frut XA        Ap-Ap t P-peachj
GR-gn; SC-scea                VEG-Vegetsb  L.odc  R ee   fG-te; 
GLgiii contov
VG-vegetative systemrs WS-wat_,she   SF-sod tert; W.wwpmg blnds DR-dranage;                        -
SL s__t.  'S .e                                                                                             !



Internal Technical Training
(lnit: man-month)
trainnFS COtolits           'ptovmcc                                 totaI    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998    1999    2000
1. agrtcu3turaltecniquwt_s
1). agricultural compteMnsive hio3)-yieId tecIuiiques             YRCC(cvery    510       120     165      105      I05     15
tenday)
2). srid-agicultural . elid-increasing techniques of water and soil  Shaanxi     1000    30       577      144      108    .54       22       27      32
conrSvation
3). control and devclopmciln teduciques orsloip cultivated lanId  Shanxi         3370    103       1944    486      364      182     95       94      102
Inner Mongotia  800    24       461      115     86       43      23       22      26
3ianns         34'J94   1114    202.10  5039    3772    1S98    922        978     965
sub-total     40674   1391    23387   5t89    4435    2192    1134    1121    1125
2. f0orestrtecliqu_                                                                                                                              _
4). planning and desip of afforestation work                      YRCC(cvry    829        90      276      298      165
5). foresty high-yield and fast-growing techniques                Shaanxi        1000    33       577      144      tO8     54       28      28       28
6). selction and bred o*fine ve. species                          Shanxi    S     808    189      3352    238       628     314      163      162     162
7) fnuit ttre pbtuing and mannagemet                              loner Mongolia  1550    50      294      224      168     84       44      43       43
8). developgent techaiques of appl setdation                      Cane           35005   1117    20267   4989    3763    1909    992         984      984
9). sabuckthom ecological nd economnic developrent                sub-total      44192   1479    25366   6493    4832    2361    1227    1217    1217
3. animal husb       techAiquts  -                                                                                              _ I                    .
10^ veatcion cant on utccls                                       YRCC           486        -     99       144     99       144  _              -
*1I



training contcnts                                provinces      total    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
)I selection and lreed of fine species                           Shaanx;        550      I8       317     79       59      30       I5       15      1 7
12) processing of livestock products andforagesand fodders        Shanxi         2210    72        1275    319      239     120      62      63       62
13). sl.uction and breed of grass species and high-yield planting  nner Mongolia  3500    113      2020    505      379     189      98      97       99
Gansu     I    3S030   491      8717    2141    1640 772          427      423     419
sub-total      21776   694       12428   3188    2416    1255    602       596      597
4. engineering leciniques                                                                     --
14). excellenit planning and design of terrace                    YRCC           348      63       177     90          =8
15). dam systen planning and dam building tcchniques              Shaanxi        700      23       404     101      76      3X       20       19      19
16). tedchiques of faoning land by river training                 Shalixi        2870    93   _1656_  414           330 315          81      80       81
17). teduniques ofr water-saving irrigation                       foUCer Monigolia  1700    55     981     245      184     92       48      47       48
Gansu          15001   471      8666    2151    1629    838       424      421     421
sub-total      20619   705       11884   3001    2217    1103    S73       567     569
5. cornprelinsive techniti_es
IS) project execution and managenment                             YRCC           327      87       147     69       24
19) agricultural economic management                              Sbaanxi        900      29       520     130     97       49      25       25       25
20). computer i formnation system                                 Shanxi         2502    83        1444    361      271     135      70      70       70
21). computer software application                                Inner Mongolia  1200    39       693     173      130     65       34      33       33
22). techniques of monitoring and evaluation                      Gansu          1550    25        908     217      171     90       47      46       46
sub-total      6479    261      3712.   950      693      339      176     174     174
tatol                                                                              333740  4530    76777   19521   14593   7250    3712    3675    3682
IIl



Budget for Techniques and Achievements Demonstration and Extension
(10000 yuan)
budget itenm                            total     YRCC   Shaanxi Sani  Inner        1as    3993   t994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
budget                . -          Mongolia
1. fid ofdaonostation and extnion       390.0    50.0    70.0    160.0   80.0       30.0   49.0   49.0 49.0 490    490    49.0    4 48.0   41.0
1. iroductiono fnewspcciesanWvarklift  99.0              25.0    34.0    30.0      10.0   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.3    12.5   12.5   12.0   12.0
2). construcion ofdmontation stc       230.0    50.0    25.0    95.0    40.0       20.0   29.0   29.0   290    29.0   29.0   290    28.0   28.0
3).tec"ninueatransfer                  61.0        -    20.0    31.0    10.0              7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    8.0    8.0
2. technicxl consulution                317.0             10.0 t  800      160.0    67.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   39.0   39.0   39.0
1). senior technical consultation     209.0             5.0      57.0    100.0    47.0   26.2   26.2   26.2   26.2   26.2   26.0   26.0   26.0
2) junior technical consultation       10Z.O             3.0     23.0    60.0      20.0   13.8   II 8    13. 8    13.8   13.8   I30    13.0   l3.0
3. techial contaet                      629.0             128.0      -              501.0   152.66  72.62   70.62   70.12   69.12   66.62   64.62   62.62
4. bse construction                     277.28            20.0    175.0   80.0      2.28    277.28
1). SWnd of laud tequisition          45.00        -    5.0     35.0    5.0               45.00
2). fundt of construction              2322.    -         35.0    140.0   75.0    2.28    232.28
S. opertion fund                        487.82      -    50.0    167.8   80.0       190.02  119.33  90.41   70.14   58.54   52.84   52.44   28.94   15.18
1). staff salary                      234.60              5.0    82.0    30.0     107.60  35.00   58.00   36.00   33.60   28.00   25.00   15.00   4.00
2) traveling expen on busiress         129.17            15.0    34.0    20.0     60.17   18.78   23.91   25.64   16.44   16 34   18.94   S.94    3.18
3). fiad of of@0e facilities aNd e4uipment  57.05        10.0    34.8    10.0     2.25    57.05                             _
4). fitd of ee  igporOn                67.0              10.0    17.0    20.0     20.00   8.50    8.50    8.50    8.50    8.50    8.50    8.00    8.00
to.lw                                   2101.1   50.0    278.0   582.8   400.0    790.3  638.27  252.03  229.76  217.66  210.96  207.06  180.56  164.80
Note: AI ddt am hn toO pcOSA rpou of evy prvne
th
..-



No     training and investigation contents             counines     ptovu           total    I993     1994      1995      1996     1997      199t    19        2000
6.    aridagrtcultural techniques of wer No soil      Canada.     YRCC            8        2         2        2         2
conservation                                    U.S.A.      Sbanxi          S                  I         I        I         I
Slsanxi,                                             
1nneMongolia  3                    £        1        1
Gansu          8                  2         I         I        1         t        I        t
_________  sub-total        24        2        6         5        5         2        2         1        1
7.   *%tr-saving kmrition techniques on rnd aid       U.S.A..     YRCC            8        2         2        2         2
wei-aid region                                 Atistralia   SIbamuixi       4                  2        2                               _
Sluaxi         5                  2         I         I                             _
Inner Mongolia  2                 1                     .
Gansu          4                            1         1        1_                 I_
sub-total      23        2        7         6        5         2                  1
8.   techniques of water and soil conservative       U.S.A.       YRCC            S        2        2         2         2
engincengs                                                 Shaanxi         6                  2                  I        I         I        2
Shanxi         S                  3                  2                  I           _      I
lana-Mlsongolia   5        _           I             I                       I             I
oansu          3                            I                             _                -
sub4total      30        2        9         4        6         3        2        2         2
9. projec onstruction aNd mangement                India,      YRCC            1 2      3         3        2        2         2
U.S.A.      Shauaxi         5                  4                  1
Shani          4                  3                  1
Inner Mongolia  5                 3                  1         1          -         -
Gansu          7                  4                  2         1          -
sub-total            33       3         17       2         7        4
to.   conuction and utilization orecomnoic pant        1iain.      YRCC           6         2        2         2
hedge                                           Thailand    Stanxi          4                 3 I
Shanx_
lw Mongois  3                     2         I          -         -        -        -
oanis          2           -      I                  I                    -                  -
sub4oata       t5        2        S         4        1
tOtlA                                                                      262       21        1IS      St       43        17       S         5        S



Planning of Technical Training and Investigation at Abroad
-unt: man-month)
No.          tainit   and inves:igation conuts         counlees    prot            total     1993      I994     399S     1996      3997     1998      3999     20D0
computer sollware devclopMnM and application    U.S.A.      YRCC            S        2         2        2         2
of projed   gemeat                                          Shaan.d         5                 4                    _
Shanxi         14       .         9         2        2         1
Ir Mongolia   5                   3         I        I
Gansu          6         6                  4        2
subtotal       38        2        22        6        7         3
2.    construction of alTorestation engineering and   Gertnany    YRCC            8        2                  2         2        2
ford resources                                 Jalan        .ShIanxt        4                  3        I                              -        -
.. Shnxi       7                  5         I        I
Inner Mongolia  3                 2         I             .
Oansu          6                  4         I        11_
sub-total      22        2        14        6        4        2
3.    dewIopwaent and uliaizatiosi orscubiqkln        USSR        YRCC            6        2         2        2
resource                                                    Shaanxi         3                  2                    _
Shanxi                                                                                                            -
Inner Monplia   3                 2                                                                                0 .
Gansu          3                     -      .                    -                           -
_______   sub-to4al         IS      2          6         5        1                    -  .               -
4.   secktion and breed of fine forages, gralwd       New         YRCC            10       2         3        3        2
ma_g        and anirnal husbaady                Zealn       Shaanxi        3                  2         3           -                 -         -        -
Austrlias    Shnxi         6                  4         I        I           -        -         -        -
Iner Mongolia   4                 2                              -                 - 
Oansu          3                  2         1          _         -
sub.toa        26        2        13        7        4
5.    agricultural economic development temiqus of    U.S.A..     YRCC           6         2        2         2
watr and soil consmervion                      Noetheldanw    Shi           S                 2         I        I         I .                           -
Shanal         B           -      S                  1        I           -
InncrMona lia   3                 2                              _
Oansu          8                  2         3        I        I         I        I        I
_ _____________________________________ .____            _     bw -stooal   30        2        133      6         3        3         1        1       .
-                                                                                        II



12                            1 I N I "    2'
1:                         II I      1
ty ~~i 
D E    p---   - ---   1|71- ;-1--. .. L-I  S3
::l  :   -::::: -  0 100-511 t 1:11::: |4 :-:0
CA~~~~~I
I.1-l 1  S 1 11111ip4
12-- <j<SUS1  1^ h~~~~~~~!             .



-112 -                         ANNEXs
PROJECT MANAGEMEN INFORMATION SYSTEM
Introduction
1.         The objectives of this project are: (a) to improve farm incomes through land
development and improved farm practices; and (b) to promote soil and moisture
conservation practices with a view towards reducng sediment flows to downstream areas.
These objectives will be achieved through application of proven land improvement, soil
conservation, and land rehabilitation technologies at the subwatershed and farm levels.
The project's strategy is to intrduce comprehensive land development in approximately
1,040 subwatersheds-each averaging about 12 lan2 (1,200 ha). These subwatershjeds are
distributed over 21 counties and municipalities across four provinces (Gansu, Shanxi,
Shaanwi, Inner Mongolia). Within each subwatershed a variety of land development
activities are envisioned including: the construction of teraces; the construction of vanous
silt retention dams; the estblishment of tree plantaions and orchards; the improvement of
grasses and shrubs; and the upgading of agriculural management methods. In a typical
subwatershed project activities will be phased over a period of three to five years.
2.          Given the large number of subwatersheds, their wide physical distribution
and the unique nature of each subwatershed treatment plan, an innovative project
monitoing system is considered crucial. An effective monitoring program will enable the
Bank to reimburse against expenditures for completed activities that meet the quality
standards laid out in the project's Technical Standards Manual (SM). In addition, a
systematic monitoring system wiU be indispsble for revisng annual work plans for each
subwatershed during the project implementation period. In order to address the special
monitoring needs of the project, a comprehensive approach to monitoring has been
recommended. Ihis approach which will cover all aspects of physical progress tracking,
financial accounting, implementation scheduling, envionmental benefits assessment, and
socioeconomic impacts assessment
3.          Monitoring Physcal Achievements and Progres Reportig. The project
monitoring system will be designed to record basic financial and physical progress data
required to implement the project effectively. Each project management unit will be
responsible for tracking the flow of information on resources (staff, equipment, money)
utilized under the project. The project management offices will penodically report on the
progress of project implementation including actual accomplishments versus planned
accomplishments, and actual expendite versus planned expenditures.
4.          Monitoring of Socioeconomic Benefits. The monitoring program will link
physical progress and financial monitoring with monitoring which evaluates impacts on
local communities and individual beneficiaries. The project will depend on two sources



-113-                           ARM S
of data to determine social and economic changes. First, it will use data that is collected
annually by the statistical authorities on economic changes. Second, it will undertake
representative household surveys and field investigations to measure the impact with and
without the project. Special attention will be given to measuring changes in output due to
investments in land development and to the new technologies introduced to the project. At
the same time household investigations will measure the impact of the project on increased
household wealth, and improved access to social services. This data will be rtained in
the project's overall information system (see following section) thus allowing close
corelation between investments, their quality and cost, and social and economic benefits.
Because investments will be identified in detail, i.e., it will be possible to know precisely
for each site location the investment costs, management practices used, annual yield data
etc. It should be relatively easy to undertake analysis of different sites and extrapolate that
data to the watershed as a whole. This information would then support household and
other surveys.
5.          Monitoring Sediment Control and Other Environmental Benefits. One
of the most important objectives of the project is to stabilize highly erodible landscapes in
order to reduce the off-site costs of downsram soil erosion and sediment depostion.
Thus, the project will undertake regular sudies that will analyze the impact of project
actities on sediment transport reduction and its downstream benefits including its impacts
on poverty reduction. All four provinces will monitor changes in water quality, sediment
transport reduction, on-site eroson, pecipiton, and changes in soil fertlity. In total 188
rinfal stations, 37 hydrological sins, 10 water quality stations, and 191 water
sampling and tracling stations will be used for monitoring environmental changes. Many
of the stations already exist, others will be added under the project.  The large
hydrological stations are manned permanently. The project will provide additional
trumentation to allow effective measurement and coUlection of data, some automatic
measuing devices will be installed in remote areas. Hard daxa from collecting stations will
be reinforced by the use of satellite imagery and mobile field teams that will under take
special investigations at selected sites. All the data will be entered into the project's GIS
data system.
6.          The UMRB, and the provincial and county Soil and Water Conservation
Bureaus are experienced in the data collection envisaged under the project. Data will be
collected on a continuing basis and periodic analysis will be undertaken to track changes
that occur. Selected subwatersheds will receive special attention in order to identify early
trends in environmental changes. Past monitoring of subwasheds under comprehensive
treatment have provided the basis for developing the expected benefits of this project, and
they are substantial. The projects PMIS will continue the process, but on a wider scale
and will assure regular feedback to the Provincia and UMRB managers and technical
panels for consideration in the review of research and technical standards. The project will
also assess the impact of nonproject road construcon, mining, and industial and civil
constrction as point sources for eroson and sediment, and their impact on overall
sediment flows in the project areas. Selected sites for monitoring will also reflect the
different typs of Loess topology using paired (treated and nontreated) subwatersheds of
about 10 km2 each.



- 114 -                            =       S
The Project Ma eent Iforation System (PMS)
7.          In addition to supporting the field work required to gather information for
monitoring putposes, the project will support the establishment of a computer based Pojet
Management Information System (PMIS). A PMIS is envisioned which will be based on
an integrated set of personal computer software applications that will failitate the
management of financial, temporal, and spatial information.j/
8.          OrganIzation and Management of the PMIS. Ite PMIS will involve a
hierhy of monitoring activities at the subwatershed, county, and povincial levels
(Figure 1). The central PMO will have oval responsibility in seeing that the provinces
carry out effective monitoring and that standardized methodologies are used. The centra
PMO will prepare an annual monitring report for the entire project area. At the
provincial level, monitoring will be caried out at the prefecur and county leves and will
be sumnarized by the Provincial PMO. Where necessary provincial PMOs will contract
with other agencies and instittions to undertake special studies, particularly in the
sociological and economic areas. Each year the monitoring plan and feed back will be
reviewed by the technical panels.
FIgre 1: HIERARCH  OF MONTRNG AcnvrS
~mm  - cwo
Shamd P1140   Shaanxi PPtO   Gansu PPMO   I r Mongolia P14o
Ana Cty    I          ounty    Yanan City   Ynghng City             lin city
iLiagou Subwatersehd
1/    A typical software configraion for this purpose will include a compueized project maagemn
software such as MicroSoft Prject, a financial    _     paclgo sh as Quickl, and a desk-
top G1S pakg swch as ATLAS.M. lbeso pu   comptrbased sstem. we  tsted duig
ppIIal Iad appnis  ad wae do  to be approp *te for die dweopmeit ofMS aa ty
are in.xpmve and re esy to lea  and use. Alternativeoud  wold aso be cmidered.



-115-                          A
9.          SchelIg and Ilme Management. Overl project scheduling and time
management will be handled using a software application such as MicroSoft (MS) Prqject.
Each level of project management-Upper and Middle Reaches Bureau (1), central PMO,
four provincial PMO, prefecure offices (optional), and 21 county PMOs-will be atpected
to establish such capabilities. A separte implementation schedule (file) will be set up for
each subwatershed. The subwatershed files will be treated as subprojects of the overall
county Project File to permit aggregation to the county level.
10.         Tables 1 and 2-generated by MS PrcK,ct-illustrate sample schedules of
acdtvities to be camried out by the central PMO (UMRB) and the Shaanxi Province PMO.
The schedules are backed by P.E.R.T. charts (not shown) that demonstrate activity
linkages. They show how planned and rescheduled activities can be tracked as
demonstrated in   ement delays. Table 3 is a sample implementation schedule for
Ansai County, one of five counties and m4uniciplites participating under the Shaani
Province component of the project
11.        The county PMIS will be cntical to the oall success of the PMIS concept.
It is at this level that subwatershed monitoring takes place, and where GIS and accounting
information is linked togedter (see following sections). Table 4 is the work plan schedule
for Lijiagou Subwatershed based on project planning data The schedule (an -MS Project'
subproject of Ansai County) is backld by resource use, cost, and time scheduling data.
Each task is identified by a unique job code Qinked to the accounting system and to GIS).
Table 5 (MS Project) summanzes critical Subwatershed data and show more precisely
when expenditures are to be made and against which job. This data can be transferred to
the financial and budget planning applications (Quicken), if required, on a monthly basis.
Table 6 (MS Project) summanzes planned labor and other resource use on a quarterly
basis. By using special resource calendars, subwatershed investment work can be
automatically excluded from months when climate or other competitive operations are not
conducive for project development. Table 7 (MS Project) relates to the resources in Table
6 (MS Project) but in this case shows their planned cost.
12.        Flndal Mnae         . The second aspect of the PMIS is the intoduction
Of financial accounting and cash flow traclkng software. All expenditues and other
finandal transactons will be recorded in a financial management system which can
generate summary reports by expenditure class, by location, by payee and so on. Table
3a shows a year 1 budget report for Ansai County. Tbe subwatershed investments are
recorded in an individual 'asset account' shown at the bottom of the table. Table 3b
demonstates cash flow analysis for the county, Table 3c summarizes the total county
assets including site investments at two subwatersheds, and Table 3d summarizes all the
labor contracts let thus far. (It should be noted that these four tables are illustrative model
based on hypothetical expenditures.)
13.         As the project develops, actual costs and resource use will be entered into
the financial database. Tables 8 and 9 demonstrate typical subwatershed accounting data
that are held in the county account. These data enable deailed, on-site verificaion of
contract costs. Each subwatrshed will be set up as a separate asset account, so in the case



- 116-                         ANNEX S
of Ansai County there would eventualy be 43 subwatershed accounts, all of wbich will
reflect actual costs for identified investment actvities. By using the system as outined
above, the project will be able to keep track of investment and de;velopment actvities at
all levels in the management hirarhy.
14.        Geographic Information Systems. The thirn element of the PMIS is the
use of desk-top Geographic nformaion System (GIS) technology. As part of the complete
package a GIS will be established at the county and provncial PMO levels. In general,
the GIS will be used for two purposes: (a) to store and retrieve maps and associated
tabular information describing the initial conditions of each subwatershed; and (b) to
record, on a standardized map base, information illustrating the project's physical
achievements as they are completed in the field. The GIS envisioned for this purpose
should be simple to learn, inexpensive to purchase, and should be capable of running on
commonly available PC systems.
15.        The use of GIS will be closely interlinked with the financial management,
the computerized project management, ad other database management software available
in the PMO. Iitially, a complete, stand-alone GIS databa  will be establised for each
subwatershed. Each county will establish standardized datsets for all subwatershed under
tir jurion.  Ultimately, aUl of the individual subwatershed daftsets will be
ageted into four large unified database at the provincial level.
16.        The county level GSwill be used to support a number of specific
monitoring functions. First, GIS will be used to assess and record the peproect
conditions in each micro-watershed m order to help determne the suitability of portions
of the watershed for various treatment models.  ap 1 illustrates the existing baseine land
use conditions of a sample subwatershed. GIS can also be used to develop digital tenain
models PM  to identify key landscape characteristics such as slope, aspect, and existng
land use as a basis for evaluating various land use options. Map 2 displays the use of a
DTM to identify all areas well suited to orchard development. Map 3 illusates the
idealizd land use master plan which has been developed on the basis of land use,
landscape characteristics and land capability surveys as well as consideration of the social
and economic conditions. Table 10 was generated using GIS and shows the two-
dimensional "change-matrix" for the land use plan. The GIS thus becomes the formal
record of preproject land use conditions as aU field surveys and maps will be recorded in
the GIS.
17.        Second, GIS will be used to prepare and document the spaial dimenions
of the implementation schedule defined for each subwatershed. A separate GIS layer'
will be creatd for each project year and each project activity. A unique 'Job-I]D code
will be assigned to each land treatment area which can then be linked to progess reporting
and expenditure trackdng. These layers will illustrate the iming of the idelized land use
plan for the watershed. The GIS will be used in concert with the CPM software to ident
where, when and by whom physical implementation is expected to take place.



-117-                          ANNI
18.         Map 4 illustrates a hypothetical sequencing plan for Tree Plantation
activities derived interactively using GIS functions. Similar GIS data layers will be
developed for other activities such as terace construcdon, and construcdon of key,
warping and check dams. The map portrays the location and tming of planned opeaons
and indicates the unique 'Job-EDO code assigned to a specific work tak In addition to
the map the GIS will retain tabular data describing the salient characstis of each
treatment model including technical details such as land preparation requirements, fertlize
and pesticide application rates, and planned expendituues.
19.         Third, GIS will be used to record the location of completed works along
with tabuar information describing the as built chaistics. At periodic intevals in the
project (quarterly or semiannualy) maps and tabular reports describing the physical
progress within each watershed will be generated from the system. The GIS will be used
to record actual achievements against the baseline conditions of the watershed as the basis
for comparative assessment during project implemenation. As work is completed in the
field the achievements will be recorded into the GIS. Map S illustrates a hypothtcal
quarterly progress map showing plantation establishment completed in the first quarter of
project year 1. Finally, Map 6 illusras an example of an 'as-built progress map of
plantadons established by the end of Project Year 1. These maps can be used to alert the
project manager as to delays in implementaton and will form the basis of revising annual
work plans in subsequent project years.
20.         GIS at the provincial level will be used to aWegate all information received
from the counties into a master project dataase. The provincial GIS team will develop
methods and standards for collating all the individual databases into a comprehensive
databse showing progress across all individual subwatershed. These aggregated databases
will for the basis of upervion reports which will be presented to UMB Project
Magement Office.



IA)MS PL.ATEAU LANS) NtgIEANIIfATAON PROJ3MCT                                                                                                               Aamz I Tdub I Pap A
Upp.. ed hmiddl mooch" Ilar"
lhMflXMl~TAT3ON SL1IIEtULE
4    herE APtced
a       ...ee,ea .  ......... ........              .........
*       tum    u pN                                                                                m                                                        -p-4
-7isiart ap .CMI .    . ...........................
...         Ig  .....      ..... .....   . ..........                                                  7Im
9                       sOck
14                      PrIps    edhigei
.1......P        i   .. Magm... .... . ....I...................
Is         ............. ........ ...bb ....                 ...........  . .S...
24       IdauIly  Sri...,           -~~~~~~~~...... ...
23               CeliA~~~~~~~~ .H . ..................... .m.
.......   . .        .....       a  d il    qIW
2?                       AeeemiSu Traft*i
ii'E-    ..IEI.zII~~~~~~~~~~~~~............... ...
...2 ....m... . ..    e. ................... ... P.        i .................
AI2SAIWAJKFYWMO                                CadPaidroes-"MAWay                                                                                                                          S
1     .    ........ ........                           .     ....... 
..*........    ....'L                      .     ....     ....................



lAWJ3S PLATVAU LANI) RKIIIAEIITATIOt4 flOJKLT                                                                     Aamx S 1.18. I PpInS 
thilKJbINTAnIoN scimuBbL
1994           ISI~~19S             son6                19]?                 IBM                    Bm      ,         20001               2001 
___________________            hIZL~~~~~~~L~2L~~ ~~'            T~tiiI~~~L~r~i                            ~~1I liT  To IlL                                                     ZIiiIITI-r T  Ii
..............    ... . ..       . ........1.                                    1
IS                    emownvA oledvd PW"I 
.    .....  ..... ......                      ...........1
44                       SOdmh is                                                                                                  
48        FIi~~~~~~~~~~~lO1......
...... .  .......... .             m...
SmUg..                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~. ........
........   ............................  ..
54                                        ...e&~ s  .*..
Ss                     -  hilileGM
.? ..... . ...............U.
..... ............ .    .  ...   ......
..S ... A.. ......               ...... . 
. ..  ...........      .    ...     ..   ....... .. ......... 
so                VebloteS
I      ... .L ....~ .w m.  .  .i r.... b....   ....  ...............
I AN~&AIQ)U1O       , WM o wm   CrticlPo..Sm aywPa
ll.09      P                                                        MUeslome  *                       Roiled lCM   .
uhbUU*



lll   <1       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I,   1  ii 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0p, ,--r it,;h¢,
II                  I Jll-l-THIUtli
[_   ..~~~~~~..    .  .'1  l'jg'j
I~~~~~~,.............................
I.::..=.          ___=   _ ._            
V            OZ;t*~~-El



IOWAMS PL.ATlLUJ LANI) REIRIAIIUUTATzCN PROJIFcr                                                       Am... £ Tide 2 Pop A
amIq.rAltNTA,n(N SCIIIPflUNY
I  buntS                      -                                                           j.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          s  4QiIo
5 . . ...     ......  ... e ..... t
4s           romAdkm   oe
i.   . . . . . . .   . .
as         . gwgoeuy~~~~~~~.......  ..usq..... .-.
2S      -   FOB..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ......
39               i'PF0 i                                   4         
36**    _  _          -    __._......-.---.-i



PLATIVAU LANS) UEUAtUHATAnWN PrutOjV.VTLna  T   2 Paw 
StiaUal Pr.iW4   -m(.   M
1MMALMYNT~ATIoN IICSSW)UL
29                                                                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISI"oeM                                               C 
Tim~~~~~iv9pt&Awwdbeout.mw  ,7jqjl                                                                                                    q-Via-
'4   .     ........ .                 ....... .... ................
41               ta an8   m.. =DAi
1   ..      .........   ................
0         .2 ......  ....      . .  .rg  rn~ m. . ....................
j7  .                                                                                                                                            J...    ...... 
.          .....  ....   .i  A           . .     .....   ..........
Cetika . .. .Suau..y .                                                                                           F....r
* 22iNu*a                                                                        Isoe                                 oldU 



IT -f-I VFF
I     Sf                                                    -e
IF
I ii   1 ''j11  Ililti  ii  jr  II:   I                  II
IF I
ii If LIII iIij iI'f!I!I' 'II;
''I'                              1111':  ii!
II ---                                                                ow
If                                                                    '2
o                 I                            I
____ ___                                            '2
'2   -4.
'2..
*  U                                                                   '2
zt 
- :
I.in E.O.
'2.' '---4
01                                                                         e -
'2   I-
'2-
in
in  4
'2-'
'2
'2
'2-
in
'2
'2
in
'2
'2    j
U
oo   .3
rxRRV                          - cri -



o  dfl P,tIO                               *  *'O)'11W                                   I'111833N                                 rjgjl *.we
-~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ _Ppu1 _~N0 _                                                                                                                                                                          P  
_ .l _   _   . _._
__                                                                                                __    _--    t   ......  ............. ."'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............t............
____________               psII t3t    ~6t 
i. ...          .................
.                                                                                                                                         .   _   _  _   _ _   _ _   _   >  ... ......    . _. __.__ .. _._ § .. t w @ . t ... 8F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ..   ..... .. ..   ...
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 GWA_                                               SIR
(4                                                                                                                                                                                      pema sip~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y  1*~~~~~~~~~~~~~P4N Wt
Y-                                      I                          I4I                                                                                                                                              t 4-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   ep                                                                                                                                                        _si  _
ums ;                   . I .       .__ qq__ 
__  _    _   __   __   ...........  ... _ __ _ . . _xe ew# eb. _ __ St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .                                  ..    .......   ............ .... ...  ....... .
. ww q._._W 1i*                            9
liz~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gp v s.                                             SEkm9
a                                                                                                                                       _  ...   ,    _  ,  ,    ,,   ,,,.,,   ,,,,,, , _.,_.,. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..    .. ....
-_  _    -   ..   .............   _   ... _ ......... _ _._t..__._ _. Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                           .   ................I...........I..    ..     . .... .
*                                                                                    -                             -.                                -             UPS &WUOS Awsmu -j41 w 3- -- &-
|                                                                                                                       __   _    __    .....................   ...... _ _ .. _ . s _ ... ,. .. _ _. IE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........   ...... ..................     .
l                                                                                                                                             l    *   i   ...............  .   __    Q    __.S   OC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...    ... 
m  E ~~~~~~~~~-qb PU im wi                                                l
£BI-*roam )&WiU Apeaepe
|            i                          |                                                   I                                                                        |      t ~1'  ii 
ib|*lgblgl 0|*{EbltilnlXlE~~~~~                                       ~~~~~b*lL  *1lDl                                                                                                                                                                  at b|ZTbb   tIbb   1lI[-_.
0I9                        "SI 6661    _661                               _      66                       9661                      S66           J           t661                       tf          _         __  __.
a4ingll:39 MWIIqN3L S !
t1 agr  Iq awl 9 losov                                                                            wrolld NOIW.L'li1"Vilan (INVI nvalvlld WA



-125 -
Asa County - Budget Report - Yuan
111/93 Througb 12/31/93
111/93                 12/31193
Category                         Actual          Budget           Diff
Inflows
CoPMO Reveuce:
County Revenue                                   74,000.00       91,800.00            0.00
Provincial Inc.                               2.400,000.00     1,323.900.00           0.00
RCF Fees                                      1,100,000.00     L,200,000.00           0.00
Total CoPMO Revenue                              3,474,000.00    2.615,700.00            0.00
From Ansai CoPMO                                 2.401,154.00           0.00            0.00
From County Assets                                      0.00            0.00            0.00
From Huexiao SW                                         0.00            0.00             0.00
From Lijiagou SW                                        0.00            0.00       -10,000.00
From Malian SW                                          0.00            0.00            0.00
From Technology Fund                                56,000.00           0.00            0.00
From XiXi SW                                            0.00            0.00        15.000.00
Total Inflows                                     5,931,154.00    2,615,700.00             0.00
Outflows
Op.Expenses:
Bank Charges                                        50.00          600.00       -25,000.00
Building Repair                                      0.00         8,400.00            0.00
Commissions                                          0.00         8,333.00           0.00
ntenainmnent                                       650.00         6,000.00           0.00
Freight                                              0.00         1,200.00            0.00
Mainteance.                                          0.00         2,400.00            0.00
Miscellaneous                                    21,700.00        6,000.0            0.00
Oflice                                               0.00         6,000.00            0.00
Rent Paid                                            0.00        12,000.00           0.00
Supplies                                        100,000.00        6,000.00            0.00
Tnwel                                                0.00         6,000.00            0.00
Vehicle repairs                                  57,890.00       72,000.00           0.00
Wages                                           70,000.00        96,000.00           0.00
Total Op.Expenses                                  250,290.00      230,933.00            0.00
Treining:
Lodging                                          7,000.00        66,000.00           0.00
Matenals                                         2,5C0.00         6,000.00           0.00
Total Tfaining                                      9,500.00        72,000.00            0.00
To County Assets                                 1,353,000.00      400.000.00            0.00
To Huexiao SW                                       30,000.00      250,000.00            0.00
To Lijiagou SW                                     656,50000       520,135.00           0.00
To Malian SW                                       110,000.00      220,000.00           0.00
To Technology Fund                                      0.00        60,000.00            0.00
To XiXi SW                                         247,654.00       55,500.00            0.00
To Yanghe SW                                        60.000.00           0.00            0.00
Total Outflows                                    2,716,944.00    1,808,568.00             0.00
Overall Total                                     3,214,210.00      807,132.00             0.00



- 126 -                               ANNEX 
Cash Flow Report - Yua
1I193 Through 12/31/93
1/1/93-
Category                          12/31/93
Inflows
CoPMO Revenue:
County Revenue                                   74,000.00
Provincial Inc.                                2,400,000.00
RCF Fees                                       1,000,000.00
Total COPMO Revenue                                  3,474,000.00
Total Inflows                                         3,474,000.00
Outflows
Op. Expenses
BankChag                                             50.00
Entertainment                                       650.00
Miscellaneous                                    21,700.00
Supplies                                        100,000.00
Vehicle repairs                                  57,890.00
Wages                                            70,000.00
Total Op.Expenses                                     250,290.00
Training:
Lodging                                           7,000.00
Materials                                         2,500.00
Total Traning                                           9,500.00
To County Assets                                     1,353,000.00
To Huexiao SW                                          30,000.00
To Lijiagou SW                                        656,500.00
To Malian SW                                           110,000.00
To XiXi SW                                            247,654.00
To Yanghe SW                                           60,000.00
Total Outflows                                        2,716,944.00
Overall Total                                           757,056.00



-qdd-qwwRo~anov>> t?>>
Z                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on
40                           IV~~~~~~~
10~~~~~~~~~~~~
II         $AA8lp9        U
v ,ooogoooooooooocooo  3 
o                               e.g88888088
II' 
-                                 w   4'        °, °|fi&8- 
tn oW8k8Xo°gX'$. ,82l§l   = 
oI  -888888o88                               R



- 128-                               ANNEXS
Ansai County Labor Contracts- Yuan
1/1/93 Through 12/31/93
Overall
Payee          Lijiagou SW        XiXI SW           Total
Busy Bee Tree Entrprize     85,000.00            0.00         85,000.00
Dragon Labor subsidaly      30,000.00            0.00         30,000.00
Li Labor Bngade             38,000.00            0.00         38,000.00
Li labor Bngade             4°,000.00            0.00         42,000.00
Li'sOrchards                80,000.00            0.00         80,000.00
Luis LaborBrigade           29,000.00            0.00         29,000.00
Meng Entewprizes            32,000.00            0.00         32,000.00
White Cloud Labor Gang      31,000.00            0.00         31,000.00
ZhouLaborBrigade                 0.00        60,321.00        60,321.00
Zhou Labor brigade          50.000.00            0.00         50,000.00
Zhou labor Brigade           16,000.00           0.00         16,000.00
Overall Total             433,000.00       60,321.00       493,321.00



t~- S   ..                                           .. j
zl$Wl;~ ...              I  .g -       -  .  ,;. .....o  ' 
i 1'1    ''      t*'i' l  i1.1'; 'j'I'                        ' 
'~ ~ ~ ~~~- .,.*...v.         .       --.
. ' i' 2' ' ' ' s°'' X ; ' it' w' '' g " -  '' '£'  
t ~     ~      ~     iii IEl    __ I¶ II|11: f 
: +                                  .          e  !   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~3_   ,, .
_1,.11_.__11111._ __ __ .  _ ... __  v'
fi              .                                           , 
-~~~~~~~*8 !Z 



LAOS8 PLA1V.AU LAND RPAWAINLrTA11ON PROJIIC                                                                                    AiMU S TOW, 4 Peg.)
IAPJ        olo.Wamenhd
SIMPLEIMIENTATIm* saIUtVU
a- mm                                                                                                                              _                          QS" - IiuIT~                          m_
35 ~~~~~~~~~lm tOPPa6p4U oktg    Mjo4tZo) I05(ft.Gf)                                                                         VZ
*         .       ..    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...    ....   .......  ....    ........    .....
3?       SftePr.praeleo&HaUkig       ~~~~~~~~~~~04(1010)  ',05(6Sta)                                                  MA     M
....   . . .... - .  ....  .....   ..1.
330      .............,..                                                                                                                  *
4-1                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4k
.     ...........  .* ....--  .................. .. .. ............,..... 
44                    Cnaut.dm02                                03 
4.     ...............     f-""                     OS)          TO (1.4abe)                                                                                         I
.............. .. .   ...   .  ...  .........
48~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SO      ..............  .........                                                     ........ .
s*                                                                                               P.te,eiaa  1ikg  6lS~  ?.( 
..........   ..   ...  .    ........ ............
..... ..................
S-4   .........-.--.. . -ii     - ...... ... .......... . . . . . ..                   .
. .  ... .............I
6o                    SSPrwam                      AIO(1?k)    Tit 14am) 
63a                                                AII(WhOm    A113(204)
... -.-...                    . .- . ..........  .....  ....................
-   ..-..  -             ---.---..    . -~~             ~    ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~.. - - .. z  . ........
.3o U" N 5                             kDMAVidSo"Icl                                      ~              t -                                                                            -onwW    tfti 
Proals  LIPC0eI                                  T                      oaklIrgmMl.oo 4SunqMl4U 



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~~~WMIS W)UVIWpTormil
"M  ~         dn $WIt  ^. asm                             x7s +  WaLvnIIWO  (Ir  tvvl $WAYI
'-
?
. ~ ~~~                                                 ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~ .. .   .  . ~*
, _   I_______ I                      9            1             --.-.,,1                                m'
.IltnIriSlt.s NovaV.nFrWVWmS1
s dad t 814. S u.',                                            s.tou Nou.v1ItIIvSIr.I (INr nvSgJv' ssao



LOESM  hIATEAU LANOIRMSA111IUTAMhN PRtOJV:Ti                                                                                      Aama S Tide B S'ag 8
L'jlougsaSub-Watembed
Sasdam" of Wda. I WmU Cods, Job Coda wad U#adta btob I)tnbpflL
ID      Nissu                                                    I   gamea  tat   i                            TotalCost             Fodcost    [Actual Cost    cost Valriance                                Jb#/tiaas        I JObP/uOIt
Li# '*W4iAN Sub Waersh~ed                                                                                                                                                 YOOO i  2319  2.4,0000100 
2   Iraataedevelc~~~~~~~..............                            10/1/93!         IM      9          25 1.30.001                  10.001             oo                   'o
-Wa                                                                                                                     Y ~~1/193  0129  0.0a100  0.00   00
-I-- ~~~~~~~~Dwparms oval                                                10//1/o 93o
10/111/2/9              3  I                0.00              YO00              100
PM                           lon7l 3    101,26iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ $                                                       V *i
.A 2~~~~~arovi~~~~~ .  ..   .....1 2/3 0/93............
... .........                 . ........ l- 6t                                                                                                            Y6661...."
9                                                                                                                                          Tee  31/9  0.00  10
..................    w   .. I      ......  ......w a f . ......1o   .       ..........  v     .......... V 6 6 1 ........  . . 6 .   ....      ....v 6. .     .............a.....                    .  ....
C-incedelvelI                                        i014Y4               12 500                                                           100
II                                                                 ti ssla      .........10.001 0.00                                                                        Yh 
~~~~    lea 2                                                                          .450.00             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Im "y0.00  10d.0  ............... 6
6.-...............            j     ......  ............ ............. ... ..2/28/94..12/28/94                           .  .....................    ... ......
.    ....4.......                                                               J            .10.00 G1a94
.  .. ..........
27   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...........r                    11/5/9             12/15/9k                   1 370.00             109                0001v9
..........*..... iw      up'1aa                                 .      /94                               Y 18,400.00          12,060.    .  ..........0Vb                 1 Y0.00   0...
sites         :....                              3/19               l?/5            .. MI;i0. .OO                 10.0...1.......
- .  -...-....-.-........-....-....-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......          ..006                                                              ..                       10.00..... O-,......... .. .....:......j.....
.              ..!!~~~~9" ~~ R~~I~tISW  .. ..    4/14/9~~~~~5        8/3..............4.......20har
-        .       .#3!!!                        n       .                      ..'9           ......../9.          11480.0                   0,0000                & 0.0   ............1..v0.9  04(ha              6 .5a
38                      3                                                                   *                           Yj9O                 100                                   ' 0.00
. . .....................  ..... .. . .......                                         ....... Y  ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. .....
21                                                                        10...1.0. 95...1.......    95                 1Y.00.0                                         ............. ...... ..  .........  ...
29                                                                                                                                         Y ~~~~~~~//9    8,000  0.00  Y                          ..0 
2/12/96  ifi1~~~~~~'96~~~h~                                               10.000 Y3
...-.- ..                     ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ... 
48  .........at... . .....11/15/.....L                                                                              O00) ..........0...OO                                                                                   a
51                     Oehr                                                  319             1/5                 Y19.0001.00                                   f 1.0  1............v0.00 
.             . .. .. . . . .. .    . . . . .                          .. .. . ...9 aM    .  .. .. .. & j   ..    . . .. .                  .. . .. .   . .a  . . .. . .. . .  d . . .. . .. . .. . .  W ..                       . . . . . . . . .. . . .... . . .



tA*2SnATVAlT:AU   l.flANUMINUTAThON 14tOJFLT                                                                                                       Aen S TA  5 Pae 2
IAjlaco  suma& wuIrsed
Suar d Wr D)ate. CsWis JobC<dn, mad Unib o be Ie4lchp
ID       Nam                                                                  PlannedSt               anned F bh              Total Cost               FbiedCost           Actual Cost I Cost Variance   Job/stijt jUnt
52               ,                  tePre,paration &Plant,i                         ..... .. 3/196. 1.1 1.S.,96.                                                                                                                      ..39.70 0  '0..0...0 '0.... Y .00    .. ... ..O;  ;-
53                   'Vea4Dvqnt                                           S          10/1/96 i   lZ39                                                          '(6390.00   Y0:     Y0.00,                 Y0(.00                        .                               .
~~~~                                            10~~~~~~/1/96 i    10/15/961             Y        '3970.00 T Y §5              *000           '0.00          .       y0?.
SS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........-                                                    . ....... ... ...           i ...... . .. .......I... -.-----v-   i ... io..  ..A'' ..... ....'' '.Y'00''''''' °l''° ----°
6 .................                             . ..........o..o ...                                                                                                                                                                                            .  . .'...o....
sr   E"  e        e-        n't'''''''       -''' ''7-2 i'7'               i27'i's7"                     '0   o't    ''''   Y             'I' '      'Y0*0'|'   ' '''''Y'......... ......................... ... ...' . .............. V... 'i:i'7.. ..............O'   ..'.'.''.i'0.0.'1'."'.'.'700. i''""''.'''.'.00 . .' ' '..--.'.
54                         Cemcde9nu                                                   089                  08
59.....   .........   ,                                                                                  1. /15/97 .   ,. ..                                                          ....... Y4.   .. .. .j   .......0   ...0...
60                                 Csrc tTeraes                                                              10/i i i 3/7        YiS 5425S0 0    'V Yi600 .0                             001* TiOoha Tt yO4ti
61 ...........................    ...............                                                                                                                                                      .. .30.0i
63                                                                                                                                ..             .          ..                      ............. .....----.--.fi-. *f  .     . .....   '-6 o'  -  Y 0''"
62 .... ...........  .   _                                        1a  .   .......... . . *    3 3/1 7/9   t73i77 8 1/   ''' ' '' 'y 00.00 ,Q   t ---- - -  -     ' '   ' ' ' i   o  ''       ' V 0.00'    All '"i'o'1-..
6       ...... .,      .             a,., a .      ................            ,,,, ' . ...                       97 ....'b'. '                  . ..... Q     T
64                         Grssland                                                   3fl3/97              7/31/97                '(3,100.00            .Y.00|                     Y.V0O.00X                                        
56                CAawSie Pepealo&pandl                                       33/7                   /31/971              '31001                 ' 000                     ' .0'00   G(h6
6 ..~~~~~~~~~~~~........... . ....-+*'fat" 'F' '.....................  '-''-"'g'79' '"--'i§77-iiidoY                                                                                                          iood. .......  .8.° ...  ......
-'""'   '' ............................   i                                 finti   .,.1. ..T
69                           lnFlzeDetesiDn                  t.             i         o77s 10/1/97  t   O  iY0oi.00....YO
70V ....   .............-_...      io7 97                1   i7/97   "'''''"''''                                                   0. '''ib' oT'' ''''...  0'd0 .   ..  iOo.   ..... ..
-7i~~~~.........                  .........                                ........   pip       .    .......  -T A   - .-t".'' 97 '''"f  7 ..,..  ......... ... I................  .   -- .. O .*' .......'                                                        O   ''''' '"'. O'   "'''" ...    ...' .  .
o                                                                                                                             Y 52,20.0 .                                              .                           ......zi ...... . ....0.......
70              *            'i8''9zO'a'  *-                            -          ~           ...........................:..................
7    "''    '"'.   '''"" S.....-                                       ''' ''baendf*pA(nwi  '''7'' ~ z)98'j''''''8  3i9'.'' '''Y  6     Q- 'V 0"'.001bO              " 'V"''" 0.0  'V    """ '''
.,, .- n'iepaf  ;                                ..........1/... .                                 'V 12,600........00....W                           ' 0.00'                            A1IY   20ba)    A44i'3'i7
I                        ~~~~~           ~~~...................................-...... ........... .
..... -..... ....                           -                               4/1/98...11/1....98....... ..............45..00...00............0:00..... ..*.. ........ VOV
61         3-.         l~.J~/17~ ~ 8S/9                                                                       §           Y 38,200.00                   YV 0.00              '(0.00        .        Y 0.00
77 ._ . _ I  .'"'''''"-'l  i  '§i9ty8a t N§ ;   o  -   t o.................................... ...
62              Pr,                                           jAWO                                                                                  .. ........... .               Y 0.                  h)          1 Al    (20  ;



LOESS PATEAU LAND REt IABIUTATION PROJECT                                                 Asm  STMG  Peg. I
LUhios Sb-W*Wabdw
SummarY of Eslmated Labwor a oIlie Rsreem Use.
1994_                                                 __99__1996
ID    Name                                      Qi        Q2       Q3        Q4       QI        0)       Q3        Q4        Qi       Q)        Q3       Q4        QI
1     Suddoser (terrace)                                 2         S0          Sh        96              10                   481'    7921    10801'    7921'    3521'
2     Dom Labor Contreac Labor (1)                                                   28       16          10h28001   S1ZOOb
S  Terrace Contract Labor (2)                                                                                           160001'   60001v1600  68001' 12800
6     Trae ctnrs  Labor (3)                                                                                                                  160001'   600Gb000
8     Tree Site prep -abor                              100         60h4                       OM24001'  176001'  36000b
9   95, -bi
10    Gras labor                               260' 70k54401                                              301                          6G      27601
12    Tree Planth  Labor                                                   ______00   640h 240                    2400k                       1200G    1200Gb
13    Dom CWonta  Labor (2)                                                            -         -2860G    S2000                               72001' 
1 4    udldose (Own)                                                                                                         2661'    5201      5281      2641
ujkpwAm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



LOESS P'LATEAU LAND REIIABI LTATION PROJECr                                                     Aunes 5 Table 6 Pagt 2
Lijlago Sub.Wak"ehed
Summary of EsUmated Labor and other Resourc Use.
1997                                    1998                    ____             1999         ____2000                                                             2001
Q2   Q3        Q4        Qi        QZ        Q3         Q4        Qi        Q2        Q3         Q4        QCa 0Q                                   Q           2       0
17600    3520k      200 
1 I~~~~~2 0 0 k~~~~~~~~2 4 0 0 k   - - - -..-.- - - - - - - - -.-..- - -..-.- - -..-...- - -.- -.- - . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...   .. .................  .................   .    .......
45 700 U600     26400
1480k 
UjiagofA



LOESS PLATEAU LAND REHABILITATION PROJECT               Annex 5 Table 7 Page 1
Lijiagou Sub-Watershed
Cost of Development Resources
ID   Name                        Cost       Planned Cost   Variance     Actual Cost  E   Remaining
I    Bulldozer (terrace)      Y 131,850.00   Y 131,850.00      Y 0.00       Y 0.00         Y 131,850.00
2    Dam Labor Contract Labor (1)  Y 1S1,900.00   Y 151.900.00  Y 0.00      Y 0.00          Y 151,900.00
3    Check dam Labor               y 0.00        Y 0.00        Y 0.00       Y 0.00               Y O.00
4    Terrace Contract Labor (1)*  Y 175,000.00  17Y t5,000.00  Y 0.00.       Y 0.00         Y 175,000.00
S    Terrace Contract Labor (2)    Y 204,960.00 .  i 204,960.00.  i 0.00 .  Y 0.00 .        Y 204,960.00
S    Terrace Contract Labor (3)    Y 119,O000.00   Y 119,000.00  Y 0.00     Y 0.00          Y 119,000.00
7    Terrace Contract Labor (4)  Y 49,000.00    Y 49,000.00    Y 000        V 0.00           Y 49,000.00
8    Tree Site prep bbor      Y 120,40.900   Y 120,4Y 000                   Y Q0..00.    .     0,.00
9    Shrub labor               Y 58.450.00 *YV 58,45.00        Y 0.00 *       0.00           Y 58,450.00
10   Grass labor               Y 24,500.00    Y 24,500.00 .    Y.OO          Y 0.00          Y 24,500.00
11    Orchard labor           Y 126,840.00   Y 126,840.00      Y 0.00        Y 0.00         Y 126,840.00
12   Tree Plantin Labor         Y 86,800.00 .Y 8680000         Y 0.00        Y0.00 I6,800.00
13   DarmContratLabor(2j .r'000 Y000oo            140,000.00.. .. ioo. .. V.  .               140,000.00
14   Bulldozer (Dam)          Y 462,000.00   Y 462,000.00      Y 0.00        Y 0.00         Y 462,000.00
Lijiagou/AN



- 137 -
IeubMt  by Site. - Y
1/1193 Tbroug  131/93
cIeu                   1993
Al                                  40,000.00
A2                                  65,000.00
A3                                  46.000.00
01                                   6,000.00
02                                  35,000.00
03                                   7,500.00
01                                  116,000.00
02                                  20,000.00
Os                                  59,000.00
Si                                  32,000.00
S2                                   12,000.00
TI                                  58,000.00
T2.,                                120,000.00
T3                                  40,000.00
T     _am    - Other                     0.00
Overall Total                     636,soO.00



- 138 -                                    A          5
Detaed Expenditur   By Job - Yuan
1/1193 Tbrougb 12/31193
Date   Num         Description             Memo              Category              Amount
4J30/93       Sao saoNurseies        Pineseedins         Ansai CoPMOJIAA             15,000.00
4130193       White ClowltaborGag   labor                [Ansai CoPMOVAI             10,oo0.00
1293           Busy BeeTre Ea1eprize   labor             [AnsaiCoPMOyAI               t5.000.00
Total Al                                                                               40 000.00
A2
4/l1093       maonuseries             Pineseedis         (Ansai CoPMOVA2             10,000.00
4/3rM93       WhiteaoudLaborGang   Labo                 [Ansai CoPMQOIA2             10,000.00
12130/93       BUy BOeTreEaterprize   labor              (Arsai CoPMIOyA2            45,000.00
Total A2                                                                               65,000.00
4r093         Saosao .Nuseries       Pparseedlings       l.nsai CoP.MOJ'A3           10,000.00
4/30/93       WhiteCloudLaborGang   labor                [Ansai CoP%O0/A3            11.000.00
123093         BusyBeeTreeEtpdze        bor               Asai CoPMOF.A3              25,000.00
Total A3                                                                               46,000.00
GI
73W93         Jiji sao Eerpoz         Luceneseed        (Ansai CoP%fOJGO              6,000.00
Total Gl                                                                                6,000.00
7/303         Jriji sWo Eneprz       Asglusseed         [Ansai CoPM01/G2              5,000.00
12/1193       LegueSeedenezize       Gmssseeb           [Ansai CoPMOy02             30,000.00
TOal G2                                                                                35,000.00
G3 
7r30/93       Jiji sao Etepniazs     Jiji s9o seed      [Ansai CoPMIOYG3              7,500.00
Total G3                                                                                7500-.00
9110193       LPsObads              Appleseedling      (Ansai CoP.MOIIOI            80,000.00
MIMS193        So Sao Nurseries       AppleSeedin        [Ansai CoP.MOJO1            36,000.00
Total 01                                                                              116,000.00
0n
10/12/93      SaoSao Nuseries         AppleSeedin        (Ansai CoPM1O0/02           20,0o0.00
Total 02                                                                               20,000.00



- 139 -                  5
Deltaid Expenditures By Job- Yuan
1I1/93 Through 12131193
Date   Num         Deseription              Memo              Category        ,     Amount
9114193       LtsdLabor Bngdc         Labor              fAnsai CoPMO1O3              29.000.00
12116193       MaoNurseries            Appleseedlg         Ansai CoPM0]/03             30.000.00
Total 03                                                                                59.000.00
12130/93       ShIubDragonEnerp        Seed.              (Aosa; CoPMOI/SI             12,OO0.00
12130093       DragonLaborsusidduy     labor              (Ansai CoP.M0J/SI            20,000.00
Total SI                                                                                32.000.00
1230193        ShrubDragonEnepi        Seed- seabucktbohe    [AnsiCoPMOI/S2             2.00(.00
I230193        Dragonlaborsubsiday     labor              tAnsai CoPRNO0IS2            10.000.00
Total S2                                                                                12.000.00
TI
3/3193        Zholabor Bigade         lbor               (Ausai CoPMOJ:Tl    f        10,000.00
Tools              [AnsaiCoP4091r       /        6.000.00
11,19/93      MengE nepis             Labor              [Ansai CoPMOyTI              32.0O0.00
12125193       Li LaborBriSade        labor Fwal payment  (Ansai CoPMO]TI              10,000.00
ToTalTI                                                                                 58.000.00
T2
6-17(93      Zbou Laborbrigade       labor              [Aasai CoPMOr0YT2            50.000.00
617/93       U laborBrigab           lbor               [Ansai CoPMOJIT2             12000.00
12/9193       AshokbuldozerwCompany   BuUdr              (Ansai CoPMOyI2              40,000.00
1225/93        Li LaborBrigade         labor final Payment  [Ans CoPM0fl]r2            18,000.00
Total T2                                                                               120,000.00
T3
617/93       LilaborBrigade          labor              (Ansai CoP\OI/T3            30.000.00
12/2593        Li Labor Brigade       labor fnal payment   AnsaiCoPMOIf3               10.000.00
Total T3                                                                                40,000.00
Transacdons -Other
1/1/93       OpeningBalmce                              [UiagouSWj          4            0.00
Toad Transactions - Other                                                                    0.00
Overall Total                                                                        656,500.00



-140-                                  ARM=
Deaied Expedus By Job - Yam
111/93 Tbrougb 12/31/93
Date   Num         Description              Memo             Category        J      Amount
Al
4/30(93       Sao so Nuteries         Pine sedlins       [Asai CoPMOI/AI              15,000.00
4130193       White Coud labor ang   labor               [Ara CoPMOIAl-               10,000.00
12/30193       Busy Be Treenterptize   labw               (Ama CoPMOI/Al               15,000.00
Total Al                                                                                40,000.00
4/10/93       Maonurseries            Pine seelins       (Ausmi CoPMOjIA2             10,000.00
430           White Clou Labor Gang   Lar                (Ansa CoPMOIA'2              10,000.00
12/30193       BusyBeeTreEnerprize   labor                [Ausai CoPMOJIA2            45,000.00
Total A2                                                                                65,000.00
A3
4/30/93       Sao sao Numnes          Poplar sdlinp      [Asnai CoPMO)1A3             10,000.00
4/3093        White Cloud Labor Gang   labor             [Ansai CoPMO]I/A3            11,000.00
12/30/93       BusyBeeTrEnErpa         labor              (Aai CoPMO]/A3              25,000.00
Total A3                                                                                46,000.00
2I
7/30/93        iji sao Eaneizs        Lucerneseed        [Ansai CoPMOJ/Gl              6,000.00
Total GI                                                                                 6,000.00
7/30/93       Jiji so Enterprizes     Astalus seed       (Ansai CoPMOJ/02              5,000.00
12/1/93       LegumeSeedenterprize    Gumssseeds         [Ansi CoPMO]/02             30,000.00
Total G2                                                                               35,000.00
7130/93       Jiji saoo Eaeprizs      Jtji sao seed      [Asi CoPMO]/03                7,500.00
Total 03                                                                                7,500.00
21
9/10/93       Li'sOrcbads             Apple seeding      [Ansai CoPMOyIOt             80,000.00
10/12W93       Sao Sao Nurseries       Apple Seedlings   [Ansai CoPMOI/Ol             36,000.00
Total 01                                                                               116,000.00



Map 1
Lijiagou Sub-Watershed -- Ansai County                                                        Legend
Existing  Land.e .                                                   Watershed Boundary
. _.-  -Main drainage
A || .Secondary Drainoge
Exisiing Landuse
Naturol Grassland
DDry Hillside
Tree Plantation
Agriculture
Orchards
Housing
DMissing
Units
o      2       4



Map 2
Priority sites for orchard development in Sijia Gou Basin
Observation Position:
Azimuth: 180 degrees (North facing)
Angle above suface: 30 degrees                South facing slopes between 8 and 25 degmes
Vertical exaggeration 1.5
twat*9Fgy



Map 3
Lijiagou Sub-Watershed -- Ansai County                                                        Legend
Generalized Landuse Master Plan (For Modified Areas Only)    Q  Watershed Boundary
Main droinoge
..-   Secondary Droinage
A    Key Oams
* Warping Dams
Planned Landuse
IIOrchards and Economnic Trees
Forest PloAatiton
Aqr. (TerrOeC4)
Agr. (Noa.-Teroced)
* Grassland Dov.Iopment
LINo choog., ptonnqd
Units
0      2       4



Table 10
Landuse Charactedstic In Slia Gou Basin (Area in Hectaes)
Planned Landuse
Tree      SoU    Wetland Terraced   Planted       flat    Land for Orchards Orchards  Orihards  Crtivaftd  Ecanomic   Total
Plantation   Cliff            Fields     Grass     Fields   Housing  (hillsidel (flat land) tterraced?   Grass  Tree pi.    Plan
Natural Grass     335.5      1.3                13.6      36.5       0.6                                     18.1       _         62.6     467.1
Dryl-lil de   .    3.2       0.6                64.2                129.7      1.3       3.2                           0.8                 192.8
Ttee Plantation   62.6                                              0.6                                                                     63.2
SoUCIIIf       -            69.7                                               5.2   -                                  -                   74.9
Cat Watand ;8                                 8.4                                                                                                   8.4
Lndas=  Terraced Fields .                                 .2    _                                _                                                   5.2
PtansedGras ,!,j    1.3                         1.9       2.6                                       -       - - =                           6.8
flat Fieds .       0.6                                             202.6                           0.6                                     203.8
Land lH Houshn     0.6                                               1.3       49                                                           60.9
0rotardafhsliideil    3.9                                                                3.9                                                7.8
Orchrds iletw lap4i)                                                 0.6      4o6                  31                                       32.2
Orchards (teutacer)    -                                                                                     1.9                             1.9
rotalCurvent t    407.7    71.6       8.4      74.8       38.1     335.4    6t.1         7.1      31.8       20        0.6       62.6      1114
Current Landuse - Proportion of total area                                      Planned Landuse - Proporion of total area
Orchards
Orcjwds       fb  a)             #s Zchards
IHillsIdel                 Orchardsds  ttta
\   / ITettat                     IthtbndS       \ C - bated   ~~~~~~Economi
Land for \                                                   Orchards                     Tfee Pbntbn
Flat Fields
Planted                                                                     Land for~,                                                  re
Glasssln                                                               Housing 
Natural       Hbg                                                       Patation
Grass
Terraced Fields ....1
Welland                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~flat fields                          .
4ftWo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ercdfieds



Map 4
Lijiagou Sub-Watershed -- Ansai County                                                                     Legend
TrtPlantations in Year I
Planned  Phasing  of Plantation  Establishment Activities                                               Tree Plantations in Year 2
Tree plantations in Yeer3
Tree Plantatione in Year 4
Tree Plantaion, In Yeer 5
W|oteshed boundary Ine
a- Min drainage channebe
.Sceondary or Intermtnt dralnage
*   Key cam
\  Warping Dame
Units                 p
0        2        4



Lijiagou Sub-Watershed -- Ansai County                                             Legend
Plantation Establishment Planned for Year 1                                     1"  i Yew I
l~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ... S°ot" t V°A4 e"
ti'2(||.......................^Yl
U~~nt
0         2 cqaa
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ War j g Oem\
k                                                                                 1g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0



Lijiagou Sub-Watershed -- Ansai County                                                           Legend
a   Esttoshad firt ftr.
Actual Plantations Established  in  Year 1                                       EItabflshod Sccond
£utoblished TtJrd Qtr.
Wa/eshd boundary Ioe.
ma- in drin.g. 4s5aane
Seco.dary or intmitent draina
A  Koq oam
/ . ,, ... ; . ..........- -''--\
6s* W........a*--  .C \
|3j1>~~~~~~~~~~~2 9                            107
l9f ll  Unots
UnitsP
0       2       4



- 148 -
Table 1:
COST ESTIMATES AND EXPENDITURE SCEEDULE
Project Cost Summary
lOOo                         UIssOOO           Fo       Baseoost
Local    For4p    Total      Local   Fomp    To*   Exchaq¢   %
Lnd dewlopment          63689.69   9240.31    2930.00  7320.65  106411  8376    13.00    54.00
Co4 uonsonh_g            268938    30861    2997.99   309.12    35.47    344.60    10.00     2.00
Forest d     _velopromit  3602323   5027.17  41050.40  4140.60   57.84   471844    12.00    31.00
Grass ant livestock       750.00    S50.00    1300.00    86.21    63.22    149.4    42.00    1.00
Suppserce                680920   2263.00    907220    8267   260.11   1042.78    25.00      7.00
stuondevelo              37f6400   3376.00    7140.00   432.64   388.0S    820.69    47.00   5.00
Total Baseline Cost    11325.49  20765.10  134490.9  13071.90  2386.79  IS469    15.00   100.00
Wefn
Land developme          32426.24   16255   3405479   3727.15   187.19   3914.34     5.00   SO.
Covservanonenpn$         U1993.60    386.12    2379.72   229.15    4438    273     16.0      3.00
Forest developat        21952.10   1877.95   238.06   2 3    215.86   2739.09       8.00    35.00
Gass and liveock          427.01    197.95    6a96      49.8    22.75     71.83    32.00     1.00
Supportseno              363840    963.40    4601.80    418.21   110.74    528.94    21.00   7.00
Instionde                1650.00   1595.00    3245.00    189.66   183.33    372.99    49.00  5.00
Total  aseieCt          6207.35   6s48s9    636.33   1136.4   764.25   7900.73    10.00   100.00
HBP
Latd development        81448.14   3902.85   85350.99   9361.86   448.60   9810.46  5.00    52.oo
..   comezvauonenp       2024.07   136446    33853    2325   156.83    38.49    40.00        2.00
-Forest developmet      52329.00   1722.95   54051.95   6014.83   198.04   6212.87  3.00    33.00
Grass sandlivestock      2594.40    79810   3392.50   29821    91.74    38994    2A00        2.00
Support servie           694.20   2311.00    9258S.20    785    265.63   1064.16    25.00    6.00
-nst[ttondeveopm         37,64.00   3376.00    7140.00    432.64   38805    820.0    47.00    .O0
TotalBasi Cost         149106.81  13475.36  62.17  17138.71  15489   18687.61       8o.   100.00
sAda4 PMt-Mce
SUpposevice              7949.90   130890    9258.80   913.78   150.45   1064.23    14.00    80.00
Insnxtiondevelopment     1563.00   682.00    2245.00    179.66    739    258.0S    30.00    20.00
Total Baseln Cost        9512.90   1990.90   11503.80   1093.44   22.84   1322.28    17.00   100.00
Tentu Mongolia
Land deveopment         95566.40  13987.60  109554.00  10984.64  1607I.77  1259.41    13.00    31.00
Consevadon erg          52736.07   1439.40   54175.47   6061.62   165.45    2.06    3.0    15.00
Forest deeopmen         78161.87   70.29   85942.16  8984.12   894.29   987.41      9.00    24.00
nss andlvestock        49796.18   349655   5329272   523.70   401.90   6125.60     7.00    15.00
Supportsvice            237g3.0  13420.60   37214.40   2734.92  160   4277.52    36.00    10.00
Instiionde4elop5 15                868.0S   18116.61   1982.59    99.78   208237    5.00     5.00
Total     Cost          173-8  40992.48  35M9535  364I759  4711.718  41183.37    11.00   100.00
Land deveopment         34463.65   362637   380.02   3961.34   416.82   4378.16     9.52    39.87
Co ntseovv               2278.93    907.73   3186.66   261.9S   10434    36628    28.49      3.34
Ford pme¢               282.04   346P.55   31671.59  3241.61   398.80   3640.41    10.96    33.15
rassn        o           197S.43   231.55    220698    227.06    26.62    2S3.68    10.49    2.31
Processing               1I6.      714.48    1891.20    135.26    812    217.38    37.78     198
Suppor sevice            492.74   4317.00   9245.74  S-52   496.21   1062.73    46.69       9.68
Insuon d                 5246.47  398873    9235.20   603.04   458.47   1061.52    43.9      9.67
TotalBasl ie 7C9221-99  17255.40   95527.39  S8.78  198338  10980.16    1806   100.00
Yanhe
Land de-velopment      15520.44   3491.66  129012.11  14427.64   401.34  148298     3.00    45.00
*:.  ConLsea at o     n       20Mg.00      0.00   208BO.00  24CO.00    0.00   2400.00     0.00    tOO0
59 Foestdevelopment     70273.27   3812.40  7-4085.67  8077.39   438.21   8515.59   5.00    26.00
-Z< Grass and liestock  o1630.90   7827.75   24058.65   1865.62   899.74   2765.36    33.00  8.00
Support serice          1964.78   3418.24   23063.02  2258.02   392.90   2650.92    15.00    8.00
Insduion devlopmen    12440.60   5865.80   18306.40   142995   674.23   2104.18    32.00     6.00
Total Baseie Cast      26498999  24415.85  289405.85  30458.62  2806.42  33265.04   8.00   100.00
ialavan
Land develomet         1,3169.85  22435.10  195604.95  19904.58  2578.-75  22483.33    11.47    46.87
Conse non      e        1792.6   1513.60   17306.56  1815.28   173.93  1989.26      8. 5     4.15
Forest development     11356246  I -19.S  131282.01  13053.16  2036.73  15089.89    13.50    31.46
Gnassnd vestock         169.76   6300.35S 1S998.11   1459.51   724.1S   2183.C9    33.16     4.S
Procsng                 13546.11   4959.24   18505.35   I55-.02   S70.3   2127.05    2680    443
Supportsmue             18036.63   5469.03   23505.65   2073.18   628.62   2701.0    23.27   5.63
bIwn  on developmaen     9233.02   2882.00  11115.02   1061.27   33126   13923    23.79      2.90
Total Baseine Cost     356038.g8  6127817  41.31,7.65  40924.00  7043.55  4,7.55    14.68   100.00
Center Project otEce     30000.00      0.00   30000.00   3448.28   0.00   3448.28
Totl
Land dev:lopment       606284.41  5312.44  664596.85  6968.86  6o02.58  -76390.44   8.77    42.39
Consesnoneng:-esI..    98395.00   591993  104314.93  1130.7.7   60.45  11990.22     5.68     6.65
Forest-daopaint        400503.98  41409.85  441913.83  4d034.94   75.25  50794.09   9.37    28.19
Gass and livestock      84,1.67  19402.25  103S73.93   9709.39  23Q0.14  11939.3    18.68    6.63
Processutg              14722.83   56-3.72   20396.55   1692.28   652.15   2344.43    r.82   130
Support servce         121-748.65  33471.16  155219.81  13994.10  347V.26  1-841.36    21.56  9.90
tnsutuion development    54900.65  22633.58   7754313   6311.45  601.56   8913.0£    29.19   4.95
Lotal Baselne Cost    131036.19 I8682.93 1567859.13 158739.79 21473.90 180213.69    11.92   100.00
Pi-stysiconungency     675,51C.8  341.15   -659.°26   -o4.8  1073.69   888.27    12.15      4.90
Price contngenrcy      ,073. 11  14671.38  519,44.49  S054.38  1686.37  Sr940.75    2.52    33.15
Total Projuct Costs   195361.l ?12I05.4O   2164490.57 22458.7-5 24233.96 :48'92.7t  9.74   1338.05



- 149 -                                                  6
Table 2:
Summary Account By Year
Totals Including Contingencies
yuan1ooo
1994      19        1996      1997      1998      1999     2000       2001      ToWa
Lx _ _toe cash
A. aCh wars
Earth Works                124498.16 136903.61 148686.06 1S317375 152253.02 152868.53 151554.09 144334.16 1163651.38
Structure and uilding       44210.37  14202.30    760.97    169.03    745.78    3205s    408.67       0.00   60907.69
LandCosts                    7395.25   129021   1394.73   1491.63   1588.06   1690.13   179.34   1903.12   18549.48
SOeaM0l1 citsA W.g             176103.79 152486I12 150221.76 154834.42 154586.87 15487921 153759.11 146237.28 1243108ss
S. Equpma
Veaicdes                    22908.49   2794.61      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   25703.11
OotnzdnonlAgricultue        21037.24  11084.94   8720.53   9608.92   4003.01   3030.0   3350.67   3720.02   64565.33
Technical Equipment         18616.61   47S6.02   131O85   1344.49   1670.47   1534.90   1475.50   1543.34   32252.17
Satea*quwipma                   62562.35  18635.67  10031.38  10953.41   567348   4584.90   4826.17   5263.35  12251061
C.Maaa
Conutuclon Material         49395.33  41211.75  52362.84  43088.95  35584.40  3109859  31395.67  29109.04  313246.58.
Seed and Seedling           16700.12  18807.97  21072.10  22365.49  22968.98  23052.97  22463.00  21507.86  168938.19
Agricuture Suppoft Mateial  18232.63  13242.41  13968.07  14016.39  14322.06  13958.41  13424.01  12163.26  113327.24
Srbridt Mitd                    84328.09  73261.83  87403.00  79470.83  72875.44  68109.7  672sz68  62780.16  59512.01
D. Timnig
StafTraining                 1969.03   2430.85   2063.97   2102.52   1506.92   1151.97     77.57     62.21   11365.04
FarnnwTfaing                 1243.43   1366.93   1449.90   1557.98   1652.51   1758.30     81.73     75.81    9176.60
Techn"caTours                3142.73   3024.57   2889.36   2071.82   1466.51    790.58      0.00      0.00   1338557
SubWAa T HriS                    S655.19   U812.35   6403.22   5732.32   4625.94   3700.85    159.30    138.02   3392721
E. Tebd     s    e
LocalConsultants             416125    876.87    910.38   1090.13   1175.65   1120.00   1012.31   1050.49   11397.07
Design.Moitor and Evaluaion    MO.50   5004.7   4791.58   3708.45   3218.69   2964.08   2886.41   2188.93   32513.11
Sabi" T.echn"al Auiuse.         11931.76   5681.34   5701.95   4798.58   4394.34   4084.09   3878.72   3239.42   43910.18
P. Oeveiopmki u
ReserthTechnicaledension     5898.88   4839.26   4119.45   4414.12   4518.49   3237.58   2693.61   2621.55   32342.95
Production Oeveonment Funds    6272.98   6755.66   7287.83   7747.46   8250.15   7601.00   8062.90   8667.39   60645.37
Subras Dewiam.de Funds          12171.87  11594.92  1140728  12161.57  12768.64  10838.58  10756.52  11288.94   92988.32
T*zwesbnoa_ Cast                  353453.03 268672.14 271168.59 267951.13 254924.71 24617760 240662.51 228947.17 2131958.88
a. Reerarceots                         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       000
A Saliesand Wages                1839.63   201396   2184.71   2350.41   2511.13   2674.35   2841.29   3011.77   19427.26
B. PeAnrent andMinee             186.31   1258.63   1365.35   148Z99   1584.39   1719.43   1826.76   2008.57   13112.44
TOW Reerri Cas                      305.94   3272.59   3550.06   3833.40   4095.52   4393.79   4668.05   5020.34   32539.70
TdIPROJEC COStS                    .357158.98 271944.73 274718.85 271784.53 259020.23 250571.38 245330.56  233987.51 2164496.57



-150 -
Table 2 cont.
Summeoy Account By Year
Totals Including Contingencies
usSlOOO
1994     1995      1998     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001     Total
A. civU Wals
EadhWorks                  14310.13  15736.05  17019.09  1760.18  17500.35  17571.10  17420.01  16590.13  133753.03
Stucture and Building       5081.65   1642.79   87.47     19.43    85.72     36.84     46.97     0.00    7000.88
Land Costs                  850.03    148.30    160.31    171.45    182.54    19427    206.48    218.75    2132.12
Sub& Clawn Weds               20241.81  17527.14  17266.87  17797.06  17768.61  1780221  17673.46  16808.88  142886.04
IL Eqd"R"l_
Vechides                    2633.16    321.22     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    2954.38
ConstuctionlAgricukure      2418.07   1274.13   1002.36   1104.47    460.12    348.28    385.13    427.59    7420.15
Technical Equipment         2139.84    546.67    15067    154.54    192.01    176.43    169.60    177.39    3707.15
SabIoIaiEqulp_.                7191.07   2142.02   1153.03   1259.01    652.12    524.70    554.73    604.98   14081.68
C.
Construcion Material        5677.62   4736.98   6018.72   4952.75   4090.16   3574.55   3608.70   3345.87   36005.35
Sed  and Seedling           1919.55   2161.80   2422.08   2570.75   2640.11   2649.77   2581.9S   2472.17   19418.18
Agriculture Suppot Material  2095.71   1522.12   1605.52   1611.08   1646.21   1604A2   1542.99   1398.08   13026.12
Suwbb.EaIta                    9692.88   8420.90  10046.32   9134.58   8376.49   7828.73   7733.64   7216.11   68449.66
StafTraining                 226.33    279A1    23724    241.67    173.21    132.41     8.92      7.15    1306.33
Fanner Traing                142.92    155.97    166.66    179.08    189.94    202.10   9.39      8.71    1054.78
Technical Tours              361.23    347.65    332.11    238.14    168.56  90.87      0.00      0.00    1538.57
Subll TraWnq                    730.48    783.03    736.00    658.89    531.72    425.39   18.31    15.86    3899.68
E.T.dl  ASaI
LocalConsultants            478.31    100.79    104.64    125.30    135.13    128.74   .116.36    120.75    1310.01
Design,Monttorand Evaluation  893.16    57523    550.76    42626    369.96    340.70    329.47    251.60    3737.14
S* b*  T*ehmniwt Asu1nc        1371.47    676.02    655.40    551.56    5S0I5O    469.44    445.83    372.35    5047.15
F. DewsIoped F_nd
Feserch Technical edension  678.03    556.24    473.50    507.37    519.37    372.14    309.61    301.33    3717.58
Producton Deveklment Funds   721.03    776.51    837.68    890.51    94829    873.68    926.77    996.25    6970.73
Subaih Oevoiapnmed Fuds        1399.07   1332.75   1311.16   139788   1467.66   1245.81   1236.38   1297.58   10688.31
TOWa hrdSbnw.C.s                  40626.79  30381.85  31168.80  30798.98  29301.69  2629628  27662.36  26315.77  245052.51
IL. R.emee Cost
A. Salaries and Wages           211:45    231.49    251.12    270.16    288.64    307.40    32859    346.18    2233.02
S. Recurrent and Mantaloce      214.52    144.67    156.94    170.46    18211    197.64    209.97    230.87    1507.18
Toa beFxntmd Coa                   425.97    376.16    408.05    440.62    470.75    505.03    536.56    577.05    3740.20
Teb PROJECT COSTS                   41052.76  31258.01  31576.86  31239.60  29772.44  28801.31  28198.92  26892.82  248792.71



Table 3:
Component t% vear
Totals including contingencv                                      sSTooo
LWi dovndWp1e                         15"         12.L47    1500.5      105.98      11214       1118        14 0.It     II'wS
s~~~~~~cmak Cnuef                        645         I712        72X        I"?          SL76        35           cm          0.F         2S
Fe 2S.t ow mad 7    S2S.70           67              4      OA7         I=          7sa    S 41.32          S9t.24       "I"U
Sdw     ,e6 vgtc          icWs       578O         ItsL       19a          30A.5      rsU         3n           .-.#       tS S-
bdoadm d*_%P             2@J.1:      I"          llSS        IOQZ        1ES         1tS l       t iV-$     ili-go       108.23
TotaW                   30t.3       2671.00     2475.04     2731.29     2444.48     1466       2472S4      260.9        212t.62
WW*G                  am~~~.0     0.0         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.0         0.0         0.00         0.0
Land devdpo.             644s8       734.11       8a.2       183.0       1140        7S4.98      733.1*      734.17      5839.8
Causdav  oo        w      773         85.3        9S18       99.75         0.00        0.o 0      0O           0.00       3M.
Forwitd.spMen_           S.tl29      479*7       47A4        505. 1      474.5       04.0       430.S4       94.         379.94
on" andl otock            tt.0e       12          138         13.7        10.49       12.08       11.0       12.31         9.0
soppnrt &   .            17W25       1s1l         15.2       82.81        82.9   2 L42           3445        36.57        6S4.62
1nsxzm1ao d     _Pa      134.2        4.2         4.3         44.01       4845        49.48      50.7        S04S         4-3.81
Total                   1406        1472.8      1455.75     153.17      55L27       56L',      12403       1228.56      11244.47
IMPBLO                                    0.t        0.          0.00        0.00        00          0.00        0.00          0
Land 4.wlopao           14r2.74     1,7462      1u73)      ir*49         98.44      184s30      1S8S22     190M4        144849
Covaa                     40            78        49.        77.2        7_77        62.4S       41          48.42       £S3.4
Fare" d       _         1035.7      1s20.22     135U.2      1t8.0       125.0       1050.40     821.33       88.         S 44.
GrOs an  Vgad             55.2        fS9.81     64.         74.46       ?7871       441         47.S        72.48        535.48
Suppot sotIe,            414.s       2ZS         146.3       £45.71      144.9        3.6         .14        i9.31       13460.
-sodo 4d uo              2n5.        104.4       11.9         0se.25     1053.8      1s11.      117J.       1110         t04812
Total                   344.5       32r8.30     3412.27     357.,1    s1 0         S2r 1o      2942.41     29242        26813.32
SNAna Pro'M*                  0.0         0.0        0.00        0.0         0.00        0.          0.00        0.00          0.00
Suponr s*r.              354.73     s51*s        1046.9     U1.25        99.1        844         45.25       37.86       135.45
ro o daW#ma               78RS        34.79      r344        s523         37.46      39.73       42s          3.20        s43
TO-                      433.7      s548         144.0       148        1U57         1257        S7.9        764.        1701.5
lw 8a                         e           80         0.00        0.          0.00        0.00       L00          o00           0.0o
Lend d       _lspoom    320.77      257.4       sl33       24.17        194.89      1429.19    1.9         10o"         17142.32
Co"Osaton       a        f15-.26    144154      2431SS      15.04        804A2       154.1       19.70       52.52       s52027
Foram d"Oloplaf         1488.10     1629n.04    2LS3        1749.81     17.54       187435     2144.8      1920.09     1541L.36
Gns an vlIacd           1009         791.13     1048.46      94422      12.17    l10.s         149us9      136L84       s882.2
Suppor  ve Ie           2738.79      423S4      45.=27      3534        302.41      274.42      2129        215.49       5100.53
1uemin aV*               5743        44 7.86     213.3      23S54       252.7s      269.04      23 95       s0.42        2814.07
TO*                    1421.35      8030.14    S944.1      7554.42     451.21       5014.77    54049       404.24       54424.0
n                             0.0          0         8.00        0.00        GAo         0.00        0.0         0.00          0.00
Ldd d     _pmeu          6495        70.810      764.s0     89.13        176         9.06       980         43.24        4113
Cosvean_ a6o-ed           4.04        7259        74           e 82.43   87.23        9.146       0.00        0O          479.05
Foni dedveopu            7 4         5s55s       S.9A 5s5.4s             414.73      65.35       92.70      725.4S       5S4.
G*is and Svuodg                      A3.5        40.         43.56       444         49.0        52.9        5.76         361.89
?roess-s                  294s        31.81.      33.S       35.S8        31186       39.90      402         44.20        295.1s
Su n saftt               742.94       925        S.72        8822         80          S          210         23.9        1239.33
insdoal" deipmsnt        04.27        44s9        41        .ssas         57.s        64.48      4. 50        0.91       1.243.
Tota                    31205        54         164822      1708.09     17.4        10.44       1840.2     LU342        149.25
Yn.                           0.00        0.0        0.          0.00        0e.         0.00        0.0         0.00          0.00
Lan ddopu               2084s3      227942      2449.8      2653.       2033.08     Se-011      307.       2S7LM        21381.9
Co Uosevo        n .aoa   24.8s      24953       45.24      4sL.77      513.23      54S.5       579.23      6139         3657.4
Fort 4eo pm             15718       128i12      1391.64     1494A.      1594.30     16972       1451.02    L534.54      12021.60
Gra  ad UOve*            397.47      420         454.31     48314       5s1.37      5405        445.99      469.4        37r..47
Support eneS 1S9 S                   23422       244.39      2445        2s2         205         49.37       39.42       32r.42
hrndedo dv p            175443        08A4        88s         93A4       102.18      107*2       11322      139.38       2489A.4
TOl                     799u4       4565.3      50 9        54.s        5s80.      4109.47       1.       5r77.         464574
Salulla                       0.00        0.00       0.00              0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00 eo0
Lad delOPuet            3374.57     3748J8      3925*       4149.03     SS96.*      4137       427L2-      4133.20      S118.S5
Coeadon eo*ee_ b         296.19      3145        313.38     332          3545        3814      404.12      4r7.72       2833.O
Forsa  d_vbpuoo         29394.2     2373.3      249.7       28929       171.17    z25.4l       2569.4      2U345        2089.0
Gras md listock          41±26       43.54       406.        S32         364.72      3250       294.9       2r.127       2848.23
Processn                 513.01      384.8        1.15       24S.18      303.48      33337       448.6      580.30       2"91.05
SU<pno s*rvIc           1170.54      433.7       358        S429        r2.41        2.30        15.18       120.25      3392.05
I      n d"eelpment      743.59      23          1146        L25.S       14.04       142.77     Ls1.69      164.79       1800.92
Toad                    9549.68     8127.50     78L2.       818342      8133.2      839.4      S3154       789.1S       64436.74
Contr proJ    of&e         1224.85     1187        264.0       2780.e      23941       122.26      1.09        127.63       34482
Tota                          00          0.8        0.0         0.00        0.00        GA0         0.0         0.00          0.00
Lad  deelopmnt         13029.81    13634.32    14439A4    14448.76    1345.7       13429.03    1340391    1267L04      108502.4
Coneradon .      dn     2341.53     25230       3s06.       2720.1      1925.86     132447      13092       I12.64      1M45U.M3
Foesdepme               915522       0484s      844.48      9.229       93322       9409       0971.69     8501.15      71305.02
Gns and Uvestok           3.56      1787.04     20452        90.644     224L51      2031.      2402.9l     2214.97      4645.19
Prlce                    542.4       418.0       25.1        204         341.4       373.S       40          544.s9      3246.2
Sup"n  e.               9352.31    _26A.4t*    18e9s 0        854       1421U4      138.70       848.40      19194      21154.44
idus devepwft    4"9. 1a19.S                     778.31      t89         8420        8.94        950.79     1002.=3     1128
Toa                    41052.76    312581    31576.8       312394    2D724         288811    2it3          Ut#:X       24*792.



- 152 -                                                  ANNEX 6-
Table 3 cont.
Componnet by year
Totals including conrtigency                                     W&Nooo
. -.            ,    i                                                                                                                 o
>' Lt4 d_Vopmo                             124344    1tA2    13053.74    1t08.             11200       11542      1223        129 ..79    I10L8.1
C      4eaaO" .S.ain,    5 0          19.55      428.0       448         7544        144            0          .0        3W987.13
Form d"o_opownt         7:218S.    5444.27      7212.67     77.5        6005%       690.        73*.47     7 0tM   575n84
Gatl a" Uawaot           140.73   '  1497        15t9J.0     t4.6        264A        280.0      2342        310.9        1771.15
S    t ns"c             348602      2009*20     1234        1231.12     124481      1102        4S          473.4       117002
usdmfdaaitu             246355       9252        97iS        872 912207              972.73     12432       970.0S       911VA4
Tota                   244374    2274733    232728  t '.9    23524.3    226.9    215.09    226.24                      1S45A.4
Laud 4lm                5I4 364                 4425.7      4819S.4     4197.08      579                    38          5007.79
cons41atlo    1 e fa      4a58       742.79      8S029       647.82        0m0         00 o.00                 .0        30L4S
Fbmst d      _wlopment  4830."      4U4794      4173.      4399.71      4149.43     4130.74    314U4S       s435.s       30338
Grs  in4veutock            945       104.28      1.4S        128.8        91.26       9441      10L70       10.11,        835L94
S9pportlt               2524.47,    100437       747.46     71-..4       724         62135      30L4        316.1?       54i.
lgdwoa dv               118.4        40133       403.11      4003        423.        430.49     434         4403         41711
Totd                   1394IJ9    1 .A4    12048.00    1332430    15tt20           11.27    109'44*    10648.48         97162
Lamd d      _"Wposmaut  1411S. S    5143.40    14324.5    16347.19     120a8    3604          15774.7    157928        127615.87
Coaavullo .ugbmub        405.3      5074        0314       470.9S      459.18      5430        S.41       9522         4442.43
Foresadopmant           9044.28     95f135       702.4?    120J3        0747.2      9186,4     114.5       59A.         753t959.
Grs and UVagodt          483.5       5          558lS       645.19      44.75       557A4       59.9        421.86       444042
SWpo srl                3609.5      1t853       1173346     224.4       I:771       1tt t41      576        48937   t 0.
1Tdon doawkwat          2464355      927.69     940         672.21       9220       9273       102432       970.05       91l862
TOW                    30167.22    285".50    31424.77    3182.09    3158.         2849.41    257779      25479        233r5.85
SHAProvb
Sop9emser4c*            Umt306      443.24      927.3      1020.04      84.         755.5       3.5         329.34      1151157
sdmd   dwdm4    o        484.70      301.45      32593      30454        S3.2       345A 2  358 332.31                   299L49
Total                   57.89       49.88       123.0      1326.        2186.15     1101.12       9.        641.47      14803.0.5
Land  _Vow .oi         278         24859.69    r325.57    28178.       147SX 6294    1233393   9770.92     SS932       149138.16
Cmovdtsc .uaa.l    13435.1    144553t9    21153.00    13324            699.45       13U 1       69.42       454.89      72 .34
Fors        d dvpod    1295t.69    14172.4    132.09       D9t738    15464.56    16324.27    t1834.2      1674.77      1235SL65
Gras ad  a              8734       688& 7 9  $2.64  9124   0846    10589.34          79.44    1301.12    114            7734.6
S5or mrs               24242.41     3481.20    39434t      3875.76     2630.95     23m8        216         2205.37      44374.S5
hsdwdo. d.es_a          4973.22     56209       1897.71    2050.16     219.31      2S3         2519.12     249193       244.4
TOW                    924074    4982S        7 6443      6572.42    52445        436         4761.04    42666.87      4986t97
Jlal
Lud dslp.a              544S.48     6157.       464958      14          59.3       6053        65124       3740.50      53551.33
Coasadon .ngaft          58325       43LS       6751        7t174-.   754.94        817S          0.6         00         416-.73
Form davalou            6355.70     4829.43    5193949     SO942       534.1S         4t1    402648        43L42        444222
Ggas gd lvestock         3OL.31   . 3 2         3534        378         40L74       428         46049       493.77       3148.43
Proceasa                 257.92      27I.71     294.5       s32.0        W23        347.16      36.58       364.53       256.2
Supporterslm            47Z         S61.        7S4.48      74-41       714.22      715tS       1S63        208.4       1078214
1=9=ton d.wlmea         734245        6          41.        4444         49m s6.63         s     5a   s     703.94      1990.12
Tol                    27147.03    13410       1433941    14860.38    142.3    1460S42         41S.0      12*4.60,    130049.79
Yabe
Lad d     _eoa         18382       19631.     21484.0     23089.26    24647.82    26231.48    2474527    25854.47       84023.06
Conevotlso.o      fe    136u0      2179        3921-*2    411.S        446509      4747.14     503.        5$41.45      31623.17
Forea  d opma          1374.64         922    12t172s    138OL72    1378           14752.74    121I    13346L          104567.95
CGras    Nomack         3457g9    3701.t2      552.54      42013       444832      44a9        $s880       4085.90      3242.S
Sopp*rt nrs            17031.34     2055.0     22L25       21217.7     218          285         425S.5      342.9       260178.
l     oan devalpm      1?5270        769.19     746.94      6149        S6W.        938.04      9.2        1212.62      214.
Total                  69s5        397809    4355.09    474185s   SOL120           531M52l4    4970.14   s5zo5.4       404599
UK.-
LdDdalpm*t             2935873    31 26o03    34155.      34994.7    344048 S3555"            37762402    s5958.S    2r5954.03
Caqa.vats a o           257.6       2753.55    2726.31     292023      3118.5      3314.79     5515.82     31.19        24452.30
ret daa _oput          25574.72    2M644.77   2164802    22558    2560448    24930.4    2257.42    20405.2             181740.00
GOr   and Nvea&*        3SS75       315.78     3534.20     3413.22     319040      2831A       25491t      103.21       2479.41
preo-bi                 446416      33451       1904A4     2U13.05      2640.2     2S54        3905.97     435431       25K74.10
SUPPe rca              2105373      510.3      312t.3      2977.03     237869      IS.17       152         204414       29510.8
lasdtu   d.w*mu         6"9         ts9. 965149  2014.71    1L.4        11466.32    l2423      131967      13965A       15469.2
Toal                   8308225    70709.26    68139.70    71l19.75    70759.5    7304s    72409    6s8s7.2             s77sss.67
Cmerpro e aoWe           1067360      932.30      252200      2349.0      208460      103.70      1070.9t     1110.40     30000.00
TOWI
Lad  4o_lpom          11US9S    118659   122624.72   12502    11647.91   116832.5   1161404   1102s380                 943s9n.42
Consaaoa mug,w.rb   2037232    223S445    3050.           2347L94    1675439    1s249          963L3      10114l.9     144730.7
Foms dopm              7965437    70023.21    75372.24    80239. 8  1190.30    82644          78053.72    73940.03     62031.70
GM" ad Uv"odt          1645    U15547M    127        2    17S35        1973.11    17428       269o0U4    192702        144917.15
Pr-easa                 472nU       3441.84     22814      244534      26947       323L72     42.5        4738.4       2824912
Supports               81345.1   .s)0Sc    14450A42    L553.42u      142054        214123     . 7331.0     4924.72     18401.6
1st1o  de *e% t    4 .22    11479.             6771.36     48727        7445        7603.3     82lt        s8720.7      96250
Tow                   357IS569    27194473   21471.65   2727*4.       250.        2507138   24533044       394741    21444657



- 153 -                                          A~~NNEX6
Table 4:
Suwnmary Account By Year
Base Cost(yuan'1000)
1994     1995       1998      1997    1t99        1999      2000     2001      Total
1. bta_ea Casts
A. Cwi WAs
EathWdo.s                112506.42  11260934  112341.43 108146.57 10089695   94910.47   864.00  79613.44  809521.52
Slucweandfuitding         39209.67  11198.00    s81.20    120.00    4955B      200.0     240.00     0.00   s2826.:3
Land Oas                   67525   1044.25   1044.25   10442s   1044.25    104425    104425   104425   14065.3
SrMa1I ChO  we"              158471.34  125633.59 113966.8  109310.82 10223266   96214.72  89925.25  80657.69  876412t.b
U. Equleada
Vechides                  21S1360   2493.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      o0oo     000   240063
ConstrudontAgrlulture     1937636   9736.77   7268.04   7642.46   2981.65    207.23   2173.60   2472.53   53727.70
Technica Equipment         17862.31   4561.04   1051.87   1016.66   1175.02    1030.02    920.02    90977   28316.71
I     E _. Equtm.am           58542.27  1679081   8319.91   8659.12   4156.67    3106.31    309362   3382.31  1060SI.Z
Consirucion Materdal      43443.26  31746.02  37373.49  29033.44  2264507   1s710.47   1783790  15687.91  216457.S3
Seed andSeedling           15123.00  1s539.39  1606913  1587225  15269.87  1440028   13216.85  11945.91  117436*a
Ag'ncultsreSuppoftrlMaw    1710125  12207.74  12458.04  12055.66  11884.31   11168.24   10352.75 9s s33   9632632
#        _Ab  MOG"            7566751  59493.14  6590066  56961.35  497992S   4427199   41407.50  36712.15  430220ss
D. Tgasinl
SllTraiing                  184460   2282.60   1801.70   161720   118S.10      7s.70      72.60     58.00    9042--3
FamerTraing                1129.50   1128.60   1113.60   1113.60   1106.70   1106.70      4800      4200    6788 I
TechnicalTours             2931.02   2674.92   240306   1611.10    985.40      494.80      0.00      000   11100.3
Snata  Ttabe                   5905.12  s59.22   5163.86   4289.80   3131.70   2349.10    10800        85.70   26931.*
CZ. Tatad  As
LoIcfaConunts              3774.38      6.50    695.30    7so    781.20    698.80    59450    S82.OD   8626.
Design.MorandW Baluation   734.90   4316.90   389490   2932.90   247190   2223s0   211090   1698.70   27036.0
Stabti Toeb_el  Asulds.       11159.28   5043.40   4590.20   3706.o   3254.10   2922.70   2705.40   2280.70   35662.*3
RSechTechniical estslon    5462.54   4278O   3400.00   3616.40   345510    2142.10   167§50   154600   25471 a
Producion Develm   Funds   S759.50   S779.50   S829.50   581950   5639.97    5139.97   5169.97   S279.97   446176
S*ubI v mdd lspm.d Fumds      11222.04  10053.30   9229.sC   9335.90   9295.07    7282.07   684?   6825.97   700893z
TOW lwoaSmed C"b                 320967.56 222912.46 207171.02 192263.78 17186945  156153.88  14408525 129944.52 1545S367.93
I. lurmwa CA"bl
A. Salaies and Wages           1668.60   1668.60   1668.60   166860   166S.O6    1668.60    166860   1668.60   1334a8o
E.Recurrentand Mantainc        1692.0    1042.80   1042.80   1052.60   15.       1072.80   1072.80   1112.60    914240
Tooel W lteuw.alCgds               3361.40   2711.40   2711.40   2721.40   2721.40   2741.40   2741.40   2781.40   22491.2C
TdtA VASELIE COSTS                32432196  22562386 20s98242 194985.18 174590.85  15689528  14682.8  132725.92 156765913
Physbial Conone               1568274   1081488   1037805   9631.78   8625.34   7891.63   7287.76   6580.78   7669296
Price Cotingedes              17147.22  35605.91  54458.25  6716758  75804.03   8378453   91216.11  94660.83  5197444G
TOW PROEscrcos"                   357158.98 271944.73 27471865 271784.53 25902023  250571.36  245330.56 23396751 216449657
Taxe                              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      o.         (Ioc
Foreign Excnge                67962.93  2956.54  23047.02  239.42  19186.24   17742.46  1689202  17008.80  21083545



- 154 -ANN 6
Table 4 cont,
Summayt yAcount By Year
Bass Cost(US$l90)
1994     1095       1996     1997      19N98     199        2000      2001      TOWl
L         _cu
EaithWvth                 12931.77  129A43.o  12912.81  12430,4  11573.69   109115   101866    9150.97   94.4
Stud"weIad uildtng         4506.68   137701      66.0      13.79     56.9      2299      279        00       0200
LaId Cb                     7747    120.03    120.3    120.03    12003    120.03         12003    120.03    16167
SudOCWG%*N1                  18210  14440.64  1309.64  1256446  1170.S   11059.16   1033824   9271.O  100737.12
Vedhkids                   247Z83    26.56        0.00      .a00      0ao.       00        0.00     0.00    2759.36
Cons     gdcuzlture        2227.17   1119.17     25.41    8t7a44    342.72    23865      249.84    264.20    617560
Teduchalp EqiAnt           209.00    52426    120.90    11(88    13(06        118.3      10t.75    104.S7    325479
SinMdi qpem                   6729.00   19S29.     96.31    995.30    477.78    357.05      3S5S9    386.77   12189.77
C. MIl
co-su3 _ 1oUazes           499348   3648.97   429580   333t78   2802A8    2150.         20M6033   1800.91   24680.18
Seed 'ndSe.dliag           173626   1786.14   1847.03   124.40   175.16    16520    1619.18   1373.09   1349847
AgiIuUM SupponMatll        1966    140319   1431.96   1385.71   1366.01    1263.71    1189.9   1045.79   11071.99
a"onaausmw                    8697.42    68.29   7574.79   654728   572405 5O-94    475948   4219.79   49450.64
0. Y _siA
StnT gt                     21202    262.7    207.09    185.89    13622        8721        834      6.67    1039.37
FamerTting                  129.8     129.72    128.00    128.00    12721     12721      S62        4a3      780.31
TecimialTam                 33B90    30746    27621        85.16    113.26     5587        000      0.00    127590
Sub$Ta64 7875    67W.S6    S.55    493.8                                a9.97    27001       1241     9.85    3095.57
E. Tedudd MdAe.
La    0 _ oanhult           433.84     8151      79.22    8Wm9       89.79     8Q32      68.33     66.0      991.S6
O-unMA*r and        6 E ato  848U4    49620    447.69    337.11    284.24    25562       242.63    19525    3107.59
SMd"TeSudAsAS                 128268    579.70    527.61    42(07    37403    33594         31Q97    262.15    4099.15
P. Omdemeat Pam&
ReaechT luasWn 627.                   49124    39Q0.    40.18    197.14    242           1tZ59    177.70    2927.75
PdueaonO DeveZokmm s    662.01        66.31    670.06    6891    67126        s90.80      9425   606.89    5128.49
.badal o.mIspuama Paid.  128.9    115(55    106      107O0    10640    837.02        786.84    78459    86624
Told     su    b                 36692.2  2582212  23612.76  22029   19755.11   17948.72   1561.52  14936.15  177626.50
A Sa    ad .NW                 191.79    191.79    191.79    191.79    191.79    191.79     191.79    191.79    1534.34
EL Recurrena    .tdnc          194.57    119.8     119*6    121.1    121.01      123.31     123.31    127.91    1050.85
ToldRenMtaiCO=                     36.3      31166    311.66   312.80    318         31.       31.10    319.70    25.20
TvowASEIN  coSTn                  3727919  25933.78  2412442  22412.09  2006791   163.63   1687663  1525.5  180213.69
PhyiaaI0O*mvd"es              180261    124309   119818   1107.10    991.42    907.08       837.67    756.41    6636.27
P dacCtg _n                  1970.4   4061.14   625957   7720.41   8713.11    9630.41   10484*1  10680.56   59740.74
T PRojcT 6coVs                    410S2.76  31258.01  31S76.86  31239.60  2977244  2811.31   26198.92  26692.82  248792.7
Taes                             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       000      0.00       0.00
Foaeign Exang                 7811.83   2963.51   2649.08   24821   2206.31   2039.37    1941.61   1955.03   24233.96



- 1S5-                                          ANIIE  6
Table 5:
Summuty Account lly Cumponant
Btusu C4s8yUsn'1000)
Land    Corseevatn   Forest     Grass and    Agrculture    Suppot     Insituion     Total       Plysical conlnge
Oevetomen  Engineeing D,velopment  Livestoct    Pcesing       Seafe    Development                %.   Amount
t. btn.m  C
Eh Works              474166.5   41784.84   248419.37     45449.6S     1701.00         0.00       0.00   S8962152   5.00  4047608
Srucwe and auilding       0.oo     7S676      4491.04      1650.00        O.M0     2569725    13941.38      S2M6.43   441   2326.82
Land Costs                0.00       0.00    13165.O         0.00         0.00       9O0.O0        0.00     14065.00   500    7a.25
S8btlts CNN W.           474166.66   42561.60   264075.41    47099.65      1701.00    234972S    13941.38    87331296   4.96  43353.15
O.quiprow
Veahtes                  0°00        0.00      7SSi0        600.00     4746.00     10577.00     7328.00     2400660   5.00   1200.33
CmsuudarAgcunr         3148225    86314       9861.09         0.00        OGD       87SO.00        0.00      3727.70   500   268639
Technka Equoipnat       3133.91    95227      1744.05      3528.00      600.00      S130.94     7542.75     28316.71   4.00   1131.0
S8&st tEqepme             3461616    4566.63    12360.74      4128.00      5346.00    24457.94    14870.76    10606102   4.73   5016.31
C. iuda
Constructon Matedal   118287.91   ss32509    14187.90     10243.41     13273.35      820.0O     4319.90    216457.56   soo   108M2.88
SeedandSeedlhg            0.00       0.00   10733253       94.16          0.00       320.00        0.00    117436.68   s.oo   6871.63
Agriultur  Support Mal    37526.14    1821.60    28639.37  21518.71      76.20      6744.30        0.00     96326.32   5.00   481632
SebIt    d               1s51404   57146.69   150159.80      41548.27     13349.55     7184.30     4319.90    42952056   s.oo  2147603
0. 1nhdag
StalfTraining             0.00       Q0.         0.00        0.00         0.00      7410.50        0.00      904250   4.10    37063
Farmer Trainng            0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      6786.70        0.00      6788.70   5.00    33.44
TochnkalTows              0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      983030         O.       11100.30   4.43    491.52
SubSoISTU.WuI                0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00     2402950         0.00     26931.50   4.48   120 48
E. T   _amioal_Asslstbs
LOcConsrtets              0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00      2899.20        0.00      2899.20   500     141.96
De*sn.Monord Ew           0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00     16517.38     5480.00     32763.38   a36    1099.87
SubIta T.dutod AslhtaMs      0.00       0OO        0.00         0.00        0.00     166920       2480.00     2993S20   3.20    91.46
F. D0s Feem
Reseach TeAnlcal ad       0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00     1951424      1560.00     25471.A4   4.14   1053.71
PRcducdlinOevpme          0.00       0OO    15317.88     11100.00        0.00      1180.00    16400.00     44617.88   5.00   223D.89
Sukabt Dwelepil ISM64        0.00       0OO    15317.88     11100.00        0.00     1914824    16400.00      6638332   4.67   309931
Told bwmdwei Cos            664S96.85  10431493   441913.83    183873.93     2039655    123699.81    s6572.03   1545367.93   490  7576840
v. PAWNS*"a Cost
A. Salanesand Wages          0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      1520.00    11828.80     13348.80   5.00    667.44
& amcffentand Mainaines      0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00     9142.40      9142.40   5.00    457.12
TOMd R.OAid                      0.00      0.00        0.00         0.00        0o.       1520.00    271.20       2249120   soo    1124.58.
Trodl AS oECS                664596.85  10414.93   441913.83    103873.93     203965S    125219.81    77543.23   1567859.13   4.90  76892.96
Physic Conungeies         33229.84    5215.75    22095.69     5193.70      1019.83     6260.99     3877.16     7689296   0.00      0.00
Pdie Coningendes         24614472   3520005   156344.17      35919.53     62s.s4      22s5o25    16730.22    519744.49   476  24749.74
raw PotJE  C0,S1S3           943971.42  144730.72   620353.70    144967.15    28241.92    154061.05    98150.61   2164496.57   470  101642.69
Tax"                         0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        000          0.00        0oo         000   0.00       0.00
Foreign Exchnge           66874.95    672448    47452.00     22485.32     619285      36417.5    24688.01    210835.4   4.76  10039.78



- 1S6 -                                                    ANNEX 6
Table 6
Project Components by Year - Base Cost
(Yuan '000)
Lad cd.wevpma               2146800     11460.00    10189.80     s951.80     3064.60    741040      7W1060        7410.60       7190.0
Coa~m-at4@u "W-iti            5*1.380     5*9.00      "18.D       46         sxw         48419         an0            Ua o           -P7 
Fot developm                 66"10 1 550              607,0      S607.6     S0                      440""0        440,.4,       4105.40
Qoao ad liv*rn   130.00 23QO                             .        15.0       1.0         191.00      295.00        195.00        15300.
s.poff wvio,                  r20o10     1417.0       91t7        P72        8474        711.10      39OO          397.00        9020
luztSieotoa 4Vh109           5305.00      735.00 753.00           M.          65.00      46.0        66.00         605.0         7140.00
Tctatb lu ot Cot            24 238.8    2S066.20    11,31.70    1732       U17417    1*91.39    I0O.             13012.00      134490.59
w.ifam
Ind devoIoprnt               4940.2S     494025      461QS9      410.90      595520      95Z2.,    J161           345544        340S4.7S
Caunorveuoo,gI8                1.00       S *          9.3        60.54        0.0         0o0         0.00          O0 Q379.72
Form dtv.Iorn                4393.93     314.55      31U.1s      S157       279740       615        2341          193521        5383.06
CGw ad liv'azo*               9114        91.14       91.14       91.14      6510      6.10          61.10 l4o.0                 G14.9
s    9pot Lm                 14118 o        6.0       1.8         516Sd      486.0       39S6.       110            8.Lo         4SOLs1
mosoauion cioJapbot          111.0        345.00      35.300      35.00      205.00      295.00      285.00        175.00        334.00
locaul981a. Cam             11=321      10ma        9414.35     92          7600        725        6397.34        5871          486.33
ElP
Lddd.loprt          l        M9.S6      11779    1171T0.9    11021.92    1119           9644.1      8955.31       8864          8350
Coos.n'Aoo  6o.u1             366.4       488.1       47246       499.01     46ss5       365.57     37.1            61so.        3a."
Form lopow                   817.8       795.6.4     8955.18     8172       7159.91     5647        M40.          5323.67       3405.5
*rass ad tUtv_        '       4455        442.0       441.30      419.58     47f.38      5675        573           " S             W39_.0
supportarice                 3343.10     15420        98z0        918.0      8.          7720       407.00         40t7.0        95S1O
loiadn 8.lop..w              2505.00      78S.00      775.00      66.00      66.0        66.00       65.00      . 6              7140.00
Tou iMulio Cot              27029.s    111L.0       1334414        21        66803    1758S.   1497.6            13954.8       15SL2.
support otaco.               282210      3 *           16.O       79.0       5O270       481.70        o0          8Lo0          925s80
tmdoidewlqmm                  440.00      2S5.00      5.00        150        21500       325         221.0          93.00         434.00
TOaW ialm. Coo               3472.70     574.30       971.70      97.7       807.70      t706.       4640          382.00       1103.00
Tawmoqoha
Lad d      _ul              24450       19918       1l00S.3    1a35          97724      7460.1      5    7        5117.05      109554.00
Corva  oa            n I12054.7    113721    134263              93173      4515         82937       597s9         247.4I        4175.47
Fontad  uopr                1r171.7     1176.54    11416    109.08    107816    01007.8            1194           914248        894416.
COre    dltaivoc             7861        56570       6917.511     946.69    7050.27     505.98      7144          6s2a.z        5392.72
Sqpo San                    =2110        31180      3120.0            5     8308  18.00  16400     144&00        139430        32Z14.40
sdoaia dmv_lop               4339.1      4 0         14490       1455A0      14610      14640       1479.40       149140        181661
TaId SWUM coo               1512.10        23       571S73    463152    3359.77    174             179698        14336.0       5s59535
fla
Lad dulop_.                  5133.32     515          155        515.5       51351      SI 2       5L51            16.T         38O9QQ
Co _eaoosksu*                 53L.11      51LII       53.l        3LII       53J1.1      52            0.00          0.00        31866
Faot dvlog                    7M7.79     3936        3972.16     365w1       35J.6      5.          35            3551.0        31671.59
Orn  ad livastok              2740        214.50      174.50     1t4.0       17.0        15          2             281.8        21
Procsing                      2U36.0     25640         "6.40     21640       3640        236A        26.0           3640         189LZO
Support rvi                  60614        694.0       614o        58.5       550         495.60      1m8o          15QCO          US4.74
nastiano dwelop                5.        320.0       520.0       5.         550   3      50.0       5.00         32900          913.0
Tad la    Cot               24862.46    11171       UO1 O.      107320      110    IO"0             970t4         47467         9312 ..39
Lad dwelopua2               16461A      1646140    16640    1461            1L40    1646140    L110              14452.        15901411
Cauwyrnos        aiq         17400       1740A0      239O        2590OO    2t0          2900.0      290oo         2WO.O         20080.0
Fotr e dawloput             13424.37     932S.2      95 S        93t.9       9si.2      9525        717.45        7517.A        7405.47
C a, ad tiwawui              3179.7      3179.87     2179.47     3.         3179.87    351.         1489.70       1419.7t3      240
Syor soric.                U5151.12     171130      163.50 4     52"       14755       190          155.0         190          23063.
badzaoadmlp                 L376A4         7.0         2.          20.       6.0         64.00       6480          t500         1806.40
TOW Slaing Cot               268215    530O         34U1 s    34007.5   3tltU          330a        29617.96      1817.07      238958
Lad d..lop_ot               26139   m1        5     2542        120O3    1353587.79    28.5        21.           203451        19560.9
Conservtonan4it              14.         21O032      11015Z      2U10.      210152       1f1 1      1 31          210.O31       17306.56
Forot devolopsta            23333.8     £79823       1 1741     1 .         161i7.65    13OU       15344.6       I66L90        U128101
araer  d live*               5930        5316.9      28631       5530       223.        l9tS.0      1647 S4S                    1899S.11
Proaalq                      4163.89     2S65.80     174         U25.75    1775.59      1834.9      1324.S        2446.O6       153
S e.-I -9 .fwMi              99467       4S.02       3490.16     220S6      13914       I198         900           38.00        23505.65
Xtingondevolopmes            S0         15           s.00       m7          7.00        775.00      770           7  .00       L1115.01o
TOad  a",*Coet               75704.0    39596.8      3103T47    58O4.      487J        46699.00    4355.64       390198        4131-. 6
CerPoctadim                   1673.0       9531.0      12100       249.50    21860        £0670       107890        1110.40       30000.00
Tad
Laddedop.o                 10170        95935       9451        89316.40    5*9J.60    73094u4    6895.9         6178.14       S596.S6
Conservation ec *           IS136.81    1756.7        521467    15U.94    t11033               118.5  503         5617.t1      103 14.93
Fort devtoptus                 w        58365.41    58097.58    57A.42    .W1S7    51000           46696.        4183S.03      441913.54
Gran ad livatcL-            15325       130117.76    3L881.    I:8.         1351.75    11t03       11746.13      11134.94      103873.93
Processin;                   4400.9      302.0       170404      175.15     20099       2071.30     25s88         2683.00       20396.55
Sppos "nice                 7493_.53    16934.8     1410.05    1204300    10344.0       7928.0      5024.90       458.70      1U5319.8I
bsdaon devel                37141        95J4.40     53040       2O6040      5066.40        .0      504.0         5M640         77543.21
Toad   Cli ot              32432Ca9Z    255.6   209182         194  5.1   17490.85   15185    146u645            312735.91    15459.13
PisicelOl tiy               13568274    10814       103715       9631.78 834            7891.63      187.76       6580.78       768S96
Pi. co _4arry               17247.22     SS0591    545          67167.3   .7 3         8745        9116.1        9440.83       519744.46
Tad Proje Com              2     .     271944.71   27471865   2714.55      83   2      51.    34533146          233967.51     2164965



Fund Rtaising In Ithe Projeci Area
PrhoX P1010.1        - _     _     lieu      Yn                                               UUI.       doe8
AVto   _  total lund eeibdl pevtneo p,I.& cownty collective ndllv idual wleld banh 1.awl lund eeld ban*  oultsa  PApvUe.&o   fc_ lleePtl  Indltmdtls iwodd bank
* *-;u..t p.ot n,.fo;   14J.i       1.62 ___,                     , _     7.18     1.71   0.00    0.88
Xinshul       185.05  10.65  35.50      12.50    0.0    14 .6    1 t2.34    21Z7   1.22    4.0        1.44   -        16;       t294
Woven          97.83   5.67  18.95       6.44    -         -25     59.92    1124   0.6    2.17        0,74            0.79       66'
ielobspten    233286  13.66  44.21      t6,45            1649    142.4.    26.61   1.57  _.0s         1.9    0.00    .90        16.37
-   *gb-total       530.096  30,0t  106.28    35 39     I      'WO    37.40    31.89    61.03   3.44    t2.1  40     o.0     4.31     37.00                t
Inner  Yih let.     490.81  30.00   4.50       6658     0.00   7?.=    313.25    57.03   3.45    0.52        7.65    0.00    8.81     36.60 IJ
M.eot i tAtotat      490.69  30.00    4.50     6658    0.00    76.      313.20    57.03   3.45    0.5;      7.65    0.00      81     3660                  1
StxYnhe              404.61  22.8to  36. -o   T11 Wit   G.i   t3 + t    243.61    46.51   eZ.6    4.2     -j.g       *.81    8 4      28 Ql
JtatU4v1w     1 130.   00 7.20   13.x0   1.16    0.01  92.-; _ i.31         14.95   0.82    1.52      0.83            2._ 371   9 Gt
Gamy  Mallsn         578b00  3000i   103 Is    24 W.    00      72 _- 3480  0      664 314    1186           2.76    000    8.431       0 ;0
sub-total     576.0al 300  103.15       24.00     0.00    72ij_      _SM    664    34    1762.761   0.00    63
* -          i   2134,51 I120.0   263.9'3!  144;  64]  D             |    305.8 2         30434      160      189   32 F       1B0I0
*~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                        I



- 158 -                                              s    6
Table 8
Finacial By Component
YWaUUt                                 ussaoo
IDA          COl          TOTAL          DA         GOV       TOTAL
Land developen                     55324.60      45556.57     100221.17    6359.15     5236.39    11595.54
Cowentenon enonscriet               3343.2        1643.62       3987.13     269.37      1S8.92     45829
Foret develp"4nt                   3283247       24745.86      5757834      3713.8S    2844.35    6618.20
Grs ad livesock                     1186.01       585.14        1n71.15     U6.32        6-.26     203.58
support service                    11605.67        102.56      1170S.23    1333.99       11.79    1345.77
liudaididev Ipmect                  9043.59         76.05       9119.64     103949        8.74    1048.23
Tot n                             112335.86      72709.80     1S5045.65    12912.11    8357A5    21169.62
Weifet
Lad developmnt                     29187.55      21620.25      500.-79    3354.89      24S5.09    5839.98
Cousvaion eoineering                1906.69       1164.74       3071A3      219.16      133.FS     353.04
Fore development                   19585.5      13447.81      33033.38    2251.22     1545.72    3796.94
Grss and livestock                   540.07       295.89         835.96      62.         34.01      96.09
Support eVince                      5306.49       649.71        5956.18     609.94       74.68     684.62
Iasbuon dfcelpMant                  33S8.68        733.43       41'2.11     389.50       84.30     473.81
TOaWl                              59915.04      37911.82      97826.86    68K79       4357.68    11244.47
Land development                  7110.01       56105.86     1276.5.87     8219.54    64.95    14668.49
Consevaiou eginr                   358268         1059.4        4442.6.     41L0        12.LS3     533.63
Forest developm                    46289.U       29109.52      75399.36    53467      3345.92    8666.59
processics                                          0.00                                  0.00
Support sIce                       10542.93       1296.04      1183897     121283       14S.97    1360.80
lOdeflog dvelpe                      461.71       165691        911862      857.67      190.45    1048.12
tal                               14244.98       90829.87     233275.85    16373.10    10440.21    2813.32
SHzt rvince
SH porpsevnice                      657.64        5233.92      1111S.7      756.05      60L60     1357.65
nstmution dvlpment                   599.98       2391.52       2991.49      68.96      274.89     343.85
Totl                                7177.62       76S.43       14803.05     825.01       76.49     170L50
ymo~lig
Land development                   89581.77      59S56.39     149138.16    10296.75    64556    11142.32
Cosevatios engnern                47627.80       24758.54      72386.34    5474.46     2S45.81    8320.27
Forest developmIt                  73554.70      495ff.95     123151.6     8454.56     5700S0    14155.36
Gmass ed livestock                 4314S.23      34214.32       77362.56    4959.57    3932.6    S92.25
supo service                       40098.9       4276.36       44374.65    .4609.00     491.54    5100.53
nsoin*  develpment                 19190.19       5292.24      2442.43     2205.77      608.30    2814.07
tOW                               313200.98     1'77694.80    490895.78    36000.11    20424.69    56434.80
Lead developmet                    32245.79      21303.53      5355133     370641      2448.91    6155.33
Consevedo, egneering                1741.S1       2425.92       4167.73     200.21      278.84     479.05
Foest dlopet                       283002        19012.20      44842.22    296897      2185.31    5L54.28
Gres aad livestock                  1770.00       137.44        3148.43     203.45      1844       361.89
Processing                          1529.04       103.78        2567.2      175.75      119.40     295.15
Spot sevice                         9182.27       1599.87      10782.14    105543       183.89    1239.33
bIstivnio develpment                61.01         498.11       10990.12     689.77      53.46      1263.23
Total                              78299.94      51749.85     130049.79    8999.99     594.26    14948.
Lad developmen       .            10639.35       76383.71     IS6023.06    1260222     S779.74    21381.96
Coon  en                           18248.52      13374.65      31823.17    2097.53     1560.30    3637.84
Fomt deelopmn                      56139.06      48448.89     104587.95    6442.77      56.a84    12021.60
Orm end livestock                  19594.10      12034.93      32429.03    2252.0      1475.28    3727.47
Suppt iee                          23456.11       462240       23078.51    2696.10      531.31    3227.42
lnsieution develpt                 16527.79       5135.40      2165.9      1899.17      590.28    2489.45
Totad                             243599.93     160999.99     404599.92    27999.99    18SO.75    46505.74
Led developmng                    168417.9      1075360S      275954.03    1339    12360.47    31118.85
comevadon engineering              182.23         6425.07      24652.30    2095.08      73.51     2833.60
Forest developmen                 101467.06      s0293.75     181760.80    166288      S2 92.17    20592.05
Grss ead livestoc:                 1444           9891.17      2479.61     11m32       1136.92    2848.23
PrceS                              2060.97        4813.13      256-4.10    2397.81      553.23    29S1.05
Support eS3.72                                   1o209         29510.80    2176.86     1215.1S    3392.05
Xnsmtion  develpsn                  5198.16      10469.86.    , 1566802     59749       203.43     1800.9
Totl                              347998.53     230001.14      T7999.67    39999.8s3   26436.91    66436-74
Cne project ofc                            0.00      30000.00       30000.00       0.00     3448.28    3448.23
Totall
Iand development                  55590701,    388641         943971.42    63897.36    44605.10   108502.46
Conevution enginen                 9367.25       S105247      144730.72    10767.61    5868.10    1663!.71
Forest developsmen                355698.73     244654.97     620353.70   40884.91    30420.11    71303.02
GCns nd livestock                  8418.66       608OL49      144987.15    96651       69886      16665.19
Processing                         22390.02         51.90       M 28241.92  25737       6r763     3246.20
Spot sevice                       12570811        835.95      184061.06    14449.21    670-7.24   116.44
Institution develptoent            67406.10      30744.5       98150.61 *   7747.83    3533.8    11281.68
Totl                             1304973.87     859522.70    216449657   14997?.00    99.71   248792.71



Scinester Finacial
I994              I9s               99              I997             9               99               0*              m0      Tutu
isilsir  2nllnIaI  IdslluIf 2udlhlf f.lslr nif i iuir id lshtr 2d laif Id lttif  2ncIdlalC I silir 2IMtIhdr lst litdr 2wolilIRr isi i 9r 2gdltair
XimnlmI     1043.93   104.93  310."9   810.S9   05.73  303.73  818.08  818.08  781.38  781.88   732.48  732.48  712.51  712.51  745.65   745.83   12912.17
wedren       530.43   530.45  449.70   449.70   444.00  441.00  465.02  465.02  .3.S.24  405.24   411.41  411.41   373.51  313.SI  304.06   364.0'3    66.7'.
IImp        1159.44   1159.44  I04.78  IM1.78  1092.42  1092.42 1101.31  1104.83 103.9  1093.91   "5.13  985.13  879.87  8$79J7  6.91   866.17   16373.10
ptwlnce      147.02    147.02   11I.08   118.0    34.142  .3t.82  .19.32   39.32   2699    26.99   28.03   22.05    12.77   12.77    9.46   9.46     115.01
StuI'l.lo.Sh  1N25.86   2385.86 2383.16  231lt6  2376.97 2376.91 2427.2S 2427.23 2310.02 23M0.02  2151.07 21510.0  1978.67 197K.67 19915.53  1095.53   36.97.07
Isw  tMoga       3740.26  3740.26 2568.32  2568.32  2784.39 278.59 2350.80  2350.8  I86.49  I6.49  1543.10  1513.70  1643.26  643.26 1.500.63    95.63   30.II
smard ptoIje                                                                                                                                                 0.00
Jibs#       1094.71   1094.71  450.07   40.07   479.33  479.33  497.B4  4974  522.04  322.04  S50.99  350O."   532.72  532.72  372.30   372.30    P.M9. 9 
Y1Iltc     2763.60  2763.60  1350.60  1350.60  ISOM2S  1502."  I.397.71  I97.71 1699.50   99.50  1782.63  1782.63  1643.92 I163.92 16S9.14   659.4   27999.99)
81h1-4AdAm,  3358.31   3158.31  I0.67  3000.67  1982.23  19W1.23 2093.54 2095.54 2221.35  2221.35  2333.62 2333.62 2176.64 2176.64 2031.44  2031.44   MO 9. 9
(laatn           3116.43   3116.40  2530.65  2530.65 2379.03 2379.03 2476.89  241769 2363.10 2360.10  2430.67 2430.67 2,I09.46 2409.46 2291,.6  2291.68   Mkith, 6.3
Towu            13600.8?  13600.87 922.80  922.30 9S22.81 9522.81 9350.49 9350.49 376S.16 863.1I6  3439.06 8439.06 3208.03 8208.03 7W9.29  71.29  It49'.00
g.6



-160-                                              AS=  7
Tabla 1:
PRICES, CROP AND AREA MODELS
PNANCtAL PICES FOR WUTS (1993)
FM" A_di t                          MA"                   14A   &    l_      Al             -           -
WaIS Sad                                           .Li       tJ       1.4       Li         LS
LS         15       L4I       Ls          I                         L t
SoybaaSad                     j4bg                IN                   IA        1          12               2          4
hfSt Sa-f                                          0           Li   0             *                         12        LaS
So5_SIed                                           1.2                   I                                             Ls2
BudmbSad                        0_
PW. saw                                           0.4 0GA              0.        04         0.4 0S t22
at Fd Cp"a Sd                                                   . 4A
FIJSed                        jag                   4 
Help SWd                                                                2         2
M%ad Sad                                                                                                               Z2
PeatSad                       yqd&                                      2         2
SaOmeSd                                                        1.2tl   1   IA              1L         t        9        7
O0etwOBcaep.sd                  -t                            122
TFowwSad                       3m1Dt                                              2
Vopb.SIad                     pmdba                21          48      3                    48              48 
m.L Sadi                                           3                                        36              a0         48
chiaaosad SO wt3a                                                       8         0         5 1
Pep.ht o*Ag                                                           GM       04om  0m OJ # 2    o m 0               GM
LoctaSd                                             4                             2         is              a           3
Fiul Ti Sod                                                                                 48 a
=Ciiic TM Sad                                                                                6
ApphSed                       3-8                             1  so06            1                                    0.15
M*ia=aAppkled                 3                                                                                        So
Peob Sad                         1t 
Pear Sad                                                               1tlU                                           0.15
ApSeletd                                            2                            1.
CIldtmsad                                                                                                             Om
Chkoina.   Sad                                                                                                        0.12
cw_p Sad                       1IN0.                           IA                IA          2                         2.4
Amobe Sed                                                      1       t2 IA      8 
Sal"ibi_s"e                   ,-f                              t2    tLS          a                                    24
AJ&faSej                     ptmI                  4           4       4         4          4               8          6
Umfin oqa Seed                                      2           2                2.
Lowely Acbm6= Seed            Yo                    2                                       0.)
Mmg" Seed                      Wt                   s          20       4
P1 Saed                         2t                                      2
Caw      Seed                                                  IA      1  Lo 1*                                        Ls
Odthe Sbe. Seed               Yth 
Alhala Sd                     pwflr                                     2
Adt5 Sad                                 tl                             2
31uKmmr5eSad                     2g                             2
Oe.OsMSfad                     >
VFuh5_al                      pINO.
Sem_o Te Swabs                  NO.
ApleS                         y"lO.                 1           2                 1         22              24         2.2
M_5ak AMU Sadhe               pinnN                                                                                    2.2
Pow Seedln                    YinlNO              0                                         2              22        1.
Paibadg                       yaO                  OA                            0.4        L9               2
miuae  oseedb                 pineIN.              OA                    I                 1*               Ui        1.2
Peic*kl     i Ash 309         7dNO.                064
WaitA Sedg         t      l       m2                                                       L1
*aehmn Salleg                                                                              U2iN.  0  2
Fb-iqs Crab Sadl0                                                                                           2.4
1 5 _ludlh                    -liO                                                                           4
ch;_e ph. lOm                                                 am  NQ  em  048  SM  08     0.               00         e
Pewsalmim                     _Ud0                 Q.         0.4   0C2          2         0A              0m         0an
Shek L    Sailing             p O.                                    0.0        m         011t            0.12    Ql



V
|                :E t!         dd                    b"*-o    
\0 o~
~~~- 5r 8d              55ld5            92  I                                 
4                                                  :fn :sq e**es      
2   iiIsI   t     stXX tXIff                      tIl1f fttttX
C    3ltXilXtl3 jXlJ^l 55xe 5                                   fi S!I



- 162 -                                 A          7
Table 2:
FINANCIAL PRICES FOR OUTPUTS (193 )
Farm  Products            Unk       Maman   Vimeng    Jhau  Yanhe   X hi            Hsbmoplb      Wfn
Wheat                     yuan/kg        0.8         0.8   0.8       0.8       0.85
Maize                     yunfkg        0.65        0.74   O.6     o.64        0.64          0.1        0.6
Sovbemn                   yuan/kg         1.8               1.9      1.6        1.7            1.8      1.8
Millet                    yuan/kg       o.64         0.7  0.62       0.6        0.7           0.7       0.7
Sorghum                   yuan/kg        0.S              0.48                                         0.62
Buckwheat                 yuanrkg        0.7
Potato Tuber              yuankg           1          1      1        1          .5           1.       1I
Other Food Crops          wan/kg                     .3
Flax Seed                 yuen/k           2                                                  1.4
Henp Seed                 yuankg                            1.5      1.5
Mustard Sed               yuan/kg                                                                      1.72
Peanut                    Vuan/kg                           1.4      1.5
Sunflowar                 Vuang                      1.2   1.2      1.17        1.5                    1.46
Other Oil Crops           yun/kg                     1.5
Tobaeco Lof               yuan/g           3               2.5       2.5
Vegetable                 yuan/kg        0.4       0.16    0.3                 0.25           0.3
Melon                      uan/kg        0.4               0.3                 0.25           0.4      0.42
Standing Incrament of Chinoee P yuan/m3  500        850   SOO       SOO        600            $20      SO
Timber of Broad Leaved Tree   yuanln3    400        400   315       350        400            500       450
Pole                      Wan/NO.          6          4    3.6        3                         7         6
Pole-PIne                 wan/NO.                                                6
Polo-Broad Leaf           yuaniNO.                                               5
Fuulwood                  yuan/kg       0.05       0.0   0.0        0.06       0.04          0.       0.068
Dry Leaf                  yuan/kg       0.05
Branch                    yuanhkg        0.2         0.3    0.1      0.1        0.3
Mulbey Las                yuanikg       0.05
Silkwomn Excrement        wan/g          0.2
Silkworm QCwyeaf          yuang            2
Silkworm Cocoon           yuan/kg         1S
Root Bark of White Mulborry   yuankg    0.04
Apple                     yuan/kg         1.1        1.2   1.2      1.15        1.5           1.2       1.3
Pear                      yuan/k         0.8               0.8                  1.2             1      1.25
Peach                     yuan/kg        0.8                         0.7         1            0.8
Grapes                    yuan/kg                     2
ChineeoDate               yuan/k         3.2                 2                   3            2.2       2.7
Walnut                    yWankg         2.8                                    2.6                       4
Hawthorn                  yuan/kg          1                                    1.8
Apricot                   yuan/g         1.1        0.8              0.8
Chinese Prickey Ash       yuan/g          22
Seabuckthom Fruit         yuan/kg          1        0.6                         0.8           0.8      0.67
Fruit Store Increfent Value   yuan/kg    0.4
Pine Seed                 yuan/kg                            2
Cargamn See               yuan/kg                    1.6   1.6                  2.2             2       1.8
Other Shnrbs Seed         yuan/kg                     8
Alfalfa Sed               yuan/kg                            2
Astragalue Soed iuanAg                                       2
Sweat clover Seed         yuan/kg                     2
Other Gre.se See          yuan/kg                     5
Fruit Seeding            yuan/NO.                                              1.6           1.6
Economic Tree Seedling    yuan/NO.                                               1
Apple Seedling            yuan/NO.         1         1.5     1        1                                   2
PeOr Seedling             yuan/NO.                           1                                          1.8
Peach seodling             uan/NO.                                   0.6
Chinesw Daft Seedling     yuan/NO.                                                                     1.32
Chines pine Sedling       yuan/lNO.                o05   0.05       0.04      0.045          0.05      0.05
Poplar Seedling           yuan/NO.                   0.4  0.25      0.25       0.25          0.32      0.33
Salck Locust Seeodlig     wan/NO.        .                0.06     0.06       OS             0.1      0.11
Shrub Seeding             yun/NO.                                                            0.03
Caragna Seeding           yuan/NO.                                  0.03
Seabuckthom Seediing      yuen/NO.                  t.03   0.04     0.03



-163- -
Table 2 cont.
FINANCIAL PRiCfS FOR OUTPUTS (1993)
Apricot Seedling          wuan/NO.     0.25                        0.4
Amorpha Seedlng          Vuan/NO.                        0.04     0.03
Walnut Seedling          yuasnNO.                                                                     1.2
Wilow.Pale                yuan/NO.                                 1.5
Wheat Straw               yuanhk        0.04      0.04   0.04     0.04       0.04
Maihe Stovet              uan/kg       0.04       0.04   0.04     0.04      0.04           0.04     0.06
Soybean Strew            yuan/kg       0.04              0.04     0.04       0.04          0.04     0.08
MiNlt Stover             wan/kg        0.04       0.04   0.04     0.04      0.04            0.1       02
seghum staw%r             wuan/kg      0.04              0.04                                      0*A
Buckwhet Strw            wan/kg        0.04
PotetoTops               yuankg                   0.04  0.04      0.04      0.04           0.04     0.0S
Other Food Crops Straw   vuan/kg                  0.04
Rax Stowf                yuan/kg       0.04                                                0.04
Hemp Stalks               uan/kg                         0.04     0.04
Mustad Sed               yuan/kg                                                                    0.05
Peanut Strew             yuankg                          0.04     0.04
Sunflower Stow           yuan/kg                  0.04   0.04     0.04      0.04                    0.05
Othr Oil Crops Straw     yuan/kg                  0.04
Tobacco Stalks            uan/kg       0.04              0.04     0.04
may                      yuan/kg        0.1       0.09    0.1      0.1       0.11           0.1
Catlo Skin               yuan/NO.       120         80    80       80        100            100      120
Mle Skins                vuan/NO.                                             75
Donkey Skins             Vuan/NO.                                             70
Shoep Skins               uan/NO.        27         22    20       20                       25        27
GoatSkins                yuan/NO.                   22    16       15         12            20        20
Pig Skins                yuan/NO.                                              1
Shoop Wod                yuankg           7          7    12       10                       10        16
Goat Wool                yuang          5.5          2                         S             a         a
Cashmere                 yuan/kg        100        120   120      120        110           120       120
Beef                     yuan/g           7          7     7        6         6.5            7       7.8
Mule Meat                yuan/kg                                               5
Donkey Mat               wanikg                                                6
Pork                     yuan/kg          5               5.2       5          6             6
Mutton                   yuanikg          8        6.4     5        5        5.5             8       SA
Chioken Cull             Vuan/kg          7                8       6.5        6.5
Eggs                     yuankg         4.5               4.4      4.2         5
Cow Milk                 yuankg           I
Animal Tracdon           yuan/day        12         10    12       12         12            14        12
Manuro                   wuanAon          5          5     4        S          4             6       6.5
Water                    yuanirn3       0.2



Area, Yield and Production of each Component
Xin shui Subproject
Existing Situation         Full Development                 Chanyes
Area     Yield    Output  Area      Yield    Output   Area      Yield    Output
'000 ha kgjha _  000 kg  '000 ha kg/ha _'000 kg  '000 ha kg/ha    '000 kg
Total
Sloping land/Terrace
-Wheat                       1.83   900.00 1650.60      1.83  2700.00  4951.80      0.00  1800.00  3301.20
-Maize                      2.75  2000.00 5502.00    2.75  4800.00 13204.90         0.00  2800.00  7702.80
-Millet                      0.92  1245.00 1141.67      0.92  3000.00  2751.00      0.00  1755.00  1609.34
-Soybean                     0.92   700.00   641.90     0.92  1650.00  1513.05      0.00   950.00   871.15
-Potato                      0.92  1300.00 1192.10      0.92  2800.00  2567.60      0.00  1500.00  1375.50
-Melon                       0.46 12000.00 5S08.00      0.46 21000.00  9639.00      0.00  9000.00  4131.00
-Vegetable                   0.46 10500.00 4819.50      0.46 22500.00 10327.50      0.00 12000.00  5508.00
-Sunflower                   0.92   975.00  894.08      0.92  1950.00  1788.15      0.00   975.00   894.08
Warping land                                                                           0.00     0.00      0.00
-Maize                       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.26  7500.00  1950.00        0.26  7500.00  1950.00
Bank land                                                                              0.00     0.00      0.00
-Wheat                       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.05  9750.00   487.50       0.05  9750.00   487.50
-Melon                       0.00     0.00    0.00      O.os 33000.00  1650.00      0.05 33000.00  1650.00
Arbor                                                                                  0.00     0.00      0.00
-Pine                        0.00     0.00    0.00    0.40    45.00    18.00        0.40    45.00    18.00
-Locust                      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.70    54.00    37.80       0.70    54.00    37.80
-Wilow                       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.20    60.00    12.00      0.20    60.00    12.00
-Popular                     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.70    66.00    46.20      0.70    66.00    46.20
Shrub
-Seabuckthorn Fruit          0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00   420.00   840.00      2.00   420.00   840.00
-seabuckthorn hay            0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00  2700.00  5400.00      2.00  2700.00  5400.00
-Caragana                    0.00     0.00     0.00    12.00   135.00  1620.00    12.00   135.00  1620.00
-Amorpha                     0.00     0.00    0.00      4.00  1170.00  4680.00      4.00  1170.00  4680.00
Sloping iand/Orchard
-Potato/Apple                0.99  1300.00 1287.00      0.99 16000.00 15840.00      0.00 14700.00 14553.00
-Potato/Peach                0.44  1300.00  572.00      0.44 16500.00  7260.00      0.00 15200.00  6688.00
-Potato/Pear                 0.77  1300.00  1001.00     0.77 18000.00 13860.00      0.00 16700.00 12859.00          0 
Sloping land/Cash tree                                                                                                 f-A
-Maize/Chinese data          0.96  2000.00 1920.00      0.96  7200.00  6912.00      0.00  5200.00  4992.00    
-Millet/Walnut               0.16  1245.00  199.20      0.16  5400.00   864.00      0.00  4155.00   664.80
-Millet/Howthorn             0.64  1245.00  796.80      0.64  9000.00  5760.00      0.00  7755.00  4963.20
Sloping land/Grass land
-Millet/Alfalfa hay       2.00  1245.00 2490.00      2.00  6400.00 12800.00      0.00  5155.00 10310.00



YkS Md  rtutac(of t h  c_upo..a
-MaSPA Rhw  SUbIWjf
AM             YWd           Oupi           Ara           Yild          On"             Am            Yltl           Q
OOO0ha         Wmlh           02kg          1)00ha         hula          VW0k to         00h           kgla          'OM to
Tod                                                                   38.S8                                        ISO
s9qbgw        rmc                                                    30.578                        299s3        99.2W4                    129384.054                                    99530.794
bd                                                                 19.224            960       I84S5.04        13.208          2700        35661.6         .6.016          1740         17206.56
4Una                                                                0L215            750         963.25       19.906           1740        99324.44        30.991           990        19163.19
-man                                                                    0                            0          11.453         483        55409.614        11.453          4838        55409.614
-%Om                                                                1.144           3270        1452.88         0.534          2850          1464.9         .0.63          IS0            32.02
4uckwIuao 0                                                                                          0              2           i500          300               2           S500           3oG0
m                                                                   o0.735           sn0           SE3          0.074          9500            III         4.661            700            477
4%x                                                                 8.606            515        4432.09          4.46           1200          5352         -4.146           685          939.91
.vOU*                                    *0.24                                      1375           3890          0.24         2000           4OM0              0          12225            2930
4.4.3k                                                              0.335           14700        1934.5         0.o33         22500         3037.5              0          7300             1053
-T dk.c                                                             0.494            lo00         389.2         0.494          2475            2223             0           675            333.5
WarpOull                                                                 0                             0           0.42                      2403.35           0.42             0         2403.35
*Whaa                                                                   0                            0          0.165          3750         618.75          0.13           3750           618.75
-141a1                                                                  0                            0          0.134           l900          254.6         0.034          1900            254.6
.Ma                                                                     o                            e 0        0Q25            3m 530                      0.255          6S00            1530
0                            0             40                                          40
-.k  hhma                                                               0                            0           9.47           67.3          636.9          9.47   67.2S4476              636.9
-team*dwAor                                                            0                             0 o3.252                  392.S         I36S.9        11.252    112.50039           265.255
-hpk. ~h**                                                             0                             0          9.09            33.1          324.9         9.300    33.0325S           834.932
-Wamdm*w                                                               a                             0          6.313           22.5          142.0         6.313    22.5000792          142.043
*P_a.ah U*d e                                                          0                             0          3.lS6           33.3          105.1         3.156   33-s006337           305.095
4km  -                                                                 0                             0           9.47           911          3627.2          9.47           92           S627.17
-tat mp                                                                 0                            0         3 .252          2475         27M4.7         1 1.252         2475          27848.7
-hou pk                                                                 0                            0          9.S09           1665        16332.0         9.809          2665        16333.985
W lepk          *0                                                                            0          6.323          10350        65339.6         6.313         30350         65339.55
d-                                                            0                             0          3.156           555          3759.6         3.156           555         2751.58
"m   Pabdk                                                            0                             0             40                    139898.985           40          95956        9939.9s
s_ow do*"                                                             0                             0             4                      264.s21              40                       2964.82
Shibb                                                                    0                                        22.S8                                       12.53
*SeahodAm Flk                                                           0                            0          3.306           37          3302.25         8.806           375          3302.2s
*SWhaek*w,h fd                                                          0                            0          3.306           2000          SSC6          8.806          3000            3806
,%*AtcW m hay                                                           0                            0          8.306          7n0           6604.5         8.S06           no            6604.5
-can bm ud                                                              0                            0          2.538           l600         4m228.         2.58s          16D0           4028.8
.Cgm  aba                                                               0                            0          2Isis           357         898.926         2.518           357          99.926
.C    u h*                                                              0                            0          Isis            2D0           503.6         2.598           200            503.6
*Tik 1%*                                                                0                            0          0.621           200           125.6         0.628           200            225.6
.Tmak hw                                                                0                            0          0.628           37            2355          0.628          37m             2355
*Ammjia Ald                                                             0                            0          0.628           375           23s           0.6281         3750            2W55
h3by                                                                   0                            0           .M324                    7503.426         11.324                       7503AI6



m         t*                                                          0                             0          3.146                        4!92           3.146                          639.2
id lad                                                                0                             0                                      1258  87544.8   123s                         174.1
Sl_2weo bra of*                                                        a8             tO           7610                                                         4           -90            -7610
Uwb3 .u       w                                                         S             NO           1440                                                       ^1.5          -960           -1440
ash..ub*.,mh  0.5  960       410                                                       4.5           -96             410
o0                            0             8          8s50o        180                 8          Is=0           120
4ft                                                                     0                            0            I.5          1200D         86000            I           121109.5         I8s0
-*a                                                                    0                             0            0S           12000          6MD             0.5         f2000            G000
Cm a                                                                     0                             0      t       7                     95028.58      1      i                       95128.58
9qOvv6           =dmft                                               1.703            96g        867.3              0                                        8.701          460          .I87.8
Sl_bo ¢Sw.p"                                                         633?             96         S7.92               0                                      43              .960
81_d Oka -ft8,a1                                                      in              No           2448             0                                        -25            460            -244
9qIl      4bI*am                                                      2.I5            960          248              0                                        .2.SS          40             -2468
5 -Wt                                                    Q0.5            96            981              0                                       4.85           -96D             416
SWb. ubeM -Smum  cow=                                                 3.82            960         219.2              0                                       -3.02          .960           2899.2
-Cda t da                                                                                            0           8.703          324         555078          1.703          3260          55t.78
*Ak0                                                                                                 0          6.32            an00         5616           6.32?          a0             5061 
-*dbt                                                                   0                             0          2.55           I000          2S50           25                                                         t5 25500
4lb8a0                                                                                 0                         2.5           1200          20600            .5           82000           30600
.Wwm  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~00                                                                         0.85          4100           409            0.            490             406 
4Silm   ocm(o4                                                          0                             0          3.02            so          863S            3.02          5sO            8570.8
Cm                                                                                                   760             40                   1924.6347              32                    IS256M.64
Uq*4u*M -A b                                                                   9       61o         760                                                          4           _-7
UqIub*Aaas4 bsby                                                        0                             0                                                         O   0                          0
Uqyhl .bu -Sahild __b                                                   0                             0                                                         0              a               0
ShWhsMuka 4Lc* lActamdutu  by                                                                         0                                                         0              0               0
-IAa  by                                                                S            90            760           6.264          4263        69325.3         8.264         3302.5         616413.
-MAqh. by                                                               0                             0         I.M9            4O          5410.s         It.859          450           53410.5
-Safafahaby                                                             0                             0          7.91           574t   45416.53859           7.91       5741.667     45416.58S97
4 AdyMt         m b                                                     0                             0          3.95?          SS1   22093.24866          3.95?       5583.3       22093.24868
a. ME~an   hgAtIlImI  we adtpd   Icyq ml amrt adcasud bion Omea q~i  r
b. .M *AMd pdkemv swampd byOatpama qc8
9. On opt i =wAcd at ded cido 30 yam by de rcubcyehk
d. Ruii .a1.g huamac by km poub cycLe.
6. emitra aid pa. plef an  va meaby a take powub cy*l.
N.f ahliawecqrcaeuaw.mcam=



A,... Viel -4 N.  &I~.   C.o.#p.Md
-O... letAtLI. (6Ape.d<Vwl
,mm                      t    gb                                       sg                                               kmA'         ((Ske
-3004.a 04                                               661.00       31660                       000           ado          000                       .084       4(5(0        .366.60
443                                          tl50        No00        (0162.861                               2X2.0 moo   3W.4                          000        3100         9659
*5*1n                                        1724        450t0       323s.SS                      620        tX50C0       9*(4.0                      .t04       3050(0       6613
*Ftmo                                                                                              004       6002O       I386400                       104          OD.000     364 0
4bcp                                          0.2t       3200 D         0.60                      02(        3(000         420.00                      000        1(t00(0       330l
*OaAww,                                      0.14        t(0.00       176.0                       014        IX0000        21000                       00          6DD00         U400
-hum                                                                                              0.40       2210.0        9400S                       CR2        22000         94 00
Td*iM                                                                                             0.42       24Dtt0       WDltC0                       OA?         40DCAO      #0.lClt
*so04                                         0.60       43080        2mA
*Yq.V,                                                                                             6.26     57Sm.all      S!300                        0.2S6     1700.00       9730.00
4104                                                                                               A        U0.17  3CC0.00  sW000                      0.17      "MA $01100.00
Male17 03                                                                                                   613000        11(4.30                      0.17      630.00        1147.50
301193. bw
46.3..                                        0.00                                                0.am       403.0O       57$100                       0.96           m        $760.D
Aima
4                                             cm                                                                             0C0 0.00                  031
-Pd.,                                                                                                          000          00                                      GAM          0(0
.104.                                                                                                           A0D        v0m4                                    mm.00        30*U
W                                                                                                              o0.1        o00D                                     0.0          00D
4-a                                           0a0                                                  6.30                                                 6.50
mom                                                                                                            OC0          0(0                                     080          O0(
* .TI8,                                                                                                          30.0        415.00                                  7D.tt        451.00                                                          4
4-"                                                                                                          040.0     092804(00                                            (003
.Tb*w                                                                                              33AD.0  35?6.?                                                                                                                   .
-Pies                                                                                                      ot0              08DtC                               160.00           9.IX00                                                       t_
*t2 MOt                                                                                                                                                               0         3W  6
-Pqim                                        000                                                  0.50                                                 0.30
*t0.                                                                                                           0.00         0.00                                    080          000
-Fed                                                                                                       12 00        1192t0                                   s0.00       I10.0D
.Fm(                                                                                                        23000.006.1  4sai  "moo0.8                           125(080      393308
-a4e6*inuFed                                  080                                                 66.40t     47DOCO      020O0                         13.41      47300D      123D0
4%d                                           0NW 36.62                                                                                                16.6t
4                                                                                 Xlt~~~~~~~~                             ~           ~~~~~~~310  55480t  20*0C  324830
4%,4                                                                                                        2380        300008                                   200000      $mm0(
^_ ~ ~  ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1G   e038                                                                                                mmo 12
4k_"0 9..00 O080
4-1_tmMq6a.                                   0.46       4t30.0        64.15
Abb"4tt lad                                   a3       3I0Ot          637.10                                                                                                                                                               (Da
0Alluofh awS                                  J.13       860004       30(0.0Mu                                            oamw                                    sm            su 
4*Uw tbpbg Las                                3.06       60080        I02.
.Wkaddq4q                                  1000          646.00l   (72200.00
.A04hhee 000                                                                                     I3S0 O"200              (1120C80                      46J4       02080       682.D00
.at!ap(esk                                    0.00                                                 1.2(      600          4 0                          3080      t000          IJtC.0D00
Aket7                                         000.10                                                        W30D40       12F00(0                        1.20      WiI          IJtOD.O
*ltt                                       JltO          6IS.06    17SCtDD4
4wtt4bay                                      aOtl                                                XD         S D         tm40co                        76CO       12tlO4      INW1O.OD
4_tt                              OCO~~~~~~~~~~~0                                     104D        6on de       C0400D                      t04t        60300       WMU.OO
.tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OC                                                                   .70       XCD007      16WDtD                        J7D        1tlDCD      tCX.111



Area, Yield and Production of each Component
---- Jialu Subproject
Existing Situation        Full Development               Changes
Area   Yield   Output   Area   Yield    Output   Area   Yield          Output
'000 h kg/ha   '000 kg  '000 ha  kg/ha  '000 kg  '000 h kg/ha          '000 kg
Total
Sloping land/Terrace
-Millet         2.25  600.00  1349.58   1.13  2100.00  2377.83  -1.12   1500.00  1028.25
-Soybean        0.94  450.00   42i.10   0.93  1500.00  1396.50  -0.01   1050.00   974.40
-Potato         0.00    0.00       0.00   0.53  1800.00   955.80   0.53   1900.00   95s.80
-Melon          0.00    0.00       0.00   0.53 15000.00  7965.00   0.53  15000.00  7965.00
-Peanut         0.00    0.00       0.00   0.53  2200.00  1168.20   0.53   2200.00  1168.20
-Tobacco        0.00    0.00       0.00   0.20  1800.00   360.00   0.20   1800.00   360.00
-liemp          1.00  360.00   360.00   0.33  1500.00   496.50  -0.67   1140.00   136.50
Sloping land/Warping
-Maize          0.00    0.00       0.00   0.53  5100.00  2703.00   0.53   5100.00  2703.00
-Sorghun        0.00    0.00       0.00   0.22  5100.00  1132.20   0.22   5100.00  1132.20
-Tobacco        0.00    0.00       0.00   0.05  2500.00   112.50   0.05   2500.00   112.50
-Sunflower      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.07  2500.00   175.00   0.07   2500.00   175.00
-Potatoes       0.52 1000.00   524.00   0.00        0.00      0.00  -0.52  -1000.00  -524.00
Sloping land/Irr. lan   0.00    0.00        0.00
-Wheat          0.00    0.00      0.00   0.04  3200.00   128.00   0.04   3200.00   128.00
-Maize          0.00    0.00      0.00   0.14  5500.00   770.00   0.14   5500.00   770.00
-Sunflower      0.00    0.00      0.00   0.06  2800.00   154.00   0.06   2800.00   154.00
-Vegatable      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.05 45000.00  2025.00   0.05  45000.00  2025.00
-Hemp           0.28  360.00   100.80   0.00       0.00      0.00  -0.09   -360.00   -30.96
Arbor
-Pine          0.00    0.00       0.00   0.70    52.00    36.40   0.70        52.00    36.40
-Locust        0.00    0.00       0.00   0.60    75;00    45.00   0.60        75.00    45.00
-Wilow         0.00    0.00       0.00   0.50    23.00    11.50   0.50        23.00    11.50
-Popular       0.00    0.00      0.00   0.70    56.00    39.20   0.70         56.00    39.20
Shrub                    0.00    0.00       0.00
-Sand willow        0.00    0.00       0.00   1.25  2000.00   250.00   1.25   2000.00   250.00
-Seabuckthorn ha    0.00    0.00       0.00   1.64  4000.00  6560.00   1.64   4000.00  6560.00
-Caragana          0.00    0.00      0.00  12.16  2000.00 24320.00  12.16   2000.00 24320.00
-Caragana seed       0.00    0.00      0.00  12.16    60.00   729.60  12.16        60.00   729.60
-Amorpha          0.00    0.00      0.00   2.51  2000.00  5020.00   2.51   2000.00  5020.00
Sloping land/orchard
-Apple          0.00    0.00      0.00   2.11 16200.00 35818.20   2.21  16200.00 35818.20
-Pear           0.00    0.00      0.00   0.12 13500.00  1660.50   0.12  13500.00  1660.50
-Juyube         0.00    0.00       0.00   0.37  8100.00  2997.00   0'.37  8100.00  2997.00
-Peanut         0.70  900.00   633.60   0.00        0.00     0.00  -0.70   -900.00  -633.60
-Soybeans        2.00  450.00   900.00   0.00       0.00      0.00  -2.00   -450.00  -900.00
Sloping land/Grass
-Millet          2.29  463.00  1105.59   0.00       0.00      0.00  -2.29   -483.00 -1105.59                     Ii
-Potatoes        1.99 1000.00  1989.00   0.00        0.00     0.00  -1.99  -1000.00 -1989.00
-Soybeans        1.00  450.00   450.00   0.00        0.00      0.00  -1.00   -450.00  -450.00
-Peanut          0.48  900.00   434.70   0.00       0.00      0.00  -0.48   -900.00  -434.70
-Alfalfa hay     0.00    0.00       0.00   4.33  4950.00 21433.50   4.33   4950.00 21433.50
-Astragalus ha   0.00    0.00       0.00   1.70  5400.00  9280.00   1.70   5400.00  9280.00



CHINA
Loess plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project:Xinshui River Basine
Wheat -- Sloping land/Terrace Food Crop Model
YZELWS AMP =PUTlS
(Per ha)
january--december
Existing      New Technology                Future  Future Percentage
Technology                    4 to  Present Existing  New      Change
Unit   1 to 30     1      2     3    30      1        30      4    _
Yields                       kg          900 1,890 2,070 2,520 2,700       900      900  2,700        200
By Products
Wheat straw                kg          990 2,080 2,278 2,772 2,970       990      990  2,970        200
Operating
Inputs
Wheat seed               kg          180   180   180   180   180      180       180    t.8-
Urea                     kg            -   150   150   150   150        -         -    150
Ammoniu carbonate        kg          150   150   150   150   150      150       150    150          _
Calcium superphosphate  kg           150   300   300   300   300      150       150    300        100
Manure                   Ton         7.5    15    i5    15    15      7.5       7.5     15        100
Animal traction         day           18    25    25    25    25       18        18     25         39
Threshing               Ton            1     2  2.22  2.18      3       1         1      3        200
Labor
Land preparation        day           20    30    30    30    30       20        20     30         S0
Planting                day            7    12    12    12    12        7         7     12         71
Fertilization           day           10    18    18    18    18       10        10     18         80
Weeding                 day            -    15    15    15    15        -         -     15          -
Harvest                 day            8    10    10    10    10        8         a     10         25
Trasport                day            4     5   5.4   6.6      7       4         4      7         75
Threshing               day            2     4  4.22  4.78      5       2         2      5        150
Drying                  day            2     4     4      4     4       2         2      4        100
Other                   day            -     3      3     3     3       -         -      3
Sat Dec 04 00:22:09 1993
94



CHINA
Loess Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project:Xinshul River Basine
Wheat -- Sloping land/Terrace Food Crop Model
VCZAL BUm
(In yuan '000 Pec ha)
January--december
Existing      New Technology                 Future  Future Percentage
Technology                    4 to  Present Existing  New       Change
I to 30     1      2     3    30    -1         30      4    ____
main Production
Wheat                           0.8   1.6   1.8   2.1   2.3       0.8       0.8    2.3        0.2
By Produeta
Wheat straw                     0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1        0.2
Bub-total  evenme                   0.8   1.7   1.9   2.3   2.4       0.8       0.8   22.4         0.2
Input costs
Wheat seed                        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3       0.3    0.3           -
Urea                                -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -         -    0.2           -
Amaonlu carbonate                 0.1   0.1   0.1   O.1   0.1       O.1       0.1    0.1           -
Calcium superphosphate            0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.1       0.1    0.2        0.1
Manure                            0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1         0.1                                           0
Animal traction                   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.2       0.2    0.3         0.0
Threshing                        _°t 0.0 °     °         0.0    0.0           0*0    0.0         0.2
8ub-total Iqput costs               0.7   1.0  1.0   1.0   1.O        0.7       0.7    1.0         0.1
naez  (Before Labor Costs)          0.1   0.7   0.8   1.2   1.4       0.1       0.1    1.4         0.9
Labor costs
Land preparation                  0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.1       0.1    0.2        0.1
Planting                          0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0      0.0    0.1         0.1
Fertilization                     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1         0.1
Weeding                             -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1         -         -    0.1           -
Harvest                           0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1        0.0
Trasport                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0        0.1
Threshing                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0        0.2
Drying                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0         0.1
Other                               -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         - ° °          0.0           -
Sub-total Labor cost                0.3   0. 6   0.6   06   0.6       0 3       0.3    0. 6       0.1
Income (After Labor Costs)         -0.2   0.1   0.2   0.6   0.8    -0.2        -0.2    0.8        05
Income Before Labor: IRR - None, NFV - 8.76
Income After Labor: IRR - None, NPV - 6.32
Sat Dec 04 00:22:14 1993
;rn



CHINA
Loess Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project:Xinshui River Uasine
Maize -- Sloping land/Terrace Food Crops Model
(Per ha)
january--december
Existing     4New Technology                Future  Future Percentage
Technology                    4 to  Present Existina  New      Chanoe
Unit   1 to 30     1      2     3    30       1       30      4 4    _____
Yields                       kg        2,000 3,360 3,680 4,480 4,000   2,000    2,000  4,800           140
By Products
Maize stover               kg        2,400 4,030 4,414 5,376 5,760   2,400    2,400  5,760           140
operating
Inputs
Maize seed               kg           30    30    30    30    30        30       30     30           -
Urea                     kg            -   150   1S0   150   150         -        -    150
Ammoniu carbonate        kg          150   150   150   150   150       150      1S0    150
Calcium superphosphate  kg           150   300   300   300   300      150       1S0    300         100
Manure                   Ton         7.5    15    15    15    IS      7.5       7.5     15         t00
Pesticide               kg           0.5     1      1     1     1     0.5       0.5      1        100                                 _
Animal traction          day          22    25    25    2S    25        22       22     25          14
Threshing                Ton         1.7   3.6      4   4.9   5.3      1.7      1.7    5.3        212
Labor
Land preparation        day           25    30    30    30    30       25        25     30         20
Fertilization           day           12    15    15    1S    1S       12        12     1S         25
Planting                day           10    15    15    15    15       10        10     15         50
Weeding                  day          12    18    18    18   1@         12       12     18          50
Pesticide               day            3     4      4     4     4       3         3      4         33
Harvest                 day           10    12    12    12    12       10        10     12         20
Trasport                 day           6      9     9     9     9        6        6      9          50
Threshing               day            0    12  13.6  17.4    19        8         a     19         138
Drying                  day            2     4      4     4     4       2         2      4        100
Other                    day           -      3     3     3     3        -        -      3
Sat Dec 04 00:22:51 1993



CHINA
Loese Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project:Xinahui River Basine
Maize -- Sloping land/Terrace Food Crops Model
VrimCAL BUS"
lIn yuan '000 Per ha)
1anuary--december
Existing       New Technology                 Future  Future Percentage
Technology                     4 to  Present Existina _New       Change
I to 30     1      2     3    30       1        30      4         0
Haim production
Maize                            1.3   2.2   2.4   2.9   3.1       1.3       1.3    3.1         0.1
By Products
Maize stover                     0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.1       0.1    0.2         0.1
sub-totat  Rcvenu                    1.4   2.3   2.5   3.1   3.3       1.4       1.4    3.3         0.1
Input coSts
Maize seed                         0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1
Urea                                 -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -         -    0.2
Ammoniu carbonate                  0.1   0.1   O.l   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1           -
Calcium auperphosphate             0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.1       0.1    0.2         0.1                                    0
Manure                             0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1         0.1
Pesticide                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0         0.1
Animal traction                    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3       0.3    0.3         0.0
Threshing                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1         0.2
Sub-total Input costs                0.5   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9       0.5       0.5    0.9         0.1
Income (Before Labor Costs)          0.9   1.5   1.7   2.2   2.4       0.9       0.9    2.4         0.2
Labor costs
Land preparation                   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.2       0.2    0.2         0.0
Fertilization                      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1         0.0
Planting                           0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1         0.1
Weeding                            0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1         0.1
Pesticide                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0          0.0
Harvest                            0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1         0.0
Trasport                           0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1         0.1
Threshing                          0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1         0.1
Drying                             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0         0.1
Other                                -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -         -    0.0 _
Sub-total Labor costs                0.5   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8       0.5       0.5    0.8         0.0
Income (After Labor Costs)           0.3   0.7   0.9   1.5   1.7       0.3       0.3    1.7         0.4
Income Before LaI)or: IRR - None, NPV - 11.07
Income After Laboa.- IRR - None, NPV - 9.16
10
Sat Dec 04 00:22:56 1993



CHINA
Loose Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project:Xinshui River Basine
Millet -- Sloping land/Terrace Food Crop Model
(Per ha)
i anuarv--december
existing      New Technology                 Future  Future Percentage
Technology                    4 to  Present Existina  New       Change
Unit   I to 30      1     2     3    30       1        30      4        8
Yields                       kg         1,275 2,300 2,456 2,844 3,000   1,275    1,275  3,000           135
By pocdots
Millet straw               kg         1,530 2,760 2,947 3,413 3,600   1,530    1,530  3,600           135
Operatig
Imputs
Millet seed              kg            1S    15    15    1S    1S       1S        1S     1S           -
Urea                     kg             -   150   1S0   150   10         -         -    150
Aamoniu carbonate        kg           150   150   150   150   150      150       150    150           -
Calcium superphosphate  kg            150   300   300   300   300      150       150    300         100
Manure                   Ton          7.5    1S    1S    1S    1S      7.5       7.5     15         100
Pesticide                kg          0.5      1     1      1     1     0.5       0.5      1         100
Threshing                Ton            1     2  2.22  2.78      3       1         1      3         200
Animal traction          day           18    25    25    25    25       18        18     25          39
Labor
Land preparation         day          20    30    30    30    30        20        20     30          50
Planting                 day           7    12    12    12    12         7         7     12          71
Fertilization            day          10    18    18    18    18        10        10     18          80
Weeding                  day           1S    18    18    18    18       1S        1S     18          20
Harvest                  day            9    12    12    12    12        9         9     12          33
Trasport                 day            4     8     8      8     8       4         4      8         100
Threshing                day            3     6   6.7   8.3      9       3         3      9         200
Drying                   day            1     3     3      3     3       1         1      3         200
Other                    day            -     3     3      3     3       -         -      3           -
Sat Dec 04 00:24:13 1993
F,!
a-'
0 P1



CHINA
Loeos Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project:Xinshui River Basine
Millet -- Sloping land/Terrace Food Crop Model
(In yuan '000 Per ha)
ianua y--december
Existing      New Technoloay   v             Future  Future Percentage
Technoloag                    4 to  Present Existing  New       Change
l to 30     1     2      3    30      1.       30      4         S
aibn Proedotlon
Millet                          0.9   1.6   1.7   2.0   2.1       0.9       0.9    2.1        0.1
by Products
Millet straw                    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1         0.1
Sub-total  _lvenu                   1.0   1.7   1.8 -2.1   2.2        1.0       1.0    2.2         0.1
zqput costs
Millet seed                       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0           _
Urea                                -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -         -    0.2
Ammoniu carbonate                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1           -
Calcium superphosphate            0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.1      0.1    0.2         0.1
Manure                            0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0       0.0    0.1         0.1
Pesticide                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0         0.1
Threshing                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0         0.2
Animal traction                   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.2 __   .2    0.3          0.0 o.
Sub-total Xqput costs               0.4   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8       0.4         4    0.8        0 i
Income (before Labor Costs)         0.5   0.9   1.0   1.3   1.4       0.5       O.S    1.4        0.2
labor costs
Land preparation                  0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.1      0.1    0.2         0.1
Planting                          0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.0      0.0    0.1         0.1
Fertilization                     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1         0.1
Weeding                           0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1         0.0
Harvest                           0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1         0.0
Trasport                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0         0.1
Threshing                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1       0.0      0.0    0.1         0.2
Drying                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0         0.2
Other                               -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 _-                     o0   _
Sub-total Labor costs               0.4 , 0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7       0.4       0.4    0.7        0.1
Income (After Labor Costs)          0.1   0.3   0.4   0.7   0.8       0.1       0.1    0.8        0.5
Income Before Labor: IRR - None, NPV - 6.46
Income After Labor: IRR - None, NPW - 4.37
Sat Dec 04 00:24:18 1993
P-3



China
Loose Plateeu Soil and Watet Conetvation Projtets Sbanxl
alte, -- Tetrrced Land Crop Hcdel
n*S MSD DWOs
IPer hal
January -- Doceuber
Ex Ist ing    New Technology               Increments                  Future  Future Percentage
Technolco                      4 to                     4 to  Present Exlstinq  New       Change
Unit    I1o30       J       2     3    30      1     2      3    30      _        30 a              6
Wields                         kg          1,800 2,000 2,63) 3,867 4,400   200   733 2,067 2,600   1,800    1,600  4,400             144
By Sfeidote
eilie straw                  kg         2,160 2,400 2,978 6,422 S,000   260   018 2,262 2,840   2,160    2,160  S,000              131
Maise god                 kg              30    32    32    32    32       2     2            2      32        30    132           7
Urea                      kg             75    SO   ISO   150   ISO   -25    76    76    75          75       7?    IS0          too
Supetpboepbate            kg            110   100   600   400   400   -10   290   290   290         110       110    400         264
manute                   tons             10    IS    IS    IS    IS       S     S      S     5      10        10 o               s16  sl
Pesticide                 kg               I       I                       -     -            -       I         I      I           -
Animl tractien           day             20    22    22    22    22        2     2      2     2      20        20     22          10
Othet                    Yuan              6    10    10    t0    1o       s     5      S     S       6         6      10        100
Land pteparetion       Apr. day          27    30    30    30    30        3     3      3     3      27        27     30          it
Fertilization          Apr. day           IS    17    17    17    17       2     2      2     2       IS       IS     17          Is
Planting                 ey day           IS    18    is    la    to       3     3      3     1       Is       IS     10          20
"eeding                Jun. day           20    20    20    20    20          -         -     -       20       20      20          -
Pesticide application Jun. day       *           6     4  *         4                         -       4         4      4           -
Harvest                Sep. day            9    10    15    IS    IS       1     6      6     6       S         9      IS         67
transport              Sep. day            6     6   6.4   7.6      a      -   0.4   1.6      2        6        6       8         is
Threshing              Sep. day            7     0   9.0  11.2    16       1   2.8   7.2      9        7        7      16        129
Drying                 Oct. day            2     2      3     4     4      -     1      2     2        2        2       1        100
Other                  Oct. day            2     2      2     2     2      -     -      -     -        2        2       2          -
Thu Sep 23 10:14:06 1993



China
Loess Plateau Soil and Water Conservation Ptoject: Shanxl
Maize -- Terraced Lend Crop Model
AMwNCZkAL 84DrX2
lln Yuan Per he)
January -- December
Existing                                                                            Future  Future  Percentage
Technology         New Technology                     Increments            Present Zxisting   New      Change
I to 30      1       2 t   303.     to jj.  .....L.... tL             W 2!    I       30.  .....L.
main Produ@tL@n
Maize                       1,026.0 1,140.0 .1,443.0 2,204.2 2,so0.0   114.0  *17.8 3,170.2 1,462.0 1,026.0  1,026.0 2,508.0        144.0
By Products
Kalsi  Straw                  100.0   120.0   140.9   221.1   250.0    12.0    40.9   111.1   142.0  108.0    108.0  250.0          131.0
Sub-total Revenue               1,134.0 1,260.0 1,592.7 2,425.3 2,758.0   126.0  458.7 1,291.3 1,624.0 3,134.0  1,134.0 2,758.0         143.0
Input costs
Maize seed                      40.0    51.2    51.2    51.2    51.2       3.2     3.2     3.2     3.2   48.0    48.0    51.2           7.0
Urea                             67.5    45.0   135.0   135.0  13)5.0   -22.5    67.5    67.5   67.5   67.5        61 5   135.0       100.0
Superphosphate                  44.0    40.0   160.0   160.0   160.0    -4.0   116.0   116.0  116.0   44.0         44.0   160.0       264.0
Manure                           50.0    7S.0   7S.0    75.0    75.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   25.0   SO.0    50.0    75.0             S0.0                         4
Pesticide                        IS.0    15.0    IS.0    35.0    I.S0        -       _       .       -    1S.0     I5.0    1.0            .
Animal traction                240.0   264.0  264.0   264.0   264.0    24.0    24.0    24.0   24.0  240.0   240.0   264.0              10.0
Other                             5.0    30.0    10.0    10.0    30.0      5.0     5.0     5.0     s.0    s.0       s.0    30.0       300.0
Sob-total   put ente              469.5   500.2   70.    70.2  170.2    30.7   240.7   240.7    40         469 5    469.5   7i0.2        51.0
Income  Before Labor Costs)       664.5   759.0   882.5 1,715.1 2,047.8    95.3   210.0 3,050.6 1,383.3  664.5    664.5 2,047.8         208.0
Labor costs
Land properation                109.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0    21.0    21.0    21.0    23.0   I89.0    189.0  210.0          11.0
rertilizalion                   105.0   119.0  119.0   139.0   339.0    14.0   14.0   14.0   14.0   105.0    105.0  119.0 o3.0
Planting                        105.0   126.0  126.0   126.0   126.0    21.0    21.0    21.0   21.0  IOS.0   105.0   126.0             20.0
weeding                         120.0   120.0  120.0   120.0   120.0         -       -       -       .   120.0   120.0   120.0
Pesticide application           24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0         -       -       -       -   24.0      24.0    24.0           -
Narvdst                          63.0    70.0   105.0   305.0  30S.0       7.0    42.0    42.0    42.0   63.0      63.0   105.0        67.0
Transport                        42.0   42.0   44.0    53.2    56.0          -     2.8    11.2   34.0    42.0    42.0    56.0          31.0
Threshing                        49.0   56.0    68.6    99.4   112.0       7.0    19.6   50.4    63.0   49.0       49.0   112.0       129.0
Drying                           14.0    14.0    21.0    28.0    28.0        -     7.0    34.0    14.0   14.0      14.0   28.0        100.0
Other                            14.0    14.0    14.0    11.0    14.0    _           -   _                14.0      14.0    14.0          -
sub-total Labor costs             725.0   795.0   8S2.4   098.6   914.0    70.0   l27.4  _  3.6  1B9.0   725.0           72.    914.0    26.0
3ncm   (After Labor Cests)        -60.5   -35.2    30.1   816.5 1,133.8    25.3    90.6  977.0 1,194.3  -60.5    -60.5 1,133.0    1,974.0
Income 8efore Labors IRR - Hone, NPV - 8,826.96
Income After Labor: IRR - None, )'PV - 7,470.85
Thb  Sep 23 10314:21 1991                                                                                                                                            H
I. 



China
Looss Plateau Soil and Water Conservation Project: Gansu
Apples Crop Model
VIEVS AND INEPW
(Per ha)
January -  December
sxtina Technolocy             New Technology
9 to                  5 to  l to
Unit   I to 23 to 4 5 to 8   30        1    2 to 4   10      30
Ylelds                         kg          -  6,000  6,000 15,000       -       -  6,000 15,000
TAwutmeU
Timber                     m3         -       -      -       -   0.06      -       -      -
Apple Seedlings           unit         -      -      -       -  1,110      -       -      -
Urea                       kg          -      -      -       -  277.5      -       -      -
Calcium Superphosphato    kg           -      -      -       -  1,110      -       -
Pesticde                  yuan         -      -      -       -     24      -       -      -
Other                     unit         -      -      -       -     15      -       -      -
unskilled               Mar. day       -      -      -       -    330      -       -      -
Pesticid,                 yuan        00    120    120    160      80    s0    120    160
Urea                       kg        225    225    225    225    225    225    225    225
CalcLum Superphosphate    kg        450    450    450    450   4s0    450    450    450
manure                    ton       22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5
Pruning                 Mar. day      1S     30     30     30      15     15      30     30
Fertilization          HMr. day       45     45     45     45      45     45    is       45
Weeding                 May day       30     30     30      30     30      30     30     30
Guarding                Jun. day       9      9      9       9      9      9       9      9
Guarding                July day       9      9      9       9      9      9       9      9
Guarding                Aug. day       9      9      9       9      9      9       9      9
Pesticide               Aug. day       5      5     10      10      5      5      10     10
Guarding                Sep. day       9      9      9       9      9       9      9      9
Weeding                 Oct. day      30     30     30      30     30      30     30     30
Transport               Oct. day       -     10     10      45      -       -     10     45
Pesticide               Oct. day       5     10     10      10      5      5      10     10
Guarding                Oct. day       9      9      9       9   49        9       9      9
Harvest                 Oct. day       -     15     15      4S      -      -      IS     45
Othor                   Oct. day       5     45     45    150       5      5      45    150
Wed Sep 22 17:03:44 1993                                                                                            4A



China
Leong Plateau Soil and Water Conservation Pfoj.cts Gansu
Apples crop Model
VXANL   Oh-=
(In Yuan Per ha)
lnua rY -- December
Existing Tochnoloav                    Raw Technoloov
Ito 2   3 to 4   S to 8  9 to 30        1      2to 4  S to 10  ll to 30
ROvenu                               -  7,200.0  7,200.0 18,000.0          -         -  7,200.0 13,000.0
Dnput oest
Inestmnt eat.
limber                           -         -        -         -     72.0         -        -         -
Apple Sedlig                     -         -        -         -  1,110.0         -        -         -
Urea                             -         -        -         -    305.3         -        -         -
Calcium Suporphospibate                             -         -    SSS.0         -        -        -
Pesticide                        -         -        -         -     24.0         -        -        -
Other                            -         -        -         -     15.0         -        -         -
Sub-total Investment CAst          -         -        -         -  2,031.3         -        -         -
@pezatng costs
Pesticide                     60.0    120.0    120.0    160.0       60.0     80.0    120.0    160.0
Urea                         247.5    247.5    247.5    247.5    247.5    247.5    247.5    247.5
Calcium Superphosphate       225.0    22S.0    225.0    225.0    225.0    225.0    225.0    225.0
manure                       112.S    112.S    112.S    112.S    112.5    112.5    112.5    112.5
Sub-total Operating Cost.      665.0    705.0    705.0    745.0    665.0    665.0    705.0    745.0
Sub-total Mnput soto             665.0    70S.0    705.0    745.0  2. 346.3    665.0    705.0    745.0                                  00
ZDea   (Defaxe Laba  Costs)    -665.0  6,495.0  6,495.0 17,255.0 -2,746.3   -665.0  6,495.0 17,255.0
Labor east.
unskilled                        -         -        -         -  1,960.0         -        -         -
Ogpesatin Cost"
Pruning                       90.0    180.0    160.0    180.0       90.0     90.0    160.0    100.0
fertilization                270.0    270.0    270.0    270.0    270.0    270.0    270.0    270.0
Weeding                      180.0    180.0    180.0    160.0    180.0    160.0    180.0    180.0
Guardlng                      54.0      54.0     S4.0      54.0     54.0      54.0     54.0     54.0
Guarding                      56.0      54.0     54.0      54.0     54.0     54.0      54.0     540
Guarding                      54.0      54.0     54.0      54.0     54.0      S4.0     54.0     54.0
Pesticide                     30.0      30.0     60.0     60.0      30.0     30.0      60.0     60.0
Guarding                      S4.0      54.0     S4.0      54.0     54.0      S4.0     54.0     S4.0
Weeding                      160.0    190.0    160.0    180.0    180.0    160.0    160.0    160.0
Transport                        -      60.0     60.0    270.0         -         -     60.0    270.0
Pestlcide                     30.0      60.0     60.0      60.0     30.0      30.0     60.0     60.0
Guarding                      54.0      54.0     54.0      S4.0     S4.0      S4.0     S4.0     S4.0
Harvest                          -      90.0     90.0    270.0         -         -     90.0    270.0
Other                         30.0    270.0    270.0    900.0       30.0      30.0    270.0    900.0
Sub-total Opetbatng Cot.   I.080.0  1.590.0  1.620.0  2 640.0  1 080 0  1,080.0  1.620.0 20 6(0.0
tub-total Laboe  esot.         1.080.0  1I590.0  1 620.0  2.640.0  3.060.0  1 000.0  1.620.0  2.640.0
Incoe Waftr Laber Costs)   -1,745.0  4,905.0  4,67S.0 14,615.0 -5.806.3 -1,745.0 -4,675.0 14,615.0
lacne  Defors Labors tRR - -100.01, VWP    -16,649.S5
tn¢cs After Labors IRR - -100.0,. NMW - -19,234.01
Wed Sep 22 17:03s47 1993



146.44  14,.? 1)68.. 948)4   Am. ram. 346.1
31mmmo    PA 0M.a
4L. IL.   1  2  2   0    .L.  ~~~~~~     5   4L   JL. IL. ~~~IL. JL.IFE                  -n- ac  -n- -m- L . - IL. IL. -n- -n- -n- -n    - x                     ILa          !T!  
1s   64194                              14214.2  12.4  22.6  12.4  12.9  11.2  11.2  11.4  12.6  12.9  14.1  14.4  14.9  24.6  14.6  14.6    . 14.6 2 4.6   14.6  14.6   24.6   14.6   14.6  1 4.6  24.0   1 4.6 1 4.6   14.6  14.0 14.4 2.  14.2    14.2   14.
2.N   2.4   2.1 .2    1.        .     .     .     .     .      .1 12 62 6              .     .     .      i    .      .     ,     .     .     .         2 LI    .2   6.2   6.2   6.2  6.2   6.2       2.4     2.4   6.2
twago  20 ::p  616.4        .               0.2~~~~~~~       I.6   0.6   :1.1   .6 1 16 .0,  .1:  21.1  I'   2.1  21:   2.21  2.:2   l          2 2.2  2  " LI   IN2.   2.2   LI3   L2   LI   2.1  2L2   2.2  2.        .                      2.2
3.1"  £ alss                                          .1    0. 6.1   6.1   04.  0.2a  0.6   0.3   0.1   0.2'  0.2   0    .2      '   O.s 0  0.21  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0. 0.    020.2           2    .:.1 01 0 10.   0.,                                   .
Neal .44*60               0.6   1.1   1.6   1.9   LI   L       2.4   2.6   2.6   2.4   2.,  2.6   2.6   2.6 2.4   2.6 LLO2.6   LB   2.6   2.6   2.9   2.   2.4   2.6   LB   2.6   2.6 La.2.6                         -             i.
~~ s~~~~.                     -     .  6.~~~~~~~0:   6.   0.0   0.1 '0.     0 .1o.   0.:1  010 .1   @4 0. 0.1 O.1 ,          0.   0.1O   0.I.          .    0.1   6.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1                  . 01
914.81 689?.                                         06    . 6.    6   1..1    1    I 1    .2   1.    1.    12 1.2   1.2       .2 121.2   1.2   12   12    .2 2.   1                  12      2    .22 1      122 1       1.2   14   1.2l        .            1: .2
6.I  1 1    1.   2.      .     .     .       6.6   L  6.   S.2   6.S   6.1   4.4.4 6.4   6.4  1411.  10.  102   104  12  12.41.                          .     .     .                       .
141466 6t04.4#63                                 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0   6.6  19.1  16.  16.6  24.6  12.1  46.9  46.2  66.9  64.4  66.2  64.3  11. 6  60.0  64.?1 6.6  60 1.4 9.6 6.1  95.7  96.?  91.1  94  .? 94.1  7 91.1                   9.
V a"s 816 0 a 11.                    2.0  ".O 66    .   0.6   0.9   09   0.6   060  0.6   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   2.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   2.0   1.0   6.0  1.0   1.0                 1.0     1.0   1.0
AAM4  g.eg                                             I O. .    0.   0.2   0.2   04 j   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   6.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.6   0.4   0.4   0.4  0.6 04    0.                 - 0.
to" 1  hE lm dtI 01                                                                        I 0 
9-  -    ~         ~        ~        -   M-4   N-  -    4-
62466.8 #046.1*468   91**               t.  2. 0 .1   0 . 2 0 .1 0 .40.   6.4   0.1   0.2    .           .      A    M    00 04 41    .                   .44 04    .                          .     '     .     .     .    .      J      1         .      .
su."Iveame tv. .4--lr74 -4 -M -4- -IM -~ -H4 -M 4.4 -J4 -M. -A -M -Y -4 -M -M..  - -lT -H-Y                                                                                                                 T -H -   4
as." -d
C&*.448  I.lt:oB6*         i:h        2..   4 ..   ;6 1.   2.4   .A   4.I. 4.    .1 61  .  20.6   6.1  6.6   4.9  4                         6.9I   6.02  03.0  26 0   6    60I    60.  62.0 21.6 -   6,91  6.6  I.I  6.6U   6.6-  6.1     2.0  ...0#-   6.9
Ctl.:4ag1 "Von4t                                                                                  .'.6614.'6   .  1    .  161.   .6.    .6.    61.   . -*.6R  7?R: :P          4 I11          : '.1  .6'.1i.i       .?             I             .Z
*0.346.2 934*010.4 lest  .'. . *  M*I IH-fl1 illil hII-t$  Id Id  liiliii-IIi -fl-I I-IIIIiIi-*i                                                                                                                    i-ti -Itt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II    M ':
igag:  ee  6e.u*0 84C~...          V..  1.:          1302. 6  9    .6  29.1  21.6  22.0  It.?  22.4  24.6  26.6  26.2  26.7  21,2  21.0  21.4   M$.  26.0  32.6  24.6  26.6  26.4  26.6  36.5  26.6  36.6   M 16.220.11.1    12.2    12              $.2  I6.
0.6 1.4*6*  11448 h.                  29.7$   11j~j3..1.1M                                                                                                                          1     306      J f3.43112J                              32     1.
@0161k46840 ft20 018 S43 9.4 -  6.9..                                                                                                                          ... -.
PA.     6686 Of 80                      
66.20* 206.04 9t hSOB..NW"
in3 .5.3, UV * 071.82
rnrnw                                       -.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ER



China
Loess Plateau Soil And Water CouservatiOu PtOJeCt: ShAaOXi YaRM Subproject
sklaanxi yanho Aroa, "Lldel
SCOomc on I'm peassalmm
(to Yuan Million) /a
Without Proiect                                                                                                           J&AU&rY -- DOCOlab
a to                                                                                                    Stith 9
1      2      3      4 -    5      6      7   -iO-    -.L-  --!--   3         4      s      6-    7-,  8         9   J-0-  -it-    12   A31-   14    15
Win exoduatsem,
row  crops                                      12.1  12.5  12.4  12.2  12.0  11.9  11.6  11.5  12.9  13.7  15.3  16.2  17.1  19.5  19.0  21.1  21.6  22.0  22.5  22.8  23.2  23.2  23.2
Commercial crops                                  0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   1.2   2.0   3.0   3.5   4.1   4.6   4.9   S.1   53    5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1
Stool and castmere                                3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.2   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7
Heat and a"                                     26.0  26.8  26.7  26.1  26.6  26.S  26.S  26.4  26.9  27.5  20.1  28.7  29.3  29.t  $4.6  31.3  11.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.2  31.3
Animal ttacticm                                 20.2  20.2  20.2  20.2  20.2  20.2  20.2  20.2  20.3  20.5  20.7  20.9  21.1  21.3  21.5  21.7  21.7  21.1  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7
fttost products and ocaSs BOW                       -      -      -      -      -      -      -              -   2.0   4.9   8.2  11.3  14.1  14.0  11.0  19.0  28.0  29.5  20.3  26.0  26.9  31.0
Fcuit                                                                                                        -      -      - 0.6   7.4  14.2  21.1  27.9  $4.0  41.5  $2.2  62.5  67.0  73.1  70.4
S"411ng                                                                                                   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2
sub-total win ftoftatiem                         73 6 -933_r3 I-12-0  2 6    462 161 9 "   -TO-1 -W-3 -i-28 93 9 107 5 116 4 12-9-0 1 3-8 -1 H 4-4 1 0-5 -1 17-6-7 P 9-7 106 3 I t-4 -6
Sy lp"duaia
rotage end  crop straw                           0.1   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.1   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.4   1.0   1.1   1.2    1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.7   1.7   1.7
Animal skin                                       1.7   1.7  - 1.7   1.1   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.8   1.9   1.8   1.9   1.9   2.0   2O   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Mauro                                             8.4   9.4   8.4   9.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   8.4   0.4   0.6   9.7   9.8   9.0   9.1   9.3   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4
-fo-O -70-0 -a-9 =0 a 0=9 _F_ _0_8 0=8 -TO-9 -1 f-I =1 S =t? 2=0 _F2_3 2=6 =2 9 2=9 =2 0 =3 0 =3 0 ) 0 -1-3-6 -3 -0
Sub-total Ooraftets                                      74-           _T__ -          0.8                                                                                                                     I
atos* V&lve Ot Production                          74.4  .1 73.9  3.6 7T1 =3. 2 -U-9 -7 Y-5  i 33 - RE-2 -a 1 -.7 -9479 ids.9 fi-g-c F2 9-o 14 i-9 rs i-a R7.4 i 7-9 J is 9-7 192.7 T-99. 3 W3
f"n a *
ou'ADJO&I :Zactloft                                  3.6   3.6   3 6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   4.0    3.9   3.1   3.S   3.4   3.3   3.6   3.$   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.6   3.6   3.2
44         _.j.04 __1.4            0.1           1.0   1.1   1.3   1.1'  1.8   2.0   1.8   1.9             1-   2.3      .6   2.0   2.2
manuto                                            0.4   0.4   0.4 _j.    0.4
timb-tolkat Cka-ftm Use                          -4-6 -4-3 4-0    _75 4.  4.0   4-7 4. 4-6 -4 6 -4-7 4.7 -r-4 __" _376 -r-I _-5--i -5-3                                                                  6.1 --s-5
not Value 09 psoduction                            ?0.4 0=1 -rg-g 'Tg-6 -j7974 -79-2 -69-9 _W_7 0=8 76 5 172-1 IC9739 TO 1-3 TIS-1 T2_1 -7 T36-4 146.0 T62-3 T7_28 TO-4 -2 rO 6-5 192 9 TO 1-6
Otbor 106110"
Sedimentation reduetton                             -      -                                              1.3   2.S   4.2   5.0   7.5   B.S   9.2  10.0   9.3   6.7   8.0   I.S   7.0   1.0   7.0
vAnAm                                          _fO_.4 _TO_.1 _4_99 T9.  W.  C9.  Fe.  60 7 72.0 7_91 _C6_2                         TO 0-7 TZ-3-fa T3_239 T4 6-4 TS-5 -3 rl 1-0 -18-0-W    1-03-3 199 92-01-6
psodDat"a G"t
xaw"tnont
ftrob"od tqpuu
Seed askd seeditaqs                                                                                   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   1.9   1.9
Chemicals fertilizers and pesticide                                                                   1.7   1.6   1.6   1.5   1.6   1.4   1.0   1.0
Animal Unction                                                                                                               -       -      -      -      -
OthOr Inputs                                                                                          O.;   O.-   0. a 0. I 0. 0 0. " 0.1   0.7
Jhlb-Total parob"ed %tratfil                                                                           I-. __24 _11 _44-7 14-11 446- _44-35 -3.6 -3.$    -
KiLt" labat
Unskilled labor                                                                                       S.7   6.7   S.7   S.7   S.7   S.?   4.5   4.5              -
Sub-tatal lxvestoot Costs                                                                               1-05 __W35 70-4 1-0-3 70-3 -70-2 -9 I -8 I ----= --'-'Z
Operating
Faveb"ed 19WRtS
SO"  aad seedlings                           0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.0   0.01   0.7   0.7   0.6   0.6   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
Chemicals fettilizers and pesticide   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   1.3   2.1   2.9   3.6   4.4   5.9   6.3   6.0   6.9   1.1   7.3   9.1   8.2   7.6
Aoilul traction                                -
14anuto
Othor Inputs                                 I.;   1.7   1.7   17   1.1   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.0   1.9   1.9   2.1   2.0   2.2   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3
concentrate                                 14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  15.0  15.2  IS.b  15.8  16.1  16.1  16.6  16.9  16.9  16.9  26.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9
Straw todder                                10.9  311.9  30.9  10.  10.9  18.9  19.9  18.9  16.9  19,3  19.6  20.0  20.3  20.7  21.1  21.5  20    2I.S  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5
1- -C-                      - &7--
sub-Total ftcabasod rmmts                     36.4  36.4  36.4  36.4  R-.4 -31-.4 -3-6-4 _6_4 -3Z-.9 -li-6 _T9_.9 -4 Ei -4 M.7 -4 _4_2 _T6_3 -77-5 -49.1   O.)   0.4 -4:17 -4 i-4  49.    8.9
Ric" labor
Uaskilled labor                             22.7  22.7  22.7  22.7  22.1  22.7  22.7  22.7  23.S  26.9  30.9  34.0  39.4  43.8  "                     51.2  54.4  57.2  $0.4  59.1  50.8  59.3  60.9
sub-toua Opecatiow costs                        _P9_2 _r9 -2 -P-2 -P-2 -T-92 -39-2 _9_2 _53_2 -CO-5 _C5_4 -70-6 _f6_2 _V2_1 -10-0 93.7 _W-8 102 5 TO 5-4 TO 6-7 MM TO-9-2    TO 9-9
Sub-total ftodootion, Cost                        _'9_2 _39_2 -N-2 7r9 -2 __92            -39-2 _K9_2 -iT-O -7 5-9 -81-6 _T6_5 _T2_4 -9-2- i-OF-6 YO-6 -8 r0_25 1T5__4 TOC-7 70-7-7 TOO-2 106 9 TO 9-6
otbor outflow
other inputs                                                              -                           7  40.4  16.3  19.3  19.1  19.1  10.7  14.6  14.6
_T9.2 _9_2 _r9_ 2  59.2  59.2 111.4  92.2 100.3 105.7 111.5 1 1 r9- T I 6-4 T21-4 T02-S 10 S-4 T06-1                   rOO-2   9.9  0 .9
O"rLOW                                                                                                                                                                                              ro- T 9-
casu rum                                           21.2 16-.9 -IT. i-1 0 -.S -W-12 =0.0 - C-7 _V35    :01i 4-46 :16-.6 -2-7  6.7 -N-5 -TS--.O -32-0 _g'S_6                                94.0 -F5_2 -1.0
IPA - MIT. mpv   153.24
\a locluding auesety area 32 ha.                                                                                                                                                                                        (D
sun Doe 12 06:34:04 199i                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-A



China
Loess plateau Soil And Water Conservation Project:  Shaanai Yanhe Subproject
Shaanxi Yanhe Area Model
(In Yuan Million) /a
et
Future  Future Percentage
rolect                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Present Without With    Chanee
16    1     16le    19    20    21    22    23    24    25    26    27    28    29    30         1       e      30 n
Food crops                                 23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2    12.7    11.5   23.2              0.0
commerclal crops                            5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   S.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1          0.7      0.1    5.1         0.0
Wool and cashmere                           3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.73 3.7   37   3.i   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7            3.1      3.1    3.7         0.0
geat and eg                                31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3  31.3    26.9    26.4   31.3               0.0
Animal traction                            21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.1  21.7  21.7  21.7  21.7    20.2    20.2   21.7               0.0
Forest preducts and grass seed             30.6  30.5  24.8  22.9  25.9  27.9  2e.6  61.9  61.4  59.5  S9.1  61.3  59.1  51.3  50.8            -        -   50.8           -
fruit                                      83.7  99.0  92.2  92.2  92.2  90.4  68.6  06.9  85.1  63.3  81.5  80.1  76.7  76.7  76.7            -        -   70.7           -
seedling                                    1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3   0.2   1.3            -        -    1.3-
Sib-totaling U"    dast.                    200.6 203.6 203.2 200.2 204.3 203.5 203.4 233.9 232.7 227.9  226.8 226.65 224.0 215.1 215-7   63.6    61.9  215.7              0.0
By Probate
Forage and  crop straw                      1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7          0.7     0.7    1.7         0.0
Animal skin                                 2.0   2.0   2.0   :.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0          1.7      1.7    2.0         0.0
manure                                      9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4          0.4      6.4    9.4         0.0
Sub-towtl  ppadueta                          13.0 -13.0  13.0  13.0  1X3.0  13.00  13.0  13.0  13.0  13.0  13.0 -13-0  13.0 -13.0  13.0    10.8    10.6   13.0             0.0
Sues value Of Prodaattam                    213.6 216.7 216.2 213.2 217.3 216.5 216.5 246.9 245.7 240.9 239.6 239.5 237-0 226.1 228.7    74.4    72.7  226.78              0.0
Ou-ram Use
Animal traction                             3.2   3.2   3.2   3.6   3.6   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.6   3.6   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2          3.6      3.6    3.2       -0.0
manure                                      2.9   3.0   3.1   3.3   3 .37 ii      3.1   3.1   3.1   3.3   3.3   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1        0.4    0.4    3.1          0.0
Sd*-fetal ba-Puz Use                          6.1   6.3   6.4   6.9   6.9   6.4  -i74  -6.4  -6.4  -6.9  -6.9  6.4  -6.4 -6.4   6. 4   -4.0             4.0   -6.4   ~ 0.0
ret Value ef  rzeduatlea                    27.r4  '10.4 209.9 206.3 210.4 210.1 210.1 240.5 239.4 234.0 232.9 233.1 230.7 221.8 222.4 -70.4    66.7  222.4                0.0
other  iog"
Sedimentation reduction                     7.0   7.0   6.6   6.2   5.0   5.4   5.0   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6            -        -    4.6           -   7 0.
IZa                                      21-4.4 21-7.4 -216.53 212.5 -216.21 215.5 21 5.1 245.1 24-3.9 238.6 23-7.5 237.7 2352 26.4 T227.0    70.4   -60.7  227.0      0.0         00
*redbotLas Cest
9"-ade Impute
Seed and seedlings                        -     -     -      -     -     _      -     _     -      _     _        _      _  _     _
Chemicals fertillzers and pesticide          -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -           -        -      -          -
Animal traction                           -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -
Other Inputs                                                                                                                                         _
Sb-fetal    ba     inputs                   -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     - _  _  _ 
Unskilled labor                           -     -      _     -     _     _      _     _     _      _     _
Sub-tetl ilmcstmt_ Cta                                                        _     _      _     _            _     _     _      _                      _      _ 
OPerating
Seed and seedlings                      0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6          0.9     0.9    0.6        -0.0
Chemicals fertilizers and pesticide   7.7   7.9   7.9   8.6   8.6   1.9   7.8   7.6   7.0   6.S   6.5   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7            0.0      0.0    7.7        0.0
Animal traction                           -     -      -     -            -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -
Manure                                    -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Other inputs                            2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4   2.3   2.4          1.7      1.7    2.4        0.0
concentrate                            16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9  16.9    14.9    14.9.  16.9              0.0
Straw fodder                           21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5  21.5    10.9    16.9   21.5              0.0
Sub-Settl PVrcha5d Ienputs               49.1  49.1  49.3 -79.9  50.0  49.2  49.2  49.1  49.2  49.9  49.9  49.0  49.1  49.0  49.1    36.4  316.4   49.1                0.0
Wire" Labor
Unskilled labor                        61.4  61.6  60.6  59.6  60.1  61.0  61.3  62.3  61.9  61.0  60.9  61.7  61.7  61.2  60.9    22.7    22.7   60.6               0.0
Sab-tetal operating Cost.                 110.5 110.9 109.9 109.7 110.1 110.2 110.5 111.4 111.1 110.9 110.7 110.7 11O.8 110.2 109.9    59.2   i59.2  1o9.9               0.0     0  >
Sub-fetal  rodoetion Cost                   110.5 110.8 109.9 109.7 110.1 110.2 110.5 111.4 111.1 110.9 110.7 110.7 110.6 110.2 109.9    59.2    59.2  109.9               0.0         X
Otb., Outflows 
other inputs                                                                                   - _       110.    -     - ,        1                         9  -        0
OD LOWS                                   110.5 110.8 109.9 109.7 110.1 110.2 110.5 111.4 11i.1 i       6 110 . i 7 110O.  119   2 109.      59.2    59.2 _10_9.9        O.- 0;0 
Caab n1ew                                   103.9 106.6 106.6 102.8 106.0 105.3 104.5 133.7 132.9 127.8 126.9 127.0 124.5 116.1 117.1    11.2           9.5  117.1         0.0       iN
0
rt
0



chism
L"sa Plateaus Soil and Water Cmsotvation Projects Welton Subproject
Wai Fen Ac" ho"t
toomom BUDOU tAommwdmm
(la Yuan Hillion)
January    Docamber
without Ptol*ct              9 to                                                                                                 Witb Prowet
S     6      7    _LO                                              7      a      9    AO_   -M-    12    13              is    _LG_   17    A$       9     0    TI
Nola frodoctim
food ctqw                            7.9   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.6   7.6   7.5   7.S   7.1   6.3   S.9   5.6   5.3   S.0   4.6   4.5   4.7   4.9   6.0   6.0   5.0   S.*   S.0   S.0   5.0   S.*   S.0   5.0   S-41
Commercial crop                      2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.6   2.0   3.9   3.1   3.2   3.4   3.6   3.S   3.S   3.S   3.%   3.S   3.6   3.5   3.5   3.S   33    3.5
Mol and casbac"                         -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   9.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
rAnt and ag,;                          -      -      -      -                                 -   0.0   0.1   0.2   6.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.)   0.3   0.3   0.3
Ani"l skin                             -      -      -      -                                 -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Animal other                           -                                                      -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Fortat ptodwts and girams sa,*d        -                                                   0.0   0.2   0.8   1.6   2.2   2.6   3.1   3.S   3.7   6.5   6.9   S.1l  S.6   S.6   6.7   S. 'S  S.7   3.0   1.7   4.4   CS
Fruit                                                                                               -      - 0.0   1.3   2.6   3.7   S.$  10.)  14.9  19.9  22.8  27.0  31.0  34.6  36.6  30.0  29.3  40.2  40.9  4t.0
so"ling                                                                                    0.3   *.S   0.5 -0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.5   O.S   "               O.S   0.5   0.5   0.6  .0.5   0.5   CS   4.5   CS   0.5
sub-total mms ftododuca               10.1  10.1  10.0  10.0  10.0   9.9   9.9   9.9   9.S   9.4   9.9  103   i-is -5 M   -fs-.s -fS.0 2-3.1 3-0.7  34.1  30.0  42.1  46.1 -ig-7 72-0 TO   1_236 _T3_4 -iff-9  $5.0
IV Praducts,
COWAOCcial ecaps                       -      -      -                   -      -      -   0.4   0.7   0.9   1.2   1.1   1.1   1.0   0.9   0.6   0.4   0.2              -      -      -     -             -      -     -      -      -
Fodder and t*csqo products           0.1   0.7   0.7   O.;   a.;   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   8.0   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8   0.8   0.9   0.9   6.9   0.9
Animal skin                            -                                                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Animal other                           -                                                          0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1 __ql   0.1   Qk   0.1   O.t -A.,   0.1   Ok   0.1   6.1   0.1   0.1   8.1
sub-total syproducts,                  0.7  0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 - 0.7                     1.0  1'3  1.6 --" -1.9 -1.9 -1.9 -1 a  I 5  1 3  Q   0.9 -6-9 11.9 -0.9 . 0.9  0.9 -0.9 -O$ -4.9 0.9
acose Value of ftadwtim               10.9  10.9  10.7  10.1  10.7 -TO.7 =0.6 =0.6 =O.S _F67  _11A   12.4  14.4  16.2  17.4  19.9  24.6  12.0  36.2  39.0  43.0  17.4  $0.7 _r2_9 _$4_1 1-Is -9-4 -35-7 -Ss--v
an-tows, fo"
Aninot other                            -     -                                        -      -   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
Seedling                                                                                      -   6.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0
- - - - - - -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 0-2
S'Ab-lotal Cn-f"u Use                                                                                                                                      0.2   0.2
O.j                                                                0.2
0.0   0.1   0.1   0.    0.2   0.2   0.2                              0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
not Valm  Of Peadmation               10.9  18.0  16.7  14.1  10.7  10.7                     10.5 =0.6  It.#  12.3  14.2  16.0  17.2  19.6 _2V-.4 - VI -.S 7fS_O _30-.6 _f2 -.S _r6_6 -5:0-3 _T2_7 _U_.9 73M  -9'4 M 706  5-5.7
Otbft Tactows,
Sodiamt Reduction s"etit                                                                   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.0   0.9   1.0   1.0                0.6   0.7   4.7   0.7   0.7   0.1   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7
llwtan                              10.9 10.6           10.7" 10.7 10.7 -To-6 -i 5-.6 -io-.1 -Ft-.t -T2-5 -rs-i -Fs-2 -17-0 -1 9-2 20.5 -TS-2 _f2__S _r6_7 _V9_6 -4 3-6 '77-6 _1_2 -B-4 -94-6 -fi-O 74- -fG-t 76-%
production C"t
U"Otmftt
gambamd
Seed and ftedim;                                                                  -   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.S   0.7   0.7   0.6   CS
Animet atMc                                                                       -   0.0   0.0              -      -      -      -      -
Fortilloots STA aimmicais                                                  -      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   O.L   0.1
otlvar iqmts                                                               -      -   0.1   0.1   8.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0
Stb-fotal ' ,39"4 InrAtO                                                              1-3 -3 2 -1 I -1 t -1 4-0 9 0-0 -0 7
IU"d Labog
Unskilled labot                                                                        1.9   1.0   1.7   1.7   I'S-1.4    .2   3.!
-j7                                  .-.L-            __.: -                                      z
SUb-total U"Ptamt Costs                                                                      .1 -3. i -2.0 _Yi --2-.#-  .2. 3-  2.0   1.7           -      -      -     -      -      -      -
"age"
Vurcm"d U"to
Sood and J1a,"Ing,               0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   C.)   0.)   C.)   0.)   0.3   0.3
Ani"i othot                     '1.9   1.9   I.*   1.9   1.9   1.0   1.9   J.$   1.0   1.7   1.6   1.4   1.3   1.2   J.1   1.1   110   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   0.1   1.0
INvellizers and chomicals        1.3   3.3   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.1   1.1   1.0   1,11  1.9   2.2   2.4   2.6   2.8   2.9   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.1   3.2   3.3   ).3   3.4   3,4   3.6   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4
Other inputs                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.2   O.$   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.0   0.4   0.4   0.4   6.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4
so"l ing                                                                                      0-2 -1-A  _jp A  -9:9 _9,2   OA             -9-2 -0.2 __L_    0.2   0.0   0.0   0-0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
sub-totol tomebasod Inputs,    4.0   3.9               3.9   3.9   3.0   1.7   3.7   4.3   4.4   4.6   4.7   4.0   4.9   4.9   4.8   6.0   5.0   6.0   6.1   5.2   5.3   5 3   6 i -S 3 -6-3   $5  -6.4   S3
OU"d Labot
Unskilled labor                  3.1   3.7 _1. 7    .2   3..2              -7                                     6.6   7.2   7.1   9:2 -.0A  -9.1   9.2   9.4   9.9  10.1  16.S  10.7 _11:0  10.9  11.0  11:1  11.3
_L           _1? _j_                                 _tp .. _    __ _      .-                                                                               __
Sub-total operstiLog C"to                        __2=t   7_   7-5. _1!,l   1.4   7.1 _ kj _A. I   9.9  la.-)  ll.i  li.i 7-6   7. 66  -   El  li.i   Ei -1 i -. i -H3  75-.-o -i i-.4 -i;:,i  R.-I  Wi _4A 
7.6   7.6   ?.S   7.                                                                                                                                                                         r.-P
Stkb-fotal ftoductiou cost                                    S   7.6   7.4   7.4   7.3  II.%  12.1  lE7 '-I Y. i "6A  _'R3  'R3  'AA  -i K   -1 C i _R:1 _147i -1 C.-O W i -15.0  16.1  16.1  k6_3  -i V.4 -16-6 -1
Otliet Outtla"
Other inputs                                                                              10.2   S.6   4.7   4.1   3.0   3.2   2.7   6.2                   -      -     -
eureLows                             7. 6    1. 6   7.S  -1. S   7.5   7.1   7.4   1.3  21.7  17.  -1 7 -.S _1852 1-1.1 _Mi -M-3 -FO--D =3 4 _5_1 _5_2 :C:4 -5 -TS-0 -FS-4 -N-0 76-1 7-6-1 -9-1 J6_4 'T6_6 _T6_7
-7_3 - -i-               -T- W    24 9 29.6 325 -3 K-4 -W-4 -303 -35-.9 -3 i-.s -Wl -379 -a
Cash n"                                  .2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.3 -C1.0 =6. i =5.4 =S71  -TS   O.1   01                    .5  11.0   Oi   13
30.41. VW - $6.91
sun Dee 12 OS:23:34 1993
m
f
ko
4-t tki F" At*& itodot



China
ieoss Plateau Soil and Water Cons.rvstion Protecto W eifen Subpreject
Wei Fank Area Model
in02acW=     (Agoax*4m
(In Yuan Hillionl
Future  Future Perc*Atage
_______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ Present   Without  With  Chance
22    23    21    29    26$   27_   28    29    30       7        S      10       4
Minm pkodution
food crops                        S.C   S.0   9.0   9.0   S.0   9.0   9.6   9.0   9.0      7.0      7.5    9.0        -0.0
Commercial crops                  1.9  31.   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.S   3.9       2.4      2.4    3.S         0.0
Wool and cashmene                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0,2         -       -    0.2           -
Went and egg                      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3         -       -    0.1           -
Animal skin                       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0,0         -       -    0,0           -
Animal other                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -            0.0 
Forest products and grass seed  10.6  11.9  14.3  14.0  16.S  16.7  16.2  16.1   9.4          -       -    9.4           -
fruit                            41.2  41.3  41.4  41.4  41.4  41.0  41.4  41.4  41.4         -       -   41.4           -
Seedling                          0.9   0.9   0.9   0.90O.90.9   0.9   0.5    0. 9 -                -      D.            -
sub-total maim Idoctican          62 69.-S7  69.-2  64.9 -67.3  6f7.6  67.1- 67.1  9r6.3   -10. I      .9 956.3         0.
my vroaots,
Commercial crops                                                                                           
Fodder and forage products        0.8   0.8   0.6   0.0   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.0       0.7     0.7    0.8         0.0
Animal shin                       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -       -    0.0           -
Animal other                      0.1   0.1   0.1 --!A-.  -±j- I 0- ...!    0.1  0.1          -       -    0.1           -
Sub-total 3ygoduots                 0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9 0.9   0.9   0.9   0.            07    0.7    09          0.0
*ros, Value of predmuoti           70.2  66._4 -a-, 69.0  46.-3  60.9  6r9.0  68.1  S7.2    10.9    10.6  97.2           0.0
Cm-WaM Oee
Animfal other                     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -       -    0.2           -
Seedling                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.      .     .   0.0   0.0    .                         0
sub-total on-lam oee                0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2 0.2   0.2  -0.2  -0.2    -           -      -0.2           -
get Value or production           7f0.0 _66.4  69. 9  69. 68.01  68.-3 6T7.9697.9  97.0   -10.9    10.6   97.0           0.0
Other InS .e.
Sediment Reduction Oenefit        0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   8.7   0.7   0.7   0.7                      0.7          0-
1AhlwS                          1016:7.1  66.71 66W.4  698.9 6T9.0  66-.6  66-.6  97.7    10.9   -10.6  S7.7           0.0                                                     0
Praduoticak Cost
lurohased Impute
Seed and Seeding -           ----                                                                          
Animal othe      ---                                                 -     -     -        -                 
Fertilizers and chemicals -         ----                                                                   
Other inputs    -         ----                                                                              
WubisedLebt vrbm zpt
Unskilled labor ----                                                                 -                      
Sub-totsal Invetment Caet* ----                                                          -                      
Operating
lurcoasad Iapata
Seed and Seeding              0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.7     0.7    0.3        -0.0
Animal other                  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0       1.9     1.9    1.0        -0.0
Fertilizers and chemicals    3.3   3.1   3.0   2.9  2.8.  2.8   2.7   2.7   2.7         1.3     1.0    2.7         0.0
Other inpts                   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4       0.0     0.0    0.4         0.0
Seedling                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -       -    0.0           -
sub-6totl purchaeed Inputs      9.2 9.    4.9   4.9   4. 0 4.7   4.6   4.  46             4.0     )      4.6         0.0
Kired Labor
Unskilled labor              12.0  11.8  11.7  11.7  11.9  11.9  11.8  11.8 _11.2?    3.7       3.7   11.2         0.0
Sub-total Operating Coats,        7. 16.9  1. 166 461.6 64    .39.7                         7.6    -7.1   19            .
sub-total Ircduotiaa Cost          17f?.2  16.9  16.7  16.6  1j6.6  1f6.6  16.4  16.3  19.7   7.6     7.1   19.7         0.0
Other Outflows
Other inputs    -          ----                                                               -           -              -
owlaiSn                          17.2  16.9  16.7  16.6  16.6  16.6 -i6:i  16.3  ) S7   -7.6   -7.3  195.7             0.0-
cash vlog                          93.9  90.-3  9~0.0  4j9.8  92.1  92.4  92.2 9W2.3  42.0    1.2     3.3  4-2.0         0.0                                                   t



CHINA
Looss Plateau Water and soil emservatioA Project: Shanxi--Xinshui Subproject
Xin3hul River Total Project Area Facm Model
scaumc Boom (AOQRBM"W)
it" Yvan million)
January--december
"Ithout Proie4t
9 to                                                                                                   with p
1     2      3      4      5      6 _I          a     30                     3     4       5     6 __2_    0           9    10    11    12       13    14    15
lftle ftodmatioA
row  Crops                                   14.5  14.3  14.0  13.7  13.5  13.2  12.9  12.7  12.6  14.1  11.5  13.4  13.7  13.0  13.7  13.5  11.3  13.5  13.9  14.1  24.1  14.2  14.2  14.2
Comercial crops                               1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   2.2   2.4   2.0   3.2   3.5   3.7   3.9   4.0   #.I   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1
Totage and crop straw                                                                                               0.2   0.5   0.0   1.1   1.5   1.6   I.e   2.0   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.t   2.2
wool A cashmere                                                                                              O.-D   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
Heat and egg                                                                                                    5           1 2   1.5           2 2   2 3   2 3   2 3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2 3   2.3   2 3
Animal Skin                                                                                                  0 0              0   0.0   ':'I   0 1   0 1   0 1   0 1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0 1   0.1   0:1
Animal other                                                                                                 0.4   0.5   0.7   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9
rarest prodttcts                                                                                                -      - 0.4   1.0   1.6   2.3   2.9   3.4   4.0   4.4   4.7   4.9   5.0   5.0   5.1
Fruit                                                                                                                 -      -   0.0   4.5   0.6  12.6  14,9  19.9  25.9  32.7  37.1  40.1  43.5  46.6
Seedling                                                                                                            0.8   O."   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8   O's   0.9   O's   0. 0   0.0   0.0   0. 8 0.8
Bob-tow    ULts eteftation                     16.5          16.0  15.7 7 K_4  113.1 -1-4.;  14.6 -Y-4; -Tl--;  10.4  19 7-12-0 -2-9-2 =3 9 -TO-0 -4-1-6 -i-77 _341 -,O -U-0 -66-6 --i0_3 77-3  76.4
Sy exodeato
ratage and etop straw                         0.0   0.9   0.8   0.6   0.9   0.6   0.6   0.0   0.9   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.9   0.0   0.9   0.0   0.9   0.0   0.0   0.9
Animal other                                    -       -      -     -       -      -     -      -      - 0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.)   0.3   0.3
fecost products                                 -             -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -   1.0   1.3   1.9   1,1   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
xvib-total, ftrzoduato                          0 6 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 9 00 0 9 0 9 08-0 9-0 9 -0 9 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -2 1 -2 4 2 0 -2 0 2-3 -2 3 -2 3 -2 3
ftoes Value, ot ftoduation,                   _T7_3 -17-0 -1-6-1 -16-5 -16-2 -T-S-9 _T5_7 __f5__4 =53=0219.2 206 -13-7 _T9_2 _f4__9 =9 9 43 7 SO 0                                 -G-18 ICO -9 72 6 _T5_5 78-7
Otbot Saslows
Other Output                                                                                                 0.5   0.9   1.3   2.6   1.0   1.9   1.7   1.8   1.1   1.5   1.4   1.2   1.0   1.0   1.0
union                                        17.3  17.0  16.7  16.5  16.2  15.9              -TS-.4  IS.;  19 6-10-2  21 975-3  31 1 -3g-7 -TF-6 -i-54 _V177 _F9_1 -U-2 _T0_1  13 6 -76--5 _T9_1
ftoftation Cost
twestamat
fteeb"od lm"ts
So"  4 Seedling                                                                                          1.4   1.4   1.3   1.1   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.6             -      -      -
Chemical rertilitecs   Pesticides                                                                        0.9   0.9   0.9   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2             -      -      -
Other inputs                                                                                             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0             -                    7
sub-Total fordboa*4 smote                                                                                  2 42 4 -2 3 -1 I -1 2 -1 2 -1 I -0 0
Ntz" Zab"
Labot                                                                                                    31.a   3.2   3.1   2.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   t.4
sub-total sweetwout costa                                                                                    5.7 -S.6 -5. 3 -4. i -2.6 -2.9 -2.1 -2.2
ap"atino
Puzabasiml Zapata
seed 6 S"dling                            1.4   1.4   2.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.3   1.1   1.0   0.9   0.9   0.7   0.7   0.6   0.1   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.1
chomicol Fettiliaers & Pesticides   2.3   2.2   2.2   2.1   2.0   2.0   1.9   1.9   1.9   2.9   3.4   3.0   4.2   4.4   4.6   4.0   4.9   S.0   5.1   5.3   $.4   5.6   5.5   6.6
Other loputs                              2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   3.6   3.9   4.4   4.e   5.3   5.6   5.0   S.9   5.9   6.0   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1.  6.1
Sub-Tow  Paxabased tmftta                   6.4  6.3 6.3 1-.2 -6.1 -6.1 -6.0 -5.9 -5.9 -7.7 -0-.4 9-2 10.0 -10-5 _f0_.9 7-1.3 _TJ_.3 11.6 7FI -.O =2.O -12-1 -f2-.2 _f2_.3 _F2.53
sit"
Labor                                     .        .      .    4.8   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.9   4.0   5.9   6.7   1.7   G.e  10.1  11.4  12.6  13,S  14.5  15.7  16.7  17.2  17.6  11.9  10.3
-7   -                          o -fo-9 -F3-6 -Y5-i i-6 -9 -ii-9 -2F.-6 -2 Q.3 73-.9 24.e 265 -27.5 --i-e. 7 T-9.2 -i -9-.9 -T672 -To-.6
sub-total oporating C"to                     11.2  11.2  11.1   1.0  it-0 10._9 -1 C-9 70
f -1. -2  11.2  11.1 7-1.0 -rl.-O              -To-9 -id-i 7 C-3 -257.7 -if-2 753J  -F-34  25.1                                                  -79-   -3-   -io-6
sib-Total tro"atioa C"t                                                                                                                                 26.5  27.0  26.1 -F?-.s  I         2 .2       i   0.5
Otbas Outflow
othec inputs                                                                                               -21.2  14.3  11.7 _11.1 _6.9 _6 '2   5.4   5.3               -      -             -             -      -
outilms                                                                                             _q                               430.3 11.2  fl.;  11.1  13.0  11.0  10.9  14.9  10.0  I !9  WS _3&_O -3 V.9- 3-4-- -    3-f-  _W_.O -T2-.3 -Y6-.l  27.5 _N77 -79-2  29.0 -10-2 . 10 6
cult nw                                          6.1   5.0   5.6   5.4   5.2   5.0   4.8   4.6   4.5 -21.0 -14.0 -12.0  -K.O _677 - 5.4   9.6  13.1 _T5_.6 _T1_.fi -3 T                          -4 T.-$ 'T6-.3 -19- 1
IRR - 10.01, iPV -04.0%
Son Doc 12 00:00-1 1993
5-1 Xinshol River Total Ptoject Area PartA Model



CHINA
Loess Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project: ShRuxi--Xinshul Subproject
Xinshui River Total Project Area Farm Model
300IMC DVB! (AesWAa11D)
(In yuan Million)
Future  Future Percentage
ro1et                                                                                            Present Without  With    Change
16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24    25    26    27    28    29    30             1       9       30        9
u"      eties
Food Crops                                14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2    14.5    12.6   14.2                 0.0
Comercial crops                            4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1            1.9      1.9    4.1         0.0
Forage and crop straw                      2.2   2.2   2.2   2.1   2.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.1   2.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2              -        -    2.2           -
Wool & Cashmere                            0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2              -        -    0.2           -
Meat and egg                               2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3              -        -    2.3           -
Animal Stin                                0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1              -        -    0.1           -
Animal other                               0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9              -        -    0.9
Forest products                           5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1  11.2  11.2   8.2   8.2   8.2   8.2   9.9   9.9   6.0   6.0   6.0               -       -    6.0            -
Fruit                                    53.0  59.8  64.0  67.7  70.1  72.5  74.8  76.6  76.6  76.6  76.6  76.6  76.6  76.6  76.6               -       -   76.6            -
Soee41ng                                   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.e   0.8   0.9   0.0   0.8   0.e              -        -    0.8           -
Sub-total Main Podwotien                    82.9  889.7  93.9  97.6 106.1 1O0.5 107.8 109.6 1o9.6 109.5 111.2 111.3 107.3 107.3 1o7.3    16.5    14.6  107.3                0.0
by pzodeats
Forage and crop straw                      0.B   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8            0.8      0.8    0.8         0.0
Animal other                               0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3              -        -    0.3
Forest products                            0.7   0.5      -     -   1.2   1.2   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.0   0.0   0.0             -        -    0.0           -
Sib-total Dppzodutot1.    1.6   1.1   1.1   2.3   2.3   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.1   1.    1.1     0.8    .0.    TI1 ______
eras8 Va1ue1s   IOf Sda  e                  8V4e.7  90.   95.0  98. 7  108.4 110.9 109.6 111.3 111.3 111.2 113.0 113.0 108.5 108.5 108.5    17.3 -15.3 1~-I10               0.0
otbeg 2a ows
Other Output                               0.9   0.9   0.9   0.8   0.8   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7              -        -    0.7
IuSLPS                                    85.7  91.2  95.8  99.5 109.2 111.6 110.3 t12.0 112.0 111.9 113.7 113.7 109.2 109.2 109.2    17.3    15.3  109.2                 0.0
Produaties Cost
otshas  Z
seed £ Seedling                          -     -      -     -     -      _      _     _     _      _     _      _                  -                                                        -
Chemical fertilixera £ Pesticides        -     -      -     -      -     -      _     _     _      _     _      _        _      _     _     _        _         _        _0
Other Inputs                             -
3*b-Petal ftrobalt" Zi*UtS                 -     -      -            -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -
ninese                                       -     ---                         ---                          -__                                   _ 
Sit Sabot
Labor                                          -                                                                                            .   ........... .
Sub-total    est   Costs                     - _  _  _  _  _  _                                    -  -  -  -  -                                -
Pozobasd I,ats
Seed A Seedling                       0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.7   0.6             1.4      1.4    0.6        -0.0
Chemiccal FertilizerS * Pesticides   5.6   5.6   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6              2.3      1.9    5.6         0.0
Other inputs                          6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1             2.7     2.7    6.1          0.0
5*k-fettl Vurobeed inputs               12.3  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  124 -12.4  12.4  12.4  12.3  12.3  12.3             6.4      5.9   12.3         0.0
Labor                                18.6  18.7  18.8  18.8  19.5  19.5  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.3  19.4  19.4  19.0  19.0  19.0             4.8     4.8   19.0          0.0
Sub-total Operatimp Costs                 30.9  31.  31.1  31.3  31.9  31.9  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.8  31.7  31.3  3 1.-4  3             11.2 910.8  31.3             0.0
Sub-total Prodootion Cost                   30.9  31.1  31.1  31.3                            .3                             3  31.4  31.3    11.2    10.8   31.3           0.0
Otbeg Outloew
Other inputs______7                                                                       - 
Other42                                   30.9  -31 1. _1 _31.3  31.9  31.9  31.7  31.7  37    31.7  31.8  31.7  31.3  31.4  31.3 -11.2    10.8  31.3                     0.0
nesh 31ev                             54.8  60.2  64.7  68.2 6.77.3  79.6  78.6  80.3  80.3  80.2  81.9 -82.0  77.8  77.8 _77.8            6.1     4.5   77.           0.0
.                                                                                                      sh~~~~~~~~~I
n
5tT
5-2 Xinshui River Total Project Area lFarm Model



UNNI  It&*u gall WAd Wato  Catav  tlza Projcts G^alw
(la 1gus eooo
=I-2           3                                         7  e    to 20  1          2                                       _            6  7e9
Mu  traeFio
food Ctopd                              60.046.2 57,793.8 6s,o.03. So,28s.11 46,631.0 45,701 0 45,030.2 43.s20.6  sa,e2a.0  S6,610.2  63,ses.2  63,19s.6  63,s66.7  SS,11st.l  6e0o4.0  59,451.4  62,aos.s
CcCccaoxi*  Ccop                        12.Sel S 12.104. 11w,677.s 11,250.7 10,D23 9 10,397.1  s,s7e.2  1,6s0.1  12,014.9  s119t.10      10,s660.4  10,24X.1   s,s01.2  g,9*.49    9,0%0.9   0,725.03  S.19S.1
fact" 4d crop stra                                                                   -        -        -               7s5.4 1,052.9   8,013.0  ll,"3.2  14,861.0  17,0a0.6  16 136.8  17.362.0  19 11a3.1
wool *d castdgo                            223.2   223.3   223.3    223.:.   223.3   223.3    223.3    223.3           221.6     219.8    21|3.1      216.4     214.6      212.0     211 2     20S.3      2es.3
Mos &Wd "g                                 69s.u    699.83   699.,3   699.0   699.8    699.9   699.,3    699.8  ,152.5   7,461.2  10,923.4  14,037.6  16,865.9  19,691.4  21,es1.0  23,eaI.S  23.0a.s
Animal xlkla                               ISM 0     SO0 0    I0.0    IS0 0    ISO.D    150.6   IS.0.0   IS0.0         171.6    1IS3.2      214.8     236.t     259.0    279.7       101.3      322.9     322.9
fotest ptoclcts eavi grass Red                                                  - _                                              641.6   1,647.2   1,256.1   6,s165.3  1111690.  21.369.S  23,591.0  37.239.7
rs.it                                                   -         -        -         -                                     -         -          -     374.2   0,367 .01 *97, .1  26.s660 o36 219.3  63.402.9
Animal~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ -to                                      -                                            29.6    660.e3     99#.0   1.323.2  1,6s2.0   1 n17.6   2,312.0   2,640.0   2 610.0
Aailml tl Cti¢l                                          '        -        -         -                                 300.7     214.7      320.)     420.2                611.  6s.  M3.      66.         e.
Fluit 5v0ce aIn*sAt&l Val-                              -                  -         -        - d--,                                                      -     2s"1.6     ssa.0   105.06:      1*6. e       .*7"6e06
S - lin                                                                                                                a  5,0X.e .91.26,978;6e.6  se^@- 7,5. ,07 6 s   2sl;   470°26   I29-70S°3 470.26  s7 9970.66 43oeI7,672.6  ' 
Fo*96j  4a OCeb *z¢"t                    1,949.o  1,84.o  1.648.0  &,"B-   104.0   1,94  0I49.e  l,NO90  I.eO.o   1,910.7   2,038.6   2,211.6  2,493.0  2,T77.1   3,0sX.6   3,30.8  3,6 s.5   3,0s6.9
tobacco Stalkso                             4S  5  5.5           S        S S      45.5  S .   S5.            OS   S 4.           44.S       44.0      4 97.1  * 9.4  51.             62.   S$ 6.4   S§.3
me&  *t .04                                    -        -         -        -                           -                24.4      46.6       67.3      e6.4    103.8       119.6     112.6     1se.s      1se.6
Animl skin                                     -                           -         -        -                          3.2     106.3      16s9.5    212.6      Z65.7     31e.e    1s5 7       300.2     *eo 
FZ*c*t pelcts and 99sos SMd-                            _         _        _                                                     3e.7       703.3  2,335.0   3,e94.1   s,416.9   6,#2s 4   ,.393.4  9,ee.o
to^g                                      sq.2     e*.       *s..2   04                  842 .2   e4.2      *4.2     ns;lf:    8 *7.5       9 L2S2 a1.650.   2,.0e.8   2.4L6.S   2.7n7.s     s 9.   2 997.)
ev   -  vS                 _E             r   r ~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~A97.2-.  T4.2  77-ef.2 a e St:       A.7.                                                         '727=.6J b2sa-7   .*.   .a
-tta                                              v97.                                                                    S..      0ze  Mi 2,e.4 6=,62 e 40X2 s9,12e767.S s61s7,30*.0 s690,2 13. $62 , IS63.3    .2s2s. 1,3 1,97^
aro  Sqoa  tdw*tie            n ;        I 7,6I.; 6 T2,6 9.; ;g 60,1i2.;2 S9,16742"46.6              579,6967. 6,722.2  0s, 8".; I IO4f9D   12Z 0762 3 SS, 127s3i7 1-726 :so:°ss017 ^2.28,
Anial 'rcionS+pi                             -         -        -        -                           _         - 2  ^.7    2 29.7   32 09.    1 2e.2    61 3.1           6W sl73  1.     $6.0           8   -
Subtot l. O ft=iz<   *nd p#Las    81-                   -                                                   -   -1__   1,7.    1,49.    1,2.        ,S.        ,9.1 1129            sa2       n
s|sUIlvd lobs                -        -        -         -    _            -         -        -   e.Xos.6   *,sa".e e. i-.77. e796.  3.67               *6 71 1 6 15e.6       5
Nt V&Uw O       "t fclo ca                      -1.4. 8-,4  I 9-  -7  6 -                                       -    sOso.    W09-.    7s3s 7133.  120,6,5060.9  IS,62.6 71¢2e1  6 
opth  zollws,
S.diment. Sedu1tIOS                                                                                                                        6,140 5610.5 6,".5 614. 660.5610. 562.1  0    ,72.1 ,031.7350. 20. 28.02. 7 . 2 ,3s.
SVOth                                 %_.T 1,7.0  I,o. T ,10-6-    6,    . 0 64,610.2 ,"o.32. S.144.0  I16-.0 1   ,14-6.4 -f  se#.o   s 76.640. -,2se.1 6 107 7.4 1.13 d25.3 16s 705.67 97,25  .  95   2". 2Ss    C
N^remd lsor
-Sa"    WA         3                   -3d7.2  6-,2.  2.6    3 s             a69S               6  s     68   9-99p    2Z36                          b                  o
o    oW¢elv >ueI'Pae6                                                                                                                     : :       :::2
OthtFW    inut                                                                                                       16.2       17. 21,S27          1 X332 m 2,7}7j,7        3S,       2,Z5. ; 9  164.  .1   R 
1"~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_O 1- 19 61,16- II73 I -9 d,237.375                                                                    16:6-.232
Bob-tot"0 n:assos" taps                                                                                                                                                   9,6                   ,
UiL*d Likbw 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Unskilled labor                                                                   0,17.0  71A=867.4.  7 6121   I           6. 2". 0   5 264*



China
LOGOS Plat"ki SOLI &ad wates coa"gvation Proj*ct- Gansu
caftou Area model
scoaciac suom (AoQvamhnm
(la Yvan
---   6                                                         _;.L_ _12
"Ith "C2_53
owd Cs Ws                                  66,336.0  67,063.4  67,354.9  67,607.4  69,096.9  69.096.9  60,096.9  68,096.9  ",096.9             0". 9  ",696.9  60,096.9  66,096.0  68,096.9  ",Q%.9  68.M.9
CWLA*Ccs4l Ctops                            9. S39. 1   0.736.8   9,736.8   9,136.0   V. V 46. 8   9,736.8   V,7J6.8              9. v 16. 0            s,1*6.6   9,7j6.0   9,736.8   4,716.6   0,716.8   9,736.0
FOR62e, and crop stgAw                     19,01,0.7  20.290.9  24,281.2  17.206.7  17.162.0  19.148.1  19.853.1  20,290.9  20.201.2  17.206.7  17,362 0  19,10.1  19,050.7  20,290.9  20.201.2  17,296.7
W.,,;l anj cash"t.                            209.3      20. 3      209.3      200.3     209.3      200.3      209.3      209.3      200.3     209.3      209.)      2". 3      2". 3     Z09.3      209.3      Z09.1
he*% end #99                               23,061.5  23.001.6  23,001.6  23,081.5  23.001.5  23,001.6  21,001.6  23,001.6  21.041.5  23,081.6  23,001.6                      23,091.6  23,069.S  22.08i.b  23,00).S
A8.6061 skift                                 322.9      322.9      222.0      322.9      322.0     322.9      322.6      322.9      322.91    322.9      322.9      122.9      322.9      122,9     322.9      322.0
vas.st Pfcducts And 9r4SS Dead             S9,87S.S '61,006.6  59,669.2  68,766.4  66.920.6  66,199.9  63.692.0  S3,196.6  36.70.4  36,690.0  96,1161.7 132."7.3 144,212.% 171,942.7 170,066.0 M,109.6
Foust                                      71,694.6 104,031,6 136,663.3 162,690.9 100,03.4 21 1. Sbz. 7 237.967.9 2.40,-130.7 260, 8!4. 6 2", W,%. 6 2", Btb. 6 2", 86b. 6 260,866.6 260,V56.6 260,056.6 200,056.0
Ahi"l other                                 2.640.0   2,640.0   2,640.0   2,640.0   2,640.0   2.640.0   2,640.8   2.648.0   2,640.0   2,640.0   2,640.9   2,"O.O   2,648.4   2.640.0   2,640.6   2,640.0
Animal lVaction                               946.0      846.6      046.0     046.0      946.0      $46.0      866.0      046.0     046.0      046.0      846.0      046.0      046.0     046.0      046.0      046.0
tsuit Mogo Incremental value                1,760.0   1,7".0   1, 7". a   1,760.0   1, 7". 0   1, 7". 0   1,760.0   I.W4.0   1, 7". 0   1. 7". a   1,760.0   1, 7". a   117".4   1.760.0   1.1060.0   1. 7". a
5604liag                                                 470.6   1 978.6 3" 70.6   1,970.6          470.6   4_970.6       470.6   1.9 0.6      470.6   1 974.6       470.6   1.910.6      470.6   1,08.6        470.6
'43,401, 291,539.6 323,334.5                                                           'S z-   20 99MI W N
Sub-tow    Abin ftoductado                                                   45,497.4 391,300.i 406,074.3  3-0. I U.- 431,181.1 426  0 .0               483,644.0 519,444.0 63I.:w-7 W.-Isj-j f"--.T#m7 666.0
florset and ecop straw                      4,014.0   4.120.1   4,136.3   4,15S.4   4,179.2   4,179.2   4,179.2   4,179.2   4,179.2   4,179.2   4,179.2   6,179.2   4,179.9   4,179.2   4,179.2   4.179.2
tobacco ftalks                                 61.6       62.6       62.6       62.6      62.6       62.6       62.6       62.6       6if.6     62.6       62.6       62.6       6216       62.6      62.6       62.6
Meat ans O"                                   ISO.$      160.6      160.6      150.6      150.6     160.5      ISO.$      160.S      ISM        1bO.S     ISO.$      00.6       Is*.%      1W.6      15-0.6     160.6
Anim&l skin                                   300.2      U0.2       380.2      360.2      390       300.2      180.2      380.2      380.2      1$0.2     300.2      100.2      380.2      I"o.k     $00.2      190.2
Fas*&% ptoducto bekd gtaso $0.4            10.80.0               11,SO6.7  11,806.7              11.006.7  11,006.7  11,606.7  K1.866.7                11,006.7  11,006.7  11,006.1  11,086.7  11,066.7  41.886.7
lubur:1                                     2,997j    2 007 3               2. 007.    2AY97.    2. W.    2,097.3   2,097.3   2,%7,                        9Q_                          2,907.2   2,097.3   2. 947.
?.997.
10 4"
_A
1-8 SOL-13     -                                                                                                                             PA               .6
,666.6  IL656.5  19,656t  19,6S6.6  19 616.6  19,656.6  19,656.6  19,                            .56.6  19,656    t9 666.5
sub-tat                                                 IM08:1  IL613.6  k9,622.7 _19                                                                                9666.
cro$$ Value ag production                  1533.03M   !iTTI-73 UP , RR 7  16-6, I YOK. i 401,01fi i-26, F31.18 Gi. 0-8. 9 M,iff-S i-46, I GTi rt i, 66 i-, 9 901,300.6 539,101.5 663,36-1.2 579'WO-96 86,F# -1 374,i-14
Asitiml Tcattion                              $46.0      $46.0      046.0      646.0     946.6      946.0      046.4      046.0      046.0     046.0      $46.0      S46.0      046.4     846.0      046.0      946.0
"anus*                                                 2 007 3   2.997.3   2,191.)   2.997.3   2,997.2   2j$7_.j   2997.3   2 907 3   2 W    3   2 997 S   2,997.    2."7.3   2 V97 3   2097.3   2 097 I
aa-ram  Use                                                                                       - 1- a             A               2,843.2
Sub-so"l ea-ftm  Use                                     2AS43:    3,84 3-2   3,041.    3,043.1                 1 $43     Ii if 1,           n3fil    i1*3j    3 841.3   3 1143 3                    3-ir) -3 -
211.692.3                                       1-          31,                   M                          -    -     f'  -       '611:4
Hot Valuo Of fteductiou                                U7.2im   W9 104.0 361,206.8 397.N  .7 421,8 IkS 446,096.  447,54 3 441,H9 2 416,000.3 W", M.2 M.U0.0 64;.                        576,i". 3 S76,3111.1
sediment Wductsom,                          5 17S 0   6,176,                           6 175 6   6,17S.0   I  11        1116.0   6,176.    6,116.         916        176 0      1       6,176.    6 M..   s 115 a
j: I                                                                      641,141.3 5-01,672-.9 676.'43:
otmr "glove
DWLOWA                                    r76 '#;.3 332.469.3             s J., .1 16-1: 20 402.368:7 427, M.$     7452,369.3 446,494.2 641,903.3              a 't .. :0
ftodw"oa C16ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
sav.stes"
gucobs"d Zapata
Sea" 6" S04411024
calciva suposphoophat.
Ck&"C*l togLJ11*09. &Od POWLICIC16
Othet inpuLs
sub-2,64" purchased Inputs
Our" Labox
"skilled labor
sub-tatal laveakedvA C"to
apegatuq
S*44S "W **Wlings                       2, "S. 2   2,298.0   2,266.6   2,620.6   2,402.6   2,147.1   :,333.9   2,321.6   2.200.4   2,620.2   2,402.6   2,741.4   4.016.%   4,846.8   G.M.7   41966.5
cu.mic&I gostilix.re wW pesticide  12.742.6  22,977.6  13,200.0  13,473.9  13,620.7  13,670.6  i3,779.6                      k3.819.4  11,939.7  13,931.0  13"061.9  J,049.2  13.9)2.4  1b,619.4
calrium supdrooophate                   6,350.4   6,210.2   6.261.6   6,713.6   S."I.0   6,411.2   5,373.0   6,124.7   6,216.1   6,720.9   6,641.8   $,436.1   5,416.1   6,390.6   %,336.0   6,700...
OtLAr Inputs                           20, "O. 7  90,020.3  21,12t.4  21,280.4  21,426.6  21,640.9  21,630.6  21.644.4  21,646.4  21.6SI.4  21,646.4  21,661.6  21,645.4  21.661.4  21,646.4  21.669.#
Animal tsaction                         6,092.1   6,061.4   6.024.6   6, WG. 4   6.08.2   6,212.2   6,172.6   6,127.1   6.011.7   6,632.0   6,460.2   6.212.2   6,172.0   6,127.1   6,071.7   6.6)-.0
Mdaus#                                             1 626.3   ),"6. 3   3,897.9   3, 6". A;  31734.3   3d".4   3, Of  I   3,6b*.3   3,91g.0   3 A". 6   371#j    1,?06.4   1,66?.1   1,660.1   1,912.C
Sub-fatal fteebased input.               50.721-9  51,                  -61. W i _63,iiFi _%2,'0i:i -SZ,991,.d  557,iP12.1 t.2,74.1.3  64.204.2 11"tfi-6  6 1, ii 1-6 -64, i-OM                -Si. iii-.6
Uuxk141d4 labot                       10,262.6 1IL666 0 IL6,933.3 JM_6 7".  126,§11.5 139,699.5 134                   301.2 1110.414.0 114,528.1 141,252.  IIL"1.6 146,616.  14740-3.0 jL7jS0_2 I47 ffe.1
16's 216-.6 flj_                                                                                                                                                 200, 2-,Sj
SUb-tOtAl QPGC&t&&g C"tg                  zzz"___   _,,711.1 166                     Tqjjvil  H-j,W-e I ii, iii-2 IiPfj7t ii-P iU_5 1-8i,612.6 106, 265.6 199,7_26.0 141
2112,,"",O 20,   7.0 204.269.2
_.A24.7 17  009.7
sub-tataL ftoduat4aft cost                  166.906.6 162,78k.3 160,U0.7 DS.Ogi.) 104'W'; i-ei, M-. i R7,0i                                                                       322.1 Ni.iWi iii,ii
other okatilave
22-1
191,392.1 ZZ2,275.9 Z43,526.W 263,70i.4                                             7341,706.1 353,366.6 379,413.3 S"
" I
111-711.1 111,15190:21 176, "g. 7                                                                19S 265 5
4not IAPULS                                       -                                -            111,511.1            'a" 191.6
,6,                                                                                                              6.6
N
Cash flcw                                                                                         243,                  261, IC-1 219,111.0 253.170.7 W,3":                   1153,26              110,931.1 PHIL,. c
t26,880.7 t49,608.0                                       624.0            _ W
4-2 Gansu Area ho"l



- 18~ -                                              ANNE 7
Table 22:
China
laes Plateau Soil and watet Conservetion Protects  "nau
Gansu Arme Mdel
UC          0_
(In thnn '000)
future   Future  PeW  ontag
Present Without   W          Chn
26        27       28        29        30        1        o         v 
in Prodution
Food Cops                              68,096.9  6S.096.9  68,094.9  68,096.9  68,096.9 60,046.2 43,S28.6  68,096.9        0.1
Commercial CIops                        9,736.8  9,736.8   9,736.8  9,736.8  9,736.8 12,584.S  9,650.1  9,736.8            0.0
Focage and crop straw                  17,362.8  19,148.1  19,858.7  20,290.9  20,201.2        .        -  20,201.2          -
Waol and cashmar.                         209.3    209.3    209.3    209.1    209.3   223.3   223.3    209.3              -0.0
meat and egg                            23,081.5  23,081.S  23,081.5  23,081.S  23,0S1.5   699.8   699.8  23,081.5         3.2
Animal skin                                322.9    322.9    322.9    322.9    322.9   150.0   1SO.0    322.9              0.1
Forest products end grass seed         166,423.9 161153.2 116,8U1.9  85,315.0  92,4S1.2        -        - 92,451.2
Fruit                                 260,855.6 260,815.6 260,855.6 260,855.6 260,85s.6        -        - 260,855.6          -
Animal othes                            2,640.0   2,640.0  2,610.0  2,640.0  2,64 .0           -        -  2,640.0           -
Animal Traction                            846.0    846.0    846.0    846.0    846.0           -        -    846.0           -
Fruit Stoce incremntal value            1,760.0   1,760.0  1,760.0  1,760.0  1,760.0           -        -  1,764.0
S"dlinq                                  1 970.6    470.6               4 470.6  1.970.6       -        -   .970.6           -
-total        S553,30S. 1 548,320.7 506,220.1 473,625-.6 42,171.9 73,703.8 54.251.9 482,171.9                                0.8
ay Psoduots
Forage and crop strew                   4,179.2  4,179.2  4.179.2  4,179.2  4,179.2  1,848.0  1,848.0  4,179.2             0.1
Tobacco Stalks                             62.6      62.6      62.6      62.6      62.6    45.5    45.5        62.6        0.0
Meat and egg                              1S0.5    15.        150.5    150.5 5    1SO.5        -        -     150.5
Animal skin                                380.2    380.2    380.2    390.2    380.2           -        -     380.2
Forest products end grass seed         11,886.7  11,886.7  11,886.7  11,886.7  11,886.7        -        _  11,886.7
Manure                                   2.S97.3  2,997.3  2.997.3  2.9S7.3  2.997.3    84.2    86.2   2.9M.3              3.5
Sub-total Sypdots                         .556.5  19. 1 S   19.656.5     6.1656.5 19 6S6  61,977.8  1,97.8  19.6S65         0.9
aos Value 0  Vodutin                     !        7,6.67,977.2 525,S76.5 493,281.8 501,828.3 75,681.6 56,229.7 501,82        i.8
On-ar_  Us
Animl traction                             846.0    846.0    846.0    846.0    846.0           -        -    846.0           -
Manure                                   2 997.3  2.997.3  2.997.3  2.997.3  2.997.3    04.2    84.2  2,997.3              3.5
Sub-total On-8m Urn                                 3843.3 330 43.3 3 843    .3  3,843 3     4.2          2  3,843.3         45
set Valu  Of ltrodotin                   569,119.4 564,133.9  22,033.3 4U9 3i.6 497:951:  75,597.3 56,145.4 497,985.1        0.8
Other Ingle"s
Sedimnt Deduction                       5.175.0 _.175.0  5.175.0  5.175.0 5,.175.              -        -   5.175,0 
MWLM                                  574,294.4 56S,30S.S 527,208.3 494,613.6 5A3,160.t  75,597.3 56,145.4 503,160.1       0.8
-zouoio  Cost
nvest  st
Seeds nd seedlings
Calcium Sperphophate                                                                
Chamical frtilizers and psticide          -         -         -         -         -        -                    
Other Inputs                              -         -         -         -         -
sbb-total  uowh " e                                   ;puts  -                        
Unskilled lebor                           -         -    _              -         -    _            -         -          -
Sub-total Investmet Coats                                                                                           
-ap
Seeds end seedlings                 4,877.6  4,71S.1  4,S76.3  *,131.1   2,973.2  6,140.5  6,140.5  2.973.2           -0.1
Chmical fectilizers and pesticide  13,933.0  13,857.9  13,849.2  13,832.6  13,819.4   324.3   255.9  13,819.4          5.3
Calcium Superphosphato              5,700.7  5,468.3  5,427.4  5,362.1  5,290.9   388.0   284.1  5,290.9               1.8
other Inputs                       21,64s.4  21,651.6  21,645.4  21,651.4  21,645.4  1,106.0  1,106.0  21,6 654        1.9
Animl teaction                      6.650.2  6,212.2  6,172.8  6,127.1  6,071.7  8,11S.S  8,11S.S   6,071.7           -0.0
Mnure                               3 8606   3 734.3  3,706.4  3.627.1  3,650.3  3,372.6  3,372.6  3.650.3             0.0
Sub-total   rchaed  apat              6,46 55639.37 55,377.5  54,791.2  53,450.9 19,146.9 19,274.5  53,410.9            0.2
sized Lao
Unskilled labor                   147 056.3 146.196.7 140,998.3 137.412.1 139.S98,1 17.591.3 17.591.3 139,.98.1        0.7
Sub-total Opeat   Cos                  0323.8 201836.0 t962i,. 192,202.3 193,049.1 37038.2   8659 19304.1                  0.4
Sub-total  rootio Cost                  203,523.8 201,836.0 196.375.7 t92,203.3 193,049.1 37,038.2 36,86S.9 193,049.1        0.4
Other Outflos
Other Inputs                                  -         -                   -         -        -        -         --
Othr IUS                              203.523.8               375.7 192.203.3 393T049.30T82               193,049 1        0.4
Cash  ow                                370,770.6330,3.6 302,410.3 310,111.0 38,559.1  179.  31.0,111.0                      1.5
4-3 Gansu Area Model



Peoples Republic Of Cbia
Woas plateu Soil and Natst Conscrvation Project:  Inner mngolia
Irrigoted land Nodal
(In NO Yn Ton Thousand)
March --- February
Moithout                                                                                                      Futura  future  Percentage
Pr2 3ct                                        With Prolect                                           iSto 29 Witbout With
I to 30    1  2  3         4        5 ~ ~~            ~    ~ ~~~ 6  7  S  9 to29   30      I-       =3      30 
Food craps                                   -    160.4    400.2    632.0  1,114.0  1,324.0  1,429.0  1,534.6  1,666.2  1 666.2  1,666.2                   - -1666.2
Cctelil crops                                -      41.8     91.1    123.1    152.6    202.0    217.1    236.6    269.9    269.9    269.9          -        -   269.9
Other crops                            _ _          14.4     36.0     57.6      72.0     0        93.6     1        115.I2    15.2  oS.2                    -   11S.2
at*-totat MsiO lreAim                          -  2-24.6  5-27.3  9i2T7  1, 3390.4  1,613.2  ."174.   1,0,75.0  2,05.32,013 22,051.3ti-                        7- 051.3 
Sly tratharto
forage "A  crop straw                               11.1  B.i         42.1    6          82.6    I0         94.0    102.7    102.7    102.7                     102.7 
S* value of Ptodrducticn                           235.1        4.2    354.0  1,409.4  1IS69.   1,26.1 1   9750. 6  2,   .02 2,154.0  2,1I           - i;-I2140
otbez ines
Sedimentation deduction 2                    -       2      361.6    41.       342.6    272.     269.2    270j,j     00.1     51.4      514        -              14
-    61.0    915.7  1,264.0  1,152.0  1963  2,098.3  2,=249.0 Tin:4.0  2,7205.4  2,20. I                      R. 
productio Cost
S.ds &ad seedlings                         -       7.S     19.1     30.3      41.8     49.9     53.0      50.0     64.0      4        64.6       -        -    64.0
Chmical fertilirzus and pesticides         -      42.5    102.3    159.4    240.3    287.6    309.7    333.9    367.0    367.0    367.0          -        -   367.0
Animal Other                                -      0.5      1.1       1.0      2.3      2.7      2.9       3.2      3.6       3.6      3.6                      3.6
other input costs                           -     37.4     09.0    130.1    212.4  2j6j.7    275.9    291.4    320.0    320.0    320.9                        320.0  ____
-Oa         ua rts                                 06.0    211.6    329.6    496.7    595.0    642. 3    692.5  763.4    763.4    763.4 0                   -  763.
Uszed Labor
Unskilled lab"                                    42.9    100.9    155.9      56.     306.9    333.2    359.1    392.5    392.5    392.5                      392   _
Sub-total ProdmUn1on 00t                             1 30.9    312.5    405.5 273.6    9.7    975.6 1,01.5  1 156.0  1-6.   1                                     1560
fth. outfclws
Physical contingency                                 50.7   59.4     60.0      67.4     25.5     24.3      17.4     17.5         -        _       _        _       _
Other trout costs                                1.014.3 1. Ift6  1A200.8  1.348.7    510.0    405.3 . 47..j.       349.2
Sub-total other Outelows                           1.06.0  1.241-  1,260.6 °.415.1    535.          509.6    34.7    366.7 __-
WJiTMUS                                          1,195.9  1 560.4  1,146.1  2,.1,69 .7  1.4402  1,485.1  .106 1  1,75292.6  1,15.06.0   .0         -____1616.0                                          I
Cashb Flov   stoer"  isa                            -628.2  -644.7   -4.3           .7    52    1  613.2  6032        74  1,049.4  1,049.4                      1049.4
Sou.  of vinance
Transfer ftc. Prticus Period                  -        -    312.5    401.5    763.6    904.7    975.5  1,051.5  1,156.0  1,156.0  1,166.0          -        - 1,156.0
LosS Transfer to tINett Period               _    312.5    486.5    753.6    904.7    975.5  1.051    1 156-0 1.156.0  1.156.0              0   1
-sh-Total Sources of tinance ~-312.5  _113.0    i   .1  -151.2    -70.0    -76.0   -1041.4  -  -  -  -        -       _
CAs  flo  After  naig-   -                                             -749.4   -560.9    45 S.3    537.2    720.4    719.4  1,049.4  -1049.41
C _ in Mt Worth
Contributioa frtm *w  savings                 -    130.9        -         -        -        -         -        - _   _   _                         - _   _
Residual value of
Transfer to Mext Period                              -        -    _             -        -    _             -        -         -  1156.0    _           - 1,156.0
5th-tetal Clamg  in   t Worth                       -130.9         -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -   .6           -        -  1.156.0 
raw 9*0iy 8netite After 01infaaig                                                5 9                  .2    728.4    719.4  109.    ,                            2.2.
latu_  ew   F_ily-eYf Q Sr                                             -             - _           -        -         -        -       -        - _  
lecranental 3et43s VW  noiea
a_ly-ay ad lor                               _         _        _          
IRg - 10.5I, UPY * 1,926.00
Med Dec 00 10:23214 1993
Elg



LOOS$ Plateau Wattet and Soil Conservation pro)ect: qh&nxai--Xjinshui Subproject
Shtrub FoLest Project i'acm Model
PSmEZSL BoxiNt IAGM=h&wJ
(in Yu.an Nilliun)
la uary--decamber
Priecu                                                   4kbpoet                                                              Future  Fluture Percentage
Ito 30   1      2     3     4      5     6      7     8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15       1o2    30    en    30tou    30t    Chang
Forage and crop stgaw                      -      -     - 0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9   1.0   1.0   1.    1.0   .0                 -        -    1.0 
Fortest products                            -           - 0.5   1.2   1.9   2.9   3.6   4.2   4.9   5.5   5.9   6.1   6.2   u.3   6.3   6.4   6.4                  -6.4                    -
Sub-totatl Main PreDuoAtIcO                                      5  -1.4   2.2   3.3  -4.2  4.9   5.I  -6.4   6.8  -7.0   7.2   7.3   7.3   7.3  -7.37.
Other Ijliov
Other Output                                -   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4               -. 0.4 
uWsi.01                                         0.1   0.1  0.7  -1.6   2.5  -3.6   4.5  -5.3   6.1   6.6   -7.    7.14   -7.6   7.6   7.7 77    7.                            -7. 7
predeetioa Co**
inve*toust
parehasad Ingots
Seed A Seedling                        -   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -       -        -      --
Other inkputs                           - 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -       .                 
sub-Total Palrcha4se mupts                -  0.5  -0.5 -I5  -0.5   0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3           -      -            -     -      -     -     -      -       --
kired Lab.:
Labor                                       1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   0.8   0.8   0.6   0.8                                                                               
suAb-totAl Iawetont Cootat                     2.1   2.1  -2.1  2.1   1.1 I 1.1  -1.1  1.1            -     -     -      -     -      -     .                                 
Peurcaed Impata
Other inputs                           -      -     -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3              -        -    0.3-
Nired Labor
Labo"                                       0.1   0.1   0.4   0.9   1.4   1.9   2.3   2.7   3.0   3.4   3.6   3.7   3.7   3.S   3.80   3.   3.             8-..             .8  ___
S'Ab-total aweating Costs                       0.1   0.1  -0.4   0.9   1.4   2.0  2.5  -2.6   3.2  -3.6   3.8  3.9   44.0   .0  40    4.1 -4.1                   -            4.1-
5*b-total Preduotion Cost                      -  22  -2.2   2.5  -3.0   2.5  -3.0  -3$   3.9  -3.2   3.   -3.8 -3.9  -4.    4..0                    4.1   4.-                    4.-
Otber OuttS.wa
Other inputs                                - 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                 -            -      -     .                                                 
ouwn.w.                                         2.3   2.3   2.6  -3.1  2.5  -3.1  -3.6  35.9  -3.2  -3.6 3.8 i -jj9                  40J44.l                     1      .        .
Cash View Reter* liaanoing                       -:2.2 -:2.2 -71.9 -1. 5  -0.0   0.5  -1.0  -1.3   2.8  -3.2  -3.4   3.5  -3.6   -i   3 .6  -3.6  -3.6                      -     3.-
sources ot irinance
Transl.r from Previous Period               -     -   2.2   2.5   3.0   2.S   3.0   3.5   3.9   3.2   3.6   3.8   3.9   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.1   4.1                             4.1
Losa Transfer to Nleat Period               -    .2   2.5   3.0   2.5   3.0   3.5   3.9   3.2   3.6   3.6   3.9   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.1   4.1   41                -       -     4.1     
Sub-totalt artas ot ftcence                      .2.2  -.0 3  -.5  -0.6  -0.6  4.5   0.4  -0.7 -0.4 -70.2-'O -0.1          I   0-0.  ---  -0.0 ---                       -     ____
Cash now, ASterc nmwweoiag                     - :-4.4  --2.5  -=2.4 -1.0 "1-0. 6    0 -.O   -i -   T23 Th:5   3.3   3.4   35 3    -13.6 3.6    i   T                                           -
Change LAs Met W@:th
Contribution from own savings               - 2.2        -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -        -       .             
Residual value of.
Traanser to Neat Period                   -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -           -      -     -      - 41                         4.1-
Sub-Total Cange in not WOrt                       22                                       -     -      -     -      -                                   4.1                -     4.-
tarn Va~ly senetits aster rinanotag  -6.6  -2.   -24  -3.0  -06 -0.0   0.6 -2.0:  2.5   3.0 -_3.-3   3.4  -3. s 3.    3.               .    77         -        -     .       
Retawas pot Vmls.ly-y of Loabz                                                                                              .     -     -     .                                            
incsmntal saetuS  PeM Iacruaatal
famLly-0a1 of Labor-                              -      -     -      -     -     -      -     --                                                                              
IRS * 12.84. WPV - 1.08
Sun Dec 12 08:-09:33 1993
II
29-1 Shrub i'orest Project F.ita model



China
Loess Plateau Soil And Water Conservation Project: Shaanxi Yanhe subproject
Terrace Model
Fnmc  m=(AGWW_)
(In Yuan Million)
January -- December
Without
Project                            With Proiect                                      Future  Future Pexcentage
I to                                                             9 to         Present. Without  With    Cbange
29    30      1 _ 2        3      *     5      6   _7       8a   29    30        1      30       30        I
mill Prditon
iFood crops                                8.4   0.4   9 5  11.7  14.9  17.0  19.2  21.4  23.0  24.6  24.6  24.6            8.4      0.4   24.6          0.0
Commercial crops                           0.2   0.2   0:S   0.9   I.S   1.9   2.4   2.8   3.1   3.4   3.4   3.4 _ 0.2               0.2    3.4          0.0
Sub-Cotzl kbla arcdwotson      8.6   8.6  10.0  12-6  1T6.4 179.0 -21.6  24.2  26.1  2Te.   28.1  28.1          8.6    68.6  280.1           0.0
oy te.wt
Forage and  crop straw                     0.5   0.S   0.6   0.8   1.0  _1.2   1.4   1.6   1.7   1.8   1.8 _1.8             0.5      0.5    1.8          0.0
gross VAlu'a Of production                   9.1   9.1   06  13.4  17.4  20.2  23.0  25.7  27.B  29.929.9  29.9                9.1    -9.1  2-9.9          0.0
Sedimentation reduiction                     -_         0.1   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.7   0.8 _ 09  0   1.0 .    1.0              -        -    1 0  _         -
rAmLwm                                     9.1   9.1  10.7  1i3.7  1f7.-8 210.7  23.6  26-.6  28-7  350 9  3i0-.9 -30. 9    9.1      9.l  3-0 9          0.0
ero4u4eson Coat
Seed and 3eedllngs                       0.5   0.S   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6            0.5      O.S    0.6         0.0
Chemicals fertilizers and pesticide        -      -   0.3   0.7   1.0   1.3   1.6   2.0   2.2   2.5   2.5   2.5             -        -    2.S       
Animal traction                          2.7   2.7   2.0   2.e   2.9   3.0   3.1   3.1   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2            2.7      2.7    3.2          O.;
Manure                                   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.S   0.S   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6            0.3      0.3    0.6          0.0
Other inputs                           _        _     0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1 _0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2              -        -    0.2            -
sib-Total Perchaed 201pnea                 3.S   3.S   4.0   i.5 S.-0  -5.4  5.9   6.4  -6. 0 7.2  7.2  -7.2                3.5      3.5   -7. 2         0.0
Unskilled labor                          4.6   4.6   5.3   6.2   7.3   B.2   9.1  10.0  10.6  11.3  11.3  11.3            4.6      4.6 _11.3           0.0
sub-fte l production Cost                    8.    81       .        10712.3  1T3.6  15.0- 1F6.4  1i7.5  18.-5  le.5  18.-5   8.1      8.1  1-8.           0.0~
Other Inputs                                  -     -  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7   8.0   8.0          -      -        -       -       --  
oostDows                        8.^  ~~~~~~~8.1  20.0-  21.4 -22.9  24.   257  27.12  25.5  2T6.5 -7e.5 -18.5    8.1      8.1   18.           0.0F
Ca b view Eefoe r iuaancko                     .    1.0  -9.2  -7.7  -5.1  -3.6  -2.1  -0.5   3.3   4.4  12.4  12.4            1.0     1.0 -12.4           0.0                            C
$*U & of riname
Transfer from Previous Period              8.1   8.1   e.1  10.7  12.3  13.6  15.0  16.4  17.5  18.5  18.S  18.5            8.1      0.1   18.S          0.0 
Less Tsansfer to Next Period               8.1   8.1  10.7  12.3  13.6  15.0  16.4  17.5  le.5  1e.5 _18.5  5e                 I e.  e      1.5          0.0
sub-sueal Socot    o f FLnaa n                  -     - -26 -Z1.6  -1.4  -1.4  -1.4  -1.0  -1.0            -      -                        
Camh nPow Uste  f rn^Desng                    I o   1 o -ll.B -Z9.3  -C.5 -.50 -Z3.4 -1.-6   2.2  -4.4  12.41.                  .       .      24          0.0
Chn    in not waf
Contribution from own savinas                 -     -   1.2      -      -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -        -       -       _-
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period                    -   8.1       -                             _        -               18.S        -       .l   18.5          0.0
Ft     ran *sil  s n scse  Afer rimmingV      1         1-1S    3rT   -:-6~-.s  o=  3.4 --1.6  -2.2  -4.4  12. 4  30.9          .0     9.2 --ibb           0.o
*mAtu   DaZ of t imal-Da  at _Lab_                                              __=                             _      _        _ 
rIf M i 3.14, NPV - 4.23
Sun Dec 12 06:34:51 1993
igN
8-1 Terrace Model



Loose Plateau Soil     Cina
IAGO Pttod Sak AA wterConaeguatle. 9toje.ct. Wuiten Subpzoject
orchard Fats model
Without
Project                                                          With Project                                                                  future  Futoeg  ftacotags
I to                                                                                                                          20         present Without WAith   C"
29   30      1    2      3    4   _1      6    7      6     9    10   11   12   13   14   IS   16   17   16   19  to 219 30                1      30o    30        I
rood ceops                          9.2  9.2  4.9   3.7   3.1  2.4   1.0  1.1  0.9                                                                                  -           9- - -    -    .2    9.2   -
Ftoit   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        .~~~~~~~ ~.6.  j1.2 .44    6.9  12.2 j746 22,2  26    30.1  3796 46.  3734  37.6  37.6 437.C j34   37.6                     37.6 
101-total Nutn he4iotion               9.2   9.2  4.9 -3.I  3.1  2.4   3.3   4.3  9.0  6.9 1F2.2- -I7.6  22.2 216.6  30.1 3i3.9 3i6.9  3.-6 3T7.6  3~7.6  37.6 3V7.6  Wi    9.2    9.2  371.6              0.0
by ftohinte
COuN.Cciai scope                       -    -  0.3   0.9   0.7  0.6  0.6   0.6  0.7   0.7  0.9   0.3  0.1                                                                      -         -       --
P036.1 and 4jaqae products         0.14  0.4  0j4   0.0  0.0  0.0,4    0.0  0.                                m               __-  ,                                            0.1    0.1       --
Sub-total Oypto " ot                  0.4  *941 .44   0.S  -0.7  0.6A  0.6  0.   0.7   0.7   0.9  0.3  0.3  __                                                                    0.1     0.1      --
Ogoac Value 08 ItoduatiOla             9.    O. .6   4.3   3.6  1.3  4.1   9.0  9.6  7.6 1f2.7 -I7.0 1223  2F6.6 -30.1  33.9 S  3T6.9  37.6S  7.76 IT    7.177.6    9.  .3                      37.60.
".diment Reduction Benefit             -          .0   0.0  4f   0.0 ..J    442  0...L  ...A4         0.1 .44   0.1  6.1  6.4   0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                -       -   0.1      
xmsai                                9.3   S.; 4.9  4.3   3.8  -3.3  4.2  9.1  96.9   7.7  t2.0  17.9 722.4  26.7  30.2 -33.6 316.6  37.7  37.7  37.7 77  371.7  37.7           6.3   96.3  371.7        0.0
pneodutum nt
Putohaeed Inputs
Seed and Seeding                   -         0.4   0.4   0.4  0.4   0..*  0.4  0.3   0.2-                                                                                                     
f..rtiliagsa and eheelnae          -        0.1   0.3   0.1  0.3   0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1                                                                                                      --
Other inpus                        -     -0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0--  
sub-total futshaved %aimste          -      - 0.6  -0.6  -0.9  -0..  06.9   0.9 -  0.4I  0.3-                                                                                                        
Mixed &aboc
Umakiil.6 labor                             _LO~ *4      0.6  0.j  0...L  .4    0.7  0.6--                                                                                                   -     
Su-1t"ai Zaweebut Cetoe                      -  1.0   1.6   1.3  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.1   0.9-                                                                                                                 -
purchased Inpute,
Soe" and leading                 0.0  0.6  0.9   0.4  0.4   0.1  0.2   0.2  0.1   0.0   0.0  9.0  0.6-  -                               --                            -     0.6    0.6         
Anisas atlas                     0.7  0.7   0.6   0.6   0.9  0.9  0.4  0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3  0.3  0.3   0.3  a.3  0.3   0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.;  0.3  0.3    0.7    0.7   0.3                       0. 0 
Factilitasez  and chemiCela      0.1  0.3   0.4   0.1  0.7   0.6  0.9   1.0  1.1   1.2   1.2  1.2  1.2   1.2  1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  4.1  1.3    0.1    0.3    1.3                    0.0
Mixed Labor
Unskilled lob"r                __3.  __41 .44...4. ,...4    ._.4  4                   3.7..L  .3    .4.A    4             6.3   9.6  44   6.1  6.3   64 64          6.6    J        14     6.6        0.0
sab-total *pegating Caere           2._. 12 39    .  .Jd_...!.'.                                4     9.6  9.6  6.0  0.4   6.B =.1  7.JLiT             5 IA 02.4                        2.      .         .
Su-otl pr~oducto  Coat                71t1o.9  K        9.1   9.3   1.4  S.7   6.0  6.3  56.2  9.4  96.6  6.0  -6. 0   6.4  -6.6  -7,2   7.6  -7.7   i. 9 *TT   1i   6.2          2.9    2.9    0.2 '     i
other Outline.
other UtPur                                .. -4   0.1  0.1  0.  .1           0. ..i4 .0.±---
9.2   L.:U
cosk flow netore financing            2.4   2.4  -0.61              -2.2-13    -1.6  -1.0  -0.)  1.4  7.4  12.3  16.6 20.7  23.7  26.6  29.4  30.3  10-.0  2o.6  29.6  20.9  20.9    2.4  2.0  29.9         0.0
soureso of finance
?gen,iai Iro, Psevioa paerid        2.9   2.9   2.9   9.1   9.1  9.4  6.7   6.0  6.1   6.2  9.4   9.6  .9.   6.0  6.4  60.   7.2  7.4   7.7  7.9  6.3  0.2  0.2    2.9    2.9   0.2                      0.0
Ieee frensfag to Neat Period   4.4  4~j .94    LI .44 .I.9   6.0.  ..1  __ .2.i. .4.    44    .4   .90.   6.0   7.2  .44 7.7  7.9  0.1  6.2  6.2  8.2           2,      2.     6200
9~~h-o~a3 5owgee .8 finance  -  ~~~ -    -Vj  I    .0.3L  -0344   .    0.        .  -.   0.   .   -0T.4 -:0.4 _:~-0.3   113 .                    -.                    -       -        
Caok 12.. After UiAanhg2.                     .  -.   0.   37   29-49-.   -0.4   2.2  7.2  62.1  16.1  20.3 23.3  26.4  29.1  3.0  29.0  29.6  29.9  29.9   99                    24      2.     996:
Oteog an Net Mar16
CO..tgibUtion lice OAR saViRgs         -     - 1.9--           --                                                                                                                 -       -      -  
luaid*el value of
Tranaler to Neat Period              -  2.96.2 -0-                                                                                                                                   2.9    6.2        0.0
6th-total Caeege an Nat Worth  ~- 2. -1.-8.2   -  2.92 0.2  0.010   2. -.2-7-j-R-
RAtUrnS PeW FSHAy-Osy cc Labr----                                                                                                                                                             
Inacemetai Rturn  Par bnceeeomal
family-flay et Lab..-                                                                                                                                                                     -            
IRA * 22.46. lilY * 42.49
sun Dec 12 09:19:34 1993
0%
31-1 occbetd Waco Model



Chine
Loess Plateau Soil end Water Conservation Prooeot: Welton Subproject
wraping dams ae,a laodel
vzmAkr."  BOO          AMO
(ln Yutan iUliIon3
January --December
Without                             With Proiect                                        future  Fuature Percentage
Project                                                            10          Present without  With    Chnq
I to 30   1      2     3     4      5     6      3     8      9   to 29 30        3       30      30 
Mt"n pgodwation,
food crops                                                                0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2          -        -    0.2-
cinercili cirops                            -                              .0   0.   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0 0.0              -        -    0.0-
Sub-total Main Pro,atiom                                                    0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                       -0.2-
By Product
Fodder and forage products-0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                         -        -    0.0-
oarea  Viaue Of Production-0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2                                                            -         -   0.2-
Other Inflows
Sediment Reduction Benefit                  - 0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1           -              -        -      - 
nIroow.                                         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2            -              .2-
ftcltc  coat
"MAsa  Inpts
.eod ankd Seeding                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0           -       -    0.0 
Aniaai other                              -            -     -          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          -        -    0.0 
Fartili,zrs and chemicals-0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                       .             0.0 
Other inputs                          -       -     -      -     -      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0-                               0.0-
Sub-total Purohased Impute                                            -    .      .    O      .    0.0  -0.0   0.0                      -.
Ittred Labor
Unskilled labor                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          -        -    0.0                                                       I
Sub-Total Prodmatloo Coat                     -            .     -.0   0.0   Oa                     0.3 0.1 0.     0.   '(. I              0.3 
Other Outflow.                                                                                                                                                                                      O"
Other inputs-   0.6   0.6                                      ~   0.6 -           --                        --  -             -                 -
Qijrf5m5                                 --7   0.6   0.6 0.   0.6   0.0-3    - I  0.1   0.-O              0.1   0.1        -         -   0. I 
Cash Flow Deete Financing                     --0.5  -0.4  -0.3  -0.2   0.4  -0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1  -0.1               -        - 0.1 I
Somrae. at Finance
Transfer from Previous Period-                          -     -          0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1          -        -    0.1-
lass Transfer to Nest Period                -            -     - 0.0   0.0   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1             -             0.3 
huab-total somre" 0f finams                      -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0                                          --                      -       --
Cash nlow After finmaning                     - 0. -.4-0.3  -0.3   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1                    -            0.1
CaSim" in Met worth
Contribution irom aem savings         ---                                                                                  -                .-
Residual value of
Traasf*r to Wesnt Period                  -                 ---                                               0.1                      0.1-
Bob-total Casng La Not Worth          ----                                                                          .1                     0.1 
ta&m  family Smeneite After financins            -0.   -0.O4  -0.3  -0.3   0. 4   oii   0.4   0. 3   0.2 0.    0.2                 -  -    0.2 
Aeturns per amLily-Day ot 1.ebor--.                                                                                                      
Inoremeata Sotucna per In-'rmentfa
famILly-DaY Of L4bor----                                                                                                               
IRA * 12.64, NPV - 0.06
sun Coec 12 06:26:04 1903



teoplos R b1ihc or Chk$.
L*os Plateau Soil and Vete  Conssrvetho  rgos4.t:  loaer Mogolia
Occhard Model
tin M Vuen Too Tboasand)
Matc  --  Febtuary
1      WithSoute                                           X       ^ _S                            8        )      t ftoec    Mot t         3      t ct
8 to
.j..  2..   A..                 .. 7.3   jj0.  ....L.     2        3      j..S6            6               8       2       t10     It      12      k3     14-      30i
rood coops                               12.0  12.8  12.8  12.0  12.8  12.8  12.6  12.8   11.0       0.2     7.0      4.9     3.4     2.0     0.6                           -            -
rcglr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"    .                                                               61-  036. _187.2 201.? 300.1 403.0 S06. 3 97.9 662.4 110.6
hO-toSta  M2ain haduothee                1 2.i 2 61               12.8  12.8        12.8    11.0     9.21i             .9    3.4 S9   9.0   117.0   187.2   21.7   300.1   4038   006.1  091.9  662.4   710.i
my hadact.o
F01644 MAd crop SthaM                     0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7      8.6     8.0      0.4     0.3     0.2     0.1     0.0       -       -       -        -       -       -       - 
has. Value Of heduotaca                     13.0  33.0  13.0  33.0  33.0 S2.0  13.5  33.0    11.        9.7     7.4     0.2     1.6   09.)   117.0  107.2  21.7t  100.1  401.8  006.3  097.9  662.;  7t0.i
Sedietatios deduction Oaccard I                                13                                      . 1.-8         1_              3.7  1.7 j _O   2.8     2.0     2.       2.0     2.0     2.0_-
flybys                                    32.  13. T3.0                             33.0= - ;-I-    11.9  0.   .      K6.     6.1I   60. 9 -119.0  109.2  35S3.7  302.3  405.8  r000. 3   0T9_99 -4.A712.8
PrO&MteF Cm%
ko"aoUe ost
Soed, sad seedlin-s13.9   34.4    17.2    15.7   31.8    11.)    0.9                                                                             5.0        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Airel othr-                                                                               1.0     3.0     1.2    3.1    0.         .      0.7     0.3        -       -       -       -       -       -       _
Other iap.t cot -77.8 81.0 jjJ 96.7 6.0 63.7 9.0 28.1-                                                                                                                                     -----
8b-fotal Slwoaed   p"                      ----92.7   *9.4   135.1   104.8  70.6    70.8   70.2    31.7                                                        -       -       -       -       -       -
Matzted Ws
Unstilled labor                                                                          13.0      . 1.0    16.2    14.7    13.0   10.7   9.9     4.7        -       -       _       .       _       .
Skilled 1bo-                                                              _               2.1     21-17    2.6    2.3     1.7     1.7       1.6    07 
Su-TOW  MedIbahe-1.1 l IF    10                                                                                                                       .        -,      - 7-            -       -          
h-tel 4     Zav Itwast- -t C os-s107.7  112.1  133.0   121.s   91.4    88.1    03.6    39.2
hiohased  -ao
Seads and seelins                      1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.3   1.3   1.3      1.1     0.9     0.7     0.5    0.3      0.2     0.3        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Cbheical f t.rills.a end pesticides   3.8   3.7   3.6   3.4   3.1   3.2   3.0   2.9   10.6    17.1   24.4    30.8    34.8    39.2    42.7    44.2   45.2   66.0   46.7    47.4    47.7   47.7   47.7   3
Othrr ir.4put costs                 ... __L    S.b   6.8   6.1   6.5   6.0   6.0          7.7     9.7    2t4    14.3   16.1  1Jj ...1! J    21.1    J             21.j   .        ..      22      22.2   22.2
sub-Sawe  Puuohasd" input              11.0  11.4  1.11.2  13.0  30.9  10810.    39i:i    27.7    3.                06     0.       75     6.       53     6.        77     6.       94     6.       98     6.
Ifto'd Lab"
VIaskllld labo"                       12.7  12.7  12.7  12.7  13.7  12.7  12.7  32.7    15.9   20.0   26.4    31.9   36.4   44.2    S1.9    09.0   43.9   67.1    73.6    e0.0   ss.0   89.3   92.1
Sf -talled4s dt                     g   2.1 ff ffif 1,..4 _.2 2.4   1    04 _6.J        .                                                        3 M33.  Jj9   Me  16.1 1_.1 82 18$.1
Sub-TOtW  MLrsd tibet                         = 12.7 112. 1.2  -Y  -i'   -     -1.  X.7i.  37.1 ....23     3.3    17.2        6     2.     6.47                    8.        9A     9.      826¶1.    0.
8*-total Op4g.tisg Caste  Jj,J JLj ~~~ JL9   L2.  23682-0 .,  lA   ...~9                      71                      1.0    ~ ~ ot___                           ___  -1.
C "goti" costs                             +2~9 :jjQ0  6_1 2_        _                                                                    I -10.6  74   344.0  349.7  .76.2  379.3
5gb-total Swadatofti  Cot"                 2.                    I1.    6.0 2F                                            1 S.4.2  26. 3 2.9  23823.7  23.6  23.4 -23.3   34.  6.5232 246    6.  9.i   206.6   370.9   344.0   34#9.7  *0U.0   36.  -72.  76.2 17.
otheR t6 Osloe.
a'e.sical cotiageny I                                                                                 6.3     7.0     6.9  5......L  ....±    4       2.2        -       -       -      ~-
oingta.s2I~ jj~  23.9 11  i1~                          54~EI ..lb~1 ~9j ~j94~ .Jjl.0 390.9   23.3  21 ~3 116d39LM    1j20                           *4fl.0   366.            jiii       -i
cOsh noew                                  -10.7    I -3.  1.  3.  -30.2'A ...  -a. -J.   -130. :-     08.0 .20.   -340  -806.0  -142.2   9.            13.1  389.2  302.4   24i10  34f.2  427.4   40.1.   033.7
PA . 39.70, NW * 1.140.2S
44 Dre 08 10&26349 1993
*11



Peoples Republic Ot ClirA
IoAss Plateu Soil Ad  Water Conervatic. Proj3et:  Innr Mongolia
Orchard Nodel
(In Il Yurmen  S   Thousand)
Fauro  Future  tPrce4ntag
23 to  Przesnt without  With      Cas
16      17      IS       39      20      21      22       30       1        6_    23         1
Ibm hdmotice,
Frod crops                                     -        -       -                    -                         12.0    12.8       -           -
Fruit                                      033.5   9S5.8 1,071.  1.257.O 1,221.5 1.203.7 1341.3 1.369.0           -       - 2L369.0
Sub-total mia  3roduotic.                    833.S   95S.8 1,071.0 1,157.0 1,221.5 1,283.7 1,341.3 1369.0    12.8    12.  1,69.0              1.I
By ro*dubte
Forago ad crpp straw                                              _       _               _-                    0.7     0.7       - 
rows Valu  Of IromtiGD                        833.5   955.8 1,071.0 1,S7.0 1,221.5 1,283.7 1,341.3 1,369.0    13.5    13.5 1,369.0           1.0
other mflows
Sedimntetica deductlon Orchard 1             2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0                -     2.0 1
miIam .r 05.5   95.7.8 1,071.0 1,159.0 1,2213.5 1,20-5.7 1.34 3. 3 1,37-1.0    13.5   _13.5 1,371.0                                         10
Pgodaaot.c Cot
Inveetme    Ip
Seeds and seedling
Animal other
Othr input eosts
Sub-total luehased Ipt                       -        -       -       -        -       -       - 
Wired labor
Unskilled lebo-   -                                     -       -       -        -       -       -            -       -       -           -
Skilled labor
Seu-tot    I     atd                                                     ---                                                   -     --_ -0 - 
Sub-total lawetmet Costs                                        -       -            -       -       -        -       -                 -                                            U
Operating
Puchse  Iut.
seeds and seedilins                            -        -       -       -        -       -           -      1.3     1.3       --
Chemical fettilizers and pesticides    47.7    47.7    47.7    47.7   47.7   47.7   47.;    47.7            3.8     2.9    47.'         0.2
Other input cots                        23       22 S     7.0 27   .7    30.0    31.2    32.3    32.0       6.5      6     32.9         0.0
"s-Iets  Purchase  lspAte                 73      7.        47     76.4  -77.6   -7.9    80.0    80.s    11.5    10.6    00.5             O.1
Hired Laboir
Unskilled labor                         95.0    99.3   101.7   102.8   103.6   104.3   105.1   105.4    12.7    12.7   105.4            0.1
Skilled labor                           18.3    19.5    21.0    22.4    23.4    24.3    25.2    25.7          -       -    25.7           -
sub-total lied Labor                     114.1   118.0   122.7   125.1   126.9   120.7   130.3   131.1    12.7    12.7   131.1            0.1
sub-ate*X  Operating Coats                 165.t      191.7   197.4   201.6     204.6   207.5   210.3   211.6   24.2  23.3   211.6          0.1
tub-total producticn Cost                    105.4   191.7   197.4   201.5   204.6  207.5   210.3   211.6    24.2    23.3   211.6             0.1
other Ctlfiows
Physical contingency                        -                                -        -       -       -                -       -
oumn.ou                                    18.    19.    174   201.5   204.    207.    210.    211.6=] ;1   23.3   211.6                    0.
Cash 510,                                     6.1 761    8 7.6 9.5100910.2,1301504 -.7                                     00119.12
.46



China
Loess Plateau Soil and Water Conservation Project: Weifen Subproject
wraping dams Farm Hodel
EC0NIC BUDGE2 (AGG4Z6AW)
(In Yuan Million)
January -- December
Without                         With Proiect                                   Future  Future Percentage
Project                                                           10   Present Without With    Change
I to 30   1     2      3     4     5     6      7     8     9   to 30    1       30      10        I
maiun Production
Food crops                         -     -      -     -     -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2         -        -    0.2           -
Cocmercial crops                   -      -     -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                  -    0.0           -
Sub-total. Main Prodhation           -      -     -           -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2         -        -    0.2           -
By ftoduats
Fodder and forage products         -            -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -        -    0.0           -
Groe Value Of ftoduotion             -     -     -                0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2                      0.2           -
Other Inflows
Sediment Reduction Benefit         -   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1        -                -       -          -
DlFLNf0 -                                      .2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2         -             0.2           -
Poduatiou Cost
ru¢obaaed Inputs
Seed and Seeding                 -      -     -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -        -    0.0           -
Animal other                     -     -      -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -        -    0.0          -
Fertilizers and chemicals        -     -      -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         _        -    0.0          -
Other inputs                     -                             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        -- 0           .0           -            0
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs         -     -      -     -         0.0   0 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       -        -    0.0           -
Hired Labor
Unskilled labor                  -     -                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         -        -    0.0           -
Sub-total Preduotion Cost            -      -     -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1         -             0.1           -
Other Outflows
Other inputs                       -   0.6   0.6  0.60.6           -     -     - -   -      -     -       -               -           -
OUTFLoWS                           - _ 0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1          -        -          0.1     -
Cash Flow                            -  -0.5  -0.4  -0.3  -0.2   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1           -       -    0.1
IRR = 13.4t, NPV - 0.11
Sun Dec 12 05:26:14 1993
II



CHINA
Looss Plteau Hater and Soll Coaservation Projects Shaxi--Xinsbui Subprotect
Shrub Forest Project ram Model
oot         _ gW8s t)
(In yuan million)
lanuary--dcmber
Without                                           With Proiect                                                     future  Future Percentage
Prosect                                                                                              16   Present withtout With    Change
It        1     2     3     4      5     6     1     8     9    10    11    12    13    14   IS  to 30    1          30      16       8
Mote ksodatleo
Forage and crop straw               -     -     -   0.1 0I  2   0 3   0.4   0.6   0.1   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0         -        -    1.0
Forest products                                     0.4   1.0   1.6   2.3   2.9   3.4   4.0   4.4   4.7   4.9   5.0   5.0   5.1   5.1                  -    5.1
Sub-total SWim ftoaotlo               -               0.4   1.1   1.0   2.7   3.5   4.1   4.7   5.3   5.6   5.8  -6.0  6.0  6.0   6.1           --   6.1-
Otbez ZaSlowa
Other output                        -  0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4          -             0.4-
Other                               -   0.1   0 1   0.6   1.42.1   3 .0   3.6   4.4   5 1   5.6   6.0   6 2   6.3  66   4 6           4                     66 4  .4     -
lzOdatlo  Coat
ZaetWA&t
Seed 6 Seedling                -   0.S   0.5   0.5   0.5   0,2   0.2   0.2   0.2       -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -       -       -       _          -
Other Inputs                    -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      -     -     -      -     -     -
sub-lowa Imzoheaed Input.             0.5   0.5   0.5  -0.5   0.1  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3            -     -     -      -     -     -     -       -
Labor                          -   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  _          -     -     -      -     -     -  _            _      -_
Sub-total Ia v tet Coast.           -   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.8   0.9   0.9   0.S   0.9      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -       -        _      _          _ 9
Other inputs                    -     -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2          -       -    0.2          -
sit"e Labor
L.abor                              0.0   0.1   0.3   0.7   1.1   1.5   1.9   2.1   2.4   2.7   2.8   2.9   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0         -        -    3.0-
sub-total oeatn  costs                  0.0   0.1   0.3   0.7     .1   1.6   2.0   2.3  2.6   2.9   3.0 -3.1   3.  2            2   32  _ 2  - 23. 2                     -
8b-fttal kodemttoa Coat                   I 18    .9   2.1   2.    2.0  2.5  2.9  -3.2  2.6  2.9   3.0  -3.1  -3.2   3.2  -3.2   3.2             --                 -2
Other Outflew
Other Inputs                        - 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        -      -     -     -     --                 -       --
_auu'z~u                             -    9 -       .0   2.2 2- 6   2.1 2- 5  2.9   3.  -226 6-2 9   3 .0 3.1   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2                  -    3.2           -
Comb noew                             --1.9  -1.9  -1.6  -1.3   0.0   0.5   0.9   1.2  -2.5  -2.8   2.9  -3.0   3.1  -3.2  -3.2  -3.2            --   3.2-
RR - 19.24, NPV - 5.36
han Dec 12 08:09t47 1993
El



China
Loons Plot"u $oil and wbors Cwuorvetien Projects Shaanxi 11lo SC"
Ictigatcd lnWMd bl
(In Yuan '000)
Without Proloct ~~                     nbugty -- Dcceeer t                                         Future  Future P rcentagc
tbout Pr  -c       § to~~ 9 to  proset Without wthlz                                                                     C bm
1     2     3            5   6        7    lo       |      2       3      4                      7       9      lo       I        s    A =        
Ibin Pr_dution
Ford crop                                     -      -  *                           3.2   92.9  118.9  162.6  185.3  210.7  231.6  246.5  246.S             -        -  21.6.-
Commal 1la Props      e        31                               3 2   17. 3--2.;            6^5. BX9  9.  _209e.                                          3723 1702 3  3               0 3
aHsyaleO  Ptoduato              TOu 18 S            35. 8 s  3a s 18.-5 38F- s  38S 9-7  s 15S3.1  20t.9 'T-7i 2 703-0  3414.6 382.1 -406.3I063    38.5    38 5  406.3    i   o
Other Inflows
S INFLOWS   n onro            38.5  38.5  38.5  3. 38.5 3      iG. &   38.5  3a.s  101.   1 60.4  215-. a -i0i7   12t.2  166.4  407.6  ei3s4 t  43Se    3s.s    3a.s  13S.t           1.0
ftodution cost.
$*ads and seedings           3.  1  .4   3.4   3.1   3.1   3.e   3.4   3.1    3.9    4.3   0.8           5.2    s.s    6.4    6.9    7.3    7.3         3.      3       7.3         0.1
Qt a                         s.s   0.3   s.0   7.7.  7.5   7.2   6.9   6.6   11.7   14.3   16.0   19.0   21.5   23.4   24.9   2s.7   26.7               B S     6.6   25.7          0.3 
taut  l tractlo              5.    7. 64   7. 6.                    7 . 7 4.    s. 9.    11     19 .6   1o .6   117 6   19.0   20.2   20.6   20.6       5.      42 206%
manurc                       0. 8.o8   0.8   o.a   0.8   o.a   o.a   o.s    1.7    2.5    3.3    4.1    s.                .59    6.7    7.6    7.6      0.6     0. S    '4          0. 8   0
Pestcid^s  -     -     -      -     -      -      -     -    0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32    0-1    0-6    0.  0.  1.  1. } s3    1.4    1.4  -       -     4. 
Sub-toteal Purchased Jnputo 2FS- 6T-r -iS- -I  6  24.1  23 6  23.1  22.4-  38.1   49.1   59.6   69.7 80   .  89 6 980. _T4   -iT 144 1 - 6.    -274  108                         ; O
Unskilled~ labo       21.6  21.   216  216 *21 6  241.6  216  216  _i               0.6   3S o   39.  54.    489 $. {               6 i6.        2160 21.6   SO 2
Othat Out lame
Project costs            S             78-73                        -6 It3 -.I  224S. I 26 0_ 90  80,   '0,   '6,   '0--+  -0,    _"
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 O n                                                                                          - --.-
-9.3  -0.9  -0.3  -    -NO-2  -69.7  -21.4    6.6   47.0                                     -5.6   74.t S.
Cash now  7.0  -7.3  -6.0  -6.    5.6  144.0                                         76.1   93.7  27                                            X
tR a 25.61. NPV a 743.89 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~F



China
Los Plat"u Soil and lXtor Coneationk Project: Stl^^tfix  J1Om at"
coa  &JD=r thmta
10 Ir         2 un  000t1                                                                Sk       IZ      A
raw ctops                           3,226.2 3,209.1 310. )8    ,I"A.  2 ,10.7 3,123.6 ),099.0 3.063.e 2,e22.9 2,321A  1,ssD.4 1,S53.9 1,es52   7s6.e   568.6
Co"Mcial crops                        603.1   601.A   603.1  603.1  603.1  603.1   "13.1  603.1  401.6   300.7   269.6    66.2    34.6    34.6    Wo2                             --      -        --
Su-otatlt "hs  rs o4tsoe              3,02s.) 3 es2.2          3 ,.5X769.;      3Xs.e3726.; 7   0        . 3,66;3224.3 2.000.3 2,741.0 2,s1. 2,e-07 2,27i-2S 1,8559 INW   ioei 4-7            2~ 7N    2,01.72 2Mi
8YA'j an   rptt                        2". 3   266.3   266.1   266.3   26. 3   266.   2". 3   266.1   246.9   210.1  169.0   140.4   103.3    67.9    12.4                -        .       .      
Fatast productios4 and gas*s seed         *       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -    17.2    34.S    $1.6    6s.e    6e.s    6e.6    Sf. 's   Od.0   o-  o   Ws.*    86.s
Xb-¢4¢lrs  e¢                ~~~~~~~~~~~266.l   266.1   26a.   26.z 3 6.    266.i  36.           2-46.9   210.1  1e6.2   1 7-.   W115s.i nif-              -e.  6.e    e6.    10o.0   14o.0 -1. T       e 
4eoss Va|" o Ofr-odwota      S        4095.6 4 07e. s s0s2.e 4 o1Si dl.? 4 ,-  niX 3    l2X090  si.1 a-,s i) 2-0  i3-7  X .      .li;6  V-i-H  7,4 Fi.i 62-,697F 0- ..  .I   2.16.       Z.......... .       ............................. i TH_.  fjsX. a
11*40l14t*in ol cotoll                                                                                     4        S.7    91.5   137.2   183.0  z22e.7   274.5   320.   367j e    67.e   3L.67.8 36n. e0.    37.9
nsLo                                7  095.6 /t 070.5 4 0s2. 9 j035.7 6,01.1 3 99.03  i   61 3 V-9331T51-. 9i 3,1) 065.2 Y, en.2 2 e2.SU    2,66s.e Y, 2s.s 9 . Zes06-   . - 3.5i -Y  l9. 5 T. 619.5 a Y552.9 2 206".6
ftodmzxs Cost
sda and sooinsa9                      -       -                         -       -        -       -               .0    46.0    46.0    45.4    46.0    01.6    46.2           -       -       -        -       -
base ftstilier                        -21 _                                                             l6    21.6    21.6   2L..§   21.6 _21.6    21.9    22.2           _-                  -        -       -
tub-total usbae-S - --                                                                                   -- -6- 66 6-6.6 6-6.6  -66.6   -66.6           6    67.5   -60.4 
aftotxLQ    ~XAVtMMe CoOt                 -        -                                                    -256   MA .622e.6  2620.6   226.e6   2Z;*26  .2 1             6 F7  _731
Seeds .ad wvca1023                607.5   607.6   M0.S   607.5   607.5    WA.   607.   607.5,  5Ul.6   428.9   129.0  242.A   172.6   114.e    63.6    13.e                6.7      6.7     6.7      6.7    13.e
uses.                             $$s.s 6    77.0   666.6   640.1  $21.6   603.1   480.1   40.4   609t.6   S11-83  42t.6   310.2   262.6   1eX.6   17 .0   115 9    57- t           I 572    S7.2    67.2   Its.&
suF"rtZbosbteb                    410.2   930      3 76.e   a60.   143.4   124.4   3010   291.4   *61.A   e-U.1   3%7.    219.16  2159 I   202.Z       11. I   16S.1   110.7   110.7    MAo        1 o.e  109.0
Awalu  tioctirDn                  $2. 21.0 $   21.0   52k.0 62    l.0 62  l.0 62.    21 0   521.0  Wh6.6   470.6   44.0   OMZO   384.2   340.2   333.6   2S6.9   202.0   28 .4   2es ¢   2112.s  296.6
n*4awl                            107 1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   119.4   1n2.4    06.s    73.1    59.2   46.4    S$A             *3.e    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6    II.5
F-stcides                          S 0      S 0     S 0      S 0      S 0     5.0      S 0     S 0  _L2.5       1. o  _   .o                        -        -
Sub-Total chtvasd 1tniputo        2 n-6.2 T2 2l .^ I T 175-9 7, 14so.8 Y, 10  6 F o7o0 S i,e30.7 1 9S.-S 2,24S^.6 17 92-31 i   6S0.13 aI,ss. a.im7e   es.s. -so.e 9-   -6i.    416.2   49i.6      75.i   S60.S   st?. 9
Hatod erba
Ut.taltzl.d lanto               1 016.0 1,86 e36       0  .3    186 0     1,6o  e6o  e1  ole6.0 Lel8  aI    6.0 L?7   0t671  -2U9 L,t10.2 1j2 .9 t h1142 1 07.6   SsX 2   90_6   005 1   oeost.      l       a
$mb-total Operat.ng c"to                                                                 PC.?2  - !.44!  i ,lo93i?2   .# 29     ^!$73@?     1~   50    .aa  ,6    2d0??  33190 t!SF      ,9:?!3               I ,6   s  ,X  5,a 
Slub-Tot.1 PrO.&MLA    Cost           i,oe2. 3 *0;7). 4 *  11 9 3,976e 8 394116 * 906. 5 *tt6.7 3.84 t31 4 ,;14.2 1.69.t   '  S 4  ?S9922 7       3   2122   2 110  1 I B23   1    : 3 1, J I110 ti l.leO B 1. I3 IS  i,si161
Othat 04til0"
lGtk - 19.9t, liV l,e 1.oo-
To* Dec 07 10:30:25 1991
0 >
tog
w N



Chira
Lonss Ploteu Soil and Ihter Conservation Project:  Shans  jicilu area
Grass moel
3OCM aUWOR   Wm)
(In Yuan '000)
With Pro1ect                                                                                                                     Future  Future  Percentage
it  is  16  27  is      19      20       21   ~~~22 to                               2 6 2 to           p-resent Without With      Change
34   IS         16      17      18       19      20      21      23      24      2S       26   n 7        29      30       1       8   _ 0           I
M"n sottduatim
Food cropc                                               -       -       -        -       -               -       -       -        -                         3,226.2 3,063.8        -       -0.0
Comacik cerops                                   -       -       -        -               -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -   603.1  601.1
forest productions and grass *eud 1,748.8 2,060.4 L,147.7 2,147.7 &081.2 1,752.2 1,748.8 2,080.4 2,147.7 2 081.2 1 752.  2 1748.8 2 080.4 2 147.7 2,0O1.2          -       - 2,081.2
huh-total Wets Poduatbon             1,748.8 2,080.4 2,147.7 24     2,0    1,752.2 176   2,080.4 2,147.7 2 01.2 1752 2 1i     2,080.4 2   7.7 2,081.2 3,829.3 3,666.6 2,401.2                 -0.0
By toduotl
Forage AI  crop straw                            -       -       -                -                                                                        -  266.3  266.3          -
Forest productions and grass need _68.8    86.3   104.0  104.0  t04.0   86.5   68.8    86.3  104.0  100.0   86.1   68.6   86.3  101.0  104.0                                -   101.0
Sub-total Bypmoducta                    68.8    86.3     j,~    ~       ~        86.5    68.8 86.3   104.0   104.0 104.86.1    68.8 86.3         101.0 104.0 3 68 S 6.3  _268.3   266.3   184.0  -0.1
Gross Value 02 heduotion             1,617.6 2,166.7 2,251.7 i,2 1.7  ,1815.1 1,838.8 1,817.6 2,166.7 2,251.7 2,185.1 1,838.8 1,817.6 2,.7I 2,211.7 2.185.1 4,095.6 3,933.1 2,18S.1           -0.0
other InSlow.
Sadimantti2on Control                367.0   367.8   367.8   367.8   367.8  367.8  367.8  367.8   367.8  367.8  367.8   367.8  367.8  367.8   367.8                -        -   367.8
DMIJOUS                           2,185.4 2,534.5 2,619.5 2,619.5  2,52.9 2,206.6 2,181.4 2,534.5 2,619.1 2,5S2.9 2,206.6 2,161.4 2,534.5 2,619.S 2,112.9 4,091.6  , ,3.1 2,1152.9          -0.0
Poduction Coat
ir,vastant
uoabdsend sInuts
Seeds adeeinizrgs                    -       _                                                -                       -        -       -               -               -        -          -
baseFel er                               -       -                                -                                         ---_ti_
Sub-total  Iuoae  Ot
Wired Labor
Unskilled labor
Sub-total Investdat Costs                -       -       -       -       -        -       -       _       -
Ourobasd 3nputs
Seeds and seedings               13.S      6.7     6.7     6.7     6.7    13.8    13.8      6.7     6.7     6.7    13.8    13.6      6.7     6.7     6.7  607.5   607.5      6.7        -0.1
urea                             111.9    17.2   17.2   17.2   17.2   111.I   115.9   17.2   57.2    17.2  11S.1   111.9    17.2   57.2    17.2  591.5  457 0    17.2                   -0.1
auporphosphata                  129.8   64.9    64.9    46.1   46.1    92.2   93.1    46.1    46.1   46.1    92.2    93.1.   46.1   46.1    46.1  410.2   291.0   46.3                  -0.1
AninAl trCtiOn                  296.9  282.0  289.4  289.4  282.1   296.6  296.9  282.0  289.4   282.1  296.6  296.9  282.0  289.4  282.1  121.0  521.0  282.1                          -0.0
Manur                            43.8    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6   43.1    43.8    21.6    21.6    21.6   43.1    43.8    21.6    21.6    21.6  107.1  107.1    21.6               -0.1
Pestcides                            _       _       _       _       _       _.0                                                                                                -          -
Sub-tOl hrcl>hat  n"to             600.1   432.4   439.8  421.0  411.8   161.2  163.4   413.7   421.0  TI3.i  661.2  163.4   413.7  i7mi   413.8 2,246.2 T,986.5   413.9                  -80.
Ired4 Labor
Unskilled labor                 953.2  901.1  88S.1  885.1  871.3   918.3   953.2   901.1  885.1   871.1   910.3  963.2  90S.1  885.1  871.1 1,836.0 1,636.0  671.1                     -0.1
Sub-total opereti   cost           151.4   337.9 2   1,325.0 1,306.2 1,284.9 1,479.6 1,17 1.319.1 1,306.2 1,264.9 1,479.6 1,516.7 1.319.1 1-306.2 1,284.9 49082.3 3,824.1 1,284.9           -0.1
gub-Total Production Cost            3,13.4 1,337.9 1,321.0 1,306.2 1,2U  7  479.6 1,516.7 1,319.1 1,306.2 1,284.9 1,479.6 1,516.7 1,319.1 1,306.2 1,284.9 4,082.3 3,824.5 1,284.9           -0.1
otbar outflows
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                                           3.;  2   3  3       , 13.7    jiw 7
o'jmCVi                 1,163.4 ~~~~~~~~1,3937.9 1,2925.   30     1,379.26 1560.7 1.215.1 1,36.   i:1,7.1,1.1,91YW2,8.840. 3 1   1649                                           -1
cash flow                              632.1 11,31  3 1,268.1   727.0    68.8 1,21.  1,313.3 1,268.1   727.0  668.8 1,215.4 1,313.3 1,268.1   -9.4    94.9 1,28.1                              1.2
mm
1.2



China
Loess Plateau SolI And Water Conservatlon ProJects Shaanxi Yobbe Subproject
T?erace Model
mom e        _  }oseu
(tn Yuan Lillion)
Without Proiect                                       With Project                               Puturo  Futuro Percetage
a to                                                    9 to  Present Without With    Chaaae
1     2     3     4      5     6     7    30      1     2     3     4     5      6     7     8    30       1       8     9, 
main Peodoation
Food crops                               6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.8   6.8   6.8   6.0   7.8   9.5  12.0  13.7  15.4  17.1  1S.4  19.7  19.7         6.9      6.8   19.t        0.0
Commercial crops                         0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.9   1.7   2.8   3.5   4.1   4.6   4.9   5.1   5.1          0.2     0.2    5.1        0.0
S_b-total Man Prodtotin                    7.1   7.1   7.0   7.0   1.0   7.0   7.0   6.9   8.6  11.2  14.8  17.2  19.-5  21.8  23.' -T24.   24.S8    T7   6.9    2-4 9             0.0
Forage and  crop straw                   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.5   1.5         0.4      0.4    1.5        0.0
gross Value of Pgodnntioe                   7.5   7.4   1.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.3   9.1  11. 8  15.-6  18.2 270.6  23.0  24.7 -26.2  26.2   -7.5        7.3  2-6.2         0.0O
Othe Iaflows
Sedimentation reduction                                                                -   0.1   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.7   0.8   0.9   1.0   1.0          -       -    1.0           -
%mum4                                     1.5   7.4   74     .4 7.4  71.4   7.4   7.3   9.2  12.1  1.0  18.7  21.3  23.8  25.6  21.2   7.2            7.5     t.3  2t.2   ~ O.O
vroduotion Cost
Pmrobased inpots
Seed and seedlings                     0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5         0.4      0.4    0.5        0.0
Chemicals fertilizers and pesticlde      -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -   0.4   0.8   1.1   1.4   1.7   1.9   2.1   2.2   2.2          -       -    2.2          -
Animal traction                        2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.6         2.2      2.2    2.6        0.0
Manure                                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5         0.2      0.2    0.5        0.0
Oth.: smputs                             -      -           -                        - 0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2            -                 0-
aub-Totaj Puarcha d Isptat               2.8   2.8   2.8   2.9   2.8  2.8   2.8   2.8   3.3  -3.8   4.3  4.7   51   5.5 T        5. -6  --6.0 -2.8 -2.8 -6-.0                   0.0
MIed tabo
Unskilled labor                        3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   4.3   5.0   5.8   6.6   7.3   8.0   8.5   9.1   9.1          3.7     3.7    9.1        0.0
Sub-ftal pseduothee Cost                   6.5  -6.    6.    6. 5 6S   6.  65          6.5  7.6   8.8 1'0.1  113  1r2.4 -13.5  14.T3  151151            6.5     6. 5   T13         0.0
Otber Outflows
Other inputs                                -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -1.          10.7  10.7 1.   10.7  10.7   8.0   8.0     --
OUR . F6.U.5 65    .    6.5   6.5   6.5  18.2  19.4  20.8  2.9  23.1 2F4.22.3 31151                                                                  65        .5    5100
casb Vle.W                                  I.0   1 0   1.0   0.9   0.9  -0.9 0-   9 -0.9  -9 0 -:74 -4.7 --3.2  -1.8  -0.4   3.3   4.2  12.2    -1.0           0.9  012           0.
:AR - 16.0t, NPV - 12.93
un Dec 12 06:35:06 1993
g 0



Lose PIta Watrsed Re_btao Project
ExitIng PovWt SitUaton In Subproject Area
Agcufturd CutIva   Not bxwom  Grin  Govesnt Grant  Gran   Ilty- Perenag
ProJt  Houshold Populdion   nd       P         Pr   Subidy    Grin   Cah   peson    T. Poplation
Prvine Area    (10000   (10000)   Per cap.  Cata        Cmt  410.000)   (TO)   (10000) (100)  1%)
Shanid                10.9                0.4     303.7                                      6.9        25.6
Welton        2.1       8.3      0.4      298.  361.0      695.0   160   17.         1.0       24.3
Xkdshui       3.4      12.3      0.3     365.9 478.0    1147.0   S.0   22.9          2.6       35.0
"BP           S.5      18.8      0.4     265.0  365.0  N/A b      NJA bi N/A b)      2.7       21.0
She8d                 6.6                0.5      300.8                                      7.7        ".3
Yanhe         4.9      19.3      0.5     348A  368.0       800.0  560.0   94.0       6.0       55.9
JIuiu         1.7       6.5      O.S      160.0 328.0      315.0 3650.0   10.0       1.7       09.0
Nmeng Ylmenv          1.5       5.7      0.3      394.0  307.0      38.2   25.0  N/A b)    OS          19.1
Gomm   mI inhe       10.9      50.0      0.3      302.2  383.0  HUA bf       2.0  400.0     10.9        30.2
Total        29.9    120.7       2.6      304.8
of oma-  aainmi   =minmm  a           nmnaaamnmmmm maa am                                 am      m
a) Graft for grain wmd ch awe used for di r reli
bl Dats not vaiable
a) The unit for gain per oapa Is the gain outpjt por capIa 4kg)



V-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
usr       set         cue      ems        emC      1t earns    vas1uw  cast                                   es IFDVsUi  Plo&
1se       sews        em:       va         Ivets    wow         Wu                rnge ves          em        vs
seSt                  vastam    rnst      vwai      vM          Mst               iow   m           vit       Ws       1 _19X
sIt       srstLt               ew         0u We memmt est z 1                     rn         v _ x a          vs
UrP    r lul          UI        WfWl em;            eWIN       oMrnMee                              eas       os     *      P      >      a
use       SIts       strn      e                    w owest    wit                rntv              WWI vans  VD                 1
o9 r      Sri    OUSs        t ewn yeV e.                      vAt VIC=v  M                         eWI  9v                  G 4A
Mt        sWa         e_s      ews   U      W       Wm         mO awiuS M                           WWI       aet eMA
Sfr        tv         vi         M           11     WW         wo        S      lumo   MWI  "V                                 8 V_ 
O    it        sint        ess      ews1       emu       ear        vs1                m -s el"          e1Ms     vs               vmbtA       da
UV        sr$i        wan      ems         rcss     rs1s v0t                       -g                Q1s=     vl                3di 
2Vs       sMt         ris      Wawa       ea n      rev       ov                  OKs MSrol                   Ws ace;  v_s        UI A
svc       ssit        sm      rown         COP     sWm         v                  Me MINSvia _    els    we                a  Nip
osrs      sri         vt1w1t     eDnt    was        vINK       Wu                 as-tves uvIm               vs
Sri       iSl         va1      yeS         no       vwsl       vss             m     s  vss         me       vsq
oils   S il           ew       Wmt         W=       wo         el ses    _        aIr-  em          va        vs            Vs    r      sx
ttlY I    Iv:      Ot   e"0s em                     e       _ rus e    Horn  ii                 o ta       W vs  aP
5A01   *A01    4ke                        ~d    wqu0  t                                     qdON  se          ue _t
941'a                                                                                    54u3PS     U UA  w  'lPS   _   _   _
wu wn ~ ~     ~    ~     qqimug~wubm
Wuwq _



tsa r a "ac
120  Cr                                   2e.9  204    2e.4  tl.4   1        n. 3 .   a2.    2.2  27.7  #2.  U.0A. 22.1 22.0n   22.0   2.  n.0   A.s  U.6    .0  #2.6  A2.4    0e.9    203    22.                       .
Comcto!wq                     *.3 *.2 *.1  *.7  1e.2   1.9  12.0  U.2   2.2  12.3 U2.1  UJs 22.2  12.3  1U.3 U.2.3  12.3  U.S  U2.3  #SM    UJ                                     2.3  * .3   *.)   U: 1  e*X
#ra. WA   t                               11.   12.   11t. e1.    12. o      . l11 It    11. o   s   1.0elstl  sil   11.   11.   U4    11. lt .0  U.* Uetl l.0  le       11.0  U.    11. e 1.      11. eI
tu        bsce                             5.4   5.4   6.4   1.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    S.4    6.4   6.4   5.4   6.4   6.4   6.4    *.4   5.4   6.4   6.4   9.4    *.A    *.4    *.4      *.4      *.4    9.4-
for&$   d GM  seem                         I.S   14    3.2   t.J        1.4    1.5   1.4   1.4    1.7   1.1   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7    1.7   1.7   1.7   1.1   t.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.6      2.9    1.7         OJ}
,V od .cw                                  9. 9.  M    9 .6                 9.   9.    9.         9.    0.0  tO.  10.6  10.8  10.0   0.0  10.4  10.  10.0  20.0t             10. 1 e . to  9.S     *.   *0.1           O.3
Comtai   calpt                             0.3   0.3   0.2   0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3   0.2    0.3   0.3    0.  4o.e    o.e    .         .     .     .      .     .      .o ee eo            es      es      ee         -*
loal d eC_pse                                                                                                                                      0                       
f Cgcp ~~~~~~~~2.6    2.4    2.6    1.9    2.2    2.2    2.1    3.1    3.1     M . 4.0   4.6   4.0    4.1    4.0    4.6    4.1    4.6    4.1    4.4    4.0    4.8  2 .t                  2.4    4.0         0.0
Q    St 6 n    sh e                  -          t.0    1.9    1.4    -    .0
*100                                                         S      t.         .                                       -          -      - -       -         7  i-  .   .    .     .
tr-ge     ,wolw      ,"t                           4g    44--                  T        .       .      .     .       .  .        .     .      .     .             . .           .       . .
*s*  la                        2.    2.6  :.I1  .9   2.4   1.1  2.2    1.2   2.2   1.2   1.2    3.2   1.2   1.2    t.2   1.2   1.2    1.2   t.2    1.2    1.2    1.2           2*       *       .           .
Ctomloal  *aruutrsn Al 64#:1r2s   4.1    4.1    C.4   1.S S.8  tO   1.01.4  3O.iS tO.6  11.3  U1.7   1    ti.0  U.1  12.1  M                           U.t  U.'  #2.1   #.1  12.        .1     4.1   *t U.t        2.0
dbC~ vap*.t    -                                                   A  O9.0m             Ad  -S      _n    -U.1   U    1.t       .*.l#&      t&   t.2  47 .2 0IM   O.S .40.0   0 .se2_C.2.* ILI
,& i          tntt¢ss                         .I2.    2.                        34. 9.        _.   so.     ,.    WA  it.     :    21._ 2, _7>  I27  U. 7    7*.6   7¢.0    _7  M   2.1S 7 .   se.§   21.4                 .
_ ut  _*%                    i                I                       6           _             "a_           -  -M I            .  _. .4    9    - .0.      .1 -- _-     0.0                      . .2  _         _     .
ce=:u4f v^t,<.S.N=   a.  .ooi    .                     i                v.                                              ,                                                ,U"    __,,,,     
As" tcaeat  th  litd      tid
*_ofWi  -----O eggsam  W                                        .        .   - .        . .       .      .     .      .         __ .     .                     . .      .                         
PAOL&A&I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Vol a
Ft ;   tal:NtS {t.* soL v:"* tole                74,7-9  tt-.    ...a                                                                                                                                     n.           1 t  . ¢
fsoo4 "oa             to .O M " worch -    * &
rows~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _ol oo""a is" 3     "- -    rnM M-n-     v  lu   -        Mu                                                                 .
ftew" pa P"ily-ftw of Ubm  -T.-O                      _j_W



- 205 -                                         ANN 
Table 3:
CNHLA
Looss Plateau Water and Soil Conservation Project: Shanxi--Xinshui SubprC
Fauily a lram Nodel
ozesuD uaiacamm mvma
(In Units) /a
Ianuarv--december
Without   With Proieet              Future  Future Percentage
Prolect              3 to  Present Without With    Change
Unit   1to 30   1       2    30       1      30       T    ___
Cropping Intensity                       Percent   100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0   100.0   100.0  1000               -
Wheat -- Sloping land                  ha        0.2   0.2   0.1       -     0.2      0.2      -           -
Whenat -  Sloping laud/Terrace         ha           -     -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Maize -  Sloping land                  ha           -     -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Maize -- Sloping land/Terrace          ha           -     -     -      -       -        -      -
Millet -  Sloping land                 ha        O.    O.1   O.1   O.1       0.1      0.1    0.1      -17.0
Millet -- Sloping land/Terrace         ha           -     -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Soybean -- Sloping land                ha        0.3   0.1  O.    0.0       0.3     0.3    0.0       -87.0
Soybean -- Sloping land/Terrace        ha          -      -     -      -       -        -      -          -
Vegetables -  Slopiag land/Terrace   ha          0.1   0.1   0.1       -     0.1      0.1      -          -
Maize -  Terrace land                  ha        0.1   0.1      -      -     0.1      0.1      -          -
Soybean -- Terrace land                ha        0.1   0.0      -      -     0.1      0.1      -          -
Melons    Terrace land                 ha        0.1   0.1      -      -     0.1      0.1      -          -
Apple -  Project Construction          ha          -      -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Pear -- Project Construction           ha          -      -     -      -       -        -      -          -
Apple -- Change                        ha        0.1      -     -      -     0.1      0.1      -           -
Od-tetal  adUattU   WaetedLe                         .1 1   T1   0.3   0 1     1 1      1.1    0.1      -870
N- 9ad
Wheat -  Sloping land                  ha                             -      - -  -  -  -      -           -
Wheat -  Sloping land/Terrace          ha           -   O.    0.1   0.2       -        -    0.2           -
Maize -  Sloping land                  ha                       -      -       -        -      -           -
Maize -- Sloping land/Terrace          ha           -   0.0   0.0   0.1        -        -    0.1           -
Millet -  Sloping land                 ha                       -      -       -        -                  --
Millet -- Sloping land/Terrace         ha           -   0.0   0.0   0.0        -        -    0.0           -
soybean -- Sloping land                ha           -     -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Soybean -  Sloping land/Terrace        ha           -     -     -      -       -        -      -           -
Vegetables -  Sloping land/Terrace   ha             -     -   0.0   0.0        -        -    0.0           -
Maize -  Terrace land                  ha           - 0.1   0.1   0.1          -        -    0.1           -
Soybean -  Terrace land                ha           -   0.0   0.1   0.1        -        -    0.1           -
Melons -- Terrace land                 ha           -   Ol   0.1   0.1        -        -    0.1           -
Apple    Project Construction          ha           -   0.1   0.2   0.2        -        -    0.2           -
Pear -- Project Construction           ha          -   0.1   0.1   0.1         -        -    0.1          -
Apple -  Change                        ha           -   0.1   0.1   0.1        -        -    0.1           -
Sbr4fttl NW *ebualg                                   -   05   0.8   0 9         - - -.               _0_ 9-
Istel ege{  AV                                        1.1   1.    1.1   1.1      1.1  '1.        1.1           -
atdtwitW Patte
-muu _ -
Pigs                                             1.0      -     -            1.0      1.0      -           -
Chicken                                          15.0     -     -      -    15.0    15.0       -           -
am teurlew
Pigs                                               -   1.0   1.0   1.0         -        -    1.0
Chicken                                             -  15.0  15.0  15.0        -        -   15.0           -
'a There are 4 population in the family.Per capital income is 365 yuan.It's 65% about the income level in Xinshui River Basin.
Sun Dec 12 08:1S:00 1993



Wosee Iletet Vateabe  Sebab&LUecon psel.$ ssemi-z.oemi  0uwa3et
Iota heder a ck
~~~~~~]9" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~t VW *.a:O Ism   ,.
Veal CIa,.                           1:.0  u1.0  5.7   9.1  11.9  121  12.1 1u.J 1u.2  12.2  1.2 1.2 1U2  1.2  12.2  12.tU2 t2.2 132.2 1s             . 122  U.2   11.0   11.0  13.2       0.2
PA_±a   ci,                            6.4    . 6  .2  1.4  4.0  7.4  7.1   7.1  K.1  7.1  17.t5    .    .   7.1  7.1  7.             7 7.   1.1  I,  7.5         I   6 .4   7.            0.1
.e.'el I;                       4M   .4 0 .4" 0.4 .44. 5.4  0.4  0.4  0.4            0. .4       5.4  5. 0.4      5.4  0 .4  5.4  0.4  0   .4  0.4  0 .4    5.4 0.4        *.41:
Luau  whet                            0.1  0.1  0.    .:  0.1  0.-  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1    0.1    0.1   0.3
&A e.     u*   aeegw                  0.4  0.6  0.4  0.4  0.7    5   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.5 0.               0.0  0.5  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0    0.4    0.4   0.5              0.4
etche                                0.6   0.   0.1  0.   0.1  0.   0.1  0.   0.6  0.    .4  0.4  0.4  _                *0. 0    §.0    0.4   0 0.6  0.   0.4    0.*    0.5    .4          0.2
Ictege eel cia , aS. **0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   .1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.o0                                     1     .1    0. a.
hea  eel eg
6-eSl  .-as mdeeute
so" ctCq                               1.1  6.3  4.1  4.?  3.5  2.1  1.2  2.1  3.1   .1   .5    .   2.0  2.0  3.0  2.    M                   3.0  3.5  3.    SJ   6.2    6.2   2.0        -0.2
0&deUee luhee             w          X44 -M . 4 -,M4 1.; 7 j                                     T U..    w 6 ;  1  -, ,,- 7     -r-, -7                              --1 .i :-  1 -
"-13gh C                                        .   07 01.                                                                                                                  
ftedwa1.4 0.1-
poebs2.IOW0   0..
C el *   t-l 5a,t: -    .      2  .                       ~       .     . _              .         .     .     .     .     .     .   .     .     .     .     .
th__ el.          -;--- *       41   -. -        *    
lked Ld
tat""    _ _etos  c@@t                   .    -,.         7           .        .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     . _      .      __
good :                             '..2  2.1  :.0   2.0  0.1  0.5  0.5  0.   0.5  5.0  0.1 0.6  06  0.0  0.0  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    1.6    1.1   0.0                        -0.1
CbeeocI  tegtdIz te 5.             .3   2.7   2     4.'  4.0  4.4  1.2  1.2  1.3  1.2  5.7  1.7  1.?  1.1  0.7  5.7  1.7  1.7  5.7    1   1.7    2.7    2.7   0.7                      1.2
otl_* 1aa                        -t -M  -l -N ]4 -M  -M 41 M  - M5 *   i14-iM4 - 1-                                              11 ---4 D.S
he.teSel Opseie het
tilc                   tS.1                          C     o      *      4    11.4  6- 27HA   11 A       J -10.2 -11.    ;d        .D MA{ ffIA    6    .;4. .16;   ;t16.7  -$-' >.. 70.9
Poem tax"                                i. :                 2.4  2.1  4.7  4.)  1.7  S.7  0.2  4.0  0.0  0.9  *.U  5.2  9.2  10.U   10.4  10.7  10.7    1.0    l.S  10.7                 s.0
otbet impsse
h*"fsepos                             9. e       4J                2.0 -A.2    a  n .7 _ 77t             u  o J_-  e.s  eSL  M.A .3  e.X  e
e <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                     -=1H IT M;  ; ;7i Ip; 7m   _W-                                     5            4           .
coktS nowm S    no"te  "ea  
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iF tbZ tqq   M4   F-
heaotoe grem Otevim   totned          12.5  10.  106.  20.1 24.4  27.  25.5  20.5  21.0  21.0  24.5  21.1  25.4  21.4  21.4  21.0  21.4  20.4  21.4  25.4 25.    10.    30. 1 20.4          0.5
CUs~~~~1.                                   t               4*       *       '~)   'i            ..IL.2    .L    i  'I   ii  'b   'a~  'i   '~a  -'b   '.1  ' ''  '  '' ''
-use    g Ceoso et t   tonied          _ IL._ -n  _4.  _7  _U               _0.   _     _ _.24    _%   -'  I.  -_    _d _W  _           _i   _u    _d _U           1  .1 -_    3   _       ,
ab- Bongo" of no""- i                                                                                                               i   -  -_      i -ni                     . _ -              ' .
besgeta leS be__
CeeinLsBt*.   m    m Mor-Aso~ee                           .    .    .    .    ...                 .                                                                        - . .-  . .    
SeedL*a Val"e at
Ineggt to ot td                          - , -  - - - - -    -                                                                                              
056-tetel Cbeepi he se Na
8*m family eseliSe LOtew pre."agi                                  '   -3
IM * 17.35. EY                                    . * 51.14              .         ..
%e nfte &te 4 pepu1uatt  to :" tL,a.:.YeIe -aFltal  L:S Ia 44 M.St's 450 aSco the Isco1  leI La XbUe           uvst Sleu.
hI CAt 77 CtIlStI  124-



(1. Uultu Ia
Wheat -. Slap14g laid/te-n..  ha  -        -
3.1. *-  Sle   l     e.        h              *k *e                                   - s -  -            -.o .
Millet -1 Sl~1ag laa     n     eUa                       -            -      -     -        - la    I
"  _  _Vusb  '''  
i.t  -- Siqg laiA                   ha        0.2  0.1      -  0.3.1 0.1                 -                      -. e.6
I.t.t -- Slpti   lard/t oiat         ha                                 -             -       .      .
hrea  -. 3l  1 _0 laa               ha          1 e                      -      -     -                        - l 
SMaafl --81p19 INAi                 ha        0.20.                                         02       - 
himl.e  -- Slolurg la trne    ha                                                            -  ....-__.
$W*- 0w laidlgem ha-                                  --re                                    - - .
*st^          S11a -  .a tau   V 0   ha                                  -      -                 -     -
JOU"a- tlon., lwAi                   ha       0.4  0.2  0.2  0.1   S.               O. .;              
^ --te t    SUA    .;P     .        a        O.;  a.i ;                                   G.;
Soe.. -- stame   awd A              ha        0.2  0.    0.1  0.1          -        0.2     0.2
101410 -- S2.p4s. lwAd              ha        0.0        --0                                0 -  -e 
r-rrex eeom c "netw    .
Vot. -      v.ct Cle.t tIss         ha       ---                                              -      - '   ha
4        tmeaft C a                 he t6 it a.2  he --.-                                      -     -          -.
Appla -- ChaW.                      ha        0.1  0.2  0.1       -                 0.2    0.2 5
Whea -- Sloiag laid                 ha *    .             .-    
e --Toreson  Ie Wh                                 - 0.1   .1   0..2   0.2 --
3.134 - Project loau                ha       *                                             .      .          .
Am    -- I.s               e        h a             0.1  0.1   .2   .2  0.            -       -   0.2           -
311141        " 4141. 14            ha_-_ -                                           ,       .      -                                         
2teach --  lP3  edh                          --                                                 
tott. -- flla  ledb,m               h           -  0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1          -       -   0.1           - 
33413. '-  Slole  bi                ha                                                      -      -     _ -      
huIt   -- I1.ilag laiA               he..   h   -  0.1   0.   0.1   .1  0.1           -       -   0.1
_   "* S&CA"S  1@um                 b           *     _     _     _     _            
W.otlo--Olpala/ogo    has     c                 -  0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1           -       -    0.1          -
-h at -   .3.g lad                   ha         -  0.1  0.2  0.2   0.o   .4                   -     . 
3a3--t.ha.qc.laci.                   h          -  0.0  0.1¢ e.1   0.2 0-   0.2 
>ula *.       ta IwAlro eb h                        ei .i  O.i   G.i  O.i                
t "        Aala"                    hb0                   00     .     . 00
e -.a -oi -0. -    -                                                                              0.0          -
--      .   Rota              ha         -        -0.1 .   -                                 0. -
app     r 14--Cheeq.              ha            *  0.1  0.2  0.2   0.2  0.2                        0.2 
-^B   OW.                                              -           -     -  0l@u.
P.    --,      f 1WA.e  s.                                        e ue le             -         
masA                                              0-     -     -    -     -          0 e   e     e 2   oe0    e
tl . lpp  ftre     I                          1.0-e 0-         -2                           2.0      - n    - aTv    .
thlob..                             10.0-       -    -     -     -    -10.0    10.0         -
3 -,,G-"--Z 01-02-.    .    .
Ofthy                                                                   1.0~1.   10 1.   10 1.    -   10 
Donke                                               I .0  2.0   2.0   2.0  1.0                - 2.-
pit"                                 ~~~~~~10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0              1. 
"Of &"40  S POPOIN..tl  LA th" In17J*# GOVISAI 13030. As 450 ra*%..t@o 155 43.31 the lSMoe  14501 &a xLmtAtd aver ea"
Fri EaR of 0254465i 1134



CHINA
Lo.as, Plateau Vatershad Rehabilitation Projectt SNaiuc-UXnshwi Subpro$.ct
Faw ly C Farm todel
mRooUcOrz AND imitws IAggwaelted)
tin Unit,) Is
ianuarv--decemb*r
Without                                                       Fduture   Future  Perentago
Prro*ct                                   With Project                                    Prevent Vithout   Vith      Cjq
Unit  r 1i       I       2       3        4       S       6        7       6       9       I0     1          2           ___t
main pm totiot
Food Crops                            kg   3,095.2 3,169.8 3,473.S 3,930.9 4,453.2 4,622.3 4,782.4 4,866.8 4,086.0 4,806.0 4,806.0 3,09S.2 3,095.2  4,886.0           $6.0
Commrcinl cropt                       kg     146.3 1,657.2  ,e680.4 2,240.9 2,401.3 2,409.0 2,409.0 2,409.0 2,409.0 2,409.0 2,409.0   146.3  146.3  2,409.0    1,547.0
Reat *nd *99                         unit    177.5  11.    177.           5 177.6 177.5 177.5 177.5 S   IS       177.5                  117.5 177.5 177.5 I.S
Animal other                         unit     30.9   30.9   30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9    30.9   30.9   30.9    30.9   30.9             30.9
Fruit                                 kg   2,250.0 2,500.0 2.750.0 3,290.0 3,670.0 3,975.0 4,095.0 4,645.0 5,195.0 7,060.0 7,440.0 2,250.0 2,250.0 11,430.0          408.0
Sy fozdwte
Forego and crop straw                 kg   4,038.1 4,186.9 4,759.3 5,403.7 6,108.5 6,342.7 6,530.2 6,630.6 6,653.6 6,653.6 6,453.6 4,036.1 4,038.1  6,653.6           65.0
Anim.l other                         unit     39.0   39.0   39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0   39.0   39.0    39.0   39.0             39.0
Om-lara Co0n  tieo
Tood Crops                            kg   1,435.0 1,43S.0 1,435.0 1,435.0 1,435.0 1,435.0 1,435.0 1,435.0 1,435.0 1,225.0 1,225.0 1,43S.0 1,436.0  t,22S.0          -15.0
Comercial crops                       kg     120.0   180.0  160.0   160.0   180.0   160.0   180.0   160.0   180.0  220.0  220.0   120.0   120.0    220.0              63.0
Fotage and crop straw                 kg     200.0   200.0  200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  200.0  100.0  100.0   200.0  200.0    100.0              -50.0
meat and egg                         unit    25.S    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   55.0   55.0    25.S    25.5           72.0       182.0
gales
Food Crops                            kg   1,660.2 1,734.0 2,036.5 2,$03.8 3,010.2 3,167.3 3,347.4 3,431.6 3,411.0 3,661.0 3,661.0 1,660.2 1,660.2  3,661.0          121.0
Comercial crops                       kg     146.3 1,477.2 1,700.4 2,060.9 2,221.3 2,229.0 2,229.0 2,229.0 2,229.0 2,189.0 2,189.0   146.3   146.3  2,189.0    1,397.0
forage and crop straw                 kg   3,836.1 3,966.9 4,559.3 S,203.7 S,905.5 6,142.7 6,330.2 6,430.6 6,453.6 6,5S3.6 6,SS3.6 3,638.1 3,530.1  6,553.6           71.0                  I
Meat and *99                         unit    152.0   147.5       147.5    147.5    147.1   147.5    147.1   147. S147.    122.5   122.5   152.0   152.0    105.5     -31.0
Animal other                         unit     69.9    69.9    69.9    69.9    69.9    69.9    69.9    69.9    69.9   69.9   69.9   69.9    69.9           69.9           -                  o
Fruit                                 kg   2,250.0 2,500.0 2,750.0 3,290.0 3,670.0 3,975.0 4,095.0 4,645.0 S,195.0 7,000.0 7,440.0 2,250.0 2,250.0 11,430.0          408.0
Commercial cropa                      kg     120.0                -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -   120.0   120.0        -           -
Iwesetam
prsahes   lrip,
Seed a Seedling                     kg         -       -       -        -       -   106.3
Cheoical Frttilirte e   Pesticides  kg        -       -        -       -       -   276.3
Other inputs                        kg                     -        -           -     0.7        -       -       -       -       - 0.7
tabor
Labor                               day        -    14.0    11.0      4.0     4.0   101.1        -       -       -       -       -        -       _
opSerting
utmeed Ipats,
Seed S Seedling                     kg     306.0   357.4   303.7   299.9   287.9   264.6   264.0   264.6  264.6  264.0  264.6   306.0  306.0    264.8             -13.0
Chemical Fertilxores A Pesticid..  kg      956.5 1,151.5 1,277.8 1,364.1 1,434.$ 1,495.6 1,511.9 1,525.6 1,530.4 1,5S6.7 1,S56.7  956.5   956.5  1,571.7            64.0
Other inputs                        kg   7,390.6 7,498.3 7,604.5 7,747.3 7.837.3 8,107.9 0,248.1 0,438.2 6,604.2 8,839.2 6,857.2 7,390.6 7,390.6  8,857.2           20.0
taebor
Labot                               day    298.5   363.0   412.9   455.0  502.6   556.8   574.9   592.9  60S.0  647.9  613.5   298.5  296.5    72S.0              143.0
?a Iher ar* S population in tho Iamily.Pat capital incom in 450 yutn.ttle nSI about the income level in Xinehui flvye BasiK.
Fri Jan 07 0MO4523 1994-
ib 
fD 



Lease Plta Vttcbd  RebaiUt tio Prqocts S-            N     S*pcoJ*at
Vaelky C fam 1104.
m 2CtA&  _1D         1MMI
(In yusa Mu*.A..d) /9
witbout                                                                 Future tlW       rntO
____     _ ct  Itit               -I-  Amt   rr -At l-         thr
food Crops                                            24.6 27.1  30.0  33.1 37.7 30.0 3.9  40.6 40.6 40.6 40.6   24.1   24.6  40.4              O.7
Ce_rclal crep                                          2.2  6.2  6.9  6.1  *.0  6.9  6.9  6.9  5.9  S.9  6.9    7.2    2.2   6.9                3.1
Rest KW egg                                           10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   10.0   10.0  t0.0
Mimi oter                                              3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6    3.6    3.6   3.6
truit                                                 26.6 30.1  33.6  40.4  45.0  46.6 49.7  S6.2 62.7 64.0 96.3   26.6   26.6  132.9          4.
Vn*it                                               -i7.0 -u-  1*iU W    It U 1XX!  1 .a    1 !17  WiZ  -~7i1 -I  .lI.
orae sawd acrp str_w                                   1.6  1.7  1.9  2.2  2.4  2.6  2.6  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7    1.6    1.6   2.7                0.7
AtAIAl otb,.:                                          1.6  1.6 j~1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  J~1.6  1.6    1.6    1.6 1.
det                  h                 r                    ;Z                                                                           $J=w -M  0  3
ow-riem. coe.otio.
opd Cpti                                              12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6 12.6 10.6  10.6   12.6   12.6  10.6       -0.2
Crcain crops                                           0.1  0.6  0.5  0.5  0.6   0.  0.5  0.6  D.6  0.6  0.6    0.3    0.3   0.6                06
ng  g     atoop atraO 0.1 0.    0.   0.1    1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0    0.1    0.1   0.o                                                -e.s 
Neat *nd                                            _ .6  1.7  1.7 1            17   17   1.7   1l  1.7  3.1  3.1    I.S    1.6   4.0          16
aw- 1oa ftvt  -osopa                                    4s    B                B     B     B                                          M  z B 5  
a_ value ets                                            -1j-
6..4..e. Oseew6a                                        0.3 -0. 0. --        
lee.. o39614.
Subhidit, by GOoaeat for ApplO Oreoerd Coatrilftio -9.0.                                                        s b 2 i
ftembm Cmf
Seed aSeedL                                                                    2.1-
tcli   r twtLlL:eg  6 t..05oi86                      -    -     -     --        2.0   .-     -.  -                   --            -          -                           
Chmia er uieea  "iie
Otl,.: impute                                                                  0.0                                                  
ethe"l od"   wt
t_b"d  tao
toed*   dt                   S                          I Llt  .    .   33 7  73  3.t  2.0  2.5  2 5  2.t  2.S  2.5    I S    1.S    2.$   -0.2
Cte  rrtiltesr a lootlaide.                   6.5S  .4  S.6 10.7  t0. S  l   12.2 t2.4 t2.5 12.  1 l.s    6.5    6.5  124 S             1 
Other                                             tt1 16.0 _V      22.2  211  29.1  3       0  721   2.0 3.6  24.9   11.1   1I    3.2       2.
F-to6el 6prnA  see                                    4o.sj3~f[l.   W!  1F  1EY  II7If   '10    ^2;§13Xb-B. 7.
Labor                    t                                    .00*0 .Se7    .                 374.7W 6    32  U    U2   .1  I9 BS      . 0.
foerm tfo"                                             6.7  6.1  6.6  7.3  7.9  0.3  6.   9.2  10.0  12.6  13.1    6.7    6.7  16.4             2.2
6h. 0661 os
Other impute                                                I  .        7.               7.9 7  .    .S   7.9  7g.6    0.6    0.    I.          0
-NW                                                         643as
t_tt~~~~~~~~ 7~                                                                             -,rg            102.9 -a   6
ftrZee  ftre Pevim t?o"                               40.6  40.9  63.6  67.2  60.S  74.6  67.2  6Z.7 69.6 72.o  73.1   40.9   40.9  77.6        0.9
i.,. Unmoral n to 66t r1e0,d                          40.  .3S60.9  746                       a 7  _   7.6      6     40.0   40.9  n.s          0.9
C tldkraftt #Oe" *IE ra § a               l-l - f "
_6g S. .6.0
CoetrihtsAer ftrom `.  9                                 - 7.. - -*                        --                           --   -  -     -
lkeod"  Value of
trasfer to Me"t Period                                                  *40.9  77.6                                                           0.9
ets 'ts 60.6t9. Alt fl.moSgT - --                                                                             - - - -  -                   -.e
swouros p     bEMw to I S t
Vm*If-VW of &Ldw--                                                                                                               -
1M   *   36.36,   WV   -  167.90
%& ?her ar 6 pqpatton In the (s-ty.for cApttl looneo to 460 re.tte ISO about the LoOm 1.9.1 la Xtn*ht Rver  n.510
Yet .0-6    09$41640 19 4



-210-
Table 8:
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs and Outputs
Malian  Yanhe   Jialu  Xinshui   HBP Weifen  Yimeng
Standard Conversion Factor      0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90
Unskilled labor                 0.80   0.80   0.80    0.80   0.80   0.80    0.80
Skilled labor                   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00
Trans.-Rail                     1.25   1.25   1.25    1 ;25   1.25   1.25    1.25
Trans.-Road                     1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00
Constructions                   0.95   0.95   0.95    0.95   0.95   0.95    0.95
Timber                          1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00
Wheat                           2.68   2.73   3.00    2.67                   2.75
Maize                           2.06   2.09   2.43    2.23   1.66   2.28    1.83
Tobacco                         4.53   5.44   5.35
Beef                            2.77   3.23   2.74    2.97   1.51   2.48    2.77
Urea                            1.40   1.41   1.60    1.49   1.27   1.43    1.42
Rock P.                         1.68   1.68   2.12    1.86           1.74
DAP                                                                          1.15



- 211 -                                                               AN=  9
Table 9:
CHINA: Lam Pltoe Wiam lted Rllhlium Ptrject
Faom Gatw Pt for Trta   tW= s  Oum at
-MSln Am
Whet         MaiWe        Tdo              Bed          Urna    Rock P.
Ui           c             df             dl           f1           gf
Net Trade Saoma                                                       M             M             X              X            M             M
1993 Prim
World Ms"  PFe: (USVS)                                                    184          to0            I7           268            104           33
Ocen Felg   (US$/                                                          34           29             t4           188           46            42
CIFIFOB TIanIa (USVVt)                                                    21           129            t731         2470           ISO           75
CIF/FOB Thegin (Yu/n) b/                                                 1896         1123           IS064        2147           1301          654
Pon Chasg ard Din.
MUin (YualO it                                                          211           141           139f          19            172           114
Tran.-Port to W hlksa kj                                                                36              42           S9           3S            33
-MMltoW ahealab tk                                                     36           36              36           36           36            36
Ex Factory Pori                                                         2143          1336           1359D        19403          tS44          837
Millig Ajusnm   (S)                                                         t            I               t            t              
Milling Co
By-product Vais
mini guae Valu                                                           2143         1336           t3550        19403          t544          837
Econmec Price (Yrron)                                                    2144         1337           13591        19404          1S45          83S
CF                                                                       2.6S         2.06            451          2.17          1.40          1.68
F.inrotl Frm-gt Price                                                     SW00         650                         7000          It0D          S00
2005 Prnxs
Worl maert Pries: (USvr                                                   147           93            IS9         2S08           ISO           36
Gan FregI. (USV/                                                           41           36             17S          22S           55            St
CIFIFOt Trlarg  (USSIV0                                                   1S           129            1674         2580          205            87
CIF/FOBThrin (YuaVI  h/                                                  t632         1121           t4S64        21444          1787          7S9
Port Chags ad DIaL
Marg  (Yuasn   U                                                         187          141           1351          2075          216           123
Tram.-PorttDW lalsaerjI                                                    36           36              42           59           35            33
-MiU Wo W   t_si ek                                                    36           36              3t           36            36           36
Et Factry Price                                                          1891         1334           13135        20274         2073           952
Milt  Adjnne  (°)                                                           I            I       t         t                        I
Miling Cosu
By-pnduct va
Mui gae Value                                                            t891         1334           13135        20274         2073           952
Tra.- Fam to MMl
Rcreic Price (YlTon)                                                     189t         1334           1313$        2C24          2073           952
CF                                                                       1.55          1.35           2.87         1.90          1.24         1.25
Financ  Fam-gat Prct U                                                   1220          991           4575         10674         1677           762
a/ Baud on WB Commodity Pittce Porecas. November 12 1993. a>tijtd to 1993 Cnt pric.
bi US No. 2 Soft RoA Wintr. FOS Gulf. 1993 pro fm  Comiqy Price DaM 21VS93.
200ot eoto bW On projected pc- dcan   ine CaYkn whea (see a1).
c/ US No. 2 Yelw. FOB Gulf.                                      d/ MItIdig (1-1132'). CIF N.  Dur0e.
cl Beef ( A aHlitNew Zeaand). cow forepat. f1roten btoml. 85% clmtic
s. c.i.f USpOrKEst Cow). eq4ock
ft Bog. FOB Went Er0.
gt Pltehr Rcck(Morocan). 70% BP_. Conifo PMAS Caabtan
IV Exdce at YS.75 - USSI.
it Pon chuge Y4Wtt for Agruual c         A YS/ for fasritizer.
pkIs 9% ditr,. marnuL
jt Distma ftree por to wbslessler. tOe* e Xw*n by rais n prWatl
1342 km at Y0.D21/kthm. 4utd by CF of 1.25
ki D    e frome mlt to wolesulr in ppuntly 120 knm by teed
at Y0.3/t/lin.
It fl.a  m  1. fDeattel fnm  at mrin in 1993 in Coes G      ast



PFaw 1ale d R  fw &B CqMPMt
111t         WV            MRk   WV                    m              V             l           WR                         WV            at           mm           et           NP            MR          Or
Iii  NW          33           NW~~~~~~~m     33           VW            li            Wm            31           NW            13           VW           lII          mm            13          NW
S           6                         *3606            S    11N0 S   woo9                                     S          '9              5          1669      S               7669            5   S    S
Ts                               £7        1S?              Id          4222            14          31?             3    U      M25            17          gm             Is         036            37         14M             36        74383
TSVOR                            14         " 6  US         Is           376            Is          3t0            14           176     #       6          43              s           423          I1          2432           23       4310
Wut    q                         to           41 3                         6            a             is           It          -30             41          3               It          S42          22          269            16          77
hIsa4hd                                                                                                            3t         3968            It            57                                                                 19         SW63
Adj                             s1           212            14           288            16           we            17          22N             is                  1      so           495          is          g3              14       336
SW                               13           IS      U      4            70            It          -142                       1               12          -12            II          -52           14           179            13        17
O *ud                            23          9M             22          429             20          306            is    1199                  29         6191            39         14             21         14              231      44232
is          76             Id           a3                                                                                             210        3486
GuWA                             Is             1 19                     -n7                        -6              30 to      -36m            16           70             a          -732           7          469            It         444
3                               is            16            IS            36           14            42            11           -7             1           46              6          -9             2           -t9            4         -76
Pkw  RAI a(Ro  6t Gdl C _pD
Xim drA         WA fee           Rlsl    dA*wsFirbo  Capm             ia                             i                         ybml"
Xiau                       Wd ta            Y        lkmi                         ?Aqb                                         Y          tus.                        O                 T461p
m            NW            MR           NWV            MR           NWV           IR           NWV            M            NPV           ml           NPV          as           NWV           13    NWV
S   S                     S          VW               S          UN              5          VW              I           0N              5          VW             S          VW              5         VW
tdn t                                       776s            16           66             13           26            32          4s6      t      4          2S4             16         Os19            6         34              Is       j9os
TanaSiS                                      6              14           246            34         6du             Is           t06            a'          t42            I2          .14S 14                  207             73       42613
Wup3ind                          2           461             2          -336             5          -U4             I         -3436            7           -m93            7          499                       -2              4        -61
i.p.a.,                                                                                                            I           221            Is            21                                                                #3          242
Ib* 1                            9           47
AS           99            14           22             Is           763           17          213             2             I            is            14          n7         S37             t         t942
-                               Is           -12            11           -71            9           461            14          6S3             3           44              7          49                         U t   i '
ou--                            23          93              22          4399            3           3n41           is          3381           29          633w            S             7           2£         14t             23       349
c ou                                                        is           76             £6            76                                                                                            20         14673
0nahm-1 _ 1IS                                                            -3              3          -14             7          -S37            4            4*             S         -               5         -3              10    *     10D
19...y                         *i             16            LS            36           14            42                                        7            .6            4           -339          #            -19            6 



Hom-k R*05 R d1r3 for *d CqWo
x"                       I                                                 via"                       sobn 4b                  T"*                                          Ip
ak          WV           am          NW           MR          Nn           a           Nt            3            W           3           NP 3v  m                Nm           3         N "   m
S         090            5         WO             S          34             5         10                        395                     U             S         935            £        3
T_id                          1          32            Is         469            to        SW7            a          ft3           3          014           20        0554          0         3691           a         7m
Tam"         ,                IS         0617     I     4          44            IS         90            IS         220           21          429          14         33           2U         S             Is       loss
Wujhim                        a            -           Is            s           11 4         3           3           4e 3                     716    S      4    no                24          33           a        21
_cdSA                                                                                                               #1 28  N9      29           74                                                           2         SW0
*Ar                           is          4            34           72          16          747           is         200           i5    1      90          U           IA          20         on            19       am
2063                                1      4           to          291           a2          44           3     UJD          1      9          3             IS         424         a           so           13 S9
_ui                           23         TM            25         mm             22        27             29        isle            s         S47           34        3m            211       30730          2        3164
C4w                                                    3           43            is         430                                                                                     21        33374
emb}14                                     a2          Is           Al           9           42           1           294          U           AJ*          0           IN4          9          7            34        3129
19Au                          34          4            29                       2           32S           34         9s            10          -31          10                      s4            o          t4          4
3oew.Io Rat.o RdRaMfo S"rbmCmqpm.
MRXI                       lk           m           U           m              R i   NaMjiMRlkfiWV                                                     in*0         WV           1111 
ma         NWf          ma          NPV           m           NPV          IUI         NWP          IU          NP            Ut         NWV         31l         tV           31         NWV
*S        VW             S         VW9            S         10             S          09             S         VW             5         09            5         1              5       in
Tod                           to    7 14               is         40Y4    IS     s         373            is         20u           3          331d          17        307           3t43                     01   n     4
Tam                           17         9             IS          U39           14         Su            14         147           1           So41          4          7J          2          61 3S                   Om17
1"1thm                         3         -1t            2         -332           6          -in0          0         -49            It          43            9         -m           to          4t            4       4t6S
_gb.d                                                                                                     37        1380           24           2                                                            17        I33
3.9h9d                        t0          49
Aiw                           37          233          t4          S14           is         47                       ton           is                       17           3 n  w                73            te         m
1106                          14          314          U            0            9          -23     n      7         mu             4         44             9         -3           34    m      9           39       4358
Or               1            25         7809          25         mm             J22       2713,          29         55            55         5I            so        3             21    I 24         S      6       93
Cuau "0                                                             3            to          39                                                                                     S         mm
on,_|",I a                                 -S           9           -32           S         -0             *         4             11          -134          S          -5          17                       tO         474
_4          47           S3          70          2S           32                                      0          42          t0          4.9          3           U             4        2t S6    j
03
I-'
P* Il
3-a



URR'9: SENSIVnY ANALYSIS                                              it I 1S Ptak*
Xbini            WuUU                        VkHwm    Jil                 Tod*         M             Tdipqm
L     Cm                                                   ItR()                       Its8          18.4         1612           18.1         21.           20.06         19.42         18.ss
NP?V(V                  83S  3        46488.        5016.8       9126.6           48142        1z5           363           857 5
2.B_avbfD wemby2*                                           13()                      156           15.42         11.37            16         1742             is         14.43         124
NPVC00                  34199.4       22409.7       -1492.6       652t2.6         35t9          532S9        t8t06         253
Cicab 1um by I0                                             Mks)                      17.82         17.56         14.43            12          .19          177           18.4          17.8
NPVn(                   7S92.I        4229          31514.6       -2553.2         621          13940         340           73 
4& 8ah uDl dby2ymu                                          21()                      WAs            14.5         11.53            14            16            14         13.37         1331                    4p
N?VCCOIJ)               2s253.2       19136.2        679.2        332.1           31559         43N4          7035         191
5S   uD       dbyy                                         IRRt4)                     141           13.89         10.26            12         1S.03         13.12         12.93 
urS  ad      by n.m                                      NPVCOa                    2036?        15120.3       -2w071       .1024X7         2598          27o3         5M0t7         OM?
lb



- 215 -                      ANNEX 9
Table 1
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD                      Disbursement           Project
Fiscal Year/          Semestral   Cumulative    cumulative    Profile a
Semester              ----- -$ million----         (%)          (%)
1995
1st                 10.00        10.00         6.7           0.0
2nd                 10.00        20.00         13.3         30.0
1996
1st                 12.50        32.50        21.7          38.0
2nd                 12.50        45.00        30.0          46.0
1997
1st                 12.50        57.50        30.3          54.0
2nd                 12.50        70.00        46.7          66.0
1998
1st                 12.50        82.50        55.0          70.0
2nd                 12.50        95.00        63.3          82.0
1999
1st                 10.00       105.00        70.0          86.0
2nd                 10.00       115.00        76.7          94.0
2000
1st                 10.00       125.00        83.3          96.0
2nd                 10.00       135.00        90.0          98.0
2001
1st                  5.00       140.00        93.3          98.0
2nd                  5.00       145.00        96.7         100.0
2002
1st                  2.50       147.50        98.3         100.0
2nd                  2.50       150.00        100.0        100.0
la Disbursement profile - Bank standard disbursement profile for agricultural sector in
China.
Completion date:   December 31, 2001
Closing date:    December 31, 2002



- 216 -                               AN= 9
Table 2
SCHEDULE OF SUPERVIION MISIONS
Date       Soope of io                     Experti
1st Supervion    Jul 1994   Poject Lach Wodrshop            - Project Scheduler
- Review                        - Foresy Specialist
- Plans and Designs             - Monitoring Speciaist
- Procuement                    - Procurement/Disbursement
- Monitoring                    - Economist
- Appointment of Consultants
- Nureries
2nd Supersion   Mar 1995  Review                            - IPM Specials
- Trining Program               - Agricultual Specialit
- Procurement
- Prgre  Report Format
- Monitoring
3rd Superision   Oct 1995   Review                          - Soil Consevatio Speciais
- Physicd Progrs                - Training Speciaist
- Progress in Training of farmers - Dam Speciaist
- Design progress
= Monitoring
- Progress on affreston
4th Supervision   Jul 1996   - Review of Physical Progress  - Economist
- Schede   Changes              - Forestry Specialist
- Review of Inom  Levels        - Soil and Water Cosevato
- Grassand Specialist
Sth Supervision -  Sep 1997   Mid-term Review               - Socio-Economist
Mid-term review             - Physical Progress             - Dam Specialist
- Cost Estimates                - Foresty Specialist
- Income Levels Realized        - Soil and Water Consevaton
- Prqect Schedule                Specialist
- Environment, etc.             - Envirnena  Specialist
- Grasdand Specialist
6th Suevision    Annually   - Review of Physical Progress   -



- 217 -                                     AX 9
Table 3
CHINA
LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Table
CATEGORY                                  UNlt PRICE It   TOTAL           TOTAL VALUE 21          IDA VALUE 31    PROCUREMENT
UNIT    ec000 Yi    CUANTITY      ('000 Yi    ( 000 USsi SI  %       oo000 US$)    METHOD 41
1. WORKS 6/                                                         1.815.093.9    208,631.S            126,471.2
A. Land DevelopmentVEerthworks                                   1.7S2.354.5    201.420.1    61%    123,165.6
Farmland Development        No           NA                 883.850.2    101,692.0    62%       63.268.8            FA
Soil/Water Conetwvation 61  NA           NA                  144.516.8     18.611.1    60%       9,966.7           FA
Forest Development          Ha           NA                 666,129.0      65.072.3    60%      39.043.4           FA
Grassland Development       Ha           NA                  118,681.3     13.642.0    60%       8,185.2           FA
Other Work* 7/              NA           NA                  39.1 13.4      4.602.7    60%       2,701.6           FA
B. BuildingsiStructures          NA           NA                   44.243.9      5,085.5    61%        3,305.6          LCB
C. Land Acquisition              NA           NA                   18.495.5      2.125.9      0%          0.0           OTH
2. EQUIPMENT                                                           16.563.9      1,789.0   100%       1,789.0
A. Office Equipment             Unt           NA                    4.472.9        614.1                514.1            Lis
S. Training Equipment            Unit         NA                    2.661.7        304.8                304.8            Lis
C. LaboratoerY Equipment        Untt          NA                    3,120.S        3S8.7                368.7            LID
D. Other Equipment                                                  S.318.8        611.4                611.4
Bailer                     Unit          NA        11.0         151.0          17.4                 17.4            LS
Small Grinder              Unit        42.0        84.0      56167.8         694.0                 594.0          LuD
3. Vehicles                                                            34,979.2      4.020.6   100%       4,020.6           Ica
A. Truck                         Unit         NA         36.0       3.330.9        382.9                382.9
S. Crosa-counut Jehicle          Unit         NA         26.0       2.347.4        269.8                269.8
C. Pick-up                      Unit         63.0        21.0       1.411.2        162.2                162.2
D. Fteld Monitoring Vhicle      Unit        270.0       41.0       11.723.1      1,347.5               1,347.6
E. lnvetigation/Oesign Vehicle   Unit       150.0        37.0       6.877.3        675.6                676.6
F. Transportation Vehicle       Unit        200.0         4.0         845.0         97.1                 97.1
G. Motorcycle                   Unit          9.0        24.0         231.6         26.6                 26.6
H. Bulldozer (160 hp)           Unit        364.6        10.0       4.018.7        461.9                461.9
1. Bulidozer 175 hp)            Unit         80.0        20.0       1,764.0        202.8                202.8
J. Tractor (S0 hp)               Unit        31.6        10.0         347.3         39.9                 39.9
K. Tractor (25 hp)              Unit         26.4         6.0         172.7         19.9                 19.9
L. Excavator 11.5 am)           Unit        600.0         2.0       1,267.6        145.7                146.7
M. Excavator (0.5 cm)           Unit        300.0         2.0         633.8         72.9                 72.9
N. Oil Tanker                   Unit        120.0         1.0         126.8         14.6                 14.6
0. Shipment Vehiclb             Unit          NA          9.0         882.0        101.4                101.4
4. Matenals                                                           112.683.9     12.940.7    100%     12,940.7
A. Steel                         Ton          NA    13.066.6       32.276.4      3.709.9               3,709.9          Ica
B. Fertilizer                    Ton          NA    79.806.7       71.013.5       8.162.5              8,162.5          Ica
C. Pesticide                     Ton         16.0       119.0       2.215.1        264.6                254.6            LIs
0. Plastic Sheet                 Ton          9.0       183.0       2.179.4        250.S ¢              2SO.S           LCB
E. Plastic Shed                Sq. m          NA      3.800.0         636.8         73.1                 73.1            LS
F. TNT (Explosive)               Ton          3.6       784.2       4,263.8        490.1                490.1            LS
S. Other                                                              186,267.2     21.410.0              4,782.9
A. Research/Extension 8/         NA           NA                   24,310.1       2,794.3    40%       1,117.7          OTH
B. Training/Study Tour                                             37,380.3      4,296.6               3,114.9          OTH
Domestie Training/Study Tour   NA        NA                   20,561.4      2.363.4    50%       1.181.7
Overseas Training/Study Tour   NA        NA                   16,819.0      1.933.2   100%       1,933.2
C. Technical Assistance          NA           NA                    4.787.1        660.2   100%         660.2           OTH
D. Project Management 9/         NA           NA                   89,789.7      10.320.7     0%          0.0           OTH
E. Other 10/                     NA           NA                   30,000.0       3.448.3     0%          0.0           OTH
Total                                                               2.164.488.2    248,791.7            150,004.3
Note:
1. Unit prices are expressed In 1993 Yuan;
2. Total values include contingencies end are convened based on exchange rate of US$t:Y8.7:
3. IDA percentage indicates the expected disbursernent nte and vaue indicates expected IDA disbumsement amoum
4. IC!  Intemational Compatitivse Biddin.L UB a Lmtd International Bidding. LC8 - Loca" Competitive Bidding. FA a Fore Account.
LS = Local Shopping. OTH a Other Procuremen Method:
S. Excluding equipments. vehicles nd matedis listed under Categoiett 2. 3 and 4:
6. Construction of key dams and warping dams. Any key dam exeeeding $260,000 in cost will be constructed under LC8 atrangement;
7. Including gully heed proteton, smal reserva. cold starage.fruit caller and other misceltaneous Works:
8. Re searchlextension nludes Technolgy/eveopment, Demonstration and Technical Contracting:
9. Project management includes Investigation/Deslgn and Monitoring/Evaluation;
10 Indicating total value for CPMtO provided by MWR.



- 218 -                       ANNE9
CHINA
LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED REEABILZTATION PROJECT
Proiect Orcanization Chart
l        l
|LeadingGru             -
CPMO                                         Technical
(at U---)         -      -------     --        Panel (TP)
Provincial
Leading Group
IProvincial  ||Provi.ncial|
ZI~r       1    ------------------------- -            TP
Prefe ture 
Leading Group
|PrefeIcture  ||Prefetcture|
I  PMO       -----------  --___ _ _   ---------------I  
ConCouy ty     I
---------LeaingGroup 
| Cou nty                                   r     Counmty   l
|   M 2X     -------------------------------l      TP       l
Legend:
------ Advisory function
Administrative function



-219-                                A X
SELECTID DOCUMNS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN TE PROJECT FILE
Repors and Studies
.      Report an to Feasibility of the Wold Bk Loan for the Prject an Soil and Water Conservation
on the Leess Plateau in China, CPMO, UMRB, Xan, June 1993.
Tecncal Manuad fow th Wodd Bank Financed Soil and Water Conservation Project on te Loess
Plate, Dra, D      _ecetber 1993.
Reseach, Training and M&E in the Loess Plateau Proect, pp. 168, April 1992.
Soil and Wat  Cosvaton Prjec on the Loess Plateu: Enviromental Lpact,
October 1993.
2.     Loess Platea Sofl and Water Consevaion Project: Feasibility Study R:port, Ianer Mongolia Sub-
Pro,jet, June 1993, revised October 1993.
Annex 1:      Benefit Analysis
Annex 2:      Present Situaion in Agriculture
Annex 3:           and Irrigation Woras
Annex 4:      Afforestation Works
Annex 5:      Animal Husbandry Developmet
Annex 6:      Gand Development
Annex 7:      Plat Hed  Developmet
Annex 8:      Orcad Developmet
Amex 9:       Tlae Maes
Annex 10:     Adju    of Land Use and Production Suctue
Amnex 11:     Terrace Canstruction
Annex 12:     Infrastructure Constuction
Annex 13:     Eprmnan and Extension Wodrs
Annex 14:     Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 15:     Development of Support Services
Annex 16:     Benefit Analysis of Sediment Reduction
Annex 17:     Visting and Tainn Program
Annex 18:     Implementing Isitutions and Tasks
Hantau Valley:  Changan Guly, Typical Small Watershed Design Report, Yih Ju League Project
Area, PPMO, August 1992
Husitai Valley: Hezhaolai Gully, Typical Small Watershed Design Report, Yih Ju Leau Project
Area, PPMO, August 1992
Hauia Valley: Erbege Gully, Typical Small Watershed Design Rept, Yih Ju League Project
Area, PPMO, August 1992
3.     Loess Plateau Soil and Water Convation Projece Feasibility Study Report, Gansu, Malian River
Basin Sub-Poject, June 1993.
Feasibility Report: Basic Data, Febuary 1993.
Annex 1:      Lnd Reure Evaluation of Malian River Drainage Area
Annex 2:      Drainage Area of the Ptoject Area
Annex 3:      Geneal Stement of Water and Soil Erosion Situation of Malian River
Dinage Area and the Project Area



- 220 -                             A        10
Annex 4:      Prest Agncultal Producon and Planning in the Mais  Rivet
Catehment Area and the Poject Area
Annex 5:      The Present State and Potential of Forestry Development n the Proect
Area
Annex 6:      Prest Livestock Development Situation
Anmex 7:      Orchard Dvpment Plan
Asnex 8:      Grssland Development
Annex 9:      Design of Terraced Fields
Annex 10:     Typical Design of Afforesation
Annex 11:     Mulberry Planting and Silkworm breedig in the Malian River Basin
Annex 12:     Propoa of Central Nurse  Establisment in the Project Area
Anmex 13:     The Design of a Pbnt Fence. Program in the Project Area
Annex 14:     Plnning and Design of Key Projects and Silt Arster
Annex 15:     Design of Smal Flood Retetion Works
Annex 16:     Planning of Farm Irrigation Woks
Annex 17:     Research and M&E program
Annex 18:    Implementing Institutions and Tasks
Annex 19:     Present Laws and Policies and the Responibility System
Anex 20:      Benefit Analysis of Sediment Retention
Annex 21:     Water and Soil conservation Achievements ia the Tiger Valley
Anex 22:      Economic Analysis
Othes: Design of an Advanced Nursery
4.     Loess Plabteau Soil and Water Conservation Project. Feasibility Study Report, Shaami Sub-Project,
pp. 139. JuAe 1993, Supplemented October 1993, pp. 74.
Fseaibility Report: Basic Data, October 1993.
Annex 1:      Tables of Present Status and Development Plan in the Project Area, 44pp.
Annex 2-1:    Design of Temaces
Annex 2-2:    Design and Planning of Warnmg Dams and Key Engineemg of Gully Conrol,
16pp.
Annex 2-3:    Small Scale Irrigation Engineering, llpp.
Anex 2-4:    Artificial Afioetation, 23pp.
Annex 2-5:    Planting and Management of Artificial Grasdand, 14pp.
Annex 2-6:    Orchard Establishment and Technical Management, 20pp.
Annex 2-7:    Nursery plans and Design of Key Nursmes, 28pp.
Annex 3-1:    Repott on the Planning of Comprhensive Control of Lanjiayaoke Watershed
Annex 3-2:    Report on the Planning of Comprehensive Control of Ujiagou Watesed
Annex 4:      Organizaton and Administaton
Annex 5:      Financial Management
Annex 6:      Policies and Laws
Annex 7:      Plan of Scientific Research and Extension, M&E, Investigation and Training,
64pp.
Annex 8:      Sediment Reduction Benefit Analysis, 14pp.
Annex 9:      Environmental Evaluation, 54pp. plus Maps, Febnaiy 1993
Annex 10:     Economic Benefit Anaysis, 29pp.
Annex 11:     The Overal Plan of Agriculture, 64pp.
5.     Loess Plate  Soil and Water Conservation Project. Feasibility Study Rpot, Shanxi Sub-Project,
June 1993, Supplementd October 1993, 54 pp..
Feasibility Rort: Basic Data, February 1993.
Feasibility Report of Xinshui Subproject 95pp. plus 15 Annexes, April 1993.
Feasibility Report of He-Bao-Pian Subproject, 136pp. plus 15 Annexes, May 1993.
Feasibility Report of Weifen Subproject, 170pp. plus 13 Annexes, April 1993.
6.     Various Small Watershed Reports



C H I N A                                               IBRD 25577
Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Project Areas
Loess Plateau Watershed Project
YA $;gParticpating States
tr;;ft    <~~~~~~13yag
'4#Vt  '' '_                     1 /                   iProject Area 
D )   _  Yellow River Basin
.T;anshu, Tongchuan                          Yunchcng   -   - r      JAll drainage
Tianshui                                                                                 -  Proi   Boundries
,C>t   WeinanS   '   I-                     -   ~~~~~~~~~~Provincc Boundaries
Fr 14jV DW ', _~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K X t r ; ~~~~~~Province Capital
VosCofOl>too§Xrb                                                        T;E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FFBRUARY 19941



CHINA                                                      IBRD 25578
Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Population Density in Project Area
liToer mongoNga     Y en                    -                  o
N ~                                                    Penon                        p sq. Rm.
El Pmjla Aea cato al
'K~~~~~~~~~~E
100.  200 -t .."mt 0< zn0t
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 tos o                                4M Hr  
~~~~~~~~~~~~Toagha                                                       Abov 400,,M].I19
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft -d.   .mi



C  H  I N  A                                                                                 IBR   255s7
Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Agricultural Incomes in Project Area
RMB Per Capita
ProjIct AM             0 to M
-           I Yeflow X  )       II]  150 to 300
%~~~~~~~~                                                                            Tramn are a Sbw 
Li  e K300 to 450
TongWhuan   suncheng                                           BohW 4 Areas
s / v ~IRMui                                                         cDwia ea /_"0-4S0 to 600
xian  '     1                                                                I n   Above 600
alo w  lbo-NO  
,0- O.W.ah. pS d2) proT  cap"Km
d qt .                                                     ,        
ovJ'a- -  8.91
0fr A W*oQV%                                                        K m1
Ir__                                                        0       100      200                                       MARCH 1994



