Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2616 CHA
Project Agreement
(Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GANSU PROVINCE, SHAANXI PROVINCE,
SHANXI PROVINCE and NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated June 28, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2616 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and GANSU PROVINCE (Gansu), SHAANXI PROVINCE (Shaanxi), SHANXI 
PROVINCE (Shanxi) and NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION (Nei Mongol)(the Project 
Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one hundred six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
106,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its respective part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
agricultural, engineering, environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Province concerned shall otherwise 
agree, each Project Province shall carry out its respective part of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works  and consultants' services required for Parts A and B(1) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its respective 
part of the Project. 
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of its 
respective part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
respective part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
the performance of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
respective part of the Project and of its departments or agencies responsible for 
carrying out its respective part of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
Page  3
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Gansu:
Gao Lan Lu 76#
Lanzhou 730030
Gansu
People's Republic of China
Telex:
Page  4
22466 MWREP CN
For Shaanxi:
Xi Yi Lu 151#
Xi'an 710004
Shaanxi
People's Republic of China
Cable Address:
Xi'an 2556
For Shanxi:
Xin Jian Lu 26#
Taiyuan 030002
Shanxi
People's Republic of China
Cable Address:
Taiyuan 8693
For Nei Mongol:
Hu Lun Nan Lu 6#
Hohhot 010020
Nei Mongol
People's Republic of China
Cable Address:
Hohhot 4223
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Vice-Governor of said Project Province 
responsible for agriculture or such other person or persons as said Vice-Governor 
shall designate in writing, and said Project Province shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GANSU PROVINCE
SHAANXI PROVINCE
SHANXI PROVINCE
Page  5
NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
By  /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, each Project 
Province shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, each Project Province shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Bidders for fertilizer shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Equipment and materials for training centers, seedling nurseries, and 
laboratories, estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded: 
(a) through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof); or (b) on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Civil works for key dam structures, estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 
or more per contract, and civil works for training centers and other facilities under 
Part B of the Project, regardless of the cost thereof, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. Other works shall be 
carried out by force account or under contracts awarded after direct negotiations, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  6
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more and (ii) each contract for civil works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are 
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Project Provinces in carrying out Part B(1) of the 
Project, each Project Province shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the  Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, each 
Project Province shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form 
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, each Project Province shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
Land Development and Infrastructure
 
1.
Each Project Province shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association: 
(a) grant or cause to be granted to each household unit which participates under its 
respective Part of the Project, the exclusive right to use the land upon which Project 
activities are to be undertaken by such household for a term of not less than 30 years 
for land to be used for orchards, terraces and warping land, and for not less than 50 
years for other land to be used under the Project; and (b) execute written  contracts 
in relation to such land-use, keep copies of the contracts in the relevant village or 
town-ship registry and make the register available for inspection.
2.
Each Project Province shall:
 
Page  7
(a)
cause all dams and related structures constructed under its respective 
part of the Project to be maintained and inspected periodically in accordance with 
sound engineering practice, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
ensure that the designs and construction of each dam constructed or 
improved under the Project exceeding 10 meters in height or 2,500,000 cubic meters in 
storage volume is independently reviewed under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
increase the height of any such dams only in accordance with standards 
and arrangements set by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:
Environmental Management
 
1.
(a)
Each Project Province shall ensure that all activities under its 
respective part of the Project shall conform to environmental standards and guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association, including the environmental regulations and 
guidelines issued by the National Environmental Protection
Agency and its Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau.
(b)
To that end, each Project Province shall implement the part of the 
Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan applicable to its respective part of the 
Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Each Project Province shall ensure that:
 
(a)
all pesticides used under its respective part of the Project shall have 
been approved by the Association; and
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such pesticides shall be 
consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:
Financial Management
 
Each Project Province shall ensure that: (a) charges are collected from the 
water users for the irrigation systems completed under its respective part of the 
Project at levels sufficient to cover full annual operation and maintenance costs by 
not later than the sixth year after their completion; (b) the rates of charges shall 
be revised periodically as necessary to gradually reach such level; and (c) furnish 
through its respective PMO, to the Association by February 28 in each year, commencing 
February 28, 1995, for review by the Association, a list of the proposed water charges 
for such irrigation schemes for the following year.
Part D:
Project Management
 
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained:
 
(a)
a project leading group at each of the provincial, prefectural and county 
levels included in its respective part of the Project, with composition and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association, to formulate Project-related policies, 
coordinate among relevant agencies and provide overall guidance on implementation of 
its respective part of the Project;
(b)
a project management office, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers, to 
organize, coordinate and implement Project activities at the provincial level; and
(c)
technical panels with membership, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association to manage and coordinate its respective Institutional 
Development Component.
2.
Each Project Province shall ensure that its respective Institutional Development 
Component shall be carried out in accordance with programs agreed with the 
Association.  To that end, each Project Province shall: (a) prepare, through its 
respective PMO, and furnish to the CPMO, for forwarding to the Association by November 
30 in each year, a proposed program of activities to be carried out under its  
respective Institutional Development Component during the following calendar year; and 
Page  8
(b) thereafter promptly carry out such program during said following calendar year, as 
shall have been approved by the Association.
3.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, 
each Project Province shall:
(a)
prepare, through its respective PMO, and furnish to the CPMO for 
forwarding to the Association, by November 30 of each year, a work plan and annual 
budget for implementation of its respective part of the Project during the following 
year;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association by March 31 and September 30 of 
each year during implementation of its respective part of the Project, a report on the 
progress made in carrying out its  respective part of the Project; and
(c)
by September 30, 1997, carry out a mid-term review with the Association 
and the Borrower of the progress of and prospects for implementation of its respective 
part of the Project.
