CREDIT NUMBER 2616 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilieation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    AL                 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2616 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMEIT
AGREEMENT, dated   #ZZ& VA-         , 1994, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested'the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   Parts A and B(1) of the Project will be carried out by
Gansu Province (Gansu), Shaanxi Province (Shaanxi), Shanxi Province
(Shanxi) and Nei Mongol Autonomous Region (Nei Mongol) (each a
"Project Province" and collectively the "Project Provinces") with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Project Provinces a portion of
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources
and any successor thereto.
"J


﻿-2-
(b)   "YRCC" means Yellow River Conservancy Commission, a
commission established within MWR to manage water resources and
flood control along the Yellow River and any successor thereto.
(c)  "UMRB" means the Upper and Middle Reach Bureau of YRCC
and any successor thereto.
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Project Provinces of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(f)   "Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan" means the
environmental monitoring and management plan for the Project,
included in the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Project
dated August 11, 1993, as amended and supplemerted with the
concurrence of the Association from time to time.
(g)   "PMOs" means the project management offices maintained
by the Project Provinces pursuant to paragraph D-l (b) of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement.
(h)   "CPMO" means the central project mal-agement office
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
(i)   "its respective Part of the Project" means, in respect
of each Project Province, the activities under Parts A and B(1) of
the Project to be carried out in said Project Province.
(j)   "its respective Institutional Development Component"
means, in respect of each Project Province, the activities under
Part E() of the Project to be carried out in said Project Province.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred six million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 106,300,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall; for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank
acceptable to the Association and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdravn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of


﻿-4-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2004 and ending May 1, 2029. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2014 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out Part B(2) of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate   :administrative,    agricultural,
engineering,   environmental    and   financial
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the  funds,  facilities,   services  and  other
resources required for said Part of the Project;
and
(ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Project Provinces to
perform all their respective obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable the Project Provinces to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available, out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the Project Provinces, amounts corresponding to the
amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of expenditures
for their respective parts of the Project on the following terms and
conditions:
(i)   repayment within 20 years, including eight years
of grace;
(ii)   interest to be paid at a rate of three percent
(3%) per annum; and
(iii)   the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
respective Project Province.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A and BW() of the Project shall be carried out by the Project
Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain: (a) a central
project management office in UMRB, with functions and responsibi-
'lities acceptable to the Association, staffed by competent staff in
adequate  numbers,   to  provide   technical  oversight  of   the
implementation of the Project, and to coordinate Project activities
among the Project Provinces, including procurement and training
activities; and (b) a technical panel, with membership, functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, to manage and
coordinate the overall implementation of Part B of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) prepare through CPMO, and furnish to the Association by
November 30 of each year for the Association's review, a work plan
and budget, based in part on the work plans and budgets furnished by
the Project Provinces pursuant to Part D.3(a) of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement, for implementation, during the following calendar
year, of Part A of the Project, together with copies of said plans
and budgets furnished by the Project Provinces;
(b) prepare through CPMO, with the assistance of the technical
panel referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, and furnish
to the Association by November 30 of each year for the Association' s
review, proposed programs, based in part on the programs furnished
by the Project Provinces pursuant to Part D.2 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement, for the carrying out, during the following
calendar year, of Part B of the. Project, together with copies of
said programs furnished by the Project Provinces; and
(c) thereafter ensure the carrying out, during the following
calendar year, of such work plans and programs as shall have been
approved by the Association.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part B(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06.   Without limitation to Section 9.01 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than September 30,
1997, carry out a mid-term review with the Association and the
Project Provinces of the progress of, and prospects for, Project
implementation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account- for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in sucl detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other inforhation
concerning said records, accounts ad the audit
thereof as the Association shall flr$p time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of stateme nts of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-8-
(ii)  retain, until at    least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable   the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)  ensure  that  such   records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors  as  to   whether  the  statements  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limiting the generality of Section 3.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, cause all dams (a) which will
either exceed 10 meters in height or create a reservoir with a gross
storage volume of more than 2,500,000 cubic meters or (b) which
present unusual design features, involve difficult geological
conditions, or are situated so as to be significantly destructive in
the event of failure, and their related structures constructed under
the Project, to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the same,
which may endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall
propose to the Association appropriate arrangements for the
Association's review no later than one year before the completion of
the first of such dams and related structures constructed under the
Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all dams and related
structures referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement to be
designed and constructed in accordance with procedures and standards
acceptable to the Association and shall cause an independent
institution acceptable to the Association to review the concept of
all such dams and their related structures and the adequacy of their


﻿-9-
design  and  technical  specifick>tions, and  shall   cause  such
independent institution to conduct periodic reviews no less
frequently than the Association requires during final engineering
and construction of each such dam and related structures to examine
whether any new grounds for making changes in the design of the dam
or technical specifications have become apparent.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the followingadditional events are specified:
(a)  Any Project Pro ince shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that any of the
Project Provinces will be able to perform any of its respective
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, any
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termirnation
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have
approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Provinces, and is


﻿- 10 -
legally binding upon the Project Provinces in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:               Telex:
FINANMIN                     22486 MFPRC  CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By 1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   L    C      ,
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for iteds so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works:
(a) land development    87,300,000)
and earthworks
) 65%
(b) buildings and        2,300,000)
other structures              )
(2) Goods                   13,300,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Training, consultants'   3,400,000        100%
coservices and research
TOTAL                  106,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿- 13 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,000,000 may be made on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
November 15, 1993.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods or works not exceeding
$250,000 equivalent, and for works carried out by force account,
training and study tours, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
alleviating poverty in the Loess Plateau by increasing agricultural
production and farmers' incomes in about 15,600 square kilometers of
land in nine tributary watersheds of the Yellow River through: (a)
creating sustainable crop production on high-yielding level farm
land to replace areas devoted to crop- on erodible slope lands; (b)
planting the slope lands with trees, shrubs and grasses to produce
fuel, timber and fodder; and (c) reducing sediment runoff from slope
lands and gullies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Land Development
(1)  Development by households holding long-term leases of about
15,600 square kilometers of land in the Loess Plateau in nine
tributary watersheds of the Yellow River in the Project Provinces
through terracing (about 83,200 hectares) of slope lands, affores-
tation (about 270,000 hectares) with trees and shrubs, planting of
orchards (about 27,000 hectares), establishment of grasslands (about
155,000 hectares), and increasing production and utilization of
livestock forages.
(2)   Construction and equipping'of about 236 key dams, about 2,208
warping dams and numerous check dams to retain sediment, assist
flood control and make provision for water storage, and to enable
the creation of about 5,500 hectares of additional irrigated farm
land.
Part B:     Institutional Development
(1)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the Project Provinces in respect of soil and water
conservation, consisting of:
(a) construction and/or equipping of training centers at the
provincial, prefectural and county levels, and of facilities for
technical extension, including seedling nurseries, laboratories and
demonstration farms;


﻿- 15 -
(b) development and introduction of geographic information,
computer-aided design and project information systems, and provision
of computers therefor;
(c)  development and carrying out of training programs for
managerial and technical staff in watershed planning and management,
and training programs for farmer technicians and farmers in soil and
water conservation and management, including the provision of study
tours;
(d)   development and carrying out of research programs,
including  exchange  programs,   in  watershed  development   and
management; and
(e)  provision of vehicles required for Project implemen-
tation.
(2)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of UMRB, consisting of:
(a) construction and equipping of a training center;
(b) development and introduction of management information
systems, including geographic information, computer-aided design and
project information systems, and provision of computers therefor;
and
(c) provision of technical assistance, vehicles and equipment
to enable the CPMO properly to oversee the carrying out of Parts A
and B(1) of the Project.
* *P* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.


﻿- 16 -
SCBEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For repleiishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 17 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested.   On the basis of
each such request, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower,     withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the . Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the.Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible


﻿- 18 -
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.    Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


