FILE COFY|
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3419-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $40.6 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $30.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiens only In dte p.nma1 of
their effici duties. Its contents way not otherwise be disciosed without Wd $  RWank ljdbpd2



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1, 1982)
Official Rate
1 Yuan (Y)   =  $0.50
Y 2.0        =  $1.00
Internal Settlement Rate
Y   1 =  $0.36
Y 2.8 =  $1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC   - Bank of China
CIB   - China Investment Bank
CIECC - China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
PBC     People's Bank of China
PCBC - People's Construction Bank of China
SPC   - State Planning Commission
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK)
Loan/Credit Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:            $70.6 million ($40.6 million Bank, including capitalized
front-end fee; $30.0 million equivalent IDA)
Terms:             Loan:  20 years, including 5 years grace;
Standard variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard
Relending Terms:  Loan and Credit:  20 years, including 5 years grace; fixed
interest rate of 6.9% p.a., plus commitment fees equal to
those under the loan and credit; Government would bear
interest rate risk and the foreign exchange risk between the
US dollar and (a) the currency pool for the Bank loan and
(b) the SDR for the IDA credit. Subborrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the Yuan.
Project
Description:    The project supports the establishment of a new institution,
the China Investment Bank (CIB), which would provide
investment loans for smalland medium-size light industrial
projects needing foreign exchange. The project is part of
the ongoing economic reforms in China. The objective would
be to help raise investment efficiency through import of
technology and the introduction of improved project design
and selection methodology.  Subborrowers would be state
enterprises primarily in Shanghai, Tianjin and Jiangsu. The
main project risks relate to the capacity of CIB, which is a
new institution, to develop and implement suitable
subproject selection, appraisal and supervision procedures
and standards, and to the need for continued Government
commitment to the process of economic reform. However, the
project provides for training and technical assistance for
CIB, and the process of economic reform is expected to
continue.
Bank FY          1983      1984      1985    1986    1987
------ $ millions -----------
Estimated          Annual                 1.6      19.0      30.0    15.0      5.0
Disbursement:   Cumulative              1.6      20.6     50.6    65.6    70.6
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4009-CHA, dated November 23, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIINA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance an industrial
credit project. The loan, for $40.6 million, would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with a variable interest rate initially at
11.43% p.a. The credit, for the amount of SDR 28.0 million ($30 million
equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms. The loan and credit would be
onlent to the China Investment Bank for 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with a fixed interest rate of 6.9% p.a. The grant element of the
Bank Group's financing package, calculated on the basis of a 10% discount
rate, would be 26%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A Country Economic Memorandum, which updates the
report, particularly on developments over the past two years, is under pre-
paration. Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.        China's economic system combines an urban state economy modelled
after that of Eastern European countries, with a rural commune economy based
on the country's own traditions as well as its socialist ideology. The state
economy is characterized by public ownership, centralization of economic
decisions, strictly hierarchical control, and relatively little reliance on
markets or prices. In the commune economy, land and most capital are owned
collectively by production teams of 30-40 households, which generally corres-
pond to traditional villages (or neighborhoods of larger villages). Each
team is part of a brigade, each brigade part of a commune: these higher level
units organize land improvement projects, run industrial and other enter-
prises, and deliver education and health services. In both the urban and
rural economy, extensive reform of the economic management system, aimed
mainly at improving economic efficiency, has been instituted in the last few
years (paras. 14-15).
4.        Development efforts over the past three decades have consistently
been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in
particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the
worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been shaped
by two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land
in relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.



5.        These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation have
already been made. Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and
skilled manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty
reduction was for a long period aggravated by reliance entirely on domestic
resources and technology.
6.        The Chinese response to this dilemma has been to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - has
been based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization,
by contrast, has been based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally
mobilized resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using
largely Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.        Tension between these two approaches has contributed to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization. The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views often
predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the expense
of economic efficiency.
8.        Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
dramatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
44%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 35% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas.
9.        Over the whole period 1949-81 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast. With adjustments for international comparability, per capita GNP
appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and (because of
a spurt in recent years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-81. Even the former rate is
significantly above the average for other low-income developing countries
(1.6% in 1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the average for
middle-income developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high enough to pull
China out of the low-income group.



3-
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.       China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tively well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite impres-
sive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world though
labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a year, has,
however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of more than
10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around 200 million
people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been made better
off in terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education than their
counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but also
through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population growth
rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.4% in
1981). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and social
variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare in a
country - is (at 64 years) outstandingly high for a country at China's per
capita income level.
11.       The outstanding weakness of China's economy is inefficiency - in
converting inputs into outputs, in matching supply with demand, and in invest-
ment decision making. This is partly the result of technological backward-
ness, caused by two decades of international isolation. But it also reflects
the virtual absence of medium-term planning from 1958 until recently, the lack
of economic criteria in investment analysis, and serious weaknesses in the
economic system - in particular, inadequate contact between producers and
users, insufficient use of markets and price incentives, inadequate linkage
between effort and rewards, and an overstaffed and cumbersome bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       Since 1977 there has been intense discussion within China concern-
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably have to
depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use. The benefits of
technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have been overtaken
by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And the remarkable
progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs has not been
matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately rapid rise in
general living standards.
Reform and Adjustment
13.       In 1979, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment. Economic reform is aimed at improving the overall efficiency of the
economic system. It involves: restoring and improving the quality of
central planning and policy coordination; devolving more decisionr-making
authority to lower level units in the economic system; establishing more



- 4 -
direct links between incomes and the performance of economic units and indi-
viduals; and placing more reliance on market mechanisms and economic
instruments, less on administrative directives, to influence economic
activity. Structural adjustment is aimed at speeding improvements in living
standards and involves readjusting the relative shares of consumption and
investment in national income, some sectoral and subsectoral readjustments,
and more emphasis on foreign trade.
14.       Economic reforms have affected planning and management at both the
central and local government levels. A major reorganization of the central
government has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the total number of commissions, ministries and agencies under
the State Council from 98 to 52. Central-local government relations have
been affected by a decentralization of fiscal and foreign trade management,
and the legal rights and obligations of economic agents have been better
defined.
15.       Other reforms have affected the management and organization of the
state enterprise and collective sectors. Management of state enterprises
has been affected by changes and experiments aimed at improving incentives,
including the introduction of profit retention schemes and more flexible
payment and employment practices. There has also been experimentation with
different types of state enterprise organization, a greater variety of
marketing channels, some price flexibility, and greater autonomy for state
enterprises in production decisions. In rural areas, more responsibility
has been given to lower level collective units and to households, and
incomes have been more directly linked to the output of groups and house-
holds. There has been an increase in the number and types of rural markets
at which households can freely trade commodities. In urban areas the scope
for collective and individual economic activities has been expanded. Some
of these reforms - especially those in rural areas - have already improved
economic efficiency, while others will take longer to have an impact.
16.       Progress in structural adjustment has been impressive.  The share
of investment in net material product (NMP) has declined from 37% in 1978 to
30% in 1981, and the share of agriculture in NMP has increased from 36% in
1978 to 40% in 1981. Emphasis on light industry, which accounted for 43% of
industrial output value in 1978, was needed to provide more consumer goods
to match higher incomes. The shift in emphasis from heavy to light
industry, which began in 1979 and has become even more dramatic in the past
two years, has led to a sharp increase in this proportion - reaching over
51% in 1981. In fact, in 1981, heavy industry output actually fell by 4.7%
while light industry output grew by 14.1%.
Stabilization Program
17.       The implementation of adjustment and reform policies in recent
years was accompanied by some macroeconomic instability in 1979 and 1980:
there were large budget deficits, moderate inflation, rapid growth in the



- 5 -
money supply, and a widening of the current account deficit from $0.7 billion
in 1978 to $2.4 billion in 1980. Except for the budget deficit (5.1% of NMP
in 1979 and 3.5% in 1980), the symptoms of instability were quite mild by
international standards. They were, however, taken very seriously in a
country accustomed to insignificant inflation rates during the last two
decades. Accordingly, in 1981, the Government introduced a stabilization
program, which included a moderation of currency and credit expansion,
restoration of budgetary balance and sharp cuts in investment.
18.       Monetary and Fiscal Policy.  Restoration of price stability, the
Government's major concern, has been largely achieved: retail prices
increased by only 2.4% in 1981 compared with 6.0% in 1980. In rural areas
shortages of consumer goods and repressed inflation remain, but in urban
areas measures to restrict increases in nominal incomes in 1981 improved the
demand-supply situation. Meanwhile the major changes in relative prices
between urban and rural areas and within sectors continued through 1981.
Some price flexibility has also been introduced: above-plan output can be
sold at prices negotiated directly between buyers and sellers, and there is
considerable downward price flexibility for goods in excess supply.
19.       Strict price controls were one element of the stabilization pro-
gram but fiscal policy has also played an important role. The Government
reduced the budget deficit significantly in both 1980 and 1981, primarily
through major cuts in capital construction: after rising by over 50% in
1978 and nearly 14% in 1979, budget expenditures on capital construction
were reduced by 19% in 1980 and 22% in 1981. Moreover, the mode of deficit
financing in 1981 was less inflationary than in previous years. Because of
the Government's concern about open inflation, many of the increases in
agricultural procurement prices have not been passed on to urban consumers
but instead were financed by rapidly increasing subsidies (Y 8 billion in
1978 and Y 36 billion in 1981). Total domestic revenues have continued to
increase but not as rapidly as NMP, due in part to the introduction of
profit retention schemes and the shift in the composition of industrial
output from heavy to light industry. On the other hand, extrabudgetary
funds of enterprises and administrative organizations have grown rapidly and
were about half as large as budgetary revenues in 1981.
20.       Innovations like credit financing of investment and profit reten-
4          tion schemes mean that monetary policy potentially has a more important role
to play in China. After rapid increases in 1979 and 1980, the growth rate
of the money supply was reduced in 1981 as a result of strict control over
currency expansion. The velocity of circulation of money fell in 1979-81,
but this was to be expected during a time of major institutional and struc-
tural changes, including the increased monetization of rural economic acti-
vities and the proliferation of collective and individual commercial and
service undertakings. Bank branches have been given more autonomy to
mobilize and allocate resources, and efforts have been made to influence
economic decision making at the micro level by increasing and rationalizing
interest rates. The increase in interest rates is expected to attract
savings and induce enterprises to economize on fixed investment and working
capital. However, the allocation of investment resources in China continues
to be made primarily administratively, rather than by interest rates.



- 6 -
21.        Balance of Payments.  The Government's current policy includes
continued emphasis on foreign trade and on making more use of imported
technology. The performance of merchandise exports has continued to be very
impressive, with the real growth rate averaging about 20% p.a. during 1978-81,
due mainly to rapid growth in manufactured exports. However, merchandise
imports, which also grew rapidly in 1979 and 1980, fell by 4.5% in value and
8.6% in volume in 1981 due to the stabilization program, especially the sharp
cutback in the investment program. As a result, the $2.4 billion deficit of
1980 was converted into a $2.0 billion current account surplus in 1981.
22.       The strong export performance is due in part to institutional
and policy changes. In January 1981, an internal settlement rate of
Y 2.8 per US dollar (the official exchange rate was Y 1.6 per US dollar) was
introduced for all trade. The central government has actively encouraged
decentralization of foreign trade decision making and has introduced
material incentives, primarily in the form of foreign exchange retention
schemes. It appears, however, that some provinces and organizations may
have striven to increase exports even if this meant undercutting exports of
other provinces or units or exacerbating domestic supply shortages; greater
access to foreign exchange has also stimulated a faster growth of imports
than would have been permitted under a more centralized system. In the
absence of price and other reforms the Government has felt obliged to deal
with these problems by introducing export quotas for 78 commodities, levying
export duties on other commodities, restricting some consumer goods imports,
and raising import tariffs on others.
23.       The Government's approach to foreign borrowing has remained very
cautious. In 1980 and 1981 it cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and
in 1981 took advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position
to repay commercial bank and other loans. In 1981, China's debt service
ratio was 7.8%. Gross international reserves at the end of 1981 were
sufficient to cover about five months of 1981 imports of goods and services.
24.       Investment.  In 1978, China's rate of investment was much higher
than the average for other low-income or middle-income countries; moreover,
the overall efficiency of investment was low and getting worse due to
shortages of necessary materials and supplies, major transport constraints,
and inappropriate and inefficient procedures for selecting and implementing
investment projects. In these circumstances, the Government decided to cut
back on the investment rate while introducing measures to improve investment
efficiency and thereby protect future growth potential. The reduction in
the investment rate has been achieved in spite of difficulties in cutting
many investment components: the share of inventory accumulation in total
investment has remained high; investment financed from retained earnings or
local resources has grown sharply as a proportion of the total; and there
has been rapid growth of nonproductive, particularly housing, investment.
As a result, most of the cutbacks have had to be in large centrally financed
projects, which will probably have an adverse effect on future growth.



- 7-
Growth and Income Developments
25.       The overall rate of economic growth in recent years has been
impressive, averaging 5.6% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 - a much higher rate
than in the first half of the 1970s. In 1981, however, the rate dropped to
3.0% as a result of the stabilization program.
26.       The combination of structural adjustment, economic growth and a low
population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1981) has led to rapid
increases in the general standard of living in recent years. In urban
areas, general wage increases and higher bonuses have more than offset the
increase in the cost of living index, and real per capita incomes increased
by 4.9% p.a. between 1978 and 1981. The number of urban unemployed has been
reduced dramatically and, with government encouragement, urban
self-employment has grown rapidly.
27.       Even more impressive, however, has been the increase in rural
incomes. Information from several sources suggests that at current prices,
per capita rural incomes increased by 16-18% p.a. between 1978 and 1981; and
when account is taken of price changes, the increase in real per capita
incomes has been 10-12% p.a. About 60% of this dramatic increase is due to
increased rural production and the remainder to shifts in the terms of trade
in favor of rural producers. While areas and households that were already
relatively well off may have benefited the most, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
Sectoral Strategies
28.       The rapid development of agriculture has been essential because
800 million people depend on agriculture for their livelihood; moreover,
rising incomes elsewhere in the economy and the requirements of light indus-
try have placed new demands on agriculture. Between 1978 and 1981, gross
agricultural output at constant prices increased by 5.7% p.a.; despite poor
weather in 1980 the growth rate was 2.7%, and in 1981 when China was again
affected by severe droughts and floods, the growth rate rose to 5.7%. There
has been a substantial diversification of the sector, with production of
cash crops expanding rapidly and large increases in livestock and sideline
production. Grain production has also increased since 1978 despite a
decline in the grain area, but domestic grain requirements have increased
more rapidly due to higher incomes and fast-growing requirements for live-
stock feed. As a result, foodgrain imports have been expanding steadily.
29.        The strong performance of agriculture in recent years is largely
due to the combination of improved terms of trade for agriculture and other
policy interventions and institutional changes that encourage local and
institutional specialization according to comparative advantage. Of parti-
cular importance have been the changes in the organization and management of
rural collectives (para. 15).



- 8 -
30.       Adjustment policy in industry has included increased emphasis on
light and consumer goods industry rather than heavy industry (para. 16);
stress on modernization of existing enterprises, particularly through
importation of new technology; and energy conservation. Promotion of
manufactured exports has also been necessary to pay for imported technology.
These exports have been growing rapidly but still account for only 4% of
gross industrial output, and imported equipment as a share of capital
construction in industry has risen from 3% in 1978 to 26% in 1981.
31.       Reforms in industry have focussed the attention of organizations
and individuals on profits and efficiency (para. 15). Innovations have
included profit retention schemes, piece rate wages, and bonuses, which
for workers in state enterprises now average more than one month's pay. New
types of industrial organization include foreign partnerships, joint
ventures between urban state industrial enterprises and rural communes, and
industrial corporations with authority over a group of enterprises producing
similar output. Charges on the fixed assets and working capital of state
enterprises are intended to encourage them to use capital more productively.
However, these reform measures have not yet been backed by price reform and
enterprises still do not bear full responsibility for losses.
32.       Since 1979 when energy conservation became a major policy issue,
energy consumption has stagnated or fallen while NIIP has grown by 10%. As a
result, China has remained a net exporter of energy despite declines in
energy production in 1980 and 1981. The fall in energy use per unit of
output has been due in part to the changing structure of industry: heavy
industry consumes about four times as much energy per unit of output as
light industry, and heavy industry output grew very slowly in 1980 and
declined in 1981. The Government has been stressing the importance of
improved efficiency and energy savings within sectors and has been pursuing
energy conservation through rationing and other administrative measures.
33.       Market-oriented reforms and greater regional specialization call
for expanded and more efficient domestic transportation and commercial
systems. In the commercial sector, the real value of sales has risen
rapidly and the role of markets in the allocation of resources has expanded.
Collective and individual commercial activities have proliferated, filling
gaps left by, and forcing improvements in, the state commercial system.
Growth in the volume of freight transport slowed greatly in 1980, and there
was virtual stagnation in 1981, indicating that bottlenecks in this sector
remain severe.
Development Issues and Prospects
34.       Although changes in the system of economic management as well as
in the structure of the economy will undoubtedly continue, a difficult
period of transition lies ahead. After spending three decades pursuing a
particular set of goals with particular instruments, the country will
inevitably find it hard to switch to a path that is not only new for China,
but also one that has been successfully followed by few other countries.



Reform of the economic system will be especially difficult. The measures
described above, though diverse in form, have a unity of purpose, namely to
make the economy more efficient in the sense of both cutting costs and
matching supply more closely with demand. But the attempt to reform parts
of the economic system without a coherent overall program has also had some
adverse consequences. Bureaucratic reform has been initiated and the
momentum of reform is being sustained in the rural collective sector, but
economic reform on the scale envisaged will require careful management and
coordination.
35.       Constraints.  China's efforts to improve its people's living
standards will, in the coming decade, be subject to a tight set of
interlocking constraints. Some of these are of long standing; they reflect
the country's fundamental resource constraints, especially the shortage of
agricultural land and the difficulty of increasing yields further, Others
are of more recent origin, however, and largely reflect the price that the
country must still pay for more than a decade of waste and economic
mismanagement starting in the mid-1960s. They include shortages of trained
manpower, energy, and financial resources for new investment.
36.       The food problem facing China in the 1980s is likely to be similar
to that in the past, but it may be exacerbated by growing demand for feed-
grain to support increased meat production. Grain output will continue to
be constrained because of the extreme shortage of new cultivable land and
the limited opportunities that remain for increasing yields. Although sub-
stantial gains will probably be possible in the short and medium term
through improved policies and management, the foodgrain balance will remain
precarious and substantial food imports will have to be maintained. Main-
taining a low population growth rate is also crucial.
37.       In both rural and urban areas, the country's effort to modernize
the economy will be seriously constrained by the lack of trained manpower.
Despite considerable progress in basic education, technical and higher
education has been neglected and was severely disrupted during the Cultural
Revolution. Current enrollment in both universities and technical and voca-
tional schools is one quarter of the average for other developing countries.
Many teachers in advanced education are underqualified, curricula are
outdated, and scientific equipment is scarce.
38.       The outlook for energy production has recently deteriorated.  Oil
output peaked in 1979 at 106 million tons, dropped to 101 million tons in
1981 and is likely at best to remain at about 95-100 million tons a year
during the 1980s. Coal output (which contributes about 70X of total commer-
cial energy) declined to 620 million tons in 1980 and remained at the same
level in 1981. It is unlikely to exceed 700 million tons in 1985 and about
850 million tons in 1990, even if high priority is given to this subsector.
Growth of total primary energy production in the 1980s will thus not exceed
37 per year - less than one quarter of the 1952-80 growth rate.



- 10 -
3q.       The prospects for economic growth in the 1980s will thus depend
critically on reducing energy use per unit of output. In particular, the
availability of oil for use as an industrial raw material will fundamentally
influence growth prospects. The potential for energy savings is very large,
as China is now among the world's most inefficient users of energy. In
addition to substantial new investment, however, conservation will require
fundamental reform of energy allocation procedures, incentives for reduced
consumption and changes in relative prices, and indeed, a total change of
thinking at the enterprise level on the way energy is used - all of which
will be difficult and slow to implement.
40.       The energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of industrial
investment and very large capital outlays would be required in the next
several years to accelerate the growth of energy output in the second half
of the 1980s. Competing claims for investments in other sectors are consid-
erable, especially those for badly needed urban housing and for relieving
transport bottlenecks. The attempt to modernize the huge industrial sector
built upon outdated technology will also require enormous investment out-
lays. Thus, notwithstanding the Government's effort to improve the alloca-
tion and use of its financial resources, a high level of investment will
need to be maintained in the 1980s to build a sound foundation for sustained
growth over the longer term. However, investments in key sectors like
energy and transport are presently caught between the Government's desire to
reduce the saving rate (in order to accelerate the growth of consumption)
and its loss of control over parts of the investment program as a result of
decentralization and reform.
41.       The Government's attempt to foster a much more open economy than
in the past may be impeded by a shortage of foreign exchange. Domestic
bottlenecks in the supply of certain agricultural and industrial materials,
together with the need to purchase foreign technology (in the form of
software as well as hardware), will make continued expansion of imports
essential for growth and modernization. The rate of growth of export
earnings depends critically on two uncertain parameters, namely the rate at
which nontraditional manufactured exports can be increased and the degree of
success in energy conservation. Even if energy conservation is fairly
successful (growth in energy use at, say, three fourths of the GDP growth
rate), oil exports will almost certainly disappear by the second half of the
1980s, and imports of energy may well be required, at least until new
domestic production capacity is established. If the external economic
environment improves, manufactured exports could grow, from a relatively
small base, by 9-10% a year in constant prices during the decade.
Nonetheless, declining energy exports will cause total foreign exchange
earnings to grow by no more than about 2% a year in the first half of the
1980s and 8% a year in the second half. Thus the strong balance of payments
situation in 1981, brought about mainly by restrictive measures (cutbacks in
investment), masks serious medium-term constraints.
42.       China's access to concessionary capital is limited:  apart from
what it might obtain from the Bank Group, concessionary capital is only



- 11 -
likely to come from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and will likely
average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s. Quantitative projec-
tions show that if China is to maintain reasonable growth and modernization
and keep its debt service payments at a manageable level, then it needs to
obtain the necessary foreign capita'l at an average interest rate substan-
tially below the market rate. China also has a strong claim to concession-
ary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries in the world.
43r       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by errors
made in the 1960s and early 1970s. But looking further ahead, China's econ-
omic prospects appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor
force will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower
deficit will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in
tapping China's large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently.
Continuation of recent manufactured export trends should generate sufficient
foreign exchange for the Government to have more confidence in using foreign
capital and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense
wealth of human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies
that increase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. Whether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government's program of reform and
adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
44.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consid-
erable development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development - the shortages
of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, it can help the authorities to use these and other inputs
more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment control, as
well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the Bank should
help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining poverty.
Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs of most of
its people, these efforts should concentrate on increasing incomes in the
poorest rural areas.
45.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, four projects involving lending of 8460 million have been approved. Two
have been in education (TJniversity Development Project, FY81 and the
Agricultural Education and Research Project, FY83), one in agriculture (North



- 12 -
China Plain Agriculture Project, FY82) and one in transport (Three Ports
Project, FY83). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and
credits, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of
September 30, 1982.
Economic and Sector Work
46.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy.  This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
analyzing developments over the past two years is now under preparation. In
addition, the Bank has initiated studies in several areas important for our
understanding of the Chinese system, including rural finance and urban
planning and management in Shanghai.
47.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As preparation for
the proposed project, an appraisal manual has been developed with Bank
assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment Bank (CIB).
The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual for the Agricultural Bank
of China (ABC). A program of economic research on China's development
problems, aimed at the application of advanced analytical techniques, has
begun in collaboration with Chinese economic research institutions in the
areas of enterprise incentives and the study of structural change.
48.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agricultural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A health sector review is reporting on rural health care delivery systems and
health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
49.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on training. Several are in the key
sectors of energy and transportation.  In energy, the Bank's efforts will help
to increase the supply of fuel and power. Petroleum projects would be
onshore and emphasize training, field management and studies.  One, at the
country's largest and most productive field, Daqing, would help develop new
reserves and introduce enhanced recovery techniques. Another, at the
Zhongyuan field, would include both development and exploration. Other
operations are proposed to support hydropower generation in south China and
the development and management of large underground coal mines in Shanxi
province. Support of transportation began through the modernization of
container and coal handling at China's three major ports. The Bank plans to



- 13 -
finance further projects, in ports and in railways where additional capacity
is needed to transport coal from mines in Shanxi to the east coast.
50.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher and/or tech-
nical education, the Bank will continue its support of education, notably
the TV university, a pilot program of basic colleges, and another university
development project. Support of agriculture will also continue through
projects to develop presently uncultivated land in Heilongjiang province for
grain production, develop rubber cultivation in Guangdong province, and
provide rural credit in two provinces with emphasis on improved project
appraisal and institution-building. Besides the proposed project, it is
expected that industry would be supported through further loans to CIB for
light industrial firms for modernization and export projects. The Bank may
also become involved in technical assistance and investment in support of
energy conservation in industry.  In health, a project would help improve
rural health care services and medical education.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
51.       Characteristics.  China is one of the world's ten leading countries
in total industrial production. In 1979, China produced the largest volume
of cotton yarn and fabric, ranked third in cement and coal, fifth in steel
and seventh in electric power. Manufacturing accounts for about 35% of GDP
(compared to only 13% for all low-income countries, 25% for middle-income
countries, and 27% for industrialized market economies) and 13% of total
employment. Manufactured exports, while only 3.4% of gross industrial out-
put, account for half of total merchandise exports, and grew by about 20%
p.a. (in real terms) over 1977-81.
52.       Growth.  China has had one of the highest and most sustained
industrial growth rates in the world, though it has fallen gradually in
recent years. Gross industrial output grew at 18% p.a. during 1952-57 and
at 10% p.a. over 1957-79, with heavy industry growing by 10.8% p.a. and
light industry by 8.3% p.a. over the latter period. This rapid growth was
r         fueled by very high rates of capital accumulation, and was supported by a
highly-diversified machine-building sector. But there have been periodic
setbacks, followed by recovery, due to the disruptions of the Great Leap
Forward (1958-60), the withdrawal of Soviet assistance (1960), and the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) whose effects are still being felt.
53.       Organization.  China's 355,000 industrial enterprises are owned
either by the state or by urban or rural collectives. State enterprises
comprise fewer than 25% by number, but account for over 80% of net output, 90%
of fixed assets and 60% of employment. All state and collective industrial
enterprises come under one of eleven central government ministries concerned



- 14 -
with manufacturing. A few key state enterprises are under direct national
control, but most are supervised by the ministries' provincial and county
bureaus. In the past three years, many enterprises have been grouped into
corporations, an intermediate layer below the bureau.
54.       Production Planning.  Because of disruptions and policy reversals,
there has been almost no medium- or long-term planning since the First Five
Year Plan ended in 1957, although a Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) has now
been prepared. The primary instrument of economic coordination is the
annual plan, which sets aggregate production targets for key commodities,
for elaboration at lower levels of administration. Less important goods are
controlled by provincial plans or local purchase agreements. The annual
plan is integrated with a consolidated budget and a credit plan. The plan
which comes down to an enterprise contains targets for physical production
(historically the most important targets), output value, profit, materials
and energy use, employment, production cost and working capital. Frequently
both the market outlets and input sources are specified. With mostly
quantitative targets, fixed prices (para. 56), assured markets, and
relatively little contact with users, enterprises have lacked incentive to
improve product quality.
55.       Investment Project Planning.  The level of approval for an invest-
ment project depends on its size, its location and whether import of tech-
nology is involved. Large-scale projects must be approved by the SPC and
those involving foreign licensing agreements by the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations and Trade. Most subprojects under the proposed loan/credit
would be approved at the provincial level. In all cases, many different
agencies must "sign off" on a proposal before it is included in the annual
plan, and thus eligible for allocation of construction material and equipment.
Although extensive feasibility studies are generally called for, investment
planning in China has several weaknesses: (a) investment proposals are
frequently not made or evaluated in their sectoral or national context, in
part because the necessary data may not be easily available; (b) projects may
be poorly prepared technically, especially where imported technology is
involved, due to lack of knowledge by the enterprises concerned and to
reluctance to purchase foreign software of any kind; and (c) although economic
criteria are supposed to be dominant in project selection, there is no formal
cost/benefit analysis. Government is aware of these problems. The proposed
project would be an important pilot effort for dealing with them (paras.
70-71).
56.       Pricing System.  As prices are set by central or provincial authori-
ties on the basis of Government's social and economic objectives, rather than
by supply and demand, and as most have remained essentially unchanged since
the 1950s, relative prices do not reflect production costs or market scarcity.
There are thus great variations in the profitability of different industries.
The rate of return (profits and taxes) on investment in 1979 in light industry
equalled 48% of fixed assets plus working capital, compared to only 19% in



- 15 -
heavy industry, because manufactured consumer products on average are priced
relatively high compared to basic industrial goods. The high overall
profitability of industry reflects in part the generally low wages and low
prices of agricultural goods used as inputs.
57.       Problems.  Although respectable rates of industrial growth are
expected to continue, growth may be constrained by shortages of key inputs,
especially energy, agricultural raw materials, foreign exchange and qualified
managers, engineers and scientists. These constraints may become increasingly
significant as growth of oil production slows, thus limiting foreign exchange
earnings and energy supplies, and as the older generation of managers and
technical experts retires.
58.       Moreover, China's industrial sector has important structural weak-
nesses. It is inefficient in its use of labor, capital and energy. Despite
some technological advances, use of labor and capital has not become more
efficient since the 1950s. Moreover, the ratio of energy consumption to GNP
is three times the average for other developing countries or industrialized
market economies. The reasons for these inefficiencies include problems
with industrial management, prices and investment choices. Chinese industry
has also remained technologically backward, due in large part to China's
prolonged international isolation and sometimes excessive emphasis on
self-sufficiency. China has often failed to make the best use of imported
equipment because it lacked the necessary technical and managerial
expertise. Finally, structural imbalances have arisen from overemphasis on
heavy industry, and poor linkages between supply and demand.
59.       Recent Reforms.  Three aspects of the recent economic reforms
(paras. 12-15) are particularly relevant to industry: (a) profit and foreign
exchange retention; (b) a gradual shift from grant to loan finance; and (c)
relative price changes. Most industrial enterprises may now retain 10-30% of
incremental profits, for specified uses including minor investments.
Enterprises' supervisory bodies can also retain a share of foreign exchange
earnings. These measures help decentralize investment decisions and give
incentives to increase profits and exports.
60.       The shift to loan finance has induced both the People's Construction
Bank of China (PCBC), which handles all capital construction grants and loans,
and the borrowing enterprises to make greater efforts now to assure the
financial profitability of investments and to reduce waste of resources. In
the course of appraisal, PCBC can modify or even reject projects. In this
transition stage, interest rates on local currency loans are still low
(2.4-3.6% p.a. for capital construction; 5.8-6.5% p.a. for modernization).
61.       The shifts toward decentralized investment decision-making using
loan- and self-finance increase the importance of continuing the rationali-
zation of prices to bring financial returns more into line with economic
returns. The use of shadow prices, while now essential for proper investment



- 16 -
appraisal (para. 71), is only a partial solution. Government apparently
intends to make relative prices more rational; however, while some prices
(mainly for agricultural goods and coal) have already been altered,
fundamental change will necessarily be complicated and slow because of the
income distribution and budgetary implications of price changes, fear of
inflation and the inherent complexity of the adjustment process.
The Financial Sector
62.       Objectives.  As in other socialist countries, China's financial
system has served mainly to channel government budgetary funds for approved
purposes and to help control state-owned and collective enterprises. More
recently, increasing attention has been paid to using the banks to mobilize
savings and increase investment efficiency.
63.       Institutional Framework.  China now has five state banks.  The
People's Bank of China (PBC) has ministry-level status as a multi-purpose
central and commercial bank, as well as the administrative organ for govern-
ment financial management. It also supervises the Agricultural Bank of China,
which is in charge of banking and financial administration in rural areas
nationwide, and the Bank of China (BOC), which handles most international
transactions, including foreign currency deposits and loans (para. 65). The
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC), which is supervised primarily
by the Ministry of Finance, has the main financial responsibility for apprais-
ing and disbursing for investment in fixed assets, in both industry and
physical infrastructure, through both grants and loans. PCBC also manages the
financial affairs of state construction enterprises. In all of its programs,
PCBC lends local currency only. The newly created China Investment Bank (CIB)
(paras. 72-82), which will implement this project, is the offshoot of PCBC for
foreign exchange lending.
64.       Industrial Finance.  Annual capital construction in industry
remained about Y 28-30 billion over 1978-80, but fell to Y 20 billion in
1981. Over the same period, light industry's share of this rose from 10%
to 20% and energy's share climbed from 42% to 50%, while the portion of
other heavy industry dropped from 48% to 30%. All capital construction funds
pass through PCBC. The finance comes from the central, provincial and local
budgets, enterprise retained earnings, PCBC deposits and a variety of other
funds at the local level. By 1981, some 15% of capital construction was
loan-financed, mostly in light industry, energy and mining. In addition to
capital construction, PCBC and PBC each lent about Y 2 billion for industrial
modernization in 1981.
65.       China's import of machinery and equipment, excluding vehicles,
jumped from an average of $1.0 billion during 1975-78 to $2.5 billion in 1979
and $3.9 billion in 1980. Many high priority projects get permission to buy
foreign exchange to import equipment and technology, using grant or loan funds



- 17 -
or retained earnings. Other projects, especially those which would earn
foreign exchange and which might need assistance in management, technology or
export marketing, might be proposed for joint ventures, co-production (similar
to joint ventures, but with no Chinese capital), compensation trade (where the
equipment supplier accepts Chinese exports as payment), or assembly and
processing of imported parts/materials for export. Export-oriented projects
that need to import only relatively small items of equipment can obtain direct
BOC loans. This type of BOC lending dropped almost to zero in 1980-81 when
the interest rate was raised from 7% p.a. to 14-17% p.a. BOC also handles
bilateral buyers' credit arrangements, whereby subsidized funds (now about 10%
p.a.) are provided by foreign banks for purchase of equipment, usually in the
financing country. Suppliers' credits are also available from several
countries. Although about $17 billion of credit lines have been negotiated
since 1978, only a small fraction has been used so far, due to both the
investment slowdown during readjustment and China's general reluctance to
incur foreign debt.
66.       Despite this variety of foreign exchange sources, it has remained
quite difficult for many enterprises to obtain foreign exchange for invest-
ment, because of tight Government restrictions on its use and because many
of these sources did not address the need for complete projects integrating
imported equipment with local equipment and civil works. But two recent
developments are changing this. First, starting in 1982, BOC has begun
using more heavily the available buyers' credit lines and supplementing these,
as necessary, with its own foreign exchange. Secondly, CIB has now been
established, and will begin operations using the proposed loan and credit,
bringing to bear PCBC experience in investment finance, as well as new
approaches to project appraisal and technology transfer.
Bank Group Industrial Lending Strategy
67.       This is expected to be the first of a series of projects with CIB,
aimed at building up this new institution as an important part of China's
economic reform program. While this first project will cover a wide range of
light industries, subsequent loans may include some concentration on specific
subsectors. The Bank Group is also exploring with Government the possibility
of financing energy conservation investments in the industrial sector.
However, it and the Government are still in the process of developing a
longer-term strategy for Bank Group industrial lending in China.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
68.       The need for a financial intermediary for industrial lending
involving import of equipment and technology was identified by the Bank
Group's first economic mission to China in November 1980. Specific proposals
were developed in the course of 1981 (para. 72). The project was appraised
in April 1982 and negotiated in Washington in October 1982. The Government
was represented by Mr. Luo Qing and CIB by Mr. Geng Gengshan. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4009-CHA, dated November 23) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary data are in Annex III.
Objectives
69.       CIB and the proposed loan/credit would both help fill a gap in
foreign exchange industrial finance and address some of the central issues in
improving industrial investment efficiency by (a) helping to organize transfer
of foreign technology to investing enterprises, and (b) improving project
design and selection criteria. CIB's focus on modernization of existing light
industrial enterprises also fits in well with Government's readjustment
strategies (para. 30).
70.       Technology Import.  Chinese light industries have failed to keep
pace with foreign technology, largely because of China's relative isolation.
Technology import is, of course, a complicated process. CIB's contribution
would be in: (a) financing hardware and software imports; (b) appraising the
economics of alternative technologies; and (c) serving as a channel for
locating and utilizing international experts, and sending local engineers to
visit factories abroad.
71.       Improved Project Appraisal.  Investment projects in China are
subject to feasibility studies covering technical, financial and certain
economic aspects. However, these often do not form an adequate basis for
proper project design and selection (para. 55). Government has therefore
selected CIB to be a pilot institution for improving appraisal methodology.
CIB staff and other Chinese officials and researchers, with advice from Bank
staff, have drafted CIB's project appraisal manual. One important objective
of the manual is to make appraisal more comprehensive and systematic,
especially by examining projects in their sectoral and technological context.
The second and more innovative objective is to supplement present Chinese
methods of economic evaluation (essentially by reference to plan targets) with
cost/benefit analysis based on shadow prices. The use of shadow prices is
important because actual Chinese prices do not provide good measures of
economic costs and benefits (para. 56). The need for improved methods of
economic evaluation of projects is becoming more widely accepted in China.
CIB, by developing and using its appraisal manual, will provide experience
in adapting new methods of appraisal to Chinese circumstances. CIB has



- 19 -
already begun to use the draft manual to appraise its initial subprojects.
Formal issuance of an appraisal manual and instructions satisfactory to the
Bank/Association, for experimental use by CIB's branches, will be a condi-
tion of effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c) and
Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). The use of the manual, after revision based
on initial experience and agreed with the Bank/Association, will become
mandatory within six months after the initial issuance (Project Agreement,
Section 2.09(a)).
The China Investment Bank (CIB)
72.       Establishment.  PCBC, under Ministry of Finance guidance, played
the major role in setting up CIB, with advice from several Bank missions.
In December 1981, CIB's Charter was approved by the State Council, and CIB's
Board of Directors held its first meeting. Although autonomous, CIB is
administratively under the leadership primarily of the Ministry of Finance
and secondarily of PCBC, whose help it will continue to need in obtaining
staff, facilities and entree to PCBC clients. PCBC/CIB have made consider-
able progress, in a relatively short period, in preparing CIB's basic
documents, recruiting and training a core of staff (primarily from PCBC),
establishing branches, and identifying a subproject pipeline.
73.       Management.  CIB's 29-person Board of Directors, consisting of
senior officials of PCBC and other agencies, will meet at least once a year.
The Board reviews and decides on CIB's annual plan, major policies, finan-
cial and operational performance, proposed borrowings of $50 million equiva-
lent or more, and any proposed Charter amendments. A Managing Committee
consisting of the Board Chairman, three Deputy Chairmen and seven Managing
Directors will meet from time to time to deal with all other important
matters, including loan approvals of Y 10 million or more, borrowings below
$50 million and appointment of senior officials below Vice President. The
President of CIB is a Deputy Chairman of the Board, and also retains his
post as First Vice President of PCBC. The appointment by the Government of
a CIB Vice President will be a condition of effectiveness (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(g)); the candidate has already been nominated
by CIB's Board of Directors and is on the job. A second Vice President is
being sought; CIB intends to have him/her nominated by its Board and on the
job by March 31, 1983.
74.       Organization, Staffing and Consultancy.  The head office has five
departments: Project Lending; Finance and Accounting; Survey and Research;
Coordination and Planning; and General Affairs and Administration. An
internal audit unit is directly responsible to the Managing Committee. CIB
intends to soon have a suitable engineer in each branch, in addition to more
financial and economic staff. CIB will also hire, as a condition of effec-
tiveness-  a full-time qualified and experienced senior economic advisor to
direct and review its economic work (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(e) and Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). Also as a condition of effec-
tiveness, CIB is to conclude a contract, satisfactory to the Bank/Association,



w- 20) 
for provision of engineering services to CIB (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 5.01(d) and Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). CIR intends to contract
with the China International Engineering Consulting Corporation (CIECC), an
umbrella organization of the 17 newly-established industry-specific
engineering consulting firms created from the design institutes in various
ministries. CIB intends to submit all subprojects under the loan/credit to
CIECC or other experts for technical review. A CIECC Deputy General Manager
will be CIB's part-time senior engineering advisor, and will help arrange and
oversee the work of short-term consultants. Where suitable local experts are
not available, as when the subproject involves specialized technology not
well-known in China, short-term foreign consultants will be recruited to
advise CIB on its appraisal work.
75.       Branches.  CIB has established branches in Shanghai, Tianjin and
Jiangsu province (Nanjing), which together account for 8% of China's
population and 25% of its gross industrial output. As its experience, staff
trained in project appraisal, and financial resources increase, CIB will open
about one additional branch per year, with initial priority given to the
northern and central coastal provinces where export prospects are best. The
branches will appraise all projects, subject to head office approval.
76.       Training.  While most CIB staff have had many years of experience
in PCBC, they need special training in all aspects of development banking, as
well as international exposure. As arranged through the Bank and financed
by UNDP, CIB staff are making study tours to well-managed development finance
companies in other countries. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) gave a
five-week development banking course in Shanghai in April/May 1982 mainly for
CIB and PCBC, and plans a similar course in 1983. CIB is also planning
in-house seminars, especially on project appraisal. CIB's overall training
program for 1983 was agreed upon.
77.       Operating Policies.  CIB will lend primarily for small- and medium-
size fixed investments in state enterprises, with emphasis on technical
modernization and export-oriented projects. CIB will obtain foreign exchange
from international institutions (and eventually, perhaps, from international
capital markets) and local currency from the Government as share capital. It
will lend local currency only in conjunction with foreign exchange. Loans
will be for capital expenditures only; PBC, which already has working capital
accounts for virtually all enterprises, will provide the complementary working
capital, as it normally does for all approved investments. CIB's major
operational and financial policies, within the framework of its Charter and
the national economic plans are outlined in the Policy Statement, and the
specific areas of emphasis over the next two years in its Development Strategy
Statement. CIB will exchange views with the Bank/Association on any proposed
change in its Charter, Supplemental Regulations, Policy Statement, Development
Strategy Statement or Lending Regulations (Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
78.       Procedures.  Loan applicants, after obtaining preliminary clearance
from CIB and other agencies based on project proposals, will prepare feasi-
bility studies. CIB will then appraise the projects, and make loans to those
which meet its technical, financial and economic standards. These procedures



- 21 -
will be spelled out in CIB's Lending Regulations, whose issuance, satisfactory
to the Bank/Association, is a condition of effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01(f) and Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). Projects
approved by CIB, up to the limits of its annual disbursement program approved
by the SPC as part of the annual national plan, will be eligible for
construction materials and other inputs. CIB will supervise its loans until
they are fully repaid. It will issue project supervision instructions to its
branches by June 30, 1983 (Project Agreement, Section 2.09(b)).
79.        Interest Rates.  CIB will initially lend local currency at 3.6%
p.a., the national rate for capital construction projects in light industry.
The Government recognizes that this rate is low; however, it is already a vast
improvement over the total dependence on grants until 1979. CIB will be able
to charge a higher rate for lending foreign exchange, due to its scarcity in
China and the current high international interest rates. However, it faces
competition from BOC which is lending foreign exchange at or slightly above
10% p.a. (paras. 65-66). Since CIB will be making more extensive subproject
appraisals than BOC, requiring more data and time, enterprises will be
reluctant to submit to these procedures unless there is some incentive.
Furthermore, they may be reluctant to accept project design alternatives that
give higher economic, but lower financial returns. CIB's management has
strongly indicated that it will not be possible for them now to charge more
than 8% p.a. In addition, given the divergence between economic and financial
prices in China (para. 56), it is economically more efficient for cost/benefit
analysis (para. 71), rather than interest rates, to be the main determinant
of loan application by CIB. Agreements were reached that (a) CIB will onlend
the loan/credit at not less than 8% p.a.; (b) CIB will inform the Bank/
Association in advance of any plans to change its interest rates; and (c) from
time to time, at the request of either party, CIB would review its lending
rates with the Bank/Association in the light of its cost of funds and
profitability, and of movements in interest rates and inflation in China
(Project Agreement, Sections 2.03(a) and 2.10 and Schedule (Part A.1). As
inflation in China for the past three years has averaged about 3.5% p.a., and
no major increase is anticipated, CIB's 8% p.a. onlending rate is expected to
be a positive real rate.
80.       Loan Repayments.  The maturity of CIB's loans will normally not
exceed seven years, and in any case will not exceed twelve years (Project
Agreement Section 2.03(a) and Schedule (Part A.3). Enterprises will service
their loans from incremental profits and depreciation allowances. Enterprises
will be allowed to obtain as much foreign exchange as needed for payments to
CIB on their foreign exchange loans (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01(b) (ii)) .
81.       Resources, Financial Structure and Projections.  The Government is
CIB's sole shareholder. CIB's authorized capital is Y 4 billion ($1.43 bil-
lion, at the internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 = $1) of which Y 400 million
was paid in early 1982 to ensure that CIB had the local currency needed for
its initial loans. The Government will also make available $10 million in
foreign exchange as a revolving fund to bridge the time gap before reimburse-
ments from the loan/credit. On the basis of the present CIB subproject
pipeline, the suppressed demand in China for foreign equipment and technology,



- 22 -
and CIB's expected branch network expansion, CIB loan approvals are projected
to grow by about 40% p.a. over 1983-87, to total $680 million over five years
in foreign exchange, and Y 680 million ($240 million) in local currency. In
its early years CIB hopes to get most of the foreign currency from the Bank
Group, but expects to raise funds from other foreign sources as well. The
proposed loan/credit of $70 million is expected to meet CIB's foreign exchange
commitments up to the latter half of 1984, although this is difficult to
predict accurately as CIB is a new institution. CIB is expected to be
profitable from the start, initially due to interest earned on its paid-in
capital. Its 3.6% local currency spread and 0.6% foreign currency spread
(para. 84) will give it an overall 1.4% spread, which will be sufficient given
its low overhead costs (only 0.2% of average total assets by 1986-87) and low
default risk (loans would be guaranteed by borrowers' supervisory bodies), and
the fact that the Government does not wish to receive any dividends from CIB.
The maximum CIB long-term debt/equity ratio of 5:1 (Project Agreement, Section
3.03) is unlikely to become a constraint because all local currency lending
will be from equity.
82.       Accounts and Audit.  CIB will maintain accounting records adequate
to reflect its operations and financial position in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and standards (Project Agreement, Section
3.01). CIB's accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank/Association, and the accounts and audit report will be
submitted to the Bank/Association within six months after the end of each
financial year (Project Agreement, Section 3.02). The Government has proposed
that the newly established China Consultants of Accounting and Financial
Management (CCAFM) audit CIB. The first CIB accounts to be audited will be
those for calendar 1983. After CCAFM carries out some other audits, the
Bank/Association will evaluate its performance before approving it to audit
CIBGs accounts.
The Proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit
83.       Amount and Maturity.  The proposed Bank loan of $40.6 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) and IDA credit of $30 million
equivalent will be made to the People's Republic of China. They will provide
CIB with its first significant foreign exchange resources. $68.7 million
equivalent is expected to be committed as investment subloans to some 30-40
subprojects; the terminal date for submission of subloans will be March 31,
1985 (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(e)). Back-to-back repayment of the
subloans and Bank loan is not appropriate because the subloans would have
unusually short maturities, averaging about 5-6 years. Therefore, the Bank
loan will be of fixed maturity on the standard country terms for China, which
are 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
84.       Onlending.  The Government will onlend both the loan and the credit
to CIB for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with CIB allowed to roll over
the funds, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The signing of such an agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank/Association is a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b); Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.02(a) and 5.01(b)). The Government will charge CIB a fixed



- 23 -
interest rate of 6.9% p.a. (a weighted average of the present Bank interest
rate and IDA service charge) plus the Bank and IDA commitment fees. The
Government will thus bear the risk from the variable Bank interest rate.
Including the front-end and commitment fees, the total cost of these Bank/IDA
-         funds to CIB will be about 7.4% p.a. compared to its onlending rate of 8% p.a.
The Government will bear the foreign exchange risks between the US dollar and
(a) the currency pool index (for the Bank loan portion) and (b) the SDR (for
*         the IDA credit portion) by onlending to CIB denominated in US dollars valued
at the date of withdrawal (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
The above arrangements have been made because it would be too complicated and
burdensome for CIB to pass these interest rate and foreign exchange risks on
to its subborrowers, most of whom have no experience with foreign borrowings.
However, subloans would be denominated in US dollars so that subborrowers will
take any foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the Yuan (Project
Agreement, Section 2.03 (a) and Schedule (Part A.4). This risk will be small,
as most subborrowers will earn foreign exchange which they will use for
repayment without needing to convert into Yuan.
85.        Preparation Subloans.  In preparing their feasibility studies, some
potential subborrowers will need foreign exchange for the costs of (a)
expatriate technical consultants, and (b) overseas technical visits. Under
the project, $1.0 million of the IDA credit will be allocated for preparation
subloans by CIB; this should cover up to 20 subprojects being prepared for
financing under this loan/credit or future borrowings.
86.        Training and Technical Assistance Component.  About $0.3 million of
the credit will be allocated to finance, over two years, the foreign exchange
costs of: (a) study tours by CIB staff to other development finance institu-
tions (para. 76) and overseas technical visits by CIB staff as agreed with the
Bank/Association (Project Agreement, Section 2.04(b)); and (b) short-term
visits by technical experts to assist CIB in the development of its oper-
ations, especially its appraisal work. About 7 man-months of consultant
services are provided for at an average manmonth cost, including fees,
overhead, international travel and subsistence, of about $13,000.
87.       Maximum Subloan Size.  CIB will be allowed to onlend for individual
subprojects up to $8 million in foreign exchange (Project Agreement, Section
2.03 (a) and Schedule (Part A.2). This high limit reflects the fact that: (a)
4         CIB will be taking virtually no financial risk; and (b) in general it is for
the larger projects that CIB's appraisal is most valuable, because these
projects are more likely to involve major technology import, to serve
nationwide or international markets which must be studied, and to have many
linkages to other industries.
88.        Free Limit.  CIB is a new institution, and careful review of both
the technical and economic aspects of its subproject appraisals will be
essential at this early stage, especially as cost/benefit methodology is new



- 24 -
to China. The free limit for investment subloans is therefore set at $1.0
million, and the aggregate free limit for them at $20 million; in addition,
the first three investment subloans from each branch, regardless of size,
will be subject to Bank/Association approval (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)). An estimated 60% of the subprojects by number and 80% by
amount would be above the free limit. The free limit would be kept under
review, and might be increased somewhat during implementation if the quality
of CIB appraisals justified this.
89.        Procurement.  Individual contracts of at least $3 million equivalent
will be awarded after international competitive bidding including prior Bank/
Association review of bid documents. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, will be extended to local manu-
facturers in the evaluation of bids. All contracts below $3 million will be
awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least
three qualified suppliers. All contracts of $1-3 million will be subject to
post-review by the Bank/Association (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(a)(ii)
(A) and Part B of the Schedule). The Government has authorized the China
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) to handle imports under the
project (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b) (iii)). The existence
of adequate competition to help ensure reasonable prices will be examined as
part of the review of all subprojects above the free limit. Consultants for
CIB or under preparation subloans will be selected in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants, and will have qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Bank/Association (Project Agreement, Section 2.04(a)).
90.        Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against full documentation
for (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment, (b)
90% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment procured under
ICB, and (c) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of technology, technical
assistance and overseas training. They are to be completed by December 31,
1987 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.04 and Loan Agreement, Section
2.03). The disbursement projections are based on the disbursement profile of
industrial development and finance lending in the East Asia and Pacific
Region, taking into account that CIB already has a substantial subproject
pipeline under preparation.
91.        Benefits and Risks.  This project would involve considerable innova-
tion in the Chinese context. It therefore offers potentially great benefits,
but also faces significant risks. The main benefits would be much needed
improvements in industrial efficiency through technology transfer and better
project design and selection, and development of a new bank that would                     4
institutionalize these approaches and help fill a gap in Chinese industrial
finance. While starting relatively small with this project, CIB is expected
to become a major national bank. The success of CIB and the project would
give further impetus to China's economic reform movement. The approaches to
project appraisal and financing to be pioneered by CIB are expected to be
replicable in other financial institutions in China; interest in CIB's



- 25 -
project appraisal manual is already being shown by the Bank of China and
the Agricultural Bank of China.
92.       une major project risk also stems from close association with
China's economic reforms. Should economic reform be reversed in China (e.g.
increased emphasis on technological self-sufficiency or less reliance on
economic opportunity costs in making investment decisions), CIB's role could
be undercut. But most indications are that economic reform will proceed,
although at a cautious pace. The other major risk is that CIB will not prove
able to meet adequately the major challenges facing it. While CIB is obtain-
ing quite experienced staff from PCBC, most have had virtually no exposure to
foreign technology, economic cost/benefit analysis or international finance.
Furthermore, CIB is still only partially staffed. The recruitment, training
and technical assistance arrangements under the project reduce this risk to an
acceptable level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the
Association, the Bank and the China Investment Bank, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
94.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness (Development Credit and
Loan Agreements, Section 5.01) include:
(a) approval by the State Council of the Development Credit and
Loan Agreements;
(b) signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and CIB satisfactory to the Bank/Association;
(c) appointment of a CIB Vice President;
r                 (d)  appointment by CIB of a full-time qualified and experienced
senior economic advisor;
(e) conclusion of a contract satisfactory to the Bank/Association
for provision of engineering services to CIB;
(f) issuance by CIB of Lending Regulations satisfactory to the
Bank/Association; and



- 26 -
(g) issuance by CIB to its branches of a project appraisal manual
together with instructions for its experimental use, both
satisfactory to the Bank/Association.
95.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, respectively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
96.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 29, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLES REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                            REFRRENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LANM AREA (THOUSAND SQ. E.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           9561.0                                         MOST RECENT    115 INCOME           MIDDLE INC0M-
AGRICULTURAL    3184.0                 1960  /b   1970 /b    ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US9)                       ..            ..          290.0            261.4                 890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS O  COAL EQUIVALENT)        559.9         434.9         733.6/c          448.7                 701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MlD-YEAA (THOUSANDS)   672865.0      815253.0      976735.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      ..          12.0          13.2             17.3                  32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             1245.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               1570.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                          2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          70.4          85.3         100.9            158.1                 255.9
PER SQ. I0. AGRICULTURAL LAND       211.8         253.7         302.9            355.9                1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                              ..            ..          32.3             36.8                  39.9
15-64 YRS.                              ..            ..          63.7             59.7                  56.8
65 YRS. AND ABovE                       ..            ..           4.0              3.5                   3.3
POPULATION GRLOM RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.0           1.9           1.8/d            2.0                   2.3
URBAN                                  ..            ..           2.8              3.3                   3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        40.1/1        39.6/j        21.1/            29.3                  31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        13.6           9.6Z          7.87            11.0                   9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATZ                  ..            ..           1.4              2.0                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNInfC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF 4ARRIED WOMEN)       ..            ..            ..             19.3                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               ..         100.0         117.0            108.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      86.0/e          *-         103.0             97.3                 106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAy)             58.07           ..          62.6             56.9                  54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..            ..          26.0             20.0                  13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..            ..           4.5/h           10.9                   6.7
HEALTH
MM  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          ..            ..          64.0/h           57.8                  59.8
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..            ..          56.0/h           89.1                  63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..            ..            ..             32.9                  32.0
URBAN                                  *. *           **                          70.7                  51.9
RURAL                                  ..            ..            ..             22.2                  20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..            ..            ..             18.1                  37.7
URBAN                                  ..            ..            ..             72.7                  65.7
RURAL                                  ..            ..            ..              4.7                  24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3009.8/o i    1709.1/i      1096.2/1         3297.8                8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2847.1/e.f    538.8/f        483.2/f        14929.3                4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2142.5/e       737.8         492.8           1100.4                1047.5
URBAN I.                                             ..         172.1            301.3                 651.6
RURAL                                  ..            ..         702.3           5815.7                2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..            ..            ..               ..                  27.0
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..            ..
URBAN                                  ..            ..
RURAL                                  ..            ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..            ..
URBAN                                  ..            ..
RURAL                                  ..            ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                  ..            ..
URBAN
RURAL



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGTED AlEj ES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOHE          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    102.0          103.0         118.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                        ..             ..         111.0/k           101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                     ..             ..          114. 7iT           87.8                  92.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                        ..             ..          79.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                        ..             ..          92.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     ..             ..           65.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)         ..             ..           2.4               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  ....27.0                                     37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                                ..             ..          19.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)              ..             ..          66.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..             ..            ..               1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..             ..            ..              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..             ..            ..               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                        ..             ..            ..              16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        ..             ..            ..               3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        234602.4/e.  339960.5ja    403163.1/.
FEMALE (PERCENT)                         ..             ..            ..              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                    ..             ..          71.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       ..             ..          17.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    37.0/e         41.7          41.8              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                       ..             ..             ..             51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                     ..             ..            ..              23.8                   26.6
ECONOltIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   ..             ..           0.9               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCKIE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..             ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..             ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..             ..            ..             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                    ..             ..            ..             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..             ..            ..                ..                 178.2
RURAL                                    ..             ..            ..                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..            ..             ..             43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                    ..             ..            ..             51.7                   41.1
Not available.
Not applicable. 
NOTES
*    All data exclude Taiwan  Chloa.
/a   The group averages or each indicator are population-wighted arittnetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervie  noted, data for 1960 refar to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Nost Recent Estimte, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Couatry estimate is 644 kilogram of coal equivalent.
7i  Latest estslate of annual growth of population is 1.2S.
/e   1957; /f Including barefoot doctors; /j Bank crude birth and death rate estiates for 1979 vere higher
than th  official data. The official rates have been adjusted accordingly; /h Bank dmographic anlyses
utilize a higher estimate of the crude mortality rate than the 6.2 that is officially given. The values
of infant and child mortality shown here, based on the Bsnks analyses, are thus higher than use of the
official figures would indicate; and the estimate here of life expectancy is lower than the official
figure of 68.2 years; /i Excluding traditional mdical doctors.
/j   Including military personnal and those siting permanent jobs, most of whom are in teporary jobs; /k 1977.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
OtFO9ITTO55S OF SOCIAL :MOECATOIS
Noe.Although tha decent1 drone fro  source I. getereLy )udend th    et oothorctotit. tad relanbie, It enoulO  a.o  be notd i                     hey stY  bo.t  ite--
thls,...f.1 to describe uIds-  of -ngsltae, Indicet. trend.. ord cherate Ire. cetoos -o  dflferce    ttonottc
oftesejr  foustry  exce thfo    'Igh 1 locos   Oil1 in.rer   so pIenersNoole  oie  tortS dice Io  idl c. h odt'-., o-e  trut  of-                             toy
eetoo-oitura  etftactae). St th  reference  hro,pSoa  .tienrgear  pooatoohgrs   rct.o    en Ifo taot. d.::dtc,o  on   non  oloe
edis  r   nos   eca   osh   arle    trlca e_   egtaf Ion  trecceco  to ethter   Thes  ee. eeor  ot-                                  ueult  coprngteoeit of
To-l - To teL eortsce area  -oriebg lead treeA  ed   asters; 1979 ant.                              ,tn    Orrl  ulobden hy tftel  -epetcenota    fh SoeIta  beds
Allr.1oatrtl -E tei-te  of oroltaa   rso ased  nearrlyo  yerestly                                   _nolhi L t pebLit end prli-te   eeo.          nhpcebodSelt   t   e
feror Pe.pttrenrtet eta kitchet gerMan  on to tie  toIlet; 1979 doce.                            tetltroetones.dertl erI'lll.inn   perastotlstf1fo
org Ff2 CAPITA SUbS) - CNP yen tapite eaiceea    reterker p,ines. tel-                                dia  l.tre ore not  ;oldrd.  frel. hoepitela..nene.lolde  Xr.t
tuloted by sea   --onerIo  senioe .s Werd Seek Anise 51978-O beuie); 1960,                         on  edilcotr  no-erroltofrdiveroat.Satb
1970, 05d 1990 den.eetioeeeb,nreto if.cc.   anth offnr taynttt-                                                                                                               O
dettor oad prov Ide, Iicaceorage of -dit   Sonfiitoe.   Pox eteti
tfIlt  CgO9UflOg Pi CAPITA - ooaea   caettof o-arcia   tangy  ScoelP.".e                                           . pupeeoh_ hoaplfel  tooLoosA00  rcoidpolltaereI  heree
end ligelte        Idraee,  tiraI gee end hydrr-. oacte  an  gea&t Lre'istr                        an  1ua  ho-pitl.1  boot or tud-          oe1  tl  an-dical ea  eatrity
tr itin) La lilagres  of .ot..a1       een   peroPte.        90  :970,  -eo 1979                   Senre        PscbIld L:    ueopicalt ar.  root  oly  nder toal.
date.                                                                                            ad.lson ..per doerota1 Ood - Total otfrf  dseca   tb or ditecnerge
fot. h...piteie divided by rhe nonde of Stdo.
POPOlAlOg09WVOTL TATISTOCO
Totol Ponlatlat.  id-ve   toaodf-ao   oy                1960. 1970,. od 1990              btSING
Ones Pora1axiot Inreaof noel -. tettoI  of odin  ta tacol ropolencue;                              A !hoos-old conoes  f aStopo   oitocaaoscr  lO~qetr
dlfre "eititn    ofug.ers   e  efec  t-eanbiliny of doood theor sofa ee.i.  b ba-d-er 0   odger tey or esy ot he iorltoded La
e..goae    ....;190  197,  ad lt   don.                                                 lb. nounhld for  eelcctpurp-es.
Pnr,alaios Profe-boa                                                                             Ayr-gf oote   of               d.rson   rorobcual   rga se rura   - enxn5e  ba.
rorlegne  o  eer000  -Correec  epode.tio  projeotoa   cc. he-d en190                       ero  yro.,      Fa  cone i.o" all uphe      d  .vA rur l o pied vnetoa
tane 0   oploni byh ea   a    tsd  nhebn sreiy end fertility rents                              dreelgs  repectively.          elog  xccloddo   o-aax            etcae    add
Pr3n xpePeate " for _n_aliy  rae              L-strs  of tineI.-I.l  ets                  tnrptdrrs
tog life  aptnecyetirth itoesta  nitZ                o ty      , e  capita incoe            orrreo  iEltrnir it, pecnofd-xlllnte)    to l,cohe   cede rura
lenel, tad rsale lIfe naectesoy etoililta   at. 77.5 years.  The Para-              Co-nxociol deailog   im    lcpclyt   ltg  unaatepret
Inne. for fertility ret. et.o hens thres leI.-I.         aa   declie  . t                    of tanel. onto  on -rre  daatlicntrep-one-           y
fertifly   _coding ta Itoo        leel and poet fondly plaeta   prnrate
E.too  oary le the. esogsd ot   f theed          tecoioa            of  Entlly            0U07CATC
e.d fertility  treado  n  praj tnbo   Lapes                                                   dacd ooitttto
Statioery pnaletio   - Ine rnattsery   opele lenb.. is .  gre-h stoos                 Pneor school - catet eels and0 eselo - Groas toal  el  end fatl.
nh    Ith oar. i         toeln   he deen   rae.en  obo the egSeyoa  re-                        ennlstof oll  ges at the PoIaI -            rol-    prnn-1e  of raepa-tin
_ite ooe_n_s.  This is oohie-d nely after flSiUty  rate  decline Ic                              prlsry shal-egppaataa;  orsily Llclode olhldfree  sed A-li
the replooses  leve  of am. Itn rnnrdaonlos rat..es  sn              lgetna                      Y-ar  hot edjoened for diffa..... tananbe of pniser  edaceola; for
of tat  epbaseItslf   -teanl.  The.ealxt  popalno.         l    senata   his                                 -i,alnrsol edoction tarle          t  tootd 100pserot
ssnnes  o  th  betofa the prnjecntd  oeetroisof nbs parlaa                                  ic   ooparsoehlno   bv  ttofut   aole
It the year 2000. esd the rate af decibe  of C senilty rota to replac-.endrytho  - tonal. ale end feale  - coo9ated a  shov; astadacy
ant lena.                                                                                        sanitoqirsa on i_t fact Yaers of cryro_n   prturyi" nenia
Tter -tenosr   --nl-it its   rtobed - The ys.. ebs  eetie-ery ropolettut                           prvdstsrl   notoc.o   eahrtana   fonatuotle    for prila
siss  ill he reePe.                                                                              usallyof   I to 17 Ye..   of oe                        I=reoadta  ort  era greraly
pnvatetion Seneity                                                                                     claded.
Per eq. ha. -Kid-Yeer perltieto  per pecans klle.sn     (119  h..gnes) of                      V'o-atbcal eco-lstSntar o  ectodar) - Voceti-sa  faetitatla
total ap.; 1960, 170 etA  1979 data.                                                           taciade tetato,fdotriel. or other prngrra boSh ape..ats indept-
Per e. he.eeniolccoa lead-      ..oeAt  as abon  ftc agranlncoal todi                     _,ny or eedear Ist  of  -ccdary itoet.itotn.
ocly; 1960. 1900 esd 1979 dona.                                     ~~Ppil-tx...hsr trino -       -"or. and sstodoa - T-teI tto Saute eollad in
Pentist1ot Ass tnr t.tao  Spartn)   Childr.-  SO-it Ypeers). neplting-g   115-                     pinr-7 end seondary  I.-I. dinided hr  oifr   f ceahne to rho
hA yeas)  ate  etird 56  yuan  ss  enr) so pe- -aagS  of 10-,ear papa-cot                                 adn lvl.
loion; 160 970, et 9in0 dat.-                                                                  Odcl Ltocyrn  Ste...enf - Lit...ste  edolt  (able to mad no e-itt)
?Pora-tbo tGen gate (Peroat) - ttal-ceA"si grax  cant  of totel sod-                               errc nssof Itota  adul  rpusio  s                       15 year. r ad ovr.
yapr popnulaia  for15-0   907 ad 1970-on.
Gatero   ranh tens  _neron- Lonbe.   A-Id a  gresh ronee of arba  papa-                 C99gStOTIOr
1latlots for 1950460,160 w0 atd 19 70-op                                                       P"2etne CaeSaI rosaPontcal                      - Feeeea  care coeri- ao
Trade Birth Ren  Spe abthesed) - e--tL flve hillhe Pxr nhaaad at nOd-yer                           ocr  setoglest then ethic pPdrooa  .. tocldeeedn no    hoorsaco
PoPaLettoto  1960. 1970. and 1990 dane.                                                          sttcyceols
Croos teeth sate Sner ehocoe        - oAete.l de-ths Per theasetd  of en-ertdiot.Iier  ee ooo   d ooyaLtlot                                  ) - All type of recira for radio
pnpcletaon; 1960. 1970 a  1990 done.                                                             hrnad...stet.gee i publi  prth-otesd ofpoaoaoecudet-
Irs  ernato  as -Avrage .,.er at dengbnte. a                         all beer in                  Iie ee..dL.onnrsI   -otios and in yers ofs  reI.Strina of n.dI.
herSete  neroatn   period 9f she.ae-tt    p-eee   eg-tp-iflo  tsp-                                 ta  -e to offtent; dots top r-es  years ty  ott he coeroobl  emit
tcllny rota; aoolip fiv-yeer  -nnSdd ending to 1960. 1970. end 1990.                             met c_otriteeholihit   Ic sint.S
Fesily Planing - docooare.l datoo   Scetea.de) - dnetea  etfer of  -ccptors                      TV teceLoEe Step  thoo-sd popatattor) - TV  -eci-n   for broodros  ta
of hlrti-toanp     danita aedec  -.pio.e at atiosat. f..ily pleaxltg prae..-                     osare  puoop   tbo"  -dpopa.lonto; ...uda I.            t Ioe.s TV re.eivre
Folrplnter -OrsSprcn  O erid  nof     Prsega  a  ariditnon ris   a   n   ar  oenretnrtio  f  V  ae nSn  tfrt 
F.so   hl-hebgee(5-   yes   b  cehrbotr-idacea                                                  neees  ioootolZ    hona  ooata         hv   heeegacc
isenceetopyer  ese.fendtiscet  nier  get  S.g  egane.                   Pn  antis . utite.        i ilto
te   t    de)    grgeepaego    fsebcotyi   eso                                        totS S'Oet          iftt-p... 
atao    nF-e   rred   cprc  wegt;  Ol        fS 90  sad199 d.eo. --                       otet       _Io oo   ieendf-Oot cl aY in                       thran. including
Per caita sorly o celotos Ipro dt  t res  l Less tef - WC  -etd foe-rsfre   ndotpon   u  ooc.odloj  .o.a.ee eto dt ste.  a.1,-
Idary oeqinsle.  fof  e  fodisoping evet;"labeI   oeo   e   eln                              aetgpplra   f  det. Ototoeinnroeco                                         r
per ifey   A v- la . s Pro --p p rise ca er s  domeht to  pra nt9 ox.   - 4   orn0   dlten       atl   t op r ei e  I 0 0  1970-   ar)   190 deco.-i "
viny a    helt            Laelstn   eerne             idrnae  bafy nigts  ager                  londaryo IPencetl    toot o      ne1  It efilaita. coaIrurIo.   caOcra
horoehad.  ja.1   1961I  5  190  s   97 deta.                                                      1960d. ~-1..o .   1970 ... od 1960170I1980 dece.
Per tenit  sadl atrnIn  ea eIe)-Peeto.eno   e  c.pinFPe-Ic.na (pr.ir -nentet)b- nnl fshe.  a     tas-Prii                                                                  no
o-titats  fa   aLl fontid   ..teLlShe  by 0506  yaIdsbfo  Rildoir                               Peteneeeo  tne.          tat   od  xal   otoef       o  fe I_aer          et
alovss.o  MO gratf of tAOno pb nei-  pen dey en..d 00gd  fof - tisl ed16.17,ed19   oe                                            hs   p b ees  un60 1970's  .nopd W'rents
pales_ prni.  o   ho   0  raheldh                  a   p     bodyto   Thes  too-                 nletnggs-e   Lcoor  of-  ott popalan.o.. cad tbagI  -iantad. A
arde e-  tosrss  thee chatof 1  statl of1 a11-el panin endr I 2ors  of.                         fe  tsttstter cre f9.rat       dg. onboelsorrs.-IS    fIt1l-
r                                 Panid tro~~~~~-bd Io.-I; 1961-65, 1970  seA i977 dote.                                           notecoc           yaooSrc
tsr celto rotei eapr     s tro ent lyedrala  Prassin. eapply of  tro  de-l.-PIflptido
rIve f:il   caba. a   raee  in.  gra   Ie e;_   1I1f, 90  ad  97  dt.                         tiegltTttSf_f
Chil Sega i-A   Death tat Str tes         d   -       ioea   dfaths pe.heedI.eraeeo   ron tacoseSooth  0 coebI00 md   - ttrnivtd  by Frtnse
ag  gOw1=     yre   t  cfidre-  In this bge USnA; P-id  foen deeoingcot                           parcent,.  ofcee  00prcn.  roocero  S  pacof. cdrore   0  xo
trt   en   otvdfe   it .. taI e  1960..   19. d79eA10dt,                                  of6 b 9ooIdhoids.
tOALTS           r=h'ovol id.Th.TAgd OfTd igof1yt 
irfe _oenac atI lth"  Speof    S-rrg  nofler ofl yxero t     of life 2   eabeins               Th folaig   ecc  are ospy ..             rotsttasursof...ry..n
at hirn; 1960. 197%t    19,05  ea                                                          55   hol   elotpendacSutbd                      ocuto
ofiged eni haer    t  lice births;  1960,651970Msad                      1977 dens.             0601r DI    orI erTy  ar   ee   ethnccalniab    totean
Motes no  etsdetr Seoeto,           ptlain - tonsl, urbe., and rural.  -d                        P ..- natrit.orIty   adeoute dit piu   tr dccol  orSod)  nqulentc  to tot
he tfpopl    tn, ahe,en   url  ain  Rreaaea_hide                      1W ecceescotefe         aff20r40bPe
Leill  toge  athIr lreepeYtti..   ppti ote.Snaur-                efrteepahli.   ilit           TMrsaoitI00rf  h                -onry. Ih    te   sdrcdOe   h   at
funcd  o  eadpetlceeda   ae  ha  00sees  cs    ie. ayh                 lax   tc  ab ete  for               P'ha  .venv..l. tt  lvoreoat
cosierdaobengtthn  eaoebe  ccs  o  tenhos. n9ualcrs                                    rottated Popaetbo -Seori Ofeiteh aoo  nootnlSnco     ta
penenneats of their crepectoos -popat thins   tocrbl d ci..aee o ar  facfludsl.
oateiatr .tore..e  I.r... - Popaoion iti-   by nrebfr  of . 7 bJ-                                       -t     j.-I   -h4.           prealej- Ma  1992o
ale  sadlfeats gredtae psyarsh.rcebth n  tortes, preacical ofrsa. etA                            .         -1~-_~d    II                                       h
onte atitartee..                         -o       t."          I    -tl,   h              po"



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                       2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    2.7    5.7
Light industry                    8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1
Heavy industry                   11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2       4.8      12.4    7.0    6.9    3.0
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Prices
Retail price index (1970=100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4
NMP deflator         (1970=100)  90.7   100.0    99.6   100.4    105.1   106.5   109.6
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.83    1.66         1.54    1.50    1.71
Amount
1981                   Shares of GDP (%)              Average Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              ($ billion)   1957    1979    1981    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
/a        /a       /a
GDP                            263.2       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8           5.8       4.9        4.1       4.2
Agriculture                   91.4          ..    31.4    34.7    33.3    31.4    1.6           3.2       4.2        3.0      3.0
Industry                    115.5           ..    43.7    43.9    44.9    46.6   12.1           8.9       7.7       4.6       5.0
Other                        56.3           ..    25.0    21.4    21.8    22.0    3.5           4.3      -3.1       4.5       4.5
Consumption                    185.0        76.4    69.8    70.3    73.8    76.2    2.7            5.4       5.0       5.3       4.9
Investment                      76.5        23.2    31.1    29.1    27.5    25.0    9.8            6.8       2.1       2.6       2.3
Exports GNFS                    24.4         3.7/b   6.0/b   9.2        8.5    10.0    1.6/b    8.0/b   23.1           1.7       7.8
Imports GNFS                    22.7         3.5Th   7.0/b   8.6        9.8    11.2    2.3/b    9.47Tf    9.3          7.3       7.1
National savings                78.5        23.6/c  31.5    29.8    26.3    24.3          ..       ...       3.9       0.9       2.6
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                    1957          1979           1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign            28.7           27.3          21.J
borrowing)
Current expenditures                           15.1           17.0           15.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                    +13.6         +10.3           +6.1
Capital expenditures                           13.7           15.6           8.5
Foreign borrowing                               0.7            0.9           1.8
Other Indicators                               1957-79   1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
GDP growth rate (%)                            5.4/d      4.9/d       4.1        4.2
GDP per capita growth rate (%)                 3.5/d       3.6/d      2.8        3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)             8.3          ..
ICOR                                           5.4          ..        6.3        6.2
Marginal savings rate                          0.42                 0.17       0.17
Import elasticity                              0.95      1.90        1.78       1.69
/a  NMP basis.
/b  Goods only.
/c  GUS.
/d  Based on the official real NMP index (as are all figures for past NMP and GDP growth in this data sheet).  At Indian
prices, GNP is estimated to have grown at 4.6% and GNP per capita at 2.7% during 1957-79.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                  Annual Growthl Rates (%)
(million US$ at                             (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                      current prices)                  Actual                              Projected
1981             1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports                22,027           10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9   -3.9   -0.8          1.7    6.9    7.7
Energy                            5,054             ..      ..      ..      ..  -45.2  -51.4  -86.7 -100.0    0
Other primary                     5,306             ..      ..      ..      ..    6.5      1.6    4.0    4.0    5.0
Manufactares                     10,533             ..      ..      ..      ..    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.0
Other                             1,134             ..      ..      ..      ..    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0         5.0
Merchandise imports                20,292           32.6   21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.2   15.1          4.3    4.2      7.9
Food                              5,340             ..      ..      ..      ..    3.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
PetroleuLm                            0             ..      ..      ..      ..    0       0       0       -/a  107.6
Machinery and equipment           5,317             ..      ..      ..      ..    7.8    9.9    4.0    4.0    4.0
Other                             9,635             ..      ..      ..      ..    3.3   22.5    4.1        4.1     4.1
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)           ..         100.0  113.3  131.3  134.9  137.6  146.7  158.7  171.7  185.5
Import price index (1978=100)          ..          100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  149.4  158.8  170.4  182.6  195.1
Terms of trade index (1978=100)         ..         100.0   95.2   94.3   92.7   92.1   92.4   93.1   94.0   95.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                  Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                              (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
Exports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            1.6       8.0      19.4       0.9        7.8
Energy                       13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9    0           0         ..         ..        ..       -/a       0
Other primary                39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   27.5   26.9            ..         ..        ..       4.0       5.0
Manufactures                 46.5   46.4   46.5   47.8   66.5   68.0             ..        ..        ..       9.7       9.0
Other                         0       0       0       5.2    6.0    5.1         ..         ..        ..       5.0       5.0
Imports                       100.0  1(0.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           2.3        9.4       9.9       7.6       7.4
Food                            ..     ..      ..   26.3   23.7   24.8          ..         ..        ..       5.0       5.0
Petroleum                     0       (       0       0       2.9   10.7        ..       0          0         -/a      46.0
Machinery and equipment    17.5   25.2   27.5   26.2   24.3   21.3               ..        ..        ..       6.4       4.0
Other                           ..     ..      ..   47.5   49.0   43.2          ..         ..        ..       9.9       4.1
Share of Trade Withi
Share of Trade With           Share of Trade With               Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (%)   Developing Countries (%)                Planned Economies (%) /b
Direction of Trade              1978             1981         1978             1981                1978             1981
Exports                      37.3             45.9          51.6             50.2               11.1               3.9
Imports                      73.3             76.8          17.5             18.7                9.2               4.5
/a  Petroleum imports in 1985 are projected to total US$961 million in 1981 constant prices.
r        /b  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population:  977 mil1{n,x (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US529U (1980)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                     ProJected
.-ndicator                         1978    1979    1980    1981       1982    1985    1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services        10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   24,663  33,700  71,451
of whlch: Merchandise f.o.b.        9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   21,585  29,037  70,166
Imports of goods and services        11,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   24,928  38,848  75D509
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.       10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   21,513  34,126  65,799
Net transfers                           597      656     640      467       617     767   1,017
Current account balance                -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996        3 52  -4,381  -4,327
Private direct investment                 -        -      57      265      315      465     715
MLT loans (net)                        -830      822   1,756      769    1,278   Z,773   5,536
U:iicial                               ..       .       .               ,198   J,231   j,546
Private                                ..       ..       .              --920    -458     -10
Ut'her capital                          822   1,362   1,082    -787          U   1,143    -572
Change in net reserves (-"
increase)                             708    -609    -490  -2,243   -1,945          0   1,353
International reserves                6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   12,041  12,041  18,164
of which:  gold                        .        .   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120
Reserves as moaths imports              6.3      4.7     3.7      5.1      5.8      3.7     209
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                      ..
Concessional loans                     ..
DAC
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits              ..       ..
IBRD /c
Other multilateral                   ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         ..       ..   5,441   5,696
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                       ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest
Payments as % exports GNFS             ..       ..     5.0      7,8
Average interest rate on new
loans (%)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)



ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS LN THE PEOPLEJS REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                 $ million
Credit                                                    Amount -----
Number     Year      Borrower         Purpose    IBRD   IDA    Undisbursed
2021        1981  People's Republic  Univ.        100.0  100.0      199.7
1167                of China           Develop-
ment
1261/a     1982  People's Republic  Agricul.              60.0       60.0
of China          Develop-
ment
Total                                             100    160        259.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    100.0  160.0
Total Undisbursed                                 100.0  159.7      259.7
/a  Became effective October 7, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 2021        University Development Project Z$100 million loan
Credit No.1167       and $100 million credit of November 4, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Good progress has been made in project implementation; bid evaluation and
recommended awards for about $45 million in equipment have been approved by
the Bank. Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about $300,000)
have been made and a major contract for about $5 million in expert services is
awaiting final signature.
Credit No. 1261      North China Plain Agriculture Project $60 million credit
of June 23, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Project civil works began immediately after credit signature and are well
underway; the first supervision mission is in the field.



ANNEX [LI
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 9 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project: PCBC and CIB, with Bank
assistance.
(c) First presentation to the Bank/Association: July 1981
(d) First Bank mission to identify the project: July 1981
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission: March 25, 1982
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: November 1, 1982
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project will need intensive supervision to achieve its full objec-
tives. The first supervision mission is scheduled for February 1983,
just before the expected time of effectiveness.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)  Issuance of project appraisal manual (para. 71).
(ii)  Appointment of a CIB Vice President (para. 73).
(iii) Hiring of a senior economic advisor (para, 74).
(iv)  Conclusion of contract for engineering services to
CIB (para. 74).
(v)  Issuance of Lending Regulations (para. 78).
(b) Other
(i) Issuance of CIB project supervision instructions (para. 78).
(ii) CIB onlending rate to be at least 8% p.a. (para. 79).
(iii) Review of CIB lending rates (para. 79).
(iv) CIB subborrowers to be allowed to obtain foreign exchange for
subloan repayment (para. 80).



