Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4009-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANS
November 23, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Official Rate
1 Yuan (Y)  =   US$0.50
2.00 Yuan (Y)  =   US$1.00
(as of November 1, 1982)
Internal Settlement Rate
1 Yuan (Y)  =   US$0.36
2.8 Yuan (Y)  =   US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC   - Agricultural Bank of China
BOC   - Bank of China
CCAFM - China Consultants of Accounting and Financial Management
CIB   - China Investment Bank
CIECC - China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
CITIC - China International Trust and Investment Corporation
CNTIC - China National Technical Import Corporation
DFC   - Development Finance Company
GAFX  - General Administration for Foreign Exchange
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
GOC   - Government of China
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
MFERT - Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
MOF   - Ministry of Finance
NMP   - Net Material Product
PBC   - People's Bank of China
PCBC  - People's Construction Bank of China
PICC  - People's Insurance Company of China
SDR   - Special Drawing Right
SEC   - State Economic Commission
SPC   - State Planning Commission
UNDP  - Un:Lted Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THEINDUSTRIALSECTOR .1................ . . .
Characteristics .1
Performance: Growth and Satructural hnge.                                2
Organization.                                                            3
ProductionPlanning.                                                      4
Investment Project Planning.5
Pricing System.                                                          6
Problems.                                                                6
Recent Policy Changes.7
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.                                                       8
Objectives.                                                              8
Institutional Framework.8
Industrial Finance .11
Financial Statistics .14
TII.  OBJECTIVES OF THE CHINA INVESTMENT BANK AND PROJECT .15
General .15
Technology Transfer .15
Improved Project Appraisal Methodology .16
IV. THE CHINA INVESTMENT BANK (CIB).18
Establishment and Autonomy .18
Management, Organization, Staffing and Training .18
Operating Policies and Strategies .20
Procedures .21
Lending Policies .22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in
April 1982. Mission members were Stephen Ettinger (Mission Leader), Edgar Su,
Helen Chan, Gene Tidrick, Adrian Wood, Josephine Woo, Shinji Ichishima
(World Bank), Geoffrey Hilton (IFC) and Robert Gober (Consultant).
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Subproject Pipeline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Resources, Financial Structure and Projections. . . . . . .  23
Accounts, Audit, Management Information and
Reporting Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
V.  THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Amount and Maturity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Onlending Terms.. .............  25
Preparation Subloans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
CIB Technical Assistance and Training Component . . . . . .  26
Maximum Subloan Size and Free Limit . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Environmental Safeguards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Benefits  and  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . .  29
ANNEXES
1.  Policy Statement of the China Investment Bank
2.  Development Strategy Statement for 1982-84 of the China
Investment Bank
3. CIB Five-Year Financial and Operational Projections
4.  Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan/Credit
5.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHART
Organization of China Investment Bank
MAP
IBRD 16488 - China Industrial Credit Project



C-li TA
INDUSTRIAL CRED)IT PROJECT (CHLNA INVESTMENT BANK)
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR /1
Characteristics
1.01      China employs more people in industry /2 than does any other
country. In 1980, China's industrial employment was 56 million, or about
66 million including brigade industries, many of whose workers are part-
time. (Industrial employment in the USA, Canada, and Western Europe combined
was about 60 million in 1976.) China is also one of the world's ten leading
countries in total industrial production. In 1979, China produced the
largest volume of cotton yarn and fabric, ranked third in cement and coal,
fifth in steel and seventh in electric power. But manufacturing output per
capita is only about 25% of the average for all middle-income countries and
about 4% of the average for industrialized market economies.
1.02      Within China, industry is especially important in production,
employment, and revenue generation. Industry's share of Net Material Product
(NMP) rose from 28% in 1957 to 47% in 1980, as industry accounted for
two-thirds of the increase in real NMP. Manufacturing alone accounts for
about 35% of GDP, compared to only 13% for all low-income countries, 25% for
middle-income countries, and 27% for industrialized market economies.
Manufacturing's share of China's GDP now exceeds that of agriculture.
Manufacturing has a much smaller share (13%) of total employment, but it has
absorbed more new entrants to the labor force since 1957 than agriculture.
Finally, industrial profits and taxes contributed nearly two-thirds of state
budget revenue/3 in recent years and were equivalent to about the same share
of total investment. About half of this revenue was reinvested in industry.
/1 For details see the IBRD Economic Report, "China: Socialist Economic
Development" (No. 3391-CHA, dated June 1, 1981), especially "Annex D:
Challenges and Achievements in Industry."
/2 In Chinese statistics, "industry" includes manufacturing, electric
power, mining, logging, and services provided to workers within
industrial enterprises. Manufacturing comprises about 80% of net output
and 90% of gross output in industry.
/3 But the large revenue from industry gives little indication of the
ultimate source of industrial taxes or profits (see para. 1.16).



-2-
1.03      Manufactured exports were only 3.4% of gross industrial output in
1981, but accounted for half of total merchandise exports (reflecting the
small share of exports in China's total production). Textiles were 17% of
total exports, other light industrial products 15%, and heavy industrial
goods 18%. Industrial exports have grown by about 20% p.a. (in real terms)
over the past four years, and prospects for continued growth appear good.
Local retention of a share of foreign exchange earnings (para. 1.23) is a
main export incentive.
1.04       Industry has traditionally been concentrated in the coastal areas.
The relative importance of these areas has declined due to the great effort
made to disperse -industry. However, Shanghai alone still produces 13% of
China's industrial output with only 1.2% of the population, and the three
municipalities and seven provinces along the east coast produce 59% of total
output with 37% of the population.
1.05      One other well-known feature of Chinese industry is the large
number of small-scale rural factories producing for local markets. These
are most notable in cement, agricultural implements, nitrogenous fertilizer,
iron and steel, and paper, in which plants of widely varying scale coexist
and produce for different markets. These were established on the principle
of "walking on two legs" (large-scale and small-scale industry) designed to
save on transport costs and capital, and to reduce the urban-rural income gap.
Some small-scale Eactories have recently been criticized as inefficient and
competing for energy and raw materials with more efficient large-scale plants.
Performance: Growth and Structural Change
1.06      China has had one of the highest and most sustained industrial
growth rates in the world, though it has fallen gradually in recent years.
Gross industrial output grew at 18% p.a. during 1952-57 and at 10% p.a.
between 1957 and 1980. This growth has been fueled by very high rates of
capital accumulation, including the mobilization of underutilized rural
resources for industry, and the ability of the planning system to channel
resources into high priority investment, and was supported by a highly
diversified machine building sector. But there have been periodic setbacks,
followed by recovery, due to the disruptions of the Great Leap Forward
(1958-60), withdrawal of Soviet assistance (1960), and Cultural Revolution
(1966-76). The effects of this last disruption on industrial management and
technology are still being felt. The growth rate of industry fell to 4% in
1981, as many heavy industrial factories were retooled to produce goods more
in demand, as part of the economic restructuring (para. 1.22).
1.07       Industrial growth has been achieved at considerable resource cost.
During 1953-57 capital per uinit of output remained constant, while labor
productivity increased at more than 15% p.a. But during 1957-79 capital
intensity increased by 3% p.a. and labor productivity growth slowed to 3%
p.a., so that total factor productivity remained approximately constant.
China's industrial growth was therefore due entirely to increased inputs,
while its efficiency of input use stagnated at a low level.



-3-
1.08      One reason for growing capital intensity has been the priority given
to heavy industry, whose gross output increased by 10.8% p.a. from 1957-79,
while light industry's increased by 8.3% p.a.  As a result, China's industrial
structure is more heavily weighted toward heavy industry than are those of
other developing countries. But since 1979 there has been a dramatic reversal
of emphasis between light and heavy industry (Table 1.1), as China sought to
satisfy growing consumer demand.
Table 1.1: INDUSTRIAL GROWTH: PERCENT CHANGE
PER YEAR IN GROSS OUTPUT
Heavy       Light       Total
industry industry
1970-78 (average)  10.1           8.2         9.3
1979                  7.7         9.6         8.5
1980                  1.4        18.4         8.7
1981                -4.7         14.1         4.0
1982 (projected)      1           7           4
Source: State Statistical Bureau and Official
Statements.
Organization
1.09      Chinese industrial organization is characterized by socialized
ownership, planned production, geographically decentralized control and poor
horizontal communications. These interact to create a highly complex system.
Industrial enterprises are owned either by the state or by urban or rural
(commune-owned) collectives. State enterprises comprise fewer than 25% of
China's 355,000 industrial enterprises, but account for over 80% of net
output, compared to 11.7% from urban and 6.5% from rural collectives./l
State enterprises are on average much more capital-intensive than collectives,
having over 90% of fixed assets but less than 60% of total employment.
/1 There are also an estimated 580,000 industrial enterprises in production
brigades (below the commune level) which are excluded from the statis-
tics cited in the text. Many of these are only part-time operations and
their contribution to total production is very small.



1.10      All state and collective industrial enterprises come under one of
eleven central government ministries primarily concerned with manufacturing
(e.g., Ministries of Chemicals, of Metallurgy, of Textiles, of Light
Industries, etc.). A few key state enterprises are under direct national
control, but most are supervised by the ministries' provincial- /1 or county-
level bureaus. In the past three years, many enterprises have been grouped
into corporations, an intermediate layer below the bureau. Provincial
bureaus look to their central ministry for their production plans, to the
provincial government for their labor and utility requirements, and to both
for their financial and raw material allocations and investment approval.
1.11      Above the ministries are commissions which coordinate inter-
ministerial activities. The most important are the State Planning Commission
(SPC), which draws up production plans and approves major investment pro-
jects, and the State Economic Commission (SEC)/2, which oversees implemen-
tation of the annual plan and of policy directives of the State Council.
These commissions are also duplicated at the provincial level.
Production Planning
1.12      Because of disruptions and policy reversals, there has been almost
no medium- or long-term planning since the First Five Year Plan ended in
1957, although a Sixth Five Year Plan (1981-85) has now been prepared. The
primary instrument of economic coordination is the annual plan, which covers
production of key commodities. The planning process is iterative, with
proposals flowing up and down between enterprises at the bottom and the SPC
at the top. The SPC matches supply and demand for key commodities and
prepares final aggregate production targets for elaboration at lower levels
of administration. Less important goods are controlled by provincial plans
or local purchase agreements. The annual plan is integrated with a consoli-
dated budget and a credit plan so that taxes, profit remissions, budgetary
allocations and bank lending are consistent with overall macroeconomic
balance and with physical production flows. But the availability and
dissemination of relevant statistics to lower levels are often insufficient
for effective detailed planning.
/1  Three municipalities (Beijing, Shanghai, and Tianjin) are administra-
tively equivalent to provinces, as are five autonomous regions
(Xinjiang, Tibet, Guangxi, Ningxia and Inner Mongolia).
/2  The SEC was greatly expanded in early 1982 when the Agriculture, Machine
Building, Capital Construction and Energy Commissions, and part of the
Science and Technology Commission, were absorbed into it.



-5-
1.13      The plan which comes down to the enterprise typically contains
targets for physical production (historically the most important targets),
output value, profit, materials and energy use, employment, production
cost and working capital. Frequently both the market outlets and input
sources are specified. With mostly quantitative targets, fixed prices
(para. 1.16), assured markets and relatively little contact with users,
enterprises have lacked incentive to improve product quality.
Investment Project Planning
1.14      The level of approval for an investment project depends on its
size, its location (some provinces have more autonomy) and whether import
of technology is involved. Provincial Planning Commissions can normally
approve projects up to Y 10 million. Beijing, Tianjin, and Shanghai
municipalities and Liaoning province can approve foreign exchange payments
of up to $5 million, and several other coastal provinces of up to $3 mil-
lion. Large-scale projects must be approved by the SPC, and those involving
foreign licensing agreements by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
and Trade (MFERT). Most subprojects under the proposed loan/credit would be
approved at the provincial level. In all cases, many different agencies
must "sign off" on a proposal before it is included in the annual plan, and
thus eligible for allocation of construction material and equipment.
1.15      Each project must have a feasibility study which is supposed to
cover a wide range of issues: objectives, justification, scale, inputs,
output, investment and production costs, market, profit, transport require-
ments, site, environmental aspects, and construction schedule. In addition
to technical feasibility, the main investment criterion is whether the
project is consistent with the plan and national economic objectives. But
investment proposals are frequently not evaluated in their sectoral or
national context, due to the absence of medium-term plans and to fragmenta-
tion of responsibility for many individual industries among ministries as
well as regions, with inadequate sharing of information about the national
market or investment plans in the industry. Although economic criteria are
supposed to largely determine project selection, there is no formal
cost/benefit analysis, and insufficient examination of relevant alternatives
with respect to scale, technology, location or timing. And projects may be
poorly prepared technically because of lack of knowledge by the enterprise
concerned, due largely to the scarcity of contact with firms making similar
investments in other provinces or with foreign users of the technology, and
to reluctance to purchase foreign software of any kind. Government is aware
of these problems. The proposed project would be an important pilot effort
for dealing with them.



-6-
Pricing System
1.16      Prices are set by central or provincial authorities, according to
the level of planning for the particular commodity.  As prices are determined
on the basis of Government's social and economic objectives rather than by
supply and demand (essential producer goods are allocated administratively,
and many basic consumer goods are rationed), and as most have remained
essentially unchanged since the 1950s, relative prices do not reflect
production costs or market scarcity. There are thus great variations in
profitability among different industries.  The rate of return (profits and
taxes) on investment in 1979 in light industry equalled 48% of fixed assets
plus working capital, compared to only 19% in heavy industry, because
manufactured consumer products on average are priced relatively high compared
to basic industrial products. And the high overall profitability of industry
reflects in part the generally low wages and low prices of agricultural goods
used as inputs.
1.17      In the past, prices and profits were not supposed to affect
significantly the production decisions of either planners or enterprises.
Planners were supposed to base decisions on the physical requirements to
achieve targeted output levels. Enterprises should have been little
influenced by profit considerations because they were constrained by
numerous physical targets and turned over all profits to the state.
However, as many enterprises now retain a share of profits, they have a
strong incentive to favor more profitable products.  Thus, realignment of
prices would improve the efficiency even of centralized planning, and is
especially important if investment and production planning are further
decentralized. Otherwise price distortions will increasingly be mirrored
in investment distortions.
Problems
1.18      Although respectable rates of industrial growth are expected to
continue, growth may be constrained by shortages of key inputs, especially
energy, agricultural raw materials, foreign exchange and qualified managers,
engineers and scientists. These constraints may become increasingly
significant as growth of oil production slows, thus limiting foreign
exchange earnings and energy supplies, and as the older generation of
managers and technical experts retires, with insufficient trained people to
replace them.
1.19      Moreover, there are important structural weaknesses in the
industrial sector. Recent criticism from within China has centered on
(a) structural imbalance, (b) production inefficiency, and (c) technological
backwardness. Structural imbalance has arisen from overemphasis on heavy
industry, excessive investment, and "production for production's sake."
Over 1966-78, heavy industry received more than ten times as much investment
as light industry. In addition, there have been shortages of many consumer
and producer goods, excess production and inventory accumulation of some



- 7 -
other goods, delays in completing investments because of overextended
construction capacity, and complaints about the quality of consumer goods.
1.20      Despite "learning-by-doing" and technological improvements, use of
labor and capital has not become more efficient since the 1950s (para.
1.07), which suggests, inter alia, problems with industrial management and
investment choices. China is also an inefficient user of energy: the ratio
of energy consumption to GNP is three times the average in other developing
countries or industrialized market economies. Inefficient enterprises, once
established, are hard to close down. A further source of inefficiency has
been the emphasis on self-sufficiency within individual enterprises or
regions, which sacrifices the benefits of specialized production and
economies of scale.
1.21      Chinese officials are acutely aware of their country's relative
technological backwardness, which is due in large part to China's prolonged
international isolation and sometimes excessive emphasis on self-sufficiency.
The designs of many new machines are 20 to 30 years old; shortages of certain
alloys and other specialized products reduce machine life and performance;
and a high proportion of existing equipment is over 40 years old. However,
some Chinese machines, old as well as new, are still well-suited to China's
needs, and China should not replace them indiscriminately. China has also
often failed to make the best use of imported equipment because it lacked
the necessary technical and management expertise.
Recent Policy Changes
1.22      In 1979, Government launched a new economic strategy to correct
some of these fundamental weaknesses and lay a sounder basis for sustained
growtlh.  The new strategy has two elements:  a period of readjustment, and
experimentation with reform of the price and incentive system.  The
readjustment emphasizes: (a) agriculture and light (consumer) industry
(including for export) rather than heavy industry; (b) consumption at the
expense of investment; (c) modernization of existing enterprises,
particularly through importation of foreign technology; and (d) energy
conservation. The readjustment policies led to a dramatic shift in the
relative growth rates of heavy and light industry (para. 1.08). In
addition, total investment dropped from 36.5% of national income in 1978 to
about 30% in 1981, and Government plans to reduce it further to about 25%;
however, total investment has fallen less than originally planned because
the greater financial autonomy given to some enterprises and local
governments reduced central control over investment.
1.23      The main thrust of reform is to decentralize economic decision-
making and to rely more on the market to provide incentives and guide
decisions. Three aspects are particularly relevant to industry: (a) profit
and foreign exchange retention; (b) a gradual shift from grant to loan
finance, primarily for light industry; and (c) relative price changes.



- 8 -
Most industrial enterprises may now retain 10-30% of incremental profits,
for specified uses including minor investments.  In Shanghai, corporations
can retain 10.5% of their subsidiary enterprises' foreign exchange earnings;
their supervisory bureaus retain another 4.5%, and the municipality 15%.
Guangdong and Fujian provinces can retain even more of their export
earnings. In most other provinces, about 8% of export earnings are retained
locally. These measures help decentralize investment decisions and give
incentives to increase profits and exports.
1.24      The shift from grant to loan finance is intended to increase
enterprises' sense of responsibility for their investments. In the course
of appraisal and supervision, the People's Construction Bank of China
(PCBC), which handles all capital construction grants and loans (para.
2.11), can modify or even reject projects. Both PCBC and the borrowing
enterprises reportedly make greater efforts now to assure the financial
profitability of the investments, and to reduce waste of resources. In
this transition stage, interest rates on local currency loans are still low
(2.4-3.6% p.a. for capital construction; 5.8-6.5% p.a. for modernization).
1.25      The shifts toward decentralized investment decision-making using
loan- and self-finance increase the importance of continuing the rational-
ization of prices to bring financial returns more into line with economic
returns.  The use of shadow prices (para. 3.12), while now essential for
proper investment appraisal, is only a partial solution. Government
apparently intends to make relative prices more rational; however, while
some prices (mainly for agricultural goods and coal) have already been
altered, fundamental change will necessarily be complicated and slow because
of the income distribution and budgetary implications of price changes, fear
of inflation, and the inherent complexity of the adjustment process.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Objectives
2.01      As in other socialist countries, China's financial system has
served mainly to channel government budgetary funds for approved purposes,
and to help control state-owned and collective enterprises. More recently,
increasing attention has been paid to using the banks to mobilize savings
from enterprises, other agencies and individuals, and to increase investment
efficiency.
Institutional Framework
2.02       The banking system has been very closely tied to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), and has consisted of relatively few institutions, most of



- 9 -
which were only reestablished by the 1979 banking reforms.  The financial
system at present comprises the People's Bank of China (PBC), four specialized
banks (the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC); the Bank of China (BOC), which
handles foreign exchange transactions; PCBC; and the newly created China
Investment Bank (CIB) (Chapter IV), which will implement this project) and
three other institutions (the General Administration for Foreign Exchange
(GAFX); the People's Insurance Company of China (PICC); and the China
International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC)). As of the end of
1981, 23 foreign banks had representative offices in China, but their
activities there were very limited.
2.03      The People's Bank of China (PBC) was established December 1, 1948.
In the early 1950s, it played a major role in controlling the hyperinflation
inherited by the People's Republic of China, and in furthering the
socialization of industry, commerce and agriculture.  In 1958, with the Great
Leap Forward, PBC branches came under the control of local Party committees,
and established banking principles gave way to raising and disbursing funds
for "backyard" iron and steel furnaces, etc. During the subsequent
readjustment period, PBC was strengthened and partly recentralized. In 1966,
at the onset of the Cultural Revolution, normal banking activities were
largely suspended and PBC itself was afterwards incorporated into MOF. In
1976, PBC regained its independent, ministry level status directly under the
State Council.
2.04      PBC is the administrative organ for government financial management,
the central bank, and a commercial bank. In the first role, it: (a) adminis-
ters budget revenue and expenditure; (b) manages cash reserves of local
government units and enterprises; and (c) transfers and settles accounts
throughout the country - as most enterprise transactions are conducted by
crediting and debiting accounts with PBC, this enables PBC to monitor
consistency with both the credit and physical plans. As the Central Bank,
PBC: (a) prints and issues currency; (b) devises national plans for currency
and credit; (c) formulates foreign exchange rates and interest rates; and
(d) supervises ABC, BOC, GAFX and PICC. And as a commercial bank, it: (a)
mobilizes savings of organizations and individuals; and (b) extends working
capital and equipment loans. To carry out these diverse functions, PBC has
over 18,000 units and 335,000 employees.
2.05       In the 1950s and 1960s, agricultural funds were usually handled
by PBC, until the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) was re-established in
February 1979. ABC is in charge of banking and financial administration in
rural areas nationwide. It: (a) manages various state agricultural funds;
(b) supervises rural credit cooperatives; (c) guides and trains rural
communes in accounting; (d) handles all deposits and loans of state agencies
in rural areas and supervises their cash management and noncash transactions;
and (e) provides working capital and equipment loans to communes and their
sub-units, state farms and state-owned rural enterprises. ABC has some
27,800 branches and subbranches, and 284,000 staff.



- 10 -
2.06      Rural Credit Cooperatives, collective financial institutions
owned by the farmers, operate essentially as the basic level institutions
of ABC. There are more than 59,000 rural credit cooperatives at the commune
level and at state farms, and 350,000 subordinate credit stations at the
production brigade level. Rural credit cooperatives manage deposits and
loans of the communes and their sub-units and individuals. Their deposits
generally exceed loans, but the gap is narrowing somewhat: loans were only
22% of deposits at the end of 1979, but 30% at the ends of 1980 and 1981.
The excess is deposited with ABC.
2.07       The Bank of China (BOC) was established in 1912 as a joint
government/private bank. Until 1949, BOC concentrated on international
banking, with a world-wide network of branches and correspondents, but did
domestic banking as well. In March 1950, it received a new Charter and
Board of Directors and became PBC's subsidiary for international finance,
and in March 1979 BOC was reestablished as a separate bank. BOC's paid-in
capital was increased from Y 20 million in 1949 to Y 400 million in 1975 and
to Y 1 billion in 1980. BOC: (a) raises foreign currency funds from abroad;
(b) settles accounts for foreign transactions; (c) handles overseas Chinese
and other international remittances; (d) engages in foreign exchange and
international gold transactions; (e) participates in international
consortium loans; (f) undertakes consulting, trust business and investment;
(g) handles foreign currency deposits and loans, and local currency deposits
and loans related to international trade; and (h) through its overseas
branches participates in other banking activities abroad. BOC has some 150
branches and subbranches, with total staff of 12,000, and has representative
relations with over 1,000 banks in 144 countries.
2.08       The General Administration for Foreign Exchange (GAFX) was
established in March 1979; the president of BOC serves concurrently as
GAFX's director. GAFX has branches in most provinces; elsewhere BOC or PBC
handles its business. CAFX formulates laws and regulations on foreign
exchange,/1 verifies and supervises foreign exchange receipts and
disbursements, and prepares consolidated foreign exchange receipts and
expenditure plans.
2.09      The People's Insurance Company of China (PICC), a PBC subsidiary,
established in September 1949, is China's only state-owned insurance
company. It expanded rapidly during the 1950s, but its domestic insurance
business was discontinued from 1958-80, and its international insurance was
/1 The basic one is the "Provisional Regulations for Exchange Control in the
People's Republic of China" promulgated by the State Council on
December 18, 1980 and effective March 1, 1981.



- 11 -
also disrupted temporarily during the Cultural Revolution. As China has
diversified its foreign dealings, PICC has expanded its scope to cover
virtually all types of international insurance. In November 1979, the
National Insurance Conference decided to reinstate domestic insurance
business on an experimental basis. PICC's gross insurance income now
exceeds Y 1 billion. PICC has over 700 branches and subbranches, and more
than 8,000 staff.
2.10      The China International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC)
was inaugurated as a state enterprise, directly under the State Council,
in October 1979. It has a paid-in capital of Y 200 million, authorized
capital of Y 600 million, and a 44 person Board of Directors. CITIC acts as
a "marriage broker", arranging compensation trade, co-production, assembly
and processing, joint venture and trade contracts between Chinese and
foreign partners. It also borrows funds abroad (including by selling bonds)
to lend to or invest in such ventures itself. CITIC has also spun off the
China International Economic Consultants Inc. Nineteen provinces and
municipalities have set up similar international trust and investment
corporations to promote and channel foreign investment.
2.11      The People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) was first estab-
lished in 1954, re-absorbed into MOF in 1958, partially resurrected during
the 1960s, and formally re-established as a bank in November 1979. It is
supervised primarily by MOF and secondarily by PBC. It has the main
financial responsibility for investment in fixed assets, in both industry
and physical infrastructure, through both grants and loans. PCBC, in close
association with other agencies, examines the cost and other aspects of the
proposed investments. It then handles disbursements, making sure that funds
are used only for approved purposes, and seeking ways to reduce cost and
construction time. These investments are made primarily in accordance with
the annual plan, and financed mainly from the national and local budgets.
The gradual shift from grants to loans for fixed investment, since 1979,
has expanded the scope of PCBC work, and led to a major expansion; its
2,700 branches now have over 43,000 staff. While most of the loans have
been financed from the budget, PCBC has also started lending out enterprise
depreciation and development funds deposited with it in anticipation of
future investments. As a related task, PCBC manages the budget and finan-
cial affairs of state construction enterprises, and lends them working
capital. In all of its programs, PCBC lends local currency only; enter-
prises needing foreign exchange must look elsewhere (paras. 2.16-2.19).
Industrial Finance
2.12      Industrial investment is divided into (a) "capital construction"
(generally on new plants and expansions) and (b) "modernization, renovation,
and technical improvement". During the 1970s, industry accounted for about
60% of total state capital construction, though with the share falling from



- 12 -
65% in 1970 to 53% in 1980. Annual capital construction in industry
remained about Y 28-30 billion over 1978-80, but fell to Y 20 billion in
1981. Over the same period, light industry's share of this rose from 10% to
20%, and energy's share climbed from 42% to 50%, while the portion of other
heavy industry dropped from 48% to 30%. Of the investment in light
industry, almost half was for textiles and about one-sixth for food,
beverages and tobacco in 1979.
2.13       All capital construction funds pass through PCBC.  The finance
comes from the central, provincial and local budgets, enterprise/
corporation/bureau retained earnings, PCBC deposits, and a variety of other
"extra budgetary" funds at the local level. "Extra-budgetary" sources
financed only about 10% of capital construction before 1970, rising to
almost 20% in 1975-79, and probably more in 1980-81, due to (a) introduction
of profit retention (para. 1.25), (b) PCBC lending deposit funds for capital
construction beginning in 1980 (Y 1.3 billion in 1980 and about Y 2 billion
in 1981), and (c) efforts to reduce capital construction through tight
budgetary restrictions. The central budget has traditionally been the
primary source, but its share is now down to about half. By 1981, some 15%
of capital construction was loan-financed, mostly in light industry, energy
and mining. The large majority of heavy industrial investment is still
financed by grants, but most light industries are now financed by loans /1
(at 3.6% p.a. interest, with an average five-year maturity).
2.14      Modernization and improvements have been financed by loan programs
starting in 1964 for investments below Y 200,000 and in 1972 for up to
Y 1,000,000 by PCBC, and since 1979, with no set ceiling, by PBC. PCBC and
PBC each lent about Y 2 billion for industrial modernization and improve-
ments in 1981. PBC began its program, using deposits, to conserve budget
funds. The average loan amount has been about Y 400,000, and the maturity
period 1-3 years. The two programs are similar, except that PBC's loans are
generally limited to equipment, without civil works, and are financed by
deposits; PCBC lends primarily special central and local budget allocations.
PCBC has a number cf categories of modernization loans, with separate
aggregate lending ceilings, of which light and textile industries and
export-oriented projects are the most important. PBC's main categories are
light and textile industries, and energy-saving projects. Modernization of
commune industries is financed by ABC. Most working capital loans for
communes come from ABC, for construction firms from PCBC, and for other
enterprises from PBC.
/1 Except for projects which are financially unprofitable, or for enter-
prises which are not independent accounting units.



- 13 -
2.15      The interest rates on modernization and working capital loans were
increased in 1982 from 5.04% p.a. to 7.20% p.a. for working capital, 5.76%
p.a. for modernization loans of 1-3 years maturity, and 6.48% for 3-5 year
loans. The average maturity period on modernization loans is only 2-3
years, and for capital construction for light industries about five years,
because of the high financial profitability of most light industries due to
low input prices and high output prices (para. 1.16). Aggregate lending
from deposits for each purpose (capital construction, modernization, working
capital) is incorporated in an annual credit plan prepared by PBC and
approved by the SPC, based on both the expected availability of funds and
the project proposals received. The plan is revised as necessary during the
year. The increase in interest rates is expected to attract savings and
induce enterprises to economize on fixed investment and working capital.
However, the allocation of investment resources in China continues to be
made primarily administratively, rather than by interest rates.
2.16      China's import of machinery and equipment, excluding vehicles,
jumped from an average of $1.0 billion during 1975-78 to $2.5 billion in
1979 and $3.9 billion in 1980. Enterprises requiring foreign exchange for
equipment and technology may obtain it in a variety of ways. Many high
priority projects in the plan get permission to buy foreign exchange from
BOC,/1 using grant or loan funds or retained earnings. Other projects,
especially those which would earn foreign exchange and which might need
assistance in management, technology or export marketing, might be proposed
for joint ventures (of which 29 were approved in 1979-81), co-production
(similar to joint ventures, but with no Chinese capital), compensation trade
(where the equipment supplier agrees to accept Chinese exports, generally
but not necessarily from the project itself, as repayment of the loan), or
assembly and processing of imported materials/parts, for export.
Reportedly, some $1.5 billion has been obtained for coproduction ventures
(of which more than 400 have been approved) and $0.3 billion under
compensation trade during 1979-81. CITIC and similar bodies at the
provincial level often help arrange such investments.
2.17      Export-oriented projects needing to import only relatively small
items of equipment can obtain direct BOC loans. Over 1973-81 BOC lent
$1.13 billion /2 for equipment imports for some 4,000 projects, of which
$0.37 billion remains outstanding. These loans have averaged three years
maturity, with a seven-year maximum for very large projects. About 70-80%
of the funds went to light industry. However, most of this was during
1977-79, and lending dropped almost to zero in 1980 and 1981 when the
interest rate was raised from 7% p.a. to 14-17% p.a. and producers of export
products were allowed to retain a portion of their foreign exchange
earnings.
/_ At the "internal settlement rate" of Y 2.8 = US$1.
/2 Loan approvals totalled $1.8 billion, but about one-third was never used.



- i4 -
2.18       in addition, BOC handles bilateral buyers' credit arrangements with
foreign countries, whereby subsidized funds (recently increased from 7-8% p.a.
to about 10% p.a.) are provided by foreign banks for purchase of equipment,
usually in the financing country. Suppliers' credits are also available from
several countries, mainly for larger contracts (e.g. the US Export-Import Bank
has a $5 million minimum). Although about $17 billion of credit lines have
been negotiated since 1978, only a small fraction has been used so far, in
keeping with: (a) China's general reluctance to incur foreign debt; and (b)
the investment slowdown during the readjustment (para. 1.22) which began after
most of these were negotiated.
2.19      Despite this variety of foreign exchange sources, it has remained
quite difficult for many enterprises, especially small- and medium-scale ones
and non-exporters, to obtain foreign exchange for investment, because of tight
Government restrictions on its use and because many of these sources did not
address the need for complete projects integrating imported equipment with
local equipment and civil works. But two recent developments are changing
this. First, starting in 1982, BOC has begun using the available buyers'
credit lines more, and supplementing these, as necessary, with its own foreign
exchange, also lent at or slightly above 10% p.a. Secondly, CIB has now been
established, and w:ill begin operations using the proposed loan and credit,
bringing to bear PCBC experience in investment finance, as well as new
approaches to project appraisal and technology transfer.
2.20      Defaults under all of the PCBC, PBC and BOC credit programs have
been virtually nil, due to: (a) the high profitability of most light indus-
tries (para. 1.16); (b) the relatively low degree of uncertainty regarding
their profits, given fixed prices and guaranteed markets; (c) financial
controls on the enterprises which assure that loan repayment is given first
priority; and (d) loan guarantees in all cases from supervisory bodies.
Modest penalty rates (20% above the regular interest rate) are applied to
overdue payments, and higher ones (50% above the regular interest rate) for
diversion of loan funds.
Financial Statistics
2.21       China makes very few general financial statistics public.  The
banking statistics published by PBC consolidate PBC, BOC and ABC data, and
provide little detail. BOC also publishes separately its summary balance
sheet. PCBC makes few loan data public; in fact, PCBC apparently does not
even have comprehensive aggregate internal data on its loan disbursements,
outstandings, etc. It is not clear how much of this is due to poor
statistical systems within the banks, and how much is an effort to keep most
banking data confidential.



- 15 -
III. OBJECTIVES OF THE CHINA INVESTMENT BANK AND PROJECT
General
3.01      The creation of CIB and the proposed loan/credit grew out of China's
new industrial priorities and the desire to help further improve investment
efficiency in China's industrial sector. A development finance company (DFC)
which focusses initially on modernization/expansion of existing light
industrial enterprises fits in well with Government's readjustment strategies
of increasing production quantity and quality with the minimal investment
necessary and correcting the imbalance between heavy and light industry.
CIB is also expected to support the reform objective of improving project
design and selection criteria. CIB was set up both to help fill a gap in
foreign exchange industrial finance (para. 2.19) and to address some of the
central issues in improving investment efficiency by (a) helping to organize
transfer of foreign technology to investing enterprises, and (b) improving
project appraisal methodology, within a broader economic and sector
perspective.
Technology Transfer
3.02      Industrial technology in China has generally lagged behind that in
more developed countries (para. 1.21). Moreover, light industries have
received a disproportionately small share of local research and development
resources because of the primacy formerly accorded to heavy industry.
Furthermore, many light industries in China (textiles being a notable
exception) have been too small for the country to economically provide the
critical mass of scientists and technicians needed to keep pace with
international technology. As a result, China, during its long period of
relative isolation, fell particularly far behind the level of technology in
most light industries. With the recent shift in emphasis to light industry,
Government is trying to compensate for this neglect, in large part by
importing technology.
3.03      A major goal of light industrial development is export expansion
(para. 1.03). That market requires much greater emphasis on quality and style
than has been the case with the domestic market.  Thus China's need is not
only for production technology, but also for assistance in design, packaging
and marketing.
3.04      Technology Import Process.  After an enterprise learns (usually
from publications or equipment salesmen) about foreign technology of direct
use to it, it is necessary to determine whether that technology is suitable
for China, based on the availability of Chinese technicians to apply and adapt
it, production costs in China's labor-abundant economy, markets to be served,
etc. This determination involves the responsible bureau/ministry, the local
Planning and Economic Commissions, etc. CIB will help provide, as necessary,



-16-
three key elements which have usually been missing: (a) short-tern foreign
industrial experts (independent of suppliers of particular brands of equip-
ment) to advise the enterprises involved and other concerned agencies about
the state of the industry in the world and the technological choices avail-
able; (b) overseas factory visits by enterprise and CIB staff to see the
technologies in operation and learn their advantages and problems; and (c)
through its project appraisal manual, a rigorous framework for evaluating
the economics of alternative technologies.
3.05       The next stage is deciding how to import the technology; this
involves selection of both equipment and the system for knowledge transfer
(licensing agreemients, foreign consultancy, sending Chinese technicians
overseas etc.). The software element is particularly important because in the
past the import of machinery has not always been accompanied by an adequate
knowledge of how to design plants, processes and products, and to operate,
maintain, and adapt the machinery. CIB would provide an independent outside
judgement on issues such as design choices and systems of knowledge transfer.
CIB would initially need to rely heavily on domestic and foreign short-term
consultants for this (para. 4.05), but would gradually develop in-house
experience and expertise.
3.06       The enterprise would then have to adapt the technology to local
conditions. CIB's monitoring/evaluation of its loans would help show how
successful the new technology had been, what problems were associated with
it, and how they had been dealt with. Design institutes would play the most
critical role in deciding whether and how to spread the technology to other
enterprises.
3.07       Summary of CIB's Role.  In summary, CIB's contribution to technology
transfer would be: (a) financing hardware and software imports; (b) appraising
the economics of alternative technologies; (c) serving as a channel for
locating and utilizing Chinese and, as necessary, international experts, and
sending local engineers to visit factories abroad; and (d) monitoring the
technology import process. CIB would be able to play such a role in part
because it would be involved from an early stage in subproject preparation.
However, the process would remain a difficult one, not only because of the
inherent problems of importing and adapting technology, but also because of:
(a) interagency coordination problems; (b) shortage of domestic technical
experts with up-to-date knowledge of technological developments abroad in
light industry; aLnd (c) inexperience in utilizing foreign consultants.
CIB's role will be a challenging one, going well beyond that of most DFCs,
in a difficult environment.
Improved Project Appraisal Methodology
3.08       In China, capital construction projects and to a lesser extent
modernization projects are subject to feasibility studies covering technical,
financial and certain economic aspects.  However, these often do not form an



- 17 -
adequate basis for proper project design and selection (para. 1.15). Govern-
ment has therefore selected CIB to be a pilot institution for improving
appraisal methodology. CIB staff and other Chinese officials and researchers
have drafted a project appraisal manual for CIB, while Bank staff have
participated extensively in discussions of the draft manual and have also
written a background paper on economic evaluation of projects under Chinese
conditions and a case study.
3.09       One important objective of the manual is to make appraisal more
comprehensive and systematic. In particular, greater attention generally
needs to be paid to: (a) the relationship of the project to overall medium-
or long-term plans for the industry; (b) output and experiences of other
producers of the same product; (c) the availability of key inputs for
construction and operation; (d) enterprise management and technical skills;
(e) market prospects; (f) environmental effects; and (g) linkages with other
industries. CIB will have to work closely with other agencies to obtain
adequate supporting data for project appraisal, some of which are either not
collected systematically or not freely shared with other agencies.
3.10       The second, and more innovative objective is to supplement present
Chinese methods of economic evaluation (essentially by reference to plan
targets) with cost/benefit analysis based on shadow prices (as is now done in
many other developing countries and some East European countries). The use of
shadow prices is important because actual Chinese prices, which will continue
to be used for financial aspects of project analysis, do not provide good
measures of economic costs and benefits. The need for improved methods of
economic evaluation of projects is becoming more widely accepted in China, as
is the potential usefulness of cost/benefit analysis and shadow prices in this
regard.  CIB, by developing and using its appraisal manual, will provide
experience in adapting new methods of appraisal to Chinese circumstances.
3.11      An immediate practical issue is the derivation of appropriate shadow
prices. Some such prices (for project outputs and raw materials) must neces-
sarily be estimated on a project-by-project basis, by CIB analysts. Others,
such as the shadow prices of electricity, construction, transport, labor and
other inputs common to a wide range of projects, and the shadow interest rate
(or opportunity cost of capital) to be applied in evaluating all projects,
would, for consistency and economy of effort, be provided by CIB's head office
in collaboration with other agencies, and then adjusted as necessary for
individual regions. Work done by Bank staff will form a basis for CIB's
initial estimates of most of the important shadow prices. A continuing
program of work by CIB and other agencies will be important to refine and
improve shadow prices on the basis of further research and a wider set of
data, and to regularly update them to reflect changing economic circumstances
in China and abroad.
3.12       CIB has already begun to use the draft manual for appraisal of its
initial subprojects. The revised draft manual and the main shadow prices for



- 18 -
general use are now being reviewed by Bank staff.  Formal issuance to CIB's
branches, of an appraisal manual and instructions for its experimental use,
satisfactory to the Bank/Association, would be a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness. An assurance was also obtained at negotiations that, after
revision based on branch experience and comments and as agreed with the
Bank/Association,  the use of the manual would become mandatory six months
after the initial issuance. Irrespective of the extent to which the manual is
applied, the Bank/Association will evaluate CIB subproject appraisals and
authorize withdrawals for all subprojects above the free limit (para. 5.06)
only after it is satisfied with the quality of the appraisal and the economic,
financial and technical viability of the subprojects.  To help CIB meet those
standards, substantial training of CIB staff in project appraisal is underway,
and more is planned (para. 4.07).
IV. THE CHINA INVESTMENT BANK (CIB)
Establishment and Autonomy
4.01      PCBC, under MOF's guidance, played the major role in setting up CIB,
with advice from Bank missions to China in July, September and November 1981.
In a relatively short period, PCBC/CIB have made considerable progress in
preparing CIB's basic documents, designing the organizational structure,
establishing branc'nes, recruiting and training staff, drafting a project
appraisal manual and identifying a pipeline of subprojects. In December 1981,
CIB's Charter was approved by the State Council, the composition of its Board
of Directors was approved by MOF and submitted to the State Council for
record, and the Board held its first meeting. In the first quarter of 1982,
Government paid in Y400 million representing 10% of CIB's authorized share
capital, and branchnes were established at Shanghai, Tianjin and Nanjing (for
Jiangsu Province). Although autonomous, CIB is administratively under the
leadership primarily of MOF and secondarily of PCBC, with whom it maintains a
close relationship, with 12 PCBC executives on CIB's 29-person Board. CIB
will continue to need PCBC's help in obtaining staff, facilities and entree to
PCBC clients. In its project appraisal, CIB will work closely with other
agencies, including the provincial Planning and Economic Commissions, and the
supervising corporations and bureaus. However, CIB will be able to reject
projects that do not meet its standards.
Management, Organization, Staffing and Training
4.02       Board of Directors and Managing Committee.  CIB's Board of Directors
consists of the Minister of Finance as Honorary Chairman, a Vice Minister of
Finance and PCBC President as Chairman, three PCBC Vice Presidents as Deputy
Chairmen, seven Managing Directors (four other PCBC executives along with
Deputy Chairmen of the SPC and SEC), and seventeen Directors (including four
PCBC branch managers and the Deputy Mayors of Shanghai and Tianjin). The



- 19 -
Board will meet at least once a year.  The Board reviews and decides upon
CIB's annual plan, major policies, financial and operational performance,
proposed CIB borrowings of $50 million or more, and any proposed Charter
amendments. A Managing Committee consisting of the Board Chairman, Deputy
Chairmen and Managing Directors will meet from time to time to deal with all
other important matters including loan approvals of Y 10 million or more,
borrowings below $50 million, and appointment of senior officials below Vice
President.
4.03      Management and Organization.  The President and chief executive
officer of CIB, Mr. Zhou Hanrong, is a Deputy Chairman of CIB's Board, as
well as the First Vice President of PCBC. Mr. Geng Gengshan, also a PCBC
Vice President and a CIB Managing Director, has been nominated by CIB's Board
and has been acting as CIB's First Vice President. Formal appointment by
Government of a Vice President would be a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness. CIB also intends to have a second Vice President, who is
currently being sought, nominated and on the job by March 31, 1983. An
understanding to this effect was reached with CIB at negotiations. The head
office has five departments: Project Lending; Finance and Accounting; Survey
and Research; Coordination and Planning; and General Affairs and Administra-
tion (Chart 23988). An internal audit unit is directly responsible to the
Managing Committee.
4.04      Staffing.  About 20 key officers have been appointed in the head
office in Beijing, and about 10 in each of the three existing branches, mainly
drawn from PCBC. As the work expands, additional staff will be transferred
from PCBC and other agencies. The main recruitment difficulties are expected
to be technical personnel, especially mechanical and chemical engineers, who
are generally in short supply, and economists familiar with cost/benefit
analysis. At negotiations, CIB's overall staffing plan was reviewed, and an
understanding reached that CIB would soon have a suitable engineer in each
branch. More financial and economic staff would also be sought. In addi-
tion, as a condition of effectivness, CIB would hire a full-time qualified
and experienced senior economic advisor, to direct and review the economic
work done at the head office and the branches.
4.05      Technical Consultancy.  To satisfy its own needs and those of its
borrowers for technical advice on specific projects (paras. 3.04-3.05), CIB
would help to locate and arrange for the necessary domestic and foreign
technical expertise. The consultants might work directly with the enterprises
on the investment feasibility study, in addition to helping CIB assemble the
data for its economic and financial appraisals. As a condition of
effectiveness, CIB is to conclude a contract, satisfactory to the
Bank/Association, for provision of domestic engineering consultancy. CIB
intends to contract with the China International Engineering Consulting
Corporation (CIECC), an umbrella organization of the 17 newly-established
industry-specific engineering consulting firms created from the design
institutes in various ministries. An understanding was reached that CIB
would submit all subprojects under the loan/credit to CIECC or other experts
for technical review. Dr. Lu Huanzhang, CIECC Deputy General Manager, would
be CIB's part-time senior engineering advisor and would help CIB estimate
the need for, arrange for and oversee the work of short-term consultants from



- 20 -
CIECC constituent firms. In addition, where suitable domestic consultants
were not available, as when the project involved specialized technology not
well-known in China, CIB would select individual short-term foreign
consultants to advise it on its appraisal work.
4.06      Branches.  During 1983, CIB will concentrate its lending in
Shanghai, Tianjin and Jiangsu province (see Map No. 16488), which together
account for 8% of China's population and 25% of its gross industrial output.
As its experience, staff trained in project appraisal and DFC operations, and
financial resources increase, CIB will open about one additional branch per
year, with initial priority given to the northern and central coastal
provinces where export prospects are best. The branches will identify and
appraise all projects, subject to head office approval. PCBC may act as CIB's
agent where CIB has no branch, and, for a fee, appraise projects using the
same standards and methodology; relatively few such cases are expected under
the proposed loan/credit.
4.07      Training.  While most CIB staff have had many years of experience
in PCBC, they need special training in all aspects of development banking, as
well as international exposure. As arranged through the Bank and financed
under the UNDP Multi-Sector "Umbrella" Project for Preparation of Investment
Projects, four CIB staff each made two-month study tours to DFCs in Pakistan
and the Philippines, and five senior CIB executives visited the Bank and two
development institutions in Ireland. Further tours in 1983 and 1984 are
planned. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) gave a five-week develop-
ment banking course in Shanghai in April/May 1982 to 40 participants mainly
from CIB and PCBC, and plans a similar course in 1983. CIB will also send
its staff to banking and management seminars overseas, and is planning
in-house seminars especially on project appraisal, so that all CIB head office
and branch staff involved with project appraisal will be thoroughly familiar
with the new appraisal methodology. During negotiations, the Bank/Association
and CIB reviewed together and agreed upon CIB's overall training program for
1983.
Operating Policies and Strategies
4.08      CIB has become China's fifth bank and will be a major source of
foreign exchange for small- and medium-size fixed investments in state
enterprises./l Emphasis will be given to export-oriented projects and those
involving technical modernization. Although CIB will mainly make loans,
equity participation (in joint ventures), guarantees and loan syndications
may also be undertaken, as may other banking operations. CIB intends to
develop consultancy services to its borrowers in project preparation and
finance. CIB will obtain foreign exchange from international institutions
(and eventually, perhaps, from international capital markets) and local
currency from Government as share capital. It will lend local currency only
/1 It may lend also to urban collectives and joint ventures.



- 21 -
in conjunction with foreign exchange./I Loans will be for capital expend-
itures only; PBC, which already has working capital accounts for virtually
all enterprises, will provide the complementary working capital, as it
normally does for all approved investments.
4.09      CIB is permitted to lend to all sectors, except agriculture and
commune industries financed by ABC. At present, emphasis is on light
industries, in keeping with China's priorities and due to the larger size
and lower creditworthiness (given current pricing policies) of most heavy
industrial projects (para. 1.16). To the extent feasible, CIB will con-
centrate initially on a limited number of industries, to build up better
sectoral knowledge, and to upgrade subproject appraisal and supervision and
the provision of technological assistance. CIB will also generally not lend
to projects which are particularly suitable for other sources of foreign
exchange (e.g. international-class hotels, which are usually financed as
joint ventures or by private sources overseas).
4.10      CIB's major operational and financial policies, within the frame-
work of its Charter and the national economic plans, are outlined in its
Policy Statement (Annex 1), and specific areas of emphasis for the next two
years are in its Development Strategy Statement (Annex 2). These documents
were reviewed by Bank staff and subsequently approved by CIB's Board. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that CIB would exchange views with the
Bank/Association on any proposed changes in its Charter, Supplethental Regu-
lations, Policy Statement, Development Strategy Stateeent or Lending Regula-
tions.
Procedures
4.11      Preparation and Processing.  Loan applicants, after obtaining
clearance from their corporations and bureaus, will send project proposal
reports to the local CIB branch, which will discuss them with the provin-
cial Planning and Economic Commissions, responsible bureau, other relevant
local agencies, and the CIB head office. After a project is preliminarily
accepted into CIB's lending program, the enterprise will prepare a feasi-
bility study, with assistance as necessary from CIB and the relevant minis-
try and its design institutes, or local or expatriate consultants. It
probably will also contact equipment suppliers at an early stage. In
accordance with CIB's appraisal manual, the branch will appraise the project
and submit its report, together with the feasibility study, to CIB's head
office. If the head office approves the loan, the branch can sign a loan
agreement with the enterprise. At all stages, CIB may turn down any project
that does not meet its technical, financial and economic standards.
/1 Projects needing only local currency will be referred to PCBC.



- 22 -
4.12      Integration of CIB Lending into the National Plan.  CIB will prepare
an annual disbursement program around October for the following year, covering
both loans already approved and estimates for projects still under prepara-
tion. The program will include both projected quarterly disbursements and the
construction materials and other inputs needed during the coming year./l This
annual program will be submitted to the SPC for incorporation into China s
annual plan. During the year, CIB will submit revisions as necessary.
4.13      Procurement and Disbursement.  The procurement and disbursement
procedures for subloans are described in paras. 5.07-5.08. Local procurement
would be done through normal Government channels, generally with fixed prices
and assigned suppliers. CIB would disburse upon delivery of local equip-
ment, or in accordance with contracts for civil works or imported equipment.
The procedures summarized in paras. 4.11-4.13 above will be spelled out in
CIB's Lending Regulations, the issuance of which, satisfactory to the Bank/
Association, would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness.
4.14      Project Supervision, Monitoring and Assistance.  From their tenure
in PCBC, most CIB staff are experienced in supervising the use of investment
funds by enterprises. CIB, however, will go further. It will monitor the
performance of its projects by reviewing their periodic reports and making
plant visits until the loans are fully repaid, and be prepared to provide or
organize technical assistance to its borrowers. After full repayment, CIB
will prepare project completion reports summarizing the experience and lessons
of its subloans. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that CIB would
issue detailed project supervision instructions to its staff by June 30, 1983.
Lending Policies
4.15      Interest Rates.  PCBC will initially lend local currency at 3.6%
p.a., the national rate for capital construction projects in light industry.
Government recognizes that this rate is low; however, it is already a vast
improvement over the total dependence on grants until 1979 (para. 1.24).
Since CIB gets all its local currency resources from Government as paid-in
capital, CIB will enjoy the full 3.6% p.a. spread on its local currency
lending.
4.16      CIB will be able to charge a higher rate for foreign exchange
lending, due to its scarcity in China and the current high international
interest rates. However, it faces competition from BOC, which is now lending
significant amounts at or slightly above 10% p.a. for projects often similar
to CIB's (para. 2.19). As CIB will be making more extensive subproject
appraisals than BOC presently does, requiring more data and time (including
for Bank/Association review), the enterprises will be reluctant to submit to
these procedures unless there is some incentive for doing so. Furthermore,
they may be reluctant to accept project design alternatives that give higher
/1 Most materials would be supplied by central or provincial Material Supply



- 23 -
economic, but lower financial returns. For CIB to have much choice of and
influence over its potential clients, its interest rate has to be competitive.
CIB's management has strongly indicated that it would have difficulty now
charging more than 8% p.a. In addition, given the divergence between
economic and financial prices in China (para. 1.16), it is economically
more efficient for cost/benefit analysis (para. 3.10), rathet than interest
rates, to be the main determinant of loan allocations by CIB. At negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that (a) CIB would onlend the blended loan/
credit at not less than 8% p.a. (para. 5.02); (b) CIB would inform the
Bank/Association, in time for an exchange of views, in advance of any change
in its interest rates; and (c) at the request of either party, CIB would
review its lending rates with the Bank/Association in the light of CIB's
cost of funds and profitability, and of movements in interest and inflation
rates in China. As inflation over the past three years has averaged about
3.5% p.a., and no major increase is anticipated over the next three years,
8% p.a. is expected to be a positive real rate.
4.17      Loan Repayments.  According to CIB's draft Lending Regulations,
the maturity of CIB's loans will normally not exceed seven years, and the
longest period will not exceed twelve years including a grace period of two
to three years. A short average loan period is possible because of the high
financial profitability of most light industries. The grace and repayment
period will be based on the incremental profits and depreciation allowances,
which will be used to service the loans. At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained from Government that enterprises would be allowed to obtain as much
foreign exchange as needed for interest and principal payments on their
foreign exchange loans from CIB. If any enterprise does not have sufficient
retained foreign exchange to make such payments, the supervisory agencies
and local government should provide the balance, or the enterprise will have
to purchase the foreign exchange from BOC (at the internal settlement rate).
Subproject Pipeline
4.18      After informing other agencies in Shanghai, Tianjin and Jiangsu
of the proposed project, CIB has received over 100 subproject proposals,
at varying stages of preparation. CIB selected the more promising and more
advanced ones to concentrate on. Bank missions have visited sixteen poten-
tial subprojects, covering a wide range of the light industrial sector, with
most being export-oriented and with some concentration on textile. These
could account for about a third of the loan/credit funds. Most looked
promising, but all needed considerable additional preparation. Appraisal
reports for about the first ten subprojects are expected to be sent to the
Bank/Association by January 1983 for field review in anticipation of
loan/credit effectiveness.
Resources, Financial Structure and Projections
4.19      Government is CIB's sole shareholder.  CIB's authorized capital is
Y 4 billion ($1.43 billion) /1 of which Y 400 million was paid in early 1982
to ensure that CIB had the local currency needed for its initial loans. For
/1 At the internal settlement rate of Y 2.80 = US$1.00.



- 24 -
the foreseeable future, all local currency for investment will come from the
budget as share capital, and all foreign exchange from overseas loans, except
for an initial $1() million revolving fund to be made available by Government
to bridge the time gap before reimbursements from the loan/credit. The
proposed loan/credit is expected to meet CIB s foreign exchange commitments
up to the latter half of calendar year 1984, while the paid-in capital should
be sufficient to finance CIB's local currency operations through 1986. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that CIB would not exceed a 5:1
long-term debt/equity ratio. This would be a prudent and reasonable ratio
and is unlikely to become a constraint on CIB because all local currency
lending will be from equity.
4.20       As CIB is a new institution and the first DFC in China, it is
difficult to project the volume of its lending operations. Nonetheless, on
the basis of CIB's present project pipeline, the suppressed demand in China
for foreign equipment and technology, and CIB's projected branch network
expansion, CIB loan approvals are projected to grow by about an average of
40% p.a. over 1983-87, to total $680 million over five years in foreign
exchange, and Y 680 million (US$240 million) in local currency. CIB hopes to
get most of the foreign currency from the Bank Group, but expects to raise
some funds from other foreign sources as well. Additional capital of about
Y 0.3 billion woul]d need to be paid in by Government for these projected
operations. CIB i's projected to be profitable from the start, initially due
to interest earned on its paid-in capital. Net earnings would reach about
1.7% of equity by 1987. This would be reasonable for a new DFC making loans
yielding relatively low spreads. Administrative expenses would be very low
compared to other DFCs (only some 0.2% of average total assets by 1986-87)
primarily due to Chinese salary scales, free use of Government offices, the
relatively large average loan size, and the ease of collecting repayments.
CIB's 3.6% p.a. spread on local currency (para. 4.15) and 0.6% p.a. on
foreign exchange (para. 5.02) would give it an overall 1.4% p.a. spread.
This would be sufficient given its low overhead costs and low default risks
(para. 2.20), and the fact that Government does not wish any dividends from
CIB. CIB's 5-year operational and financial projections are in Annex 3.
Accounts, Audit, Management Information and Reporting Requirements
4.21       CIB wilL maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its
operations and financial position in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and standards. CIB's draft accounting manual has been
reviewed by the Bank/Association and will be finalized in December 1982 by
CIB. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that CIB's accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/Association,
and that the audil report would be submitted to the Bank/Association within
six months after the end of each financial year. Independent audit is a
relatively new concept in China. Government and CIB have proposed that the
newly-established China Consultants of Accounting and Financial Management
(CCAFM) audit CIB.  The first CIB accounts to be audited would be those for



- 25 -
calendar year 1983.  After CCAFM carries out some other audits, the Bank/
Association would evaluate its performance before approving it to audit CIB's
accounts.  CCA;'M might also advise CIB, as necessary, on its management
information and accounting systems. The Bank/Association and CII have also
discussed arid agreed upon reporting requirements.
V. THE PROPOSFD LOAN/CREDIT
Amount and Maturity
5.01      The proposed Bank loan of S40.6 million (including a capitalized
front-end fee of $0.6 million) and IDA credit of $30 million equivalent
(SDR 28 million) would provide CIB with its first significant foreign exchange
resources for lending. The funds are expected to be committed to some 30-40
subprojects over about 18 months, although this is difficult to predict
accurately as CIB is a new institution. Subprojects could be submitted to the
Bank/Association for approval until March 31, 1985. The credit would also
provide foreign exchange for preparation subloans and for CIB's technical
assistance and training needs (paras. 5.03-5.04). The loan and credit would
be made to the People's Republic of China; to the extent practicable, the
credit would be drawn down first. Back-to-back repayment of the subloans and
Bank loan would not be appropriate because the subloans would have unusually
short maturities averaging about 5-6 years (para. 4.17). Therefore, the Bank
loan would be of fixed maturity, on the standard country terms for China,
which are 20 years, including five years grace on principal.
Onlending Terms
5.02      Government would onlend both the loan and credit to CIB under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank/Association, the signing
of which would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness. Both IDA and Bank
funds would be onlent for 20 years including five years grace, with CIB
allowed to roll-over the funds. Government would charge CIB a fixed interest
rate of 6.9% p.a. (a weighted average of the present Bank interest rate and
the IDA service charge), plus the Bank and IDA commitment fees. Government
would thus bear the risk from the variable Bank interest rate. Including the
front end and commitment fees, the total cost of these funds to CIB would be
ahout 7.4% p.a., compared to its onlending rate of 8% p.a. Government would
also bear the foreign exchange risk between the USS and (a) the currency pool
index (for the Bank loan portion) and (b) the SDR (for the IDA credit
portion). Government would bear this risk by onlending to CIB denominated in
USS valued at the date of withdrawal. These arrangements have been made
because it would be too complicated and burdensome for CIB to pass these
interest rate and foreign exchange risks on to its subborrowers, most of whom
have no experience with foreign borrowings. As subloans would also be



- 26 -
denominated in US$, valued at the date of withdrawal, subborrowers would be
taking any foreign exchange risk between the US$ and Chinese Yuan./l
Preparation Subloans
5.03       In preparing their feasibility studies (para. 4.11), some potential
subborrowers would need foreign exchange for the costs of (a) expatriate
technical consultants and (b) overseas factory visits (para. 3.04). Under
the project, $1.0 million of the IDA credit would be earmarked for preparation
subloans by CIB; this should cover 10-15 subprojects being prepared for
financing under this loan/credit or its successor. The enterprises would
repay CIB in foreign exchange, even if the subproject was later rejected by
CIB.
CIB Training and Technical Assistance Component
5.04       Some $0.3 million of the credit would be used to finance, over
two years, the foreign exchange costs of:
(a) study tours by CIB staff to other DFCs (para. 4.07) - 3 tours
of 4 persons each for 50 days (at $30-35,000/tour), - $100,000;
(b) short-term visits by technical experts to assist CIB in its
appraisals (para. 4.05) - about 7 man-months - $100,000;
(c) overseas factory and other technical visits by CIB staff (in
conjunction with enterprise/corporation staff) (para. 3.04) -
about 10 visits (at $5,000 apiece) - $50,000; and
(c) contingencies - $50,000.
The average man-month cost of foreign technical assistance including fees,
overhead, international travel and subsistence, would be about $13,000. CIB
would repay this portion of the credit from its interest margin on foreign
exchange subloans. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the
overseas study tours and technical visits would be carried out as agreed
between CIB and the Bank/Association.
/1 Most subborrowers, who would earn sufficient foreign exchange, would not
face this risk, as they would repay directly in US$; however, those few
who earned primarily local currency would have to convert it into US$ at
the internal settlement rate, which Government might change from time to
time.



- z7 -
Maximum Subloan Size and Free Limit
5.05      Maximum Subloan Size.  Under the proposed loan/credit, agreement
was reached that CIB would be allowed to onlend for individual subprojects
up to $8 million in foreign exchange.  This high limit reflee,s the fact
that: (a) CIB would be taking virtually no financial risk; and (b) in
general it is for the larger projects that CIB's appraisal is most valuable,
because these projects are more likely to involve major technology import,
serve nationwide or international markets which must be studied, and have
many linkages to other industries.
5.06      Free Limit.  CIB is a new institution, and careful review of both
the technical and economic aspects of its subproject appraisals will be
essential at this early stage, especially as cost/benefit appraisal metho-
dology is new to China. Agreement was therefore reached that the free limit
would be set at $1.0 million, and the aggregate free limit at $20 million;
in addition, the first three subprojects from each branch, regardless of
size, would be subject to Bank/ Association approval. One million dollars
is one of the highest free limits the Bank/Association has approved for a
first loan to any DFC. Nevertheless, because CIB's loans would on average
be rather large by DFC standards, an estimated 60% of the subprojects by
number and 80% by amount would be above the free limit. The free limit will
be kept under review, and might be increased somewhat during implementation
if the quality of CIB appraisals justified this.
Procurement and Disbursement
5.07      Procurement.  Individual contracts of at least $3 million equiva-
lent would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB), includ-
ing prior Bank/Association review of bid documents, unless CIB and the
Bank/Association agree otherwise. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. All contracts below $3 million
would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations elicited from
at least three qualified suppliers. Government has authorized the China
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) /1 to handle all imports under
this project.  The existence of adequate competition to help ensure reasonr-
able prices would be examined as part of the review of all subprojects above
the free limit. All contracts of $1-3 million would be subject to post-
review by the Bank/Association. Expatriate consultants for CIB or under
preparation subloans would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines on the Use of Consultants, and would have qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank/Association;
an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
/1 CNTIC, a state enterprise under MFERT, handles imports for turn-key and
high technology projects, and has been acquiring experience with ICB and
other forms of international procurement.



- 22 -
5.ng      Dishursement.  nisbursements would he made against full documenta-
tion for (a) 1007 of the foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment,
(b) 1007 of the foreign exchanRe cost of technology, technical assistance and
overseas training, and (c) Qn% of the ex-factory price of locally-manufactured
equipment procured under TCB. nisbursements are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1Q27. The disbursment projections (Annex 4) are based on the
disbursement Drofile of DFC lending in the East Asia and Pacific Region,
taking into account that CIB already has a substantial subproject pipeline
under preparation (para. 4.18).
Environmental Safeguards
5.09      In recent years, China has been paying increasing attention to
environmental questions, and has established standards and controls for waste
disposal. Already, project feasibility studies cover environmental aspects
(para. 1.15); CIB would give careful attention to this in its appraisal
reports, as would the Bank/Association in reviewing those appraisals.
Benefits and Risks
5.10      This project would involve considerable innovation in the Chinese
context; as such, it offers potentially great benefits, but also faces
significant risks. The main benefits would be much needed improvements in
industrial efficiency through technology transfer and better project design
and selection (Chapter III), and development of a new bank that would
institutionalize these approaches and help fill a gap in Chinese industrial
finance. While starting relatively small with this project, CIB is expected
to become a major national bank. The success of CIB and the project would
give further impetus to China's economic reform movement (paras. 1.23-1.25).
The approaches to project appraisal and financing to be pioneered by CIB are
expected to be replicable in other financial institutions in China; interest
in CIB's project appraisal manual is already being shown by BOC and ABC.
5.11      One major project risk also stems for close association with China's
economic reforms. Should economic reform be reversed in China (e.g. increased
emphasis on technological self-sufficiency or less reliance on opportunity
costs in making investment decisions), CIB's role could be undercut. But most
indications are that economic reform will proceed, although at a cautious
pace.
5.12      The other major risk is that CIB will not prove able to meet
adequately the major challenges facing it. While CIB is obtaining quite
experienced staff from PCBC, most have had virtually no exposure to foreign
technology, economic cost/benefit analysis or international finance.
Furthermore, CIB is still only partially staffed. The training and technical
assistance arrangements under the project (paras. 4.05, 4.07 and 5.04), and
the employment of two VTice Presidents plus a qualified economic advisor and
branch engineers (paras. 4.04-4.05), would reduce this risk to an acceptable
level.



17I. ACREEMENTS REACHED AND RF.COMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following would be conditions of loan/credit effectiveness:
(a)  issuance to CIB's branches of a project appraisal manual and
instructions for its experimental use, satisfactory to the Bank/
Association (para. 3.12);
(b)  appointment of a CIB Vice President (para. 4.03);
(c)  appointment of a senior economic advisor (para. 4.04);
(d)  conclusion of a contract, satisfactory to the Bank/Association,
for provision of domestic engineering consultancy to CIB (para.
4.04);
(e)  issuance of CIB's Lending Regulations, satisfactory to the Bank/
Association (para. 4.13); and
(f)  signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank/Association (para. 5.02).
6.02      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  CIB's revised project appraisal manual, satisfactory to the Bank/
Association would be put into mandatory use by all branches not
later than six months after its initial issuance (para. 3.12);
(b)  CIB would exchange views with the Bank/Association on any pro-
posed change in its Charter, Supplemental Regulations, Policy
Statement, Development Strategy Statement, or Lending
Regulations (para. 4.10);
(c)  CIB would issue detailed project supervision instructions to
its staff by June 30, 1983 (para. 4.14);
(d)  (i) CIB would onlend the blended loan/credit at not less than
8% p.a., (ii) CIB would inform the Bank/Association, in time
for an exchange of views, in advance of any plans to change
its interest rates, and (iii) at the request of either party,
CIB would review its lending rates with the Bank/Association
(para. 4.16);
(e)  enterprises would be allowed to obtain as much foreign
exchange as needed for interest and principal payments on
their foreign exchange loans from CIB (para. 4.17);
(f)  CIB would not exceed a 5:1 long-term debt/equity ratio (para.
4.19): and



- 30 -
(g)  CIB's accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank/Association; the audit report would be
submitted to the Bank/Association within six months after the end
of each financial year (para. 4.21);
(h)  CIB would carry out its overseas study tours and technical visits
as agreed with the Bank/Association (para. 5.04);
(i)  the maximum subloan size under the project would be $8 million
(para. 5.05);
(j)  the free limit under the project would be A1 million, and the
aggregate free limit 820 million; and
(k)  short-term expatriate consultants for CIB or under preparation
subloans would have experience, qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank/Association
(para. 5.07);
6.03      In addition, at negotiations understandings were reached that CIB
would:
(a)  nominate a second Vice President and have him working on the job by
March 31, 1983 (para. 4.03);
(b)  soon have a suitable engineer in each branch (para. 4.04); and
(c)  submit all subprojects under the loan/credit to CIECC or other
experts for technical review (para. 4.05).
6.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $40.6 million (including the front-end fee of
$0.6 million) for 20 years, and an IDA credit equivalent to $30 million (SDR
28 million). The Borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Policy Statement of the China Investment Bank /1
1.        The China Investment Bank (hereinafter called CIB) is designated by
the Chinese Government as a specialized bank to raise resources from abroad
in order to make investment loans. It shares the workload and cooperates
with other financial institutions of the country, in order to accelerate the
socialist modernization program.
2.        CIB's main activities are as follows:
(a)  Raising long- and medium-term foreign exchange funds from abroad:
At present, CIB acts mainly as an intermediary, borrowing
from international institutions (the World Bank, etc.). Hence-
forth, CIB will also borrow long- and medium-term foreign
exchange funds on favorable terms with low interest rates from
other foreign banks, in accordance with the development of its
operations. With the approval of the Government, CIB may also
raise funds by issuing securities abroad;
(b) Providing investment loans to domestic enterprises: The loans
are mainly to finance medium and small projects, especially the
modernization and technical improvement projects of existing
enterprises;
(c) Gradually developing consultancy services to borrowing units;
and
(d) Undertaking other barnking operations.
3.        Under the direction of the overall national construction policy
and national economic plans, and in conformity with the unified financial
policy of the nation and CIB's own operational regulations, CIB shall
select projects (including equity investment projects), make loans and
handle other related operations. The projects selected by CIB must be
incorporated in the nation's fixed asset investment plan. The borrowing
units shall apply to the material supplying units for required materials in
accordance with government regulations, or purchase them themselves.
4.        CIB shall select projects on the basis of the following basic
criteria: the products are suitable for sale and urgently needed for
developing the national economy; the projects are technically, financially
/1 This is an unofficial translation of the policy statement as agreed
at negotiations, and may not exactly match the final version approved
by CIB's Board.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
and economically viable, are under adequate business management, involve
modest investment costs, yield results quickly, and have the ability to
repay both foreign and local currency loans.
5.        CIB will require the borrowing units to make detailed feasibility
studies before project approval. A loan will be approved only after CIB has
made a thorough review and appraisal of the feasibility study and is assured
that all the criteria have been met. Besides examining whether the projects
meet the requirements stipulated in article 4 of this document, CIB shall
pay attention to whether: (a) the raw material, energy and technical inputs
necessary for production are reliably available, and the necessary ancillary
equipment is fully taken into account; (b) the site to be selected is
suitable, and communication and transportation facilities and the program of
disposing wastes and emissions are adequate; (c) the supply of construction
materials and labor is ensured, etc.
6.        CIB shall make foreign currency investment loans and local
currency investment loans. Foreign currency investment loans will be used
mainly for import of technology and equipment, while local currency loans
will cover local costs of ancillary domestic equipment and construction.
CIB may make a foreign currency investment loan and a local currency
investment loan simultaneously to the same project for its successful
implementation. For projects whichi need foreign currency loans exceeding
US$8 million, CIB should generally make a loan jointly with other
institutions or mobilize the funds of the enterprise itself.
7.        The ratio of long-term debt of CIB to its equity (including paid-in
capital, legal reserves and retained earnings) shall not exceed 5:1. The
total exposure of CIB in an enterprise shall generally not exceed 20% of
CIB's equity.
8.        The interest rate on foreign currency investment loans shall be
the borrowing rate plus a fixed margin. The interest rates on local
currency investment loans shall be in line with the rates on similar loans,
as specified by the Government.
9.        The period of CIB's loans (from the time of loan agreement to the
date when the principal and interest are fully repaid) shall normally not
exceed seven years, with the longest not exceeding twelve years. The
period of each loan shall be determined on a case by case basis and shall
be specified in the loan agreement. The loan period includes the
construction period (which will be the grace period) and the repayment
period. The construction period shall be based on the construction plan as
spelled out in the project feasibility study, while the repayment period
shall be based on the projected annual cash flow available for loan
repayment after the project is completed and production started.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       The borrowing units shall first repay foreign currency investment
loans and >;,cn repay local currency investment loans.  When a borrowing
unit is delinquent in repayment of principal and interest during the
repayment period, the penalty rate on the overdue portion shall be 20%
above the original rate. When any loan is diverted to other uses, it shall
be dealt with in accordance with CIB's "Lending Regulations for Trial Use".
11.       According to the agreement between the Chinese Government and CIB,
the foreign exchange risk on foreign currency investment loans extended by
CIB shall be borne by the Chinese Government and the borrowing units
respectively. CIB shall draw up concrete provisions in its relevant regula-
tions for implementation of the above-mentioned principle.
12.       CI  shall ensure that the borrowing units choose the most suitable
and most economical technology and equipment for importation. International
competitive bidding should be used for procurement contracts amounting
individually to over US$3 million. Comparison of quotations may be used for
contracts amounting individually to below US83 million. When the latter
method is used, the quotations of at least three acceptable equipment
suppliers should be obtained.
13.       During the loan period (including the construction period and the
repayment period), CIB shall conduct systematic inspection and supervision
of the projects to ensure the proper utilization of the loan proceeds,
accelerate construction, improve management, maximize the economic benefit
of the investments and ensure loan repayment on schedule.
14.       CIB shall adopt various measures to vigorously recruit and train
operational staff and raise operational standards, and shall gradually
establish branches and sub-branches based on operational needs and the
conditions of staff recruitment and training.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Development Strategy Statement for 1982-1984 of the
China Investment Bank /1
To facilitate the expansion of its operations in the initial
stage of its establishment and to accomplish its assigned tasks, the China
Investment Bank (hereinafter called CIB) will follow a development strategy
in the period 1982--1984, as spelled out below:
1.        CIB will follow the national policy of "carrying out technological
transformation in key areas step by step and maximizing the role of
existing enterprises." In the coming few years, CIB's lending will be
aimed mainly at assisting existing enterprises to implement their
technology transformation projects.
2.        In the coming few years, CIB will focus mainly on projects of
enterprises which require modest amounts of investment, obtain results
quickly and have high ability to repay. Thus, CIB will select projects
primarily from the textile and other light industrial sectors.
3.        CIB-s assistance will be provided mainly for the implementation
of small- and medium-scale projects.  Total foreign currency lending to any
one project shall not exceed US$8 million (but it can finance larger
projects with the sponsoring enterprises' own funds or through cofinancing
with other institutions); in general, total local currency lending to any
one project shall not exceed 25 million yuan.
4.        Projects financed by CIB in the coming few years should mainly be
those whose products can be exported to generate foreign exchange, and can
compete in international markets. Thus, CIB will initially select projects
in the coastal provinces and municipalities (Shanghai, Tianjin, Jiangsu,
etc.) where it is convenient to develop and expand export trade.
5.        CIB and its branches will actively assist the borrowing
enterprises to prepare feasibility studies, and will then appraise projects
satisfactorily on the basis of such studies, so that only projects which are
technically, financially and economically viable will be selected. In
processing loan applications, CIB's branches and sub-branches will do the
preliminary screening and appraisal, subject to final review and approval by
the liead Office.
6.        Borrowing enterprises which need to employ foreign consultants or
to have their own staff make investigations abroad for project implementation,
/1 This is an unofficial translation of the Development Strategy Statement
as agreed at negotiations, and may not exactly match the final version
approved by CIB's Board.



- 35
ANNEX 2
Page 2
may obtain preparation subloans or may use their foreign exchange investment
loans to pay such expenditures, after CIB approval.
7.        CIB shall vigorously recruit and train specialized staff who are
familiar with international finance, foreign trade, industrial economics,
engineering, foreign languages, etc., in order to raise its operational
standards. TWhen necessary, CIB will hire short-term consultants to assist
its technical staff to appraise and supervise projects satisfactorily.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
CIB Five-Year Financial and Operational Projections
Projected Operations, 1983-87
(Yuan million)
1986                  1987
Rollover              Rollover
1983     1984      1985       Total    funds        Total    funds
Loan Approvals /a
Local currency              50.00    90.00   130.00        180.00    -           230.00    -
Foreign currency lb        140.00   252.00   364.00        504.00   28.00        644.00   56.00
(in US$ million)         (50.00)  (90.00) (130.00)   (180.00) (10.00)         (230.00) (20.00)
Total Approvals        190.00   342.00   494.00       684.00   28.00         874.00   56.00
Loan Commitments /c
Local currency              40.00    82.00   122.00        170.00    -           220.00    -
Foreign currency           112.00   229.60   341.60        476.00   22.40        616.00   50.40
(in US$ million)         (40.00)  (82.00) (122.00)   (170.00)  (8.00)         (220.00) (18.00)
Total Commitments      152.00   311.6D   463.60        646.00   22.40       836.00   50.40
Loan Disbursements
Local currency /d           20.00    61.00   102.00        146.00    -           195.00    -
Foreign currency /e         33.60   136.08   251.44        370.72    6.72        504.56   28.56
(in US$ million)         (12.00)  (48.60)  (89.80)   (132.40)  (2.40)         (108.20) (10.20)
Total Disbursements   53.60   197.08   353.44          516.72    6.72        699.56   28.56
Loan Repayments
Local currency               -         -         -                                10.00
Foreign currency             -         -         -          28.00                 56.00
(in US$ million)           -         -         -         (10.00)               (20.00)
Total Repayments         -         -        _           28.00                 66.00
Loans Outstanding
Local currency              20.00    81.00   183.00        329.00                514.00
Foreign currency /b         33.60   169.68   421.12        763.84              1,212.40
(in US$ million)         (12.00)  (60.60) (150.40)   (272.80)                 (433.00)
Total Outstanding       53.60   250.68   604.12   1,092.84                1,726.40
Assumptions:
/a  Local currency loans are approved together with foreign currency loans at the ratio of
Y 1 to US$1.
/b  Converted at US$1 = Y 2.8.
/c  Commitments of both local currency and foreign currency loans are 80% of current year
approvals and 20% of previous year approvals.
/d  Disbursements of local currency loans are 50% of current year commitments and 50% of
previous year commitments.
/e  Disbursements of foreign currency loans are 30% of current year commitments, 60% of
previous year commitments and 10% of commitments of tw, years ago.
AEPID
November 1982



ANNEX 3
- 37 -                                        Table 2
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Balance Sheets, 1982-87
(Yuan million)
As of December 31
1982    1983    1984    1985         1986       1987
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and bank deposits:
Local currency                             400.00  354.30  295.11  204.39         140.46      31.23
Foreign currency                             -       28.00   28.00   28.00         28.00      28.00
Accrued interest receivable                     -        1.62    1.43    1.10         0.52       0.30
Current maturities of long-term loans
Local currency                               -        -        -        -          10.00      20.00
Foreign currency                             -        -        -       28.00       56.00      84.00
Total Current Assets                    400.00  383.92  324.54  261.49        234.98    163.53
Long-term assets
Investment and preparation loans
Local currency                               -       20.00   81.00  183.00        329.00    514.00
Foreign currency                             -       33.60  169.68  421.12        763.84  1,212.40
Subtotal                                  _       53.60  250.68  604.12   1,092.84  1,726.40
Less:  Provision for bad debts               -       (0.01)  (0.06)  (0.18)        (0.40)    (0.75)
Current maturities                            -        -      (28.00)    (66.00)  (104.00)
Loans (net)                   -       53.59  250.62  575.94   1,026.44  1,621.65
Deferred expenses on front-end fee              -        1.68    6.72    6.72        14.28      14.28
Less:  Amortization of front end fee         -       (0.08)  (0.41)  (0.74)        (1.45)    (2.16)
Deferred expenses (net)                   -        1.60    6.31    5.98         12.83      12.12
Total Long-Term Assets                    -       55.19  256.93  581.92   1,039.27  1,633.77
TOTAL ASSETS                            400.00  439.11  581.47  843.41   1,274.25  1,797.30
LIABTLITIES AND NET WORTH
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Tax payable                                  -        0.10    0.20    0.41          0.73       1.19
Accrued financial expenses payable            -        1.20    5.85   12.86        25.64      39.07
Current maturities of long-term debts        -        -        -        -           -         13.07
Total Current Liabilities                 -        1.30    6.05   13.27        26.37       53.33
Long-term debts
Foreign currency loans/credit                -       33.6   169.68  421.12        757.12  1,177.12
Less:  Current maturities                     -       -        -        -           -        (13.07)
Total Long-Term Debts                     -       33.6   169.68  421.12       757.12  1,164.05
Total Liabilities                         _       34.90  175.73  434.39       783.49  1,217.38
Net Worth
Paid-in capital                               400.00  400.00  400.00  400.00        480.00    560.00
Retained earnings                               -       4.21    5.74    9.02         10.76      19.92
Total Net Worth                         400.00  404.21  405.74  409.02        490.76    579.92
TOTAI, LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH        400.00  439.11  581.47  843.41   1,274.25  1,797.30
Current ratio                                             295:1    54:1    20:1          9:1        3:1
Total debt/equity ratio                                  0.09:1  0.43:1  1.06:1       1.60:1    2.10:1
Long-term debt/equity ratio                             0.08:1  0.42:1  1.06:1        1.54:1    2.01:1
AEPID
November 1982



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Profit and Loss Statements, 1983-87
(Yuan million)
1983     1984      1985      1986   1987
Income
Interest income from loans:
Local currency                    0.36      1.82      4.75      9.22   15.17
Foreign currency                   1.34     8.13    23.63    47.40   79.05
Interest income from deposits
Local currency                    6.49      5.71      4.38      2.08    1.19
Total Income                     8.19    15.66    32.76    58.70   95.41
Expenses
Financial expenses                   2.39    11.70    25.71    51.27   78.14
Administrative expenses              0.75      1.18     1.59      2.11    2.57
Overseas training and foreign
consultancy                       0.42      0.42      0.42      0.42    0.42
Provision for bad debts              0.01     0.05      0.12      0.22    0.35
Total Expenses                   3.57    13.35    27.84    54.02   81.48
Income/(Loss) Before Tax               4.62      2.31     4.92      4.68   13.93
Less:  Tax                          (0.41)   (0.78)   (1.64)   (2.94)  (4.77)
Net Income/(Loss)                4.21      1.53      3.28      1.74    Q_16
Ratios
As % of average total assets
Total income                       1.95     3.07      4.60      5.54    6.21
Financial expenses                0.57      2.29      3.61      4.84    5.09
Administrative expenses            0.18     0.23      0.22      0.20    0.17
Total expenses                    0.85      2.62      3.91      5.10    5.31
Income before tax                  1.10     0.45      0.69      0.44    0.91
Net income as % of average
Equity                             1.05     0.38      0.81      0.39    1.71
Paid-in capital                    1.05     0.38      0.82      0.40    1.76
AEPID
November 1982



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1982-87
(Yuan million)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986        1987
Sources
Net income before tax             -        4.62    2.31    4.92    4.68    13.93
Add:  Non-cash items:
Provisions for bad debts  -         0.01    0.05    0.12    0.22        0.35
Amortization of front-
end fee                  -        0.08    0.33    0.33    0.71        0.71
Accrued financial
expenses payable         -        1.20    4.65    7.01   12.78    13.43
Accrued tax payable         -       0.10    0.10    0.21    0.32        0.46
Deduct: Accrued interest
receivable            -        1.62   (0.19)  (0.33)  (0.58)   (0.22)
Net Cash Income               -       4.39    7.63   12.92   19.29    29.10
Paid-in capital                 400.00    -        -        -      80.00    80.00
International borrowings          -      33.60  136.08  251.44  336.00   420.00
Subtotal                    400.00   33.60  136.08  251.44  416.00   500.00
Loan collections:
Local currency                  -       -        -        -       -        10.00
Foreign currency                -       -        -        -      28.00    56.00
Subtotal                      -       -        -       -       28.00    66.00
Total Sources               400.00   37.99  143.71  264.36  463.29   595.10
Uses
Disbursements
Local currency loans            -      20.00   61.00  102.00  146.00   195.00
Foreign currency loans          -      33.60  136.08  251.44  370.72   504.56
Subtotal                      -      53.60  197.08  353.44  516.72   699.56
Front-end fee                   -        1.68    5.04    -        7.56      -
Tax paid                        -        0.41    0.78    1.64    2.94       4.77
Total Uses                    -      55.69  202.90  355.08  527.22   704.33
Surplus/deficit               400.00  (17.70) (59.19) (90.72) (63.93) (109.23)
Ending balance of bank
deposits:
Local currency              400.00  354.30  295.11  204.39  140.46    31.23
Foreign currency              -      28.00   28.00   28.00   28.00    28.00
AEPID
November 1982



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Resource Position, 1982-87
As of December 31
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986       1987
Local Currency Funds (Yuan million)
Resources available for approvals
at beginning of the year                -      400.00  326.21  237.74  110.99    12.91
Paid-in capital                         400.00    -        -        -      80.00    80.00
Net income (loss)                         -        4.21    1.53    3.25    1.92       9.16
Loan collections                          -        -       -        -       -        10.00
Total                               400.00  404.21  327.74  240.99  192.91   112.07
Approvals of investment loans
during the year                         -       50.00   90.00  130.00  180.00   230.00
Funds transferred to revolving fund/a   -         28.00    -        -       -         -
Resources available for approvals       400.00  326.21  237.74  110.99   12.91  (117.93)
Foreign Currency Funds (US$ million)
Resources available for approvals
at beginning of the year                -        -      30.00  140.00   90.00   230.00
International borrowings                  -       70.00  200.00   80.00  310.00   110.00
Revolving fund /a                         -       10.00    -        -       -         -
Loan collections                          -        -       -        -       10.00    20.00
Total                                 -       80.00  230.00  220.00  410.00   360.00
Approvals of subloans during the
year                                    -       50.00   90.00  130.00  180.00   230.00
Resources available for approvals         -       30.00  140.00   90.00  230.00   130.00
/a Refers to foreign currency bought with paid-in capital
AEPID
November 1982



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
CHINA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of Proposed Loan/Credit /a
(US$ million)
CIB
technical
Bank/Association              Front-end  Investment  Preparation  assistance  Total
fiscal year and semester         fee       subloans    subloans   and training
FY83
Second                         0.6          0.8           0.2           -           1.6
FY84
First                                       9.5           0.4           0.1        10.6
Second                                     19.2           0.6           0.2        20.6
FY85
First                                      34.1           0.8           0.3       35.8
Second                                     48.7           1.0           "          50.6
FY86
First                                      58.7           "             I          60.6
Second                                     63.7           "                        65.6
FY87
First                                      66.7                                    68.6
Second                                     68.7                                   70.6
/a  These projections allow for some slippage from the CIB projections in
Annex 3, in accordance with Bank/Association experience in other projects
as shown in the disbursement profiles.
AEPID
November 1982



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Sector Reports
A.1 The Chinese Pa,ckaging Industry
A.2  Chinese Banking Statistics
B.   Basic CIB Documents
B.1 Charter and Supplemental Regulations (in both Chinese and English)
B.2 Lending Procedures (draft) (in both Chinese and English)
B.3  Accounting Manual (draft) (in both Chinese and English)
B.4 Appraisal Manual (draft) (in both Chinese and English)
B.5 Agreement on Entrusting Procurement Between CIB and CNTIC (draft)
B.6 Agreement on Technical Evaluation of Industrial Projects Entrusted
by CIB to CIECC (draft)
B.7 Introduction to the China Investment Bank, February 1982
B.8 Introduction to the People's Construction Bank of China, October 1981
C.   Working Papers
C.1 Economic Evaluation of Investment Projects, Possibilities and Problems
of Applying Western Methods in China (draft), by Adrian Wood,
January 28, 1982
C.2 Project Planning, Pricing and Productivity in a Socialist Economy, A
Study With Special Reference to the People's Republic of China (draft),
by F.L.C.H. Helmers, EDI, February 1982
C.3 Economic Analysis of Aluminium Milling in Shanghai (draft), by
Shinji Ichishima and Adrian Wood, March 26, 1982
C.4 The Shanghai Aluminium Plant: A General Introduction, by the Shanghai
Aluminium Factory, July 10, 1981
C.5 The Shanghai Aluminium Plant, by David Humpage (Consultant), January
1982 and amended February 1982
C.6 Outline for a Proposed Strategic Plan for the Rationalization and
Modernization of the Chinese Photographic Sensitized Goods Manufacturing
Industry, by Norman Brick (Consultant), March 19, 1982
C.7 Proposed Project to Produce Polyester Base for Photographic Film,
China Programs Division, May 28, 1982
C.8 China: Techn:ical Impressions of Possible China Investment Bank
Projects, by Geoffrey Hilton, May 17, 1982
C.9 Notes on CIB subprojects (for World Bank files) by Gene Tidrick,
May 28, 1982
C.10 Notes to CIB Five Year Financial and Operational Projections,
November 12, [982



- 43 -
CHINA
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK ORGANIZATION CHART
(AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1982I
-OATOO,,o -   I--                 -      Rb GCW
LA IIGAAE1IACG        GEE CEDANAGER                                                    DIRECTOR 4,05 AIR                RET To                            DEPITA~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAP OF IRETOR
-1-    Hrn A.  F2r1.1 
TOTAL N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNGN AIETP OPBOD IETER S                                                                                                   LTIA
TOTOL NA AD ORATE IN OBAB CERICE                                                                                                                                                                                                     TDoO,A 01.                          4.4                             0, Coo,,
5ENIGR ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ A ENIERN     EiREONM-T-TRLN  oeNlTAiE                            COSIAIG N  L:KGPDE  EDIGFNNEAI  CDNTN                                                                   UV    DRSAC
AD SDR ... h-gFIEDFRMETOPRMg                                                                                                                                            eC   ETDPRM9
Lu liuanzhgng                             FF CEMANAGER                   RECTOR Ms ChnJossong             D *ECR  E OFtbn                         S :  Hakoel               DIRECDR TonOToneEC
TDTAL NO DF TDR   lEDs       *V                                                                                                                                                                                                                    'AcA_B  sN_'NS
(Irx ud ng Honumrv Chal/man Cbe r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~         ~        ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A-
TnTn, Deul Ch IT'll                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fan X cYsE/tIUM                             RM G 
TDTAL ND DF STAFF IN HEAD DFF1CE = ZO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,-l                                                                                                                                                  -I
llnc udqns Se  Monagementl                                                                                                                                            _                               14 u Axnamum             _        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIII






IBRD16488
11O                             C N            120            6                                1300                            MAY 1982
CHINA                                                                                    J >   y   )
50    INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT                                        (                              '- .
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
CIB Head Office
CIB Branch Office                                        HEILONGJIANG                        (   U.S.S. R.
Province/Municipality where CIB is operating
Province/Municipality likely next stage for operation
---    Provincial Boundaries                      r                   Harbin
-  -   International Boundaries    i          ...s  
KILOMETERS                                                . v             .
0   100   200   300   400   500
MONGOLIA                 I     I   I          I   I                      \             Changchun
MILES           3                               JILIN              A
NEI MONGGOL  ZIZHIOU                                                    .                                               40
7'      (INNER  MONGOLIA)                           r ..>      ShenyangO        .   )
_'-        Vh .~  .LIAONING
Huhhot .   )          <                      > >>    g    ~~~~~~~N. KOREA
Hu t                   -  HEBEI N -G.-4NJt      N    So Hai
/ 7 \ / _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&--.V  REPUBLIC
134C 0Shijiazhuang    J                                                  .-.                        KO
0              Taiyuan                       
SHANXI         -    ~            0 Jinan               )
*        r                            SHANDONG ( ,_"!  ->-                                                            AA
.HAANXI       0 Zhen;zhou    -'\ ,X                                                       S
o Xi'an                1-HENAN   B                     .      JIANGS
K~~~~~~~~~OE
Taiyuan ,0s                                  '< 
SHUN I                  J                                  anjinao
SICHUAN                       Wuan                                        0UE ....... .9
-~~                                                  ZHEJIANGSHADON
s Wuha  ..........r.,                                                                                         JAPanghu, 
30\   . -'ArrC  HJIN'                                                                                  This map has bee prepared by the
_ \   \-                 1          ~~~~~~~~~~Nanchang                                      Worl Bak'  ternnfstaff etxclusively for
Cangsha Z g           Jr                                                          bounds shown on this map
XUNAN HENN                                          FUJIAN GWorldBannkandittsaffSiiates, n
ANHUI4                                                  any territory orNanyenndorse mn
,  ,;                   l .              --~ ~~ Fuzhouo~                                  or acceptance of such boundaries.
*, 110                                      0 Hefei



