OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1313 CHA
DOCUMENTS            LOAN NUMBER 2226 CHA
Project Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1313 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2226 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            A    o) '     , 1982, among the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
(hereinafter called CIB);
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR
28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CIB agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million six hundred thousand dollars ($40,600,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on con-
dition that CIB agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(C) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into be-
tween the Borrower and CIB, the proceeds of the Credit and the
proceeds of the Loan will be made available to CIB on terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CIB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions


﻿-2-
applicable thereto and in the Loan Agreement and in the General
Conditions applicable thereto have the respective meanings there-
in set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of CIB
Section 2.01. CIB shall carry out the Project, described in
Section 3.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct
its operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, technical,
managerial and investment standards and practices, with qualified
and experienced management and in accordance with its Charter,
Statement of Policy and Statement of Development Strategy.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agree-
ment, CIB shall present Sub-loans to the Association and the Bank
for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from
the Credit Account or the Loan Account.
(b) When presenting an Investment Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Association and the Bank for approv-
al, CIB shall furnish to the Association and the Bank an applica-
tion, in form satisfactory to the Association and the Bank,
together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and
an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the proceeds of the Loan, and a description
of the procurement procedures); (ii) the proposed terms and con-
ditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor; and (iii) such other information as the Association and
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by CIB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a Preparation Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a brief description of the Investment
Enterprise and the proposed Investment Project; and (ii) a state-
ment of the nature of the technical assistance proposed to be
provided and, when applicable, the qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of the consultants to be em-
ployed.


﻿-3-
(d) Each request by CIB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account in respect
of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (includ-
ing a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the proceeds of the Loan,
and a description of the procurement procedures); and (ii) the
terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(e) Except as the Association, the Bank and CIB shall
otherwise agree, CIB shall submit applications for approval of
Sub-loans pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account and the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section on or before March 31,
1985.
(f) The Association, the Bank and CIB agree that, to the
extent practicable: (i) until all amounts of the Credit allocated
under Section 2.02 (a) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement
have been committed, applications for approval and requests for
authorization to withdraw made by CIB pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) or (d) of this Agreement shall be deemed to be applications
for approval by the Association or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account; and (ii) thereafter, such
applications and requests shall be deemed to be applications for
approval by the Bank or requests for authorization to withdraw
from the Loan Account.
Section 2.03. (a)   CIB undertakes that unless the Associa-
tion and the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-loan will be
made on terms, including those set out in the Schedule to this
Agreement, whereby CIB shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Association, the Bank
and CIB, including, in the case of each Investment Sub-loan, the
right of CIB to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;


﻿-4-
(ii) require that the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan: (A) be pro-
cured in accordance with Part B of the Schedule to
this Agreement; and (B) be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) to inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Association and the Bank, if the
Association or the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construc-
tion included in the Investment Project, the oper-
ation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments;
(iv) require that:
(A) the Investment Enterprise take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and
(B) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and deli-
very of the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity there-
under be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Association,
the Bank or CIB shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing, to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-
loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with
CIB.


﻿-5-
(b) CIB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the inter-
ests of the Association, the Bank and CIB; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a)    CIB shall: (i) employ industrial engi-
neering and cther consultants for the purposes of carrying out
the activities referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, and (ii) cause Investment Enterprises to
employ consultants under Preparation Sub-loans, all of whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, such con-
sultants to be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981; and
(b) CIB shall carry out overseas study tours and technical
visits under Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit
Agreement as agreed among the Association, the Bank and CIB.
Section 2.05. CIB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIB shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association, the Bank and CIB
shall otherwise agree, CIB: (a) shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business; and (b) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on its operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the con-
duct of its business.
Section 2.07. If CIB establishes or acquires any Subsidiary,
CIB shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of CIB under this Agreement to the extent to which
such obligation shall or may be made applicable thereto, as
though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. CIB shall exchange views with the Association
and the Bank on any proposal to modify its Charter, Supplemental
Regulations, Statement of Policy, Statement of Development Stra-
tegy or Lending Regulations.
Section 2.09. (a) CIB shall: (i) issue to all CIB branches a
project appraisal manual and instructions for experimental use,
both satisfactory to the Association and the Bank; (ii) there-
after, review and make such revisions to said manual as may be
required in light of initial experience with its use and as may
be agreed among the Association, the Bank and CIB; and (iii) not
later than six months after such issuance or such later date as
may be agreed among the Association, the Bank and CIB, require
all CIB branches to apply said manual (including any revisions
thereto) in all project appraisal work.
(b) By June 30, 1983, or such later date as may be agreed
among the Association, the Bank and CIB, CIB shall issue instruc-
tions to its staff for carrying out project supervision.
Section 2.10. (a) From time to time, at the request of any
party, the Association, the Bank and CIB shall exchange views on
the interest rates to be charged by CIB in its lending operations
in light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and the inter-
est and inflation rates in China.
(b) Prior to making any change in its interest rates, CIB
shall inform the Association and the Bank of the proposed change,
and afford them a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. CIB shall maintain procedures and records ade-
quate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistent-
ly maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of CIB.
Section 3.02. CIB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿independent auditors acceptable to the Association and to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Association and to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later t       six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified c .ies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of CIB and
the audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, CIB shall not incur ot permit any Subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurrence of such debt, the aggre-
gate principal amount of the consolidated debt of CIB and all its
Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
five times the consolidated capital and surplus of CIB and all
its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CIB or any
Subsidiary maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and
to the extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding
pursuant to such contract or agreement or instrument; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of Renminbi, debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of CIB and all its Subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of CIB and all its Subsid-
iaries excluding (i) debt owed by CIB to any Subsidiary or by any
Subsidiary to CIB or to any other Subsidiary and (ii) debt refer-
red to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.


﻿-8-
(e) The term "coosolidated capital and surplus of CIB and
all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total unim-
paired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of CIB and of
all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of CIB in any Subsidiary, or of
any such Subsidiary in CIB or in any other Subsidiary; and (ii)
such amount of any other loan which the Association and the Bank
may determine to be included in the consolidated capital and sur-
plus of CIB.
Section 3.04. CIB shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of CIB which, in the
judgment of the Association and the Bank, would materially affect
CIB's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. CIB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association and to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates
of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi)
used in its borrowing and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association, the Bank and CIB shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit and of
the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Association, the
Bank and CIB shall from time to time, at the request of any
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance by CIB of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, the administration, operations and financial condition of
CIB and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit and
of the Loan.
(b) CIB shall furnish to the Association and the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Project, the Invest-
ment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the Sub-loans and,
where appropriate, the benefits to 1>. derived from the forego-
ing.


﻿-9-
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account and the Loan Account or by such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose among the Association, the Bank
and CIB, CIB shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion and the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project and the Investment Projects, the
costs thereof and the benefits derived and to be derived there-
from, the performance by    CIB, the Association and the Bank of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit and of the Loan.
Section 4.02. CIB shall promptly inform the Association and
the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
and of the Loan, or the performance by CIB of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03.   CIB shall enable the Association's    and the
Bank's representatives to inspect the records referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and CIB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following dates:
(i)  the date on which both     the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have term-
inated in accordance with their respective terms;
or
(ii)  a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agree-
ment or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance with


﻿- 10 -
their respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, as the
case may be, shall promptly notify CIB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CIB:
China Investment Bank
Ministry of Finance Building
Sanlihe
Beijing, People's Republic of China
Cable address                     Telex:
PCBC 5189                      22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement or Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement on behalf of or
by CIB may be taken or executed by its President, or by such
other person or persons as the President shall designate in writ-
ing, and CIB shall furnish to the Association and the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to
the contrary to CIB and so long as the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement: (a) the obligations of CIB to consult with, and
to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent perform-
ance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Associa-
tion; (b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to CIB shall be satisfied to the extent such
obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and (c) all actions
taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting of
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A duVj Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
A.   Principal Terms and Conditions of CIB Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall bear interest at a rate of not less than 8%
per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding.
2.   The maximum amount of any Sub-loan shall not exceed the
equivalent of $8,000,000.
3.   Repayment periods for Sub-loans shall normally not extend
beyond seven years, and, in any case, shall not exceed twelve
years.
4.   Investment Enterprises shall bear the foreign exchange risk
on Sub-loans between the dollar and the Renminbi. In order to
implement this principle, each Sub-loan shall be denominated in
dollars, with the principal amount equal to the dollar equivalent
of the amounts disbursed from the Credit Account and the Loan
Account on account of such Sub-loan, valued at the respective
dates of withdrawal.
5.   Preparation Sub-loans shall be made to finance technical
assistance in preparing Investment Projects, including (a) over-
seas technical visits by Investment Enterprise staff, and (b)
employment of foreign consultants by Investment Enterprises.
B.   Procurement of Goods and Services under Sub-loans
Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise agree.,
CIB shall cause Investment Enterprises to procure goods and ser-
vices to be financed in whole or in part under Investment Sub-
loans in accordance with the following provisions and with the
assistance of CNTIC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
1.   Goods and services estimated to cost      the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more each shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.


﻿- 14 -
(a) For such goods and services to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CNTIC shall prepare and
forward to the Association and the Bank as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail
and containing such information as the Association and the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Association and the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. CNTIC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or services remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
(b) For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids
for the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to
state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
(c) Preference for domestic manufacturers: In the procure-
ment of goods in accordance with the procedures described in this
paragraph B.1, goods manufactured in the People's Republic of
China may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(i) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will
be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and
the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(ii) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classi-
fied in one of the following three groups:


﻿- 15 -
(A) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the People's Republic of China if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of
CIB and -the Association and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in the People's Republic of China
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(B) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(C) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(iii) In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group, all evaluated bids in each group shall
first be compared among themselves, without taking
into account customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the
goods. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is
the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(iv) If, as a result of the comparison under sub-
paragraph (iii) above, the lowest bid is a bid
from group C, all group C bids shall be further
compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an
amount equal to: (A) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group C bid; or (B) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from Group C which as a result of the
comparison under sub-paragraph (iii) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Goods and services estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $3,000,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded
after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
3.   Review of procurement decisions by the Association and the
Bank:
(a) Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $3,000,000 or more:
(i) Before bids are invited, CNTIC shall furnish to
the Association and the Bank, for comment, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifica-
tions and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the concurrence of the
Association and the Bank before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, CNTIC
shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association and the Bank of the
name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, in sufficient time for review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Association and the Bank shall, if
both determine that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform CIB and CNTIC and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the concurrence of the Association
and the Bank, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.


﻿- 17 -
(iv) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association and the Bank promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association and the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Ac-
count and the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph and whose value exceeds the equivalent of
$1,000,000, CNTIC shall furnish to the Association and the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account and the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective quotations, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Association and the Bank
shall, if both determine that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
CIB and CNTIC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, CIB and CNTIC shall inform
the Association and the Bank of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The
Association and the Bank, if both determine that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement,
shall promptly inform CIB and CNTIC and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a tru,
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  2J±      day of
198 _
FOR SECRETARY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  -27'     day of ___-    198
FOR SECRETARY


