NFFTC LOAN NUMBER 2260 BAR
Project Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAL BANK OF BARBADOS
Dated                                   1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2260 BAR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   6Z7AC       2              , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and CENTRAL BANK OF BARBADOS, a body
corporate established and operating under the Central Bank of
Barbados Act (Cap. 323 C) (hereinafter called the Central Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Barbados (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred
thousand dollars ($10,500,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Central Bank agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Central Bank, the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to the Central Bank on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Central Bank, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Establishment, Management and Operations of ICF
Section 2.01. (a) The Central Bank shall through ICF carry
out the Project, described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan


﻿-2-
Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance
with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Statement of
Policies.
(b) The Central Bank shall: (i) establish and thereafter
maintain, in a form and with staffing and functions satisfactory
to the Bank, a special fund (hereinafter called ICF); (ii)
appoint, and assign to ICF, a manager whose qualifications and
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) assign to ICF responsibility
for the carrying out of the Project.
(c) The Central Bank shall open a special account to be
managed by ICF to which shall be credited: (i) the proceeds of
the Loan made available to the Central Bank by the Borrower; (ii)
the Central Bank's counterpart fund contribution to the costs of
the Project in an amount equivalent to two million dollars
($2,000,000); and (iii) such other amounts as shall accrue to ICF
under the Project.
(d) The Central Bank shall, under a participating agree-
ment, the terms and conditions of which shall have been approved
by the Bank, lend to a Financial Intermediary such amount or
amounts of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement as the Financial Inter-
mediary shall require to make Sub-loans. The Participating Agree-
ment shall, among other things, provide for: (i) a discount rate
to be charged by ICF on its loans, which shall be a rate two
percentage points below the commercial banks' weighted average
prime rate, as calculated from time to time by the Central Bank;
(ii) repayment of principal by the Financial Intermediary in not
more than 15 years; and (iii) the Financial Intermediary to fur-
nish to ICF: (A) detailed technical, financial, marketing and
economic data with respect to every Sub-loan in an amount exceed-
ing one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) equivalent; and
(B) information showing the viability of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project (including the investment plan
of the Investment Enterprise) with respect to every Sub-loan in
the amount of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) equi-
valent or less.
(e) The Central Bank shall exercise its rights under the
Participating Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Central Bank and the Bank and to accomplish


﻿- 3 -
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Central Bank shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Participating Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Central Bank shall submit
Investment Projects to the Bank for approval or authorization for
withdrawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(b) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Central Bank shall fur-
nish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and a calculation of the financial and economic rates
of return of the Investment Project; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortiza-
tion of the Sub-loan and a description of the procedures (which
shall be satisfactory to the Bank) proposed by the Financial
Intermediary for the procurement of goods and civil works re-
quired for the Investment Project; (iii) a copy of the applicable
Participating Agreement unless it has already been furnished to
the Bank; and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request.
(c) Each request by the Central Bank for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a copy of the applicable Participating
Agreement unless it has already been furnished to the Bank; and
(iii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
Schedule of Amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Central Bank shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before June 30, 1987.
(e) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of the said para-
graphs (b) and (c) shall not be approved or authorized by the
Bank if after the joint yearly review of interest rates held


﻿-4-
pursuant to Section 2.07 (c) of this Agreement: (i) the Bank and
the Central Bank shall be unable to agree on the appropriate
level of interest rates; and (ii) such disagreement shall
continue unresolved for a period of at least 60 days.
Section 2.03. (a) The Central Bank undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on
terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Central Bank, including the right of the Finan;ial
Intermediary to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry
out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them, and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank or ICF if either shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Central
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits derived from the
Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.


﻿-5-
(b) The Central Bank shall exercise, and shall cause each
Financial Intermediary to exercise, its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interest of the Bank and the Central Bank; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Central Bank shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, Sub-loans and the Financial Intermediarier and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Central Bank shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Investment Projects, the costs thereof and the benefits
derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance by the
Central Bank and the Bank of their respective obligations under
this Agreement, the performance by the Central Bank and the
Financial Intermediaries of their respective obligations under
the Participating Agreements and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.05. (a) In order to assist the Central Bank in
carrying out the technical assistance components of the Project,
the Central Bank shall employ consultants, experts and specia-
lists whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consul-
tants, experts and specialists to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Central Bank: (i) shall furnish to the Bank for its
prior approval sufficient details of any studies or training
programs to be carried out under the Project; and (ii) shall as
soon as possible after the completion of such studies or of
training included in such programs send the results thereof to
the Bank.


﻿-6 -
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the following provisions:
(i) goods shall be procured from member countries and
territories referred to in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March, 1977; and
(ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $150,000 or more shall only be entered
into after prior solicitation of price quotations
from competitive suppliers.
Section 2.07. (a) The Central Bank shall calculate at least
once in every quarter the commercial banks' weighted average
prime rate, using statistics collected on commercial banks' prime
rates, and adjust, as necessary, and in accordance with Section
2.01 (d) of this Agreement ICF's discount rate for Loans.
(b) The Central Bank shall exempt all Sub-loans from its
reserve requirements.
(c) The Central Bank shall review with the Bank at least
yearly interest rates in Barbados with a view to determining
appropriateness of interest rates for ICF lending. Such review
shall take into account domestic and international credit market
conditions including inflation levels.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Central Bank shall maintain for ICF
separate accounts, procedures and records adequate to monitor and
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof and the benefits to be derived there-
from) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of ICF, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures.


﻿-7-
(b) The Central Bank shall retain for ICF until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. The Central Bank shall: (i) have ICF's
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of ICF's financial statements for such year
as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably  requested,   including  without   limitation  to   the
foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records refered to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of ICF and the audit thereof,
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Central Bank shall:
(i) cause each Financial Intermediary to establish and
maintain separate accounts on its records to be
used exclusively for the Project and to register
in such accounts all its receipts and payment
for, and in connection with, the carrying out of
the  Project,   in  accordance   with  appropriate
accounting principles consistently applied; and
(ii) inspect at least once every year. the accounts
referred to in this Section and the financial
statements relating thereto and furnish to the
Bank a report of such inspection by the Central
Bank of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. The Central Bank shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding ICF debt


﻿- 8 -
which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect ICF's
ability to meet financial obligations with funds from time to
time deposited in the account referred to in Section 2.01 (c) of
this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Central Bank shall take such steps satis-
factory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect ICF against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the various currencies (including Barbados Dollars) used
in its operations.
Section 3.06. The Bank and the Central Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of ICF, and of the Financial Inter-
mediaries, and the Central Bank shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of ICF,
and of the Financial Intermediaries.
Section 3.07. The Central Bank shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement and any other relevant documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Central Bank thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Central
Bank thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Central Bank:
Central Bank of Barbados
P.O. Box 1016
Treasury Building
Bridgetown
Barbados
Cable Address:                     Telex:
CENTRABANK                       2251 CENBANK WB
Barbados
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Central Bank may be taken or executed


﻿- 10 -
by the Governor of the Central Bank or such other person or
persons as the Central Bank shall designate in writing, and the
Central Bank shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAL BANK OF BARBADOS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this =2e      day of   A   , 1983
FOR SECRETARY


