Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17531 KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26 MILLION
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 30, 1998
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1997)
Currency Unit = Som
Som I = US$0.057
US$1 = Som 17.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Metric system is used throughout the report
ha      hectare
m3   = cubic meters
M   =  million
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             Asian Development Bank
ASSP            Agricultural Support Services Project
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DWR             Department of Water Resources of MOAWR
EA              Environmental Assessment
EIRR            Economic Internal Rate of Return
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP          FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FIRR            Financial Intemal Rate of Return
FSU             Former Soviet Union
FY              Fiscal Year
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GEF             Global Environment Facility
ICC             Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee
IDA             International Development Association
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MOAWR           Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
NIRAP           National Irrigation Rehabilitation Action Plan
NPV             Net Present Value
NWS             National Water Strategy
OFIP            On-Farm Irrigation Project
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PY              Project Year
RFP             Rural Finance Project
SEE             State Ecological Expertise (Review)
TACIS           Technical Assistance Program for the CIS (European Union)
WUA             Water Users Association
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader: Willem van Tuijl



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILlTATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ...........................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...........................................................2
B: Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ...................                              ........................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................................................4
C:  Project Description Summary ...........................................................4
1. Project components ...........................................................4
2. Key pol[icy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..........................................................S5
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................................6
D: Project Rationale ...........................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...................................                       ........................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...............                                  ..................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...........................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................                                ....................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..........................................................                                     10
E: Summary Project Analysis ..........................................................                                                            10
1. Economic ...........................................................10
2. Financial ..........................................................                                                                       10
3. Technical .......................................................... 11
4. Institutional ..........................................................  11
5. Social ..........................................................                                                                          12
6. Environmental assessment ..........................................................                                                        12
7. Participatory approach ..........................................................                                                           12
F: Sustainability and Risks ..........................................................                                                            12
1. Sustainability .......................................................... 12
2. Critical Risks ..........................................................  14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..........................................................                                                  14
G: Main Credit Conditions ........................................................... 15
1. Effectiveness Conditions .......................................................... 15
2. Other ..........................................................                                                                           15
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                                                                           16
I. Compliance with IDA Policies .......................                                                                                           16



ANNEXES
Annex  1.  Project Design Summary ..................................................                                                            17
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description ................................................. 9
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .................................................                                                             26
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ................................................ 27
Annex 5.  Financial Summary ................................................ 31
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .................................................                                          33
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                             .....................       ........................... 36
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ............................................... . 38
Table C.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds  of the Credit ................................................ 39
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................................ 40
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .................................................                                                           41
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits ................................................ 42
Annex 10. Kyrgyz Republic at a Glance ................................................. 43
Map IBRD 29380



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REEABILrTATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan Country Unit
Date: March 31, 1998                               Task Team Leader: Willem A. van Tuijl
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera (ECC08)           Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver (ECSRE)
Project ID:        Sector: Agriculture - Irrigation &    Program Objective Category: Environmentally
KG-PE-46042        Drainage (Al)                   Sustainable Development (EN)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Program of Targeted    [X] Yes  [ ] No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data        [  Loan        [X] Credit    [  Guarantee        [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US $ 35 million equivalentlSDR 26 million
Proposed terms:                 [    Multicurrency   [         Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years    [    Standard     [         Fixed   []         LIBOR-
Variable                                    based
Years to maturity: 35 years
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                          Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                     11.8                  -                11.8
IDA                                             7.4                27.6               35.0
Total      19.2                27.6              46.8
Borrower: Kyrgyz Republic
Responsible agency: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR)
Estimated disbursements               1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004  2005
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       0.7    2.1    5.6    7.0    8.4    6.7    3.8   0.7
Cumulative       0.7    2.8    8.4    15.4   23.8   30.5   34.3  35.0
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: August 10, 1998; Expected closing date: December 31, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and keyperformance indicators (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to increase the productivity of irrigated agriculture in the
project area through improved water supply. Progress towards the development objective would be
measured based on: (i) the increase in agricultural output from areas benefiting from inter-farm irrigation
rehabilitation (expected is a 10 percent yield increase, 4 years after completion of rehabilitation); and (ii)
the increase in volumes of water diverted and delivered to the boundary of former state and collective
farms upon completion of rehabilitation (on average 25 percent for all project farms).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14548  Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1995
The Bank's main country assistance goal for the agricultural sector as described in the CAS is to facilitate
the recovery of the agricultural sector through a flexible lending program for the fiscal period 1996 -
1998. With potential annual crop water deficits ranging from 360 mm to 1,450 mm under rainfed
conditions, irrigation is critical for crop production. Approximately 1.1 million ha have been developed
for irrigation or over 80 percent of the arable land in the country. Almost 730,000 ha of the irrigated area
is cropped land (mainly wheat, maize, cotton, vegetables and sugarbeets), the remainder is range land.
Irrigated agriculture contributes more than 60 percent of the total agricultural output and about 20 percent
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The break-up of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) in 1991 has resulted
in: (i) the deterioration of the irrigation dams and related safety problems; and (ii) a serious reduction
(about 25 percent) in the conveyance capacity of the primary and secondary irrigation canals, due to
siltation and iack of maintenance. The corresponding reduction in net irrigation water use on the farms,
estimated at about 10 percent, has contributed to yield decreases in the same order of magnitude.
Accordingly, the project, which is designed to address these issues, would significantly contribute to the
country's sector assistance objective and be commensurate with the CAS' flexible lending strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture is the lead sector of the Kyrgyz economy. In 1996, agriculture, including agribusiness
activities, accounted for 47 percent of GDP and 49 percent of total employment. There has been
significant progress in price deregulation, trade liberalization, land reform and privatization of agri-
industrial enterprises since 1991. The decline in the agricultural sector that took place between 1990 and
1995 appears to have bottomed out. However, major issues remain that slow the transition to an efficient
agricultural sector.
Agricultural reform: To sustain and accelerate the apparent recovery in agriculture, government still
needs to address a number of issues such as: (i) the need to improve the legal framework to support land
reform and farm restructuring; (ii) the lack of market institutions, infrastructure and information; (iii) the
lack of access to credit for private farm and agribusiness enterprises; and (iv) the provision of technical
advisory services and new productivity enhancing technologies. On request of Government the Bank has
assisted with the organization of the second International Agricultural Conference to discuss the progress
of the agricultural reform process and develop a strategy for further implementation. The conference took
place in December 1997.
Sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector: Available funds for operation and maintenance (O&M) have
been far below the required level during the past decade, which has resulted in serious deterioration of the
irrigation infrastructure, including both inter-farm and intra-farm systems (i.e. the infrastructure within



Page 3
the boundaries of the former state and collective farms), and dams. Over the 1991 - 1997 period, funding
from budget appropriations decreased every year but this trend was reversed in 1998 when the O&M
budget was increased by about 50 percent over that for 1997. Proceeds from water charges, introduced
in 1995, remain very limited because the water charge (Som 15 per 1,000 m3 ) is very low. However, it
has been very encouraging that the collection rate has been increasing steadily from 19 percent in 1995,
45 percent in 1996 to a very respectable 80 percent in 1997. Water charges are set by parliament, but
Government has proposed amendments to the water code to allow Government to set the level of the
charges, impose penalties on defaulters and discourage payment in kind. Government is also discussing
with Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan the need for increased payments towards O&M of irrigation
infrastructure in the Kyrgyz Republic that benefits the lower riparians as well.
Long-term development strategy: With the assistance of the ADB, the Government has made a start in
developing a long-term vision for the irrigation sub-sector. Firstly, Government aims to develop Water
Users Associations (WUAs) on the level of the former state and collective farms to assume the
responsibility for O&M of the common irrigation facilities within the boundaries of the former farms.
Legislation for the establishment of WUAs is already in place. Secondly, the MOAWR is currently
promoting draft legislation that would provide for the participation of the water users in the management
of the inter-farm irrigation systems. However, there is no overall plan yet to promote the technical,
financial, economic and environmental sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector. Assurances have been
obtained from Government that it would (i) prepare, and submit to the IDA, not later than December 31,
1999, a National Irrigation Rehabilitation Action Plan (NIRAP); (ii) finalize the NIRAP taking into
account the IDA's comments thereon; and (iii) carry out the NIRAP. The scope of work for preparing the
NIRAP would include, inter alia: (i) developing a vision for the future of irrigated agriculture in the
Kyrgyz Republic; (ii) preparing a broad long-term program for inter-farm and intra-farm rehabilitation;
(iii) preparing a program for the establishment of WUAs; (iv) preparing a strategy for future irrigation
management and operation and maintenance (O&M) of the inter-farm infrastructure; and (v) assessing
the financing needs for O&M and the sustainability of O&M financing. As part of the Aral Sea Basin
Program, a Water and Environmental Management Project will shortly be appraised for financing by
GEF and other donors. This project would also include the preparation of comprehensive National Water
Strategies (NWSs) for each of the five participating countries, including the Kyrgyz Republic. These
NWSs are expected to be completed by 2002.
Institutional framework: Recent policy changes and budget cuts have resulted in substantial staff
reductions in government organizations at all levels. Water users remain largely unorganized.
Institutional arrangements have to be developed further at both Government agency and farm level to
manage the distribution of water and maintain the irrigation networks both outside and within the former
state and collective farms. The above described MOAWR proposals for the creation of rayon and river
basin water boards are still under consideration by Government and other alternatives for inter- farm
irrigation management transfer may be worthy of consideration. Government, assisted by donors, notably
the ADB, also continues to work on: (i) upgrading the policies on farm privatization; (ii) establishing
Water Users Associations; (iii) legislation for the right of ownership of irrigation systems; and (iv)
licensing of water rights and developing markets for water.
Environmental deterioration: Environmental standards still rely on the norms of the FSU. Because of lack
of proper monitoring and enforcement, they are commonly violated. A national aquatic monitoring
program, including a net of strategically located monitoring stations, is lacking and there is insufficient
environmental management capacity within government. Major environmental concerns that relate to the
sub-sector include: (i) ineffective water resource management and environmental monitoring; (ii)
increased areas affected by waterlogging and salinization; and (iii) soil erosion within irrigation schemes.
In dealing with these issues government has already prepared a National Environmental Action Plan
(1995), which provides a comprehensive review of the environmental situation and provides a framework



Page 4
for action. The law on Protection of the Enviromnent (1991) requires an Environmental Assessment
(EA) for each investment project, including mitigating measures to at least avoid further environmental
degradation and, where possible, improve the environmental conditions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Project concept: A strategic choice in determining the project scope was, either, to include the
rehabilitation of inter-farm canal networks and dams, or, to include both the rehabilitation of the inter-
farm infrastructure and the intra-farm infrastructure. A decision was taken in favor of the first option
because: (i) it is consistent with Govemment's request for early financial support for urgent inter-farm
rehabilitation work; and (ii) the present environment is not yet conducive to on-farm investments
(privatization of land has not yet been completed; ownership is still unclear; the establishment of WJUAs
is still in a very early stage; long-term rural credit is not yet available, etc.). In addition, preparation of a
follow-on On-Farm Irrigation Project (OFIP) scheduled for FY2000, aiming at the rehabilitation of the
intra-farm irrigation infrastructure, started in October 1997.
Sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector: Assurances have been obtained from Government that it would
provide additional funds from its national budget to guarantee, together with the revenues from water
charges, an acceptable level of funding for O&M of the inter-farm irrigation infrastructure, including
dams, for the years 1999 and 2000. The NIRAP to be undertaken (see B-2) would deternine the needs
for O&M financing for the years beyond 2000. An increase in the current level of water charges would
not be required under this project, but would be pursued under the OFIP. The transfer of the management
of primary and secondary irrigation canals to the water users is not deemed feasible until WUAs have
first been established at farm level and are operating efficiently. When that has been achieved these
WUAs may then associate themselves into umbrella associations to take on the management of the inter-
farm systems. The NIRAP would provide a vision for the strengthening of the irrigation institutions.
Institutional framework: The project would provide capacity building of the DWR in project planning,
feasibility study and EA preparation, design, implementation and O&M.
Environmental deterioration: The project would prepare EAs for sub-projects or groups of sub-projects
and would incorporate necessary mitigating measures in the design.1 The project would also assist in
improving irrigation scheduling, thereby improving overall water use efficiencies and reducing
waterlogging.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would constitute a six year program for irrigation rehabilitation. The project would have three
components: (a) Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure; (b) Capacity Building; and (c) Financing
Incremental Maintenance.
(a) Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure: The project would support emergency repairs and selective
low-cost rehabilitation of the inter-farm irrigation infrastructure. More specifically, it would support: (i)
the rehabilitation and/or completion of up to 12 irrigation dams, and improvements in their monitoring
systems, in order to restore their safety and capacity; and (ii) the rehabilitation of sections of primary and
I A sub-project is for either the rehabilitation of sections of primary and secondary canals and/or drainage channels or for the rehabilitation or
completion of a dam.



Page 5
secondary irrigation canals and, possibly, restoring the functioning of several major collector drains; this
would return the canal networks to their original capacities and operational capabilities, and improve
drainage. These works would include items such as dam grouting, completion or enlargement of
spillways, installation of piezometers, repair of headworks, replacement of gates, repair or replacement of
canal lining, and cleaning of canals. The irrigation sub-projects planned for implementation in Project
Year 1 (PY1) have been appraised by the IDA in detail, while those to be implemented in subsequent
years would be selected from a list of "reserve projects" and would need to be approved by IDA on a case
by case basis.
(b) Capacity Building: The project would provide project implementation support and strengthen O&M
activities of the DWR through: (i) the funding and equipping of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
the DWR and provision of technical assistance to the PIU for the implementation of the project; (ii)
provision to all involved oblasts and rayons of comnputer and office equipment, software (for irrigation
scheduling, management information systems, cost accounting, etc.), and maintenance equipment to
handle emergency repairs; and (iii) training activities and study tours.
(c) Financing Incremental Maintenance: Investments in the rehabilitation of the selected irrigation
infrastructure would not be worthwhile if the remaining irrigation infrastructure deteriorates because of
lack of routine maintenance. Government has agreed to substantially increase its O&M budget for the
irrigation sub-sector (see Section F). In view of the Government's serious shortage of budget resources,
IDA would finance a portion of these incremental recurrent costs; this would be achieved through the
financing of maintenance works.
Component                Category      Cost Incl.    % of     IDA-        % of
Contingencies   Total   financing   IDA-
and Taxes             (US $M)   financing
(US $M)'/_____
A. Rehabilitation of Irrigation
Infrastructure
A.1. Dams                      Physical           12.0       25.7       8.3       23.7
A.2. Inter-farm canal networks  Physical          17.8       38.0      12.1       34.6
B. Capacity Building
B.1. Implementation support    Project            6.6        14.1       5.4       15.4
management
B.2. Institutional development  Institution       6.6        14.1       6.6       18.9
building
C. Incremental Maintenance        Other-            3.8         8.1       2.6        7.4
Recurrent
Total      46.8        100.0     35.0       100.0
l Taxes total US$8.0 M.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Although specific key policies and institutional reforms are not directly supported under the project, the
project does include activities and measures that would directly enhance the sustainability of irrigated
agriculture, promote more efficient water management, strengthen irrigation institutions, and strengthen
the privatized construction industry.



Page 6
3. Benefits and target population:
Project Area:
The project would have a large geographical coverage as it would cover 32 out of 43 rayons in all six
oblasts of the country. Up to 345,000 ha of irrigated land (i.e. about 33 percent of the total developed
area) is expected to benefit directly from the project. Other irrigation schemes, not included in the project,
would also benefit from the rehabilitation of the dams and the improvements made in irrigation system
maintenance and management.
Project Benefits:
The project would remove the major bottlenecks in the flow of water in the primary and secondary
irrigation canal systems, resulting in a better and more reliable water supply. The increased water
delivery would reduce the extent of under-irrigation and result in expected crop yield increases of about
10 percent, to be achieved over a 4 year period after completion of rehabilitation. In addition, an
estimated 17,000 ha but consisting of many small areas scattered throughout the project area, presently
not cultivated because of water shortages at farm level, would be returned to production.
A start would be made at oblast and rayon level to improve inter-farm water management and O&M. The
latter would conserve Government assets in the irrigation sub-sector. Also, improved collection of water
charges would reduce the required budget transfers from central government for O&M.
Involvement in construction and subsequent maintenance activities by national civil works contractors
would significantly boost the development of local construction firms. Construction work would generate
employment opportunities for about 2,000 skilled and unskilled workers and some of these workers
would be needed for subsequent maintenance activities as well.
Target Population:
The extent of poverty in the Kyrgyz Republic has clearly increased during the transition to a market
economy. This is generally felt more in the rural areas, where more than 60 percent of the total population
of 4.7 million people is residing. Rural households are 1.6 times more likely to be poor than urban
households and an estimated 48 percent of the rural households appear to be living in povertyl. The
oblasts with the highest poverty rates are Naryn, Jalalabad and Osh. The project would target part of this
rural population. The direct beneficiaries would be the farmers which would have their irrigation water
supply restored as a result of the project. The number of farm families benefiting from the project is
estimated to be at least 50,000. The more efficient and better equipped oblast and rayon organizations
would also benefit the farmers outside the project area. Improvements made in dam safety would benefit
the farming population on nearly 495,000 ha.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period:
Project implementation is anticipated to take six years (from August 1998 to July 2004). The Credit
Closing Date is December 31, 2004.
l The Kyrgyz Republic - Poverty Assessment and Strategy (ReportNo. 14380-KG; May 30, 1995).



Page 7
Executing Agencies and Implementation Arrangements:
The MOAWR would have overall responsibility for project implementation. A PIU has been established
within the DWR for the daily management, administration and coordination of the project, including
project accounting, procurement and disbursement, management of the Special Account, preparation of
progress reports, and ensuring timely audits and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The PIU is headed by
a Director, directly responsible to the First Deputy Minister of the MOAWR, who is also the General
Director of the DWR. Other professional PIU staff will include: an Irrigation Engineer; a Dam Engineer;
a Procurement Specialist; an Accountant; and an Office Manager, also with responsibilities for M&E and
environmental aspects.
Direct responsibility for contract management and construction supervision would rest with engineers,
who would be employed at oblast level and contracted by the PIU as consultants. They would be
supported by international and national consultants (see next paragraph), who would also provide the
local works inspectors, clerks and other personnel.
A team of consultants would be recruited by the PIU to assist with project implementation. International
consultants would initially be hired for the first two project years. The need for further expatriate
consulting services would be examined towards the end of PY2. If needed, funds would be reallocated for
such additional services, unless grant financing could be made available. National consultants would
continue for the duration of the project. The consultants would be directly responsible for the preparation
of feasibility studies, EAs, engineering designs and bidding documents. They would further assist the
PIU with general project planning, administration and management; monitoring, contract management
and construction supervision; and carry out on-the-job training of DWR staff and the national consultants.
A team of experts of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) would be recruited to train oblast and
rayon staff in data base management, O&M cost accounting, and irrigation scheduling, using software
specifically developed by the FAO for that purpose. An Independent Panel of Experts on Dams has been
recruited and would be maintained during project implementation to review the work of the consultants
and undertake site inspections during construction.
EAs are required for individual or groups of sub-projects under the existing environmental legislation in
the Kyrgyz Republic. The MOAWR would send EAs to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for
SEE review. Recommended mitigation measures would become an integral part of sub-project design
and implementation.
Sub-projects would be selected in accordance with agreed procedures and eligibility criteria and their
selection would be subject to IDA review and approval. When presenting the proposed sub-project to the
IDA, the PIU would furnish to IDA all relevant sub-project information such as feasibility reports, project
design reports, EAs and conclusions of the SEE review. The sub-projects would be implemented in
accordance with terms and conditions agreed upon with the IDA. The PIU would, not later than
September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the IDA, for its review, a work program for sub-project
preparation activities to be carried out during the following year and finalize the program taking into
consideration the IDA's comments.
Project Oversight:
An Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee (ICC) has been established and would be maintained
during project implementation. The ICC will meet quarterly, or more frequently when required, to review
progress with project implementation and resolve problems of inter-agency coordination. The Committee
is composed of the First Deputy Minister of MOAWR (Chairman); the Deputy Minister of Finance; the



Page 8
First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection; the Adviser to the Department of Agricultural
Development of the Office of the Prime Minister; the Deputy Chief of the Donor Cooperation Unit of the
Foreign Investment Agency of the State Commission of Foreign Investments and Economic Aid; and the
Director of the PIU (Secretary).
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
The Borrower and the implementing agency would maintain adequate financial management systems,
including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing, to ensure that accurate and timely information
with respect to project resources and expenditures is available. The project accounts would be managed
by the PIU. The accounts would identify all sources and uses of funds in carrying out the project,
including detailed accounting of the use of the proceeds of the Credit and the operation of the Special
Account. The project account would be audited by an independent auditor, preferably an international
accounting firm, and acceptable to the IDA, and the audit reports would be submitted to the MOAWR
and to the IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit reports would contain a separate
opinion on the operation of the Special Account and the Statement of Expenditure procedure, if utilized.
The establishment of a financial management system for the project, acceptable to the IDA, and the
appointment of an independent auditor, acceptable to the IDA, would be conditions for Credit
effectiveness. The costs for audit services would be financed under the consultants services category.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements and Reporting:
The Office Manager/M&E/Environmental Specialist in the PIU would monitor project inputs, outputs and
impact based on PIU records and MOAWR statistics. The PIU would prepare quarterly progress reports,
which would include information on: (i) procurement; (ii) completion rate of ongoing tasks; (iii)
payments made to contractors; (iv) reports on institutional developments, including training; (v) an
updating of the performance indicators; (vi) information on difficulties encountered, proposed measures
to overcome these and assistance required; and (vii) updated project cost estimates, procurement plan and
implementation schedule. An annual budget for project implementation would be prepared by August 30
each year for submission to the Ministry of Finance. Also, Government would prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the IDA, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the project and the achievements of its objectives; the report would be reviewed with the
IDA, by December 31, 2000. Further, a project implementation completion report would be prepared by
the PIU within six months of project completion.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Inter-farm canal rehabilitation:. A comprehensive rehabilitation and upgrading of inter-farn canal
networks was considered, but since such an alternative would have high per ha costs it would limit the
overall project area to about 30,000 ha and limit economic benefits. The chosen alternative would
maximize the project's economic impact by focusing on the most critical rehabilitation requirements at
low costs (US $52/ha).
Dam rehabilitation: During review of the county's thirteen irrigation dams, the proposed remedial works
were divided into three priority categories. Rather than implementing the works for all three priorities on
a small number of dams, it was decided to first carry out the Priority One works for up to twelve damsl.
I One dan has no Priority One works.



Page 9
This would provide the minimum required safety for the irrigation damns at the earliest possible time.
Maintenance equipment: Initially MOAWR requested to equip oblasts and rayons with a full fleet of
construction and maintenance equipment. It was agreed with Government to keep provision of equipment
to a minimum due to: (i) poor experience world-wide with equipping government organizations with
large fleets of maintenance machinery; (ii) the presence of sufficient equipment in privatized construction
companies to carry out the rehabilitation tasks; and (iii) good experiences of working with private
companies in other donor assisted projects (TACIS). The maintenance works financed under the project
would therefore be carried out by private contractors.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                    Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Lack of rural finance                Rural Finance Project     Satisfactory    Satisfactory
(RFP); Cr. No. 28590
Lack of agricultural support services  Agricultural Support       N/A             N/A
Services Project (ASSP)
(Board Presentation May
1998)
Irrigation Partnership Fund (TACIS)
Deteriorating irrigation infrastructure  Regional Agricultural
Reform Project 2
Asian Development Bank (ADB)
Lack of farmers organizations        Institutional Development
of WUAs
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank Group's first two investment projects in the agricultural sector are just getting underway, which
means that there is little project implementation experience in the sector in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Experience from other FSU countries and irrigation projects in other regions suggests that: (i) project
scope and design should be simple in view of the country's limited implementation and coordination
capacity; (ii) rigorous economic and environmental criteria should be applied in project planning and
design; (iii) privatization of O&M activities should be encouraged; (iv) there should be major emphasis
on construction quality control; (v) revenues from water charges should mainly be earmarked for O&M
within the areas of collection; and (vi) projects with low per ha investment costs have generally high
economic internal rate of return (EIRR).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Senior Govermment officials, including the Prime Minister, have written to the Bank in 1996 and 1997
requesting rapid project processing. The government's interest in the project was reiterated during the
pre-appraisal and appraisal missions by the President's office, the Prime Minister, the Minister of



Page 1 0
Agriculture, and the Minister of Finance. DWR officials have provided substantial inputs in project
preparation, which was carried out with the assistance of the FAO/CP. Government counterpart
contributions for operational expenses of the PIU and construction expenditures have been included in
Government's budget approved for 1998.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The project would provide value added support in: (i) incorporating appropriate economic, technical and
environmental criteria into the planning and design process; (ii) introducing competitive procurement
procedures; (iii) improving construction quality control; (iv) improving dam safety monitoring; (v)
introducing contracting for maintenance of irrigation infrastructure; (vi) introducing new technologies for
data processing, investment and O&M cost accounting, irrigation scheduling, etc.; and (vii) transferring
experience from other countries.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV=US $ 0.83 to 10.8 million; EIRR= 44 to 228 percent (the range for 6
PY1 sub-projects); [ I Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for each of the six PY1 sub-projects. The EIRR ranges from 44 to
228 percent and the NPV from US $ 833,000 to 10.8 million, at a discount rate of 15 percent. The
analysis was based on the following main assumptions: (i) "without project" yields would decrease by 1
percent per year; (ii) "with project" yields would remain constant during rehabilitation, increase by 2.5
percent per year during four years after completion of rehabilitation and stabilize afterwards; (iii)"with
project" yield increases are based on increased delivery of water only, and do not take into account
complimentary projects such as the RFP and ASSP; (iv) economic prices are kept constant at the year
2005 projections; and (v) the minimum required O&M expenditures have been included in the analyses.
The main identified risks are (see Section F.2): (i) cost overrmins during project implementation; (ii)
insufficient budget allocation, resulting in delays in project implementation; and (iii) insufficient budget
for O&M. An analysis was carried out to determine the sensitivity of the first year sub-projects to these
risks. The sub-projects are not sensitive to cost overruns. Costs could triple and the sub-projects would
still be economically viable. Also, all sub-projects would remain viable with a two year delay in sub-
project implementation. Insufficient budget for O&M would lead to rapid deterioration of the
rehabilitated infrastructure. The impact of such a risk was tested by assuming a "with project" yield
increase of five percent for a three year period after rehabilitation and an annual decrease in yield of one
percent, starting three years after completion of rehabilitation. E]ven under these assumptions, all sub-
projects would remain viable.
2. Financial.:
Financial analysis was undertaken to assess the ability of farmers to pay higher water charges to cover 0
& M costs. For the sustained operation of the irrigation system an annual O&M budget of Som 400
million (in 1997 prices) is required. Of this amount, it is estimated that about 40 percent cover the cost
of dams and major canals that are public goods and which serve, at least in part, other riparian states,
giving rise to externalities. The remaining 60 percent of the costs (Som 240 million) should be recovered
eventually from water charges to farmers. For this level of cost recovery, it is estimated that water
charges would need to increase four-fold from Som 15 to 60 per 1,000 cubic meter.
To test the impact of increasing water charges to Som 60 per 1,000 cubic meters, four farm models were



Page 11
prepared (six hectare and ten hectare individual farms, one 20 hectare family association with five
households, and one peasant farm with five households on 47 hectares). The "without project" situation
assumes a one percent per annum decline in yields. The "with project" situation assumes increased yields
of 10 percent at full development in five years. So at full development, the difference in yields would be
15 percent, representing a 5 percent decline in the "without project" situation and a ten percent yield
increase in the "with project" situation due to increased water availability. With water charges at Som 15
per 1,000 cubic meters, incomes in the "with project" case would be fromr Som 1,800 to 3,700 (or 20 to
40 percent) higher than in the "without project" situation depending on the model and water charges
would be from 6 to 7 percent of net income. When water charges are increased to Som 60 per 1,000
cubic meters, their share of net income would be substantially higher, in the the range of 26 to 32 percent
and net income would be from 15 to 26 percent higher in the "with project" situation then they would be
in the "without project" situation. If only the 10 percent increase in yields due to increased water
availability is considered, then the increase in net income would still just about cover the increased
water charge (net incomes would change by - 1.8 percent to + 4.4 percent depending on the model after
full cost recovery). Thus, farmers would be in a better position to pay higher water charges then they
would be without the project. Moreover, this analysis only takes into account the yield increases due to
increased availability of water as a result of the project and uses current financial prices, which are below
world market prices. With other investments in agriculture over the next five years and continued policy
and institutional reform to remove the remaining market imperfections, farmers ability to pay will
increase even further. Assuming average yield increases of 20 percent to 67 percentl depending on the
crop and with prices rising to their world equivalent (i.e. eliminating remaining market distortions), water
charges as a percentage of net income after taxes would range between 12 and 16 percent and net
incomes would increase between 108 and 126 percent.
3. Technical:
The first year sub-projects were visited both by the FAO/CP preparation and IDA pre-appraisal teams and
the urgency of the proposed repair and rehabilitation works was confirmed. While the first year sub-
projects have been fully appraised, the sub-projects to be implemented in subsequent years would be
selected from a list of "reserve projects" and would need to be approved by IDA for financing on a case
by case basis. It is considered that all design, construction and O&M standards should be within the
capacity of the DWR, national consultants and local contractors to adopt and implement.
During project preparation, much emphasis was placed on preparing detailed unit cost price analyses to
arrive at realistic project cost estimates. For each task, the costs derived were on the basis of construction
by private contractors. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been included in the cost estimates for
the civil works. Price contingencies have been included as well (8.2 -10.4 percent for local costs and 2.2
percent for foreign costs). Also, as the project follows a program approach, there will be enough
flexibility to adjust for any cost overruns by reducing the number of sub-projects.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The DWR has become relatively weak after independence as budget cuts have
caused considerable staff reductions. However, capable staff still remains in higher positions in the
center and at oblast and rayon levels. They are faced with very low salaries, small operational budgets
and little equipment. Despite these difficult circumstances, staff at all levels are working hard to keep the
irrigation infrastructure operational, albeit at lower capacity and efficiency then designed. Senior staff is
highly committed to the project and have already a clear understanding of the scope and implementation
arrangements of the project. Training activities and study tours planned under the project would further
I Per ASS Project assumptions.



Page 12
enhance their knowledge.
Project management: Project management would be carried out by the PIU, to be established within the
DWR. It would be staffed with national experts, to be recruited on competitive basis. There are still
sufficient experts available in the country to build up a strong PIU. In addition, the PIU would be
supported in the implementation of the project by consultants.
5. Social:
None.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    []A   [X] B   []C
The project has been ranked Category "B". A Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been carried
out. The SEA has been available for public review in the Ministry of Environmental Protection in
Bishkek since September 25, 1997 and is, since October 14, 1997, also available in the Bank's Public
Information Center. The implementation of the project is considered to have the following positive
environmental impacts: (i) reduction of water losses through improved O&M; (ii) substantial
improvement of dam safety; (iii) reduced risk of soil salinization from improved drainage; and (iv) the
removal of obstacles for fish migration, where feasible. Potential negative impacts of the project are: (i)
increased agrochemical pollution and surface water contamination, resulting from increased use of
pesticides and fertilizers, along with improved availability of irrigation water; (ii) soil erosion associated
with the maintenance of existing practices of agricultural production; (iii) impacts on aquatic habitats,
downstream ecosystems and human uses of surface water resulting from the restoration of the canal
conveyance capacities to the pre-1991 level; and (iv) indiscriminate dumping of excavated sediment
deposits from the canals. Of the latter, the mitigation of items (i) and (ii) will be addressed under the
ASSP and the OFIP. Aspects under item (iii) will be examined under the NWSs to be prepared under the
anticipated Aral Sea Basin's Water and Environmental Management Project (see Section B-2). Item (iv)
will be addressed during project design. During SEA preparation environmental NGOs were contacted
for their views on the proposed project but no concerns were raised about potential negative
environmental impacts.
7. Participatory approach:
Three stakeholder participation meetings were conducted in June 1997, with participation of stakeholders
from all six oblasts, mainly for the purposes of information sharing and consultation. Present during these
meetings were oblast and rayon DWR staff, Design Institute and Research Institute staff, O&M staff for
the irrigation dams, farm managers, contractors, etc. There is general agreement among stakeholders
about the project's objective, its components and implementation arrangements. Stakeholders will
continue to participate in sub-project selection, design and implementation.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Adequate and regular maintenance of the rehabilitated irrigation facilities are critical for the sustainability
of project benefits. Such maintenance requires sufficient O&M resources, which have not been
forthcoming over the last few years. The strategy pursued by the Government and the IDA during project
preparation has been to concentrate first on improving the collection rate of the existing Som 15 per 1,000
cubic meter water charge and not focus on increasing the charge until an adequate system of collection
and enforcement is in place. The strategy also reflects concerns about the current low incomes in rural
areas and the desire not to increase charges until incomes begin to rise. Already the strategy is beginning



Page 13
to yield results as collection rates have risen from about 20 percent in 1995 to around 80 percent in 1997.
Government expects further improvement of collection rates to as high as 95 percent as enforcement and
incomes improve.
Even with the higher collection rates, funds available for O&M from water charges and the Government
budget are currently not sufficient. For 1997 the approved DWR budget for O&M was Som 130 million
and for 1998 Som 218 million (including estimated revenues from water charges collection). As noted in
the financial analysis, an annual budget of Som 400 million (in 1997 prices) is required for the sustained
operation and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure. To address the lack of O&M funding, an
assurance has been obtained from Government that it would, not later than June of each year, before
submitting its annual budget proposal for DWR to Parliament, submit to the IDA for review, a draft
annual budget proposal, showing that proposed budgetary allocations to DWR, including the expected
collections of water charges and other revenues, but excluding proposed expenditures for investment
projects, would amount to at least Som 350 million in 1999 and Som 400 million in 2000. Although these
agreed levels are still less than the Som 400 million in 1997 prices required for full maintenance, these
levels (i) represent significant increases over past years; (ii) are all Government can currently afford; and
(iii) are consistent with the need to rebuild DWR's maintenance capacity after many years of
underfunding. In order to this deficit, the IDA would contribute to the financing of maintenance of
selected infrastructure in 1999 and 2000. The table below presents the actual and future contributions (in
million Som) to the O&M budget for the period 1997 - 2000. Proposals for budgetary allocations to the
DWR for the years after fiscal year 2000 would be prepared under the National Irrigation Rehabilitation
Action Plan (Section B-2). Consistent with the strategy outlined above, the table does not assume any
increase in water charges. However, as the financial analysis shows, expected increases in yields and
farm prices indicate that farmers will soon be in a position to pay substantially increased water charges.
It is expected that such increases would be pursued under the proposed OFIP (FY2000).
Contributor         1997       1998      1999    2000
Government           130       218        350     400
IDA                                |       30      14
TOTAL                130       218        380     400
(Farmer              (39)      (44)      (45)    (46)
contributions)_1/II                I                  I
1/ Included in Govermment budget..



Page 14
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                   Risk          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient Government budget for O&M;   M    Government has committed itself to submit
substantially increased O&M budget proposals
to Parliament for 1999 and 2000. Budget
proposals for the years beyond 2000 will be
assessed under the NIRAP. The project would
contribute to financing incremental maintenance
costs to reduce the burden on Government
budget;
From Components to Outputs
Cost overruns during project implementation; M    Much attention has been paid to costing of sub-
projects during project preparation; the project
follows a program approach so that in case of
cost overruns the project scope can be adjusted
to available budget;
Insufficient budget allocation for project  M    The project has a high priority within
implementation;                               Government; the Ministry of Finance has
indicated that budget lines will be included in the
1999 and subsequent budgets to cover the local
contribution to project implementation and the
operation of the PIU;
Unsatisfactory capability of local contractors N    Local contractors would be trained in
to implement projects;                        competitive bidding processes; most sub-projects
are small; much operational equipment remains
in the country; some contractors have gained
valuable experiences through the TACIS project;
Insufficient professional staff in employment N    PIU established, assisted by technical assistance
of the DWR to implement project; and          consultants; PIU staff receiving competitive
salaries;
Insufficient commitment of oblast and rayons N    Training and equipment will be provided; water
to implement O&M measures.                    charges collected stay within the rayons to pay
for O&M.
Overall Risk Rating M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.



Page 15
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The recruitment of consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
IDA to improve the PIU's project design, bidding document preparation, procurement and contract
management capacity.
The establishment of a financial management system, satisfactory to the IDA.
The appointment of an independent auditor, acceptable to the IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Management
Government will maintain an Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee (ICC) composed of the First
Deputy Minister of MOAWR (Chairman); the Deputy Minister of Finance; the First Deputy Minister of
Environmental Protection; the Advisor to the Department of Agricultural Development of the Office of
the Prime Minister; the Deputy Chief of the Donor Cooperation Unit of the Foreign Investment Agency
of the State Commission of Foreign Investmnents and Economic Aid; and the Director of the PIU
(Secretary). Throughout the implementation of the project, the PIU will be maintained with a sufficient
number of staff, consultants, adequate resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the IDA.
Project Implementation
Govemment will select the sub-projects in accordance with agreed procedures and eligibility criteria, and
carry out each sub-project in accordance with agreed terms and conditions.
Government will, not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the IDA, for its review,
a work program for sub-project preparation activities to be carried out during the following fiscal year;
and, immediately hereafter, finalize said program taking into consideration the IDA's comments thereon.
Government will maintain, throughout the implementation of the project, a Panel of Experts, with
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the IDA, to (i) review the proposed plans for
rehabilitation and completion works of irrigation dams and their monitoring systems; (ii) inspect any
construction works at least once; and (iii) upon completion of a dam, inspect the dam every five years.
Government will (i) not later than December 31, 1999, prepare and submit to the IDA, for its review, a
National Irrigation Rehabilitation Action Plan, including proposals for the development of irrigation
institutions, for inter-farm and intra-farm rehabilitation, and for budgetary allocations to the DWR for the
years after FY 2000; and (ii) immediately thereafter finalize such strategy, taking into account the IDA's
comments thereon; and (iii) carry out such strategy in accordance with its terms.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
Government will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the IDA, the carrying out of the project and the achievement
of the project's objectives.
Government will prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the IDA, on or about September 30,
2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out the



Page 16
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievements of its
objectives; and review the report with the IDA, by December 31, 2000.
Sectoral Resource Allocation
Government will, not later than June 30 of each year, before submitting to Parliament its annual budget
proposal for the DWR of MOAWR, provide to the IDA, for its review, a draft annual budget proposal
showing that budgetary allocations to the DWR, including the expected collections of water charges and
other revenues, but excluding expected expenditures for investment projects, will amount to at least Som
350 million in FY 1999 and Som 400 million in FY 2000; and immediately thereafter finalize the draft
budget proposal taking into consideration the IDA's comments.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's irrigation network rehabilitation works were
completed by December 1997; the designs for the first two dams are scheduled to be completed by April
1998.
[XI The draft procurement documents for the first year's irrigation network rehabilitation works
(comprising about 10 percent of total project costs) were completed by January 1998; the bidding
documents for the first two dams are scheduled to be completed by May 1998.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised in November 1997.
[XI The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): A financial
management system, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the project,
is not yet in place and an independent auditor, acceptable to the IDA, is yet to be appointed.
1. Compliance with IDA Policies
[ ]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. On December 4, 1997, interested riparian
countries were either informed or notified of the proposed project. No expressions of concern have been
received.
[X] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
[The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
A financial management system acceptable to the IDA is not yet in place but the PIU, assisted by
consultants, will establish such a system prior to Credit effectiveness. Similarly, the independent auditor
will be appointed as a condition for Credit effectiveness.
Task Team Leader: Willem A. van Tuijl
Sector Director: evin Cleaver
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera



Page 17
Annex 1
Kyrgyz Republic. Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative          Key Performance        Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Summary               Indicators
Sector-related                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Goal:
1.1. Contribution to the  1. 1. Ministry of Agriculture  Consistent with Bank
1. To facilitate the  agricultural GDP from  and Water Rescurces           Mission.
recovery of the    irrigated agriculture.    statistics.
agricultural sector.
1.2. Progress in          1.2. Bank Reports.
agricultural policy
reform.
Project                                                                    (Objective to Goal)
Development
Objective:
1.1. Increase in          1.1. Department of           Continued agricultural and
1. To increase the   agricultural output from  Agriculture Statistics.    institutional policy reform.
productivity of    areas benefiting from
irrigated          inter-farm irrigation                                   Government is committed
agriculture in the   rehabilitation (10 percent                            to long-term improvement
project area       yield increase, 4 years                                 of the agricultural sector
through improved   after completion of                                     through increased and
water supply.      rehabilitation).                                        efficient resource
allocation.
1.2. Increase in volumes    1.2. Department of Water
of water diverted and     Resources reports on water    Other Bank/IDA
delivered to the          diversions and deliveries to    investment projects (Rural
boundaries of former      farms.                        Finance Project;
state and collective                                    Agricultural Support
irrigated farms (on                                     Services Project, etc.) are
average 25 percent for all                              successful.
project farms, upon
completion of
rehabilitation).
Outputs:                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
1. Reliability,    1.1. Irrigation dams      1.1. PIU progress reports.    Farmers are paying their
operation and     rehabilitated, completed                                 water charges.
sustainability of    and /or provided with
irrigation         monitoring equipment                                    Government makes
infrastructure     (up to 12 dams).                                        sufficient budget
improved.                                                                  allocation to O&M.
1.2. Irrigated areas      1.2. Department of Water
provided with improved    Resources and PIU
water supply (up to       monitoring reports
345,000 ha).



Page 1 8
2. Department of   2.1. Six oblasts and 32  2.1. PIU progress reports.
Water Resources   rayons equipped with
strengthened in   machinery for emergency
water resources    repairs, and computer
and project       facilities to plan operation
planning, project   and maintenance of
execution and     irrigation facilities.
O&M.
2.2. Improved capacity    2.2. PIU progress reports.
within DWR and Design
Institute to carry out
design work, construction
supervision and quality
control.
3. Maintenance of  3. Maintenance works by   3.1. Department of Water
inter-farn        private contractors in up    Resources and PIU
irrigation        to 32 rayons.            monitoring reports.
infrastructure of
sub-projects
improved.
Project           Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
Components/Sub-  component)
components: (see
Annex 2 for
project                                                                No cost overruns during
description):                                                          implementation.
1. Rehabilitation                          1. Progress reports,        Necessary budget
of Irrigation                             procurement reports, and     allocation from central
Infrastructure.                            disbursement reports.       govemment.
1.1. Dams         1.1. US$12.0 million.
1.2. Inter-farm   1.2. US$17.8 million.                                Satisfactory capability of
canal networks                                                         local contractors to
implement projects.
2. Capacity                               2. Progress reports,
Building                                  procurement reports and      Sufficient professional
2.1 Implement-    2.1. US$6.6 million.     disbursement reports.       staff remain in
ation Support                                                          employment of the DWR
2.2 Institutional    2.2. US$6.6 million.                              at all levels to implement
Dev.                                                                   the project.
3. Incremental    3. US$3.8 million.      3. Progress reports,         Commitment of oblast and
Maintenance                               procurement reports and      rayons to implement
disbursement reports.       O&M measures.



Page 19
Annex 2
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Project Description
Introduction
Irrigated agriculture plays a key role in the economy of the Kyrgyz Republic. Average annual
precipitation, which is dispersed throughout the year, varies from 130 mm to 680 mm. Potential annual
water deficits range from 360 to 1,450 mm. Approximately 1.07 million hectares have been developed for
irrigation. Most of the irrigation facilities, including dams, were constructed during the 1950 - 1980
period. Irrigated agriculture contributes more than 60 percent of the total agricultural output and about 20
percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Grains and forage are the main crops. Other crops include
maize, cotton, fruits, vegetables and sugar beet. Irrigated agriculture directly employs more than 25
percent of the labor force.
The break-up of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) in 1991 resulted in a severe disruption of the irrigation
sub-sector, due to: (i) paralysis of the agriculture sector, due to agricultural reforms, lack of market
outlets and farmer experience, and the shortage of agricultural inputs and credit facilities; (ii) serious
reduction in the budget of the Department of Water Resources (DWR), which basically stopped the
maintenance activities of the irrigation infrastructure, except for limited emergency repairs; and (iii)
breakdown of the former state and collective farms into a large number of small units, which make water
distribution more complex.
The lack of maintenance since 1991 has resulted in: (i) deterioration of the irrigation dams and related
safety problems; and (ii) reduced capacity of the primary and secondary irrigation systems, due to
siltation and deterioration of the infrastructure. The overall capacity of the canals identified for
rehabilitation under the project has reportedly decreased by about 20 percent. The total volume of water
abstracted for irrigation in the country has reduced from 10.2 billion m3 in 1990 to 8.1 billion m3 in
1995. Now that less water is available at farm level, farmers have resorted to under-irrigation, which has
led to yield decreases. Furthermore, a substantial area has gone out of production.
Project Component 1 - Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure (US$29.8 million, including
contingencies)
Dams (US$12.0 million, including contingencies):
This sub-component would support the rehabilitation, completion or improvements in monitoring systems
of up to 12 irrigation dams, in order to restore their safety and capacity. All but one of the 12 dams are
embankment dams, except Kirov, which is a concrete butress dam. The dams supply irrigation water to
497,000 ha in the Kyrgyz Republic. Key characteristics of the dams are given in Table 2.1.
An inspection of all dams took place during project preparation. The dams are generally in rather poor
condition, as very few funds have been available for maintenance activities during the past decade. In
particular, many gates and valves were found to be in poor condition, while some of the dams have
considerable seepage. A few dams require completion or enlargement of spillways, or completion works
on abutments. Others need improvements in the monitoring systems. One dam (Karabura) is still to be
completed since construction was halted ten years. The identified rehabilitation or completion works for
each of the dams, necessary on the grounds of dam safety, and preliminary cost estimates are presented in
Table 2.2. Dam examination reports, designs and updated cost estimates would be submitted to the IDA
for review and concurrence. An Independent Panel of Dam Experts would be maintained by Government
to review the work of the consultants and contractors. Upon completion of the rehabilitation, periodic
inspections would be undertaken by suitably qualified independent experts, to be appointed by
Govemment.



Page 20
TABLE 2.1: CHARACTERISTICS OF 12 IRRIGATION DAMS
Oblast/River    Date   Impounding   Dam    Catchment Volume  Irrigation  ICOLD
Reservoir            Basin      Completed  Reservoir   Height  Area (km2) (106 m3) Area (ha)   Risk
()   _Categorv
1. Al Archa Large     Chui/Chu             1986         Yes      35.0       233    90.0    20,000    IV
2. Al Archa Small    Chui/Chu               1966         No      24.5          -    51.0    17,500    III
3. Bazar Korgon       Jalalabad/ Syr D.     1962         No      25.0          -    22.5    18,000    III
4. Karabura           TalaslTalas        Not yet        Yes      58.0       797    27.0      7,915    IV
5. Kirov              Talas/Talas           1975        Yes      86.0     7,940   570.0   142,000    IV
6. Naiman             Osh/Syr Darya         1966         No      40.5          -    39.5     6,000    IV
7. Orto-Tokoi         Naryn/Chu             1962        Yes      52.0     5,970   470.0   220,000    IV
8. Papan              Osh/Syr Darya         1985        Yes    120.0      2,420   260.0    45,000    IV
9. Sokuluk            Chui/Chu              1968        Yes      22.5       500    11.5      4,000    III
10. Spartak           Chui/Chu              1978        Yes      15.0       600    22.8      3,000    III
11. Stepninski        Chui/Chu              1935        No        3.5         -      0.8     1,880    rI
12. Torgul            Osh/SyrDarya          1971         No      34.0          -    90.0    11,500    IV
Note: Risk category IV is the highest, and in case of a calamity there could be severe loss of life and property damage.
TABLE 2.2: REQUIRED REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION WORKS ON 12
IRIGATION DAMS
Preliminary Cost
Estimates (Base;
Reservoir                                  Remedial Works                                     US$)
1. Al Archa Large     Raise abutments to design level; Provide instrumentation to measure              870,000
settlement; Observation wells.
2. Al Archa Small     Repair toe erosion; New piezometers.                                              75:000
3. Bazar Korgon       Repair slabs on upstream face; Construct spillway through right bank dike of     570,000
river at headworks.
4. Karabura           Complete dam; construct spillway.                                              3,300,000
5. Kirov              Repair left side of plunge pool; Shotcrete left abutment; Provide standby        230,000
generator.
6. Naiman             New piezometers; Replace two valves.                                              75,000
7. Orto-Tokoi         Complete spillway; Grout foundation of valve house; Clean mountain canal;      1,800,000
8. Papan              Repair gates; Standby generator.                                               1,075,000
9. Sokuluk            Plunge pool repair; New piezometers; Grouting of grout curtain; Standby           90,000
generator.
10. Spartak           Replace four gate valves; repair slabs on upstream face.                        225,000
11. Stepninski        Repair gate valve; Increase freeboard by one meter; New piezometers; Clear       125,000
downstream slope.
12. Torgul            Drop structure construction in spillway channel.                                 30,000
Replace eight gates.
______   8,465,000
Telecommunication Equipment: US$360,000 (base cost) has been allocated for the provision of
telecommunication equipment to each dam (lump sum of US$30,000 per dam). Communication is needed
between the DWR and its control centers and the various dams, and also between some of the major dams
and populations downstream.
The project costs presented in Table 2.2 are preliminary and it is likely that costs will increase once the
extent of rehabilitation works for each dam are known in more detail. In cooperation with the DWR it
was agreed to give priority to Orto-Tokoi, Karabura, Papan, Kirov, Al-Archa Large and Spartak.
Remaining funds would then be used for the dams that have less serious safety problems. The two dams
for which rehabilitation is planned to start in PYI are Orto-Tokoi and Karabura. Detailed design work for
these dams is ongoing. Pertinent features and the works required on each of the two dams can be
summarized as follows:



Page 21
Orto-Tokoi: The dam serves an irrigation area of 220,000 ha in the Kyrgyz Republic and 80,000 ha in
Kazakhstan. There are about 1 million people living downstream of the dam and its failure could cause
failure of several downstream reservoirs as well. This would result in a serious human and property
catastrophe. There is an uncompleted overflow spillway on the left abutment, with a 40 m long weir and a
620 m long partly lined spillway channel. The quoted design spillway capacity is 240 m3/sec. The
spillway is presently not operational, because the channel lining has not been completed. In addition to
the spillway, 190 m3/sec can be released via the two outlet valves. There has been serious undermining of
the outlet structure housing the valves. This causes a safety problem, because if the outlet structure were
to fail there would be no means of releasing water from the reservoir. Initial hydrological calculations
have indicated that the maximum probable flood is much larger than the total available release capacity.
Under the project the overflow spillway would be re-designed and completed for the required design
flow, and the foundation of the valve house would be repaired. A mud interception drain, located parallel
to the spillway channel, was constructed to prevent mudslides from entering the spillway channel. It has
filled up with rock and debris and would be cleaned under the project. Already in 1987 it was
recommended that all inlet gates should be repaired or replaced. The project would investigate the state of
the gates and repair work or replacement would be undertaken. A diesel generator would be provided, to
operate the gates when power from the electric grid is not available.
Karabura: The dam was designed to serve a proposed irrigation area of 18,000 ha, but at present less than
8,000 ha is actually developed. Construction of the dam stopped in 1991 for lack of funds. About 50
percent of all works was completed. The grouting and the outlet tunnel have been completed, and the four
outlet gates have been installed. Approximately 45 percent of the dam fill has been placed. The maximum
dam height is now 32 m, which is 26 m below the design height. The spillway with a design capacity of
160 m3/sec has not yet been constructed, which causes serious safety problems. The present capacity of
the outlet is 35 m3/sec, which can only accommodate floods with a return period of less than 1 in 10
years. Therefore the reservoir level is kept very low, with a maximum capacity of 3 million m3 (50
percent of present available capacity). Completion of the dam would benefit the 8,000 ha of irrigated
lands and would reduce the risk of dam breaching and subsequent flooding of downstream areas. No
people would need to be displaced in order to fill the reservoir to design capacity.
Inter-farm Canal Networks (17.8 million US$, including contingencies)
During the first phase of project preparation by FAO/CP in October 1996 a total of 93 civil work sub-
projects were reviewed. Only 83 of these sub-projects were considered to be eligible for rehabilitation.
Other sub-projects were rejected, because they comprised largely new works and expansion of irrigation.
Further ranking of the 83 sub-projects took place, based on reliability of data and an index of readiness
for construction, i.e. sub-projects that would only require final designs were ranked higher than sub-
projects that would require considerable survey and design work. For each sub-project a ranking factor
was calculated, to determine the expected viability. Refinements in this selection process took place
during a second FAO/CP preparation mission in February/March 1997. This exercise resulted in 67 sub-
projects in 48 command areas, located throughout the 6 oblasts in the country. Although not all the on-
farm infrastructure is in good condition, it was confirmed that there would be no serious problems in
irrigation of the entire areas under the command of the sub-projects. Eight of the 48 command areas
receive water from the irrigation dams, discussed in the previous section.
Ten sub-projects have so far been selected for detailed study and design work during the preparation
phase between October 1997 and April 1998. Six of the sub-projects have now been appraised in detail
and the economic feasibility has been confirmed. These sub-projects are relatively straightforward
rehabilitation works, which would be easy to implement. Table 2.3 presents the summary of the works



Page 22
required. Consultants are still working on the designs for the four other sub-projects, namely Kainazar,
Kenesh, Burganda and Kyrgyz Ata.
TABLE 2.3: SUMMARY OF PY1 SUB-PROJECT WORKS AND OTHER DETAILS
Irrigation   Estimated
Sub-Project        Oblast               Work Required                Area       Costs
Commanded (Base; US$)
_____________________                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(ha)
1. East Chui Canal    Chui        Clean canal;                               39,066    850,000
2. West Chui canal     Chui       Clean canal;                               74,312  2,600,000
3. Orto Headworks      Chui       Strengthen and raise u/s bund; Repair d/s drop  4,225  80,000
structure;
4. Ad Bashinsky Link Canal Chui   Clean canal;                               23,153    250,000
5. Kugart Right Bank Canal Jalalabad    Replace canal lining,                 4,583    520,000
6. Komsomolsky Canal   Issyk-Kul   Clean canal; Raise canal bank; Install concrete  14,200    275,000
,berm;                                _ _ _ _ _
I_____________________I_______________                                       159,539  4,575,000
A brief description of pertinent features and the works required in the six appraised sub-projects are
described in the following paragraphs:
East Chui Canal (Chui oblast): The canal construction was completed in 1953. It has a length of 96 km
and supplies water to 43,466 ha in 5 rayons, namely Kemin, Chui, Ysyk-Ata, Kant and Alamudun. About
23.5 km of the canal is lined with either in-situ concrete or stone pitching. The design capacity is around
43 m3/sec at the headworks and 8 m3/sec at the tail-end. At the point of abstraction, the Chu river is
regulated by the Orto-Tokoi dam. There has not been any regular desilting work since 1987 (except for
some work funded by TACIS during 1996 and 1997) and water flows have reduced considerably because
of restricted canal sections. It is noted that larger flows are sometimes discharged by reducing the
freeboard of the canal, which could put the canal at risk of breaching. Even then most of the command
area is being under-irrigated, with the most serious problems occurring at the tail-end of the canal. It is
proposed to clean sediments, weeds and reeds from 40 km of canal, between km 4.5 - 26.8 and km 77.8 -
95.6. The volume of earthworks is estimated at 480,000 m3. In addition the service road adjacent to these
sections would be regraded. Hoisting mechanisms and gates of nine tumout structures would be replaced.
The estimated base cost of the works is US$850,000. The command area that would benefit from these
rehabilitation works is 39,066 ha. An additional area of 4,400 ha would only benefit after rehabilitation of
the R8 secondary canal, which is planned for implementation at a later stage of the project.
West Chui Canal (Chui oblast): The canal construction was completed in 1954. It has a length of 147 km
and supplies water to 74,312 ha in 7 rayons, namely Ysyk-Ata, Kant, Alamudun, Sokuluk, Moskva, Jalyl
and Panfilov. In addition 12,000 ha is supplied in Kazakhstan. It also supplies water to: industries in
Bishkek; Bishkek's central heating plant; seven small hydropower plants; and Al Archa Small reservoir.
At the point of abstraction, the Chu river is regulated by the Orto-Tokoi dam. The design capacity of the
canal is 61 m3/sec at the headworks, including 25 m3/sec supplied from a natural spring. At km 51 the
design capacity has reduced to 51 m3/sec. There has been no regular desilting work since 1987 (except
for work funded by TACIS during 1996 at the tail-end section of the canal) and due to siltation the canal
capacity has reportedly reduced by around 20 percent. Larger flows are being discharged at times by
reducing the freeboard, but overflow has been reported around km 35.5. A large part of the command
area is being under-irrigated. It is proposed to clean a section of 52 km between km 0 and 52. The bed
width and canal depth in this section vary between 16 - 18 m and 3.0.. 3.5 m respectively. The volume of
desilting is estimated at 1,400,000 m3. In addition the gates of 31 tumout structures would be replaced,
while some repair works on the gates of the headworks would be carried out. The estimated base cost of
the works is US$2,600,000.



Page 23
Orto Headworks (Chui oblast): The project is located in Moskva rayon. The headworks diverts water
from the Sokuluk river into the Orto canal. This concrete lined canal is 7 km long and has a capacity of 6
m3/sec. It supplies water to 4 farms, with 12 sub-divisions, totaling 4,225 ha. The canal is in good
condition and sufficient water is supplied to the farms. It does not require rehabilitation. The right bund of
the intake canal from the river to the headworks is weak and low. The bund is regularly overtopped and
breached during floods. It is proposed to clean the intake canal and to heighten and strengthen the right
canal bund with earth and rip-rap selectively over a distance of 150 m. A drop structure downstream of
the headworks was constructed in 1985. This structure was damaged in 1994 and continuing erosion
might threaten the stability of the headworks. It is proposed to repair this drop structure with concrete and
stone pitching. The total base cost for the works is estimated at US$80,000.
Ad Bashinsky Link Canal (Chui oblast): This 7.5 km long link canal conveys water from the
Chumyshsky headworks on the Chu river to the Ad Bashinsky main canal. This canal with a length of 46
km receives also water from the large Al Archa darn at km 13. It supplies water to 23,153 ha in
Alamudun, Sokuluk and Moskva rayons. The main canal is in operational condition and does not require
rehabilitation. The first 500 m of the link canal is concrete lined. The design capacity of this canal is 25
m3/sec, but the present capacity of the canal section between km 0.5 and km 7.5 is around 15 m3/sec. It is
proposed to clean this section and restore the canal to its original condition, with a minimum bed width of
10 m and a canal depth of 2.35 m. The volume of desilting is estimated at 126,000 m3. Scouring at the
end of the concrete section has resulted in an unprotected drop of about 1.15 m. A drop structure would
be constructed. The estimated base cost of the works is US$250,000.
Kugart Right Bank Canal (Jalalabad oblast): The 5.8 km long canal supplies water to 4,583 ha in Suzak
rayon. The lined canal was constructed between 1965 and 1972. Considering that this canal is a high
speed canal, with water velocities up to 4 m/sec, the concrete lining, and especially the joints, were not
designed properly, and large sections of the lining are destroyed. The design capacity is 7 m3/sec, but
because of damage to the lining the actual capacity is only 4 m3/sec. The farms are under-irrigated and, in
addition, 1,586 ha are out of production. It is proposed to reconstruct the concrete lining of the canal, with
special attention being paid to concrete quality and design of-joints. The gates of 5 regulators would be
replaced. The reconstruction of a 100m long destroyed section of the left bank canal will also be included
in this contract. This would return that canal to full operational condition. Any necessary further
rehabilitation works for +'is canal would be deferred to a later stage of the project, as extensive survey
and study work is needed. The total base cost for these rehabilitation works is estimated at US$520,000.
In 1996 and 1997 TACIS has funded rehabilitation works on the headworks, including erosion protection
of the apron and the construction of a bed load deflector.
Komsomolsky Canal (Issyk-Kul oblast): This canal was constructed in 1953 and commands 14,200 ha of
land in Ak-Suu rayon. It is 35 km long, with an intake capacity of 14 m3/sec at the headworks, reducing
to 7.5 m3/sec at the tail-end section. It is presently impossible to divert this design capacity, because of
siltation of canal sections and insufficient height of the embankment along the upstream section of the
canal. Although the whole command area is being irrigated, under-irrigation takes place, especially in
farms located at the downstream end of the canal. It is proposed to selectively clean sediments over 3.9
km between km 27 and 35, reconstruct four drop structures, and partially replace the stone pitching of the
initial 2 km section of the canal. The total base cost is estimated at US$275,000.
List of "Reserve Sub-Projects" for other Project Years: A list of "reserve sub-projects" was prepared
during project preparation. This list comprises 59 sub-projects in 45 command areas. Sub-projects to be
implemented from PY2 onwards would be selected from this list, or from among other potential sub-
projects, that have not yet been identified. Approval of each sub-project by the IDA would be based on:
(i) a brief feasibility report, which would describe such aspects as technical details; condition of the intra-



Page 24
farm infrastructure; and economic analysis; and (ii) the EA and conclusions of the SEE review. The
present list of sub-projects includes a variety of works, including: canal and drain cleaning; repair or
reconstruction of concrete lining; installation of new gates; river bank protection; repair of hydroposts;
reconstruction of headworks; and reconstruction of control structures. Based on the available funds for
irrigation rehabilitation and the sub-projects on the present list of"reserve sub- projects", it is estimated
that irrigation schemes in a maximum of 32 rayons in 6 oblasts would be covered and that the total area to
benefit from rehabilitation would be about 345,000 ha (including the PYI sub-projects).
Project Component 2 - Capacity Building (US$13.2 million, including contingencies)
Implementation Support (US$6.6 million, including contingencies)
PIU: A PIU of 6 professional staff would be maintained within the Department of Water Resources for
the daily management, administration and coordination of the project. Oblast based engineers would be
contracted by the PIU as consultants, for contract management and construction supervision of the
different sub-projects. All PIU staff, including the oblast based engineers, would be recruited on a
competitive basis and financed under the project (base cost US$400,000). In addition, the project would
finance equipment for the PIU (computers, printers and software, photocopiers, communication
equipment, office furniture and vehicles, etc.; base cost US$179,000). PIU support staff costs are
estimated at US$198,000, while operational expenses of the PIU amount to an estimated US$620,000
(base cost).
Management and Engineering Consultants: The PIU would contract management and engineering
consultants to assist in project implementation (base cost US$3.55 million). It is expected that the total
package of consultants would involve about 120 person-months of expatriate staff and about 4,000
person-months of local experts and support staff. International consultants would initially be hired for the
first two project years. National consultants would be hired for the duration of the project. Need for
further international assistance would be examined towards the end of PY2. If needed, funds would be
reallocated, unless grant financing would be available.
Panel of Experts on Dams: A team of two international dam experts and two national dam experts would
be financed under the Credit (base cost US$305,000) to: (i) provide and independent and high level
evaluation of the safety status of the irrigation dams that are covered under the project; (ii) review the
plans proposed by the engineering consultants for rehabilitation works and monitoring systems; and (iii)
inspect any construction work at least once. The required expertise of the team would include: (i) dam
design and operation; (ii) hydrology; (iii) geology / geotechnical engineering; and (iv) mechanical
engineering.
Audit Firm: an audit firm would be hired by the PIU to carry out the annual audits of the project accounts.
The base cost has been estimated at US$135,000.
Institutional Development (US$6.6 million, including contingencies)
Office Equipment: Each of the 6 oblasts, participating rayons (estimated to be 32) and the 3 irrigation
dams that are managed by the DWR at national level (Orto-Tokoi, Papan and Kirov) would receive a
financial allocation to set up a modern workstation, including a personal computer, a printer and standard
software, and, where needed, a fax, photocopier and other office equipment. An allocation of US$10,000
has been made per office, but flexibility would be allowed in procurement, whereby each office could
decide what equipment to purchase (total base cost US$4 1 0,000).



Page 25
O&M Equipment and Machinery: Equipment and machinery would be provided to permit the 6 oblasts
and 32 rayons to carry out emergency repair and maintenance works, such as canal breaches and land
slides, and small works, such as repair of gates and small structures. An allocation of US$100,000 has
been made per oblast and rayon organization for equipment, machinery and spare parts. Flexibility would
be allowed in the provision of the equipment and machinery. A range of items is foreseen for each rayon:
examples are tractor with front loader, trailer, concrete mixer, dewatering pump, welding equipment, and
water bowser (base cost US$3.2 million). Limited spare parts may be needed, to bring heavy oblast and
rayon maintenance equipment, such as bulldozers and excavators, back into operational condition (base
cost US$0.6 million). Four 4 emergency dam repair units would be established and equipped with
necessary machinery. They would be located according to the geographical location of the dams, in such
a way that they could provide rapid assistance to each of the irrigation dams. A total of US$1.0 million
(base cost) has been allocated for the purchase of necessary machinery for these units.
SIMIS Software: The project would provide software to assist oblast and rayon offices in the effective
planning, operation, maintenance and management of irrigation and dam systems. It is proposed to use
the SIMIS program, developed by the FAO. SIMIS is written in DBase IV and is a menu-driven system
of integrated databases. It has 19 different and independent programs, called modules. It would allow
storing of basic data on crops, climate, soils, physical infrastructure, beneficiaries, etc., after which
execution of different management tasks related to water distribution, crop production, project income
from water charges, project expenditures for O&M, etc. would be possible. Extra modules could be
developed as necessary and the program could possibly be linked to programs that have been developed
by the Scientific Research Institute for Irrigation (SRII) and the Water Automation and Metrology
Institute (WAMI), both in Bishkek. FAO consultants and local software developers would be engaged to
translate SIMIS in Russian and train trainers, who would subsequently train oblast and rayon staff of the
DWR, under the supervision of FAO experts. Following the completion of the training courses, two or
three trainers would be employed for about 1.5 years to provide follow-on support to the oblast and rayon
offices. (base cost US$250,000).
Training and Study Tours: The Credit would support various local training activities and three study tours
for staff of the DWR (base cost US$125,000). The activities would be demand driven and the PIU would
agree with DWVR staff on the details.
Project Component 3 - Incremental Maintenance (US$3.8 million, including contingencies)
The project would assist with the financing of maintenance works for inter-farm irrigation infrastructure
associated with the sub-projects. This would reduce the burden on Govermment's O&M budget in 1999
and 2000 and also introduce competitive bidding procedures for routine maintenance works.



Page 26
Annex 3
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
A. Rehabilitation of Irrigation                   10.7             11.2         21.9
Infrastructure
Dams                                           4.2               4.6          8.8
Inter-farm Canal Networks                       6.5              6.6          13.1
B. Capacity Building                              1.1               9.8         10.9
Implementation Support                          0.8              4.5          5.3
Institutional Development                       0.3              5.3          5.6
C. Incremental Maintenance                        1.4               1.5          2.9
Total Baseline Cost                               13.2             22.5         35.7
Physical Contingencies                          2.1              3.1          5.2
Price                                           3.8              2.1          5.9
Contingencies
Total Project Cost                                19.1             27.7         46.8



Page 27
Annex 4
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
An economic analysis was carried out for each of the six PY1 irrigation rehabilitation sub-projects. The
project's impacts were computed based on the estimated rehabilitation costs and expected incremental
expenditures, related to increases in yields due to increased water availability to the crops. Switching
values for costs and benefits were calculated for the least viable task. Sensitivities related to the main
identified risks, including cost overruns, project timing and insufficient budget for O&M, were
determined. It could be concluded that the project is robust and has minimal risk thresholds.
Main Assumptions:
(i)    "Without project" yields would continue to decrease at a rate of 1.0 percent per year;
(ii)    "With project" yields would remain constant during rehabilitation, increase 10 percent (at a rate
of 2.5 percent per year for 4 years) after completion of rehabilitation and then stabilize
afterwards;
(iii)   "With project" yield increases are based on increased delivery of water only, and do not take
into account complimentary projects such as the RFP and ASSP;
(iv)    Economic prices are kept constant at the year 2005 projections;
(v)    The minimum required O&M expenditures have been included in the analysis.
Results of Economic Analysis
The results of the economic analysis for the 6 PYI irrigation sub-projects are as follows:
Sub -
Economic       Project                              Ad
Indicators     Totals   East Chui  West Chui   Bashinsky  Komsomolsky  Kugart  Orto
EIRR (%)         105        94          44          149          51          65     228
NIPV (m Som)    86.0       180.0       189.2        80.3         14.6       37.8   16.8
Switching Values
The next table indicates values at which a change in costs or benefits would reduce the net present value
(NPV) to zero for the most sensitive sub-project, Komsomolsky. The table also presents the effect of that
percentage change in costs or benefits on the NPV of other PY1 sub-projects. The crossover sensitivity of
costs and benefits illustrates that there is a stronger sensitivity to changes in benefits (i.e. 45 percent
decrease based on changes in yields, holding prices constant) than to changes in costs (i.e. 480 percent
increase).



Page 28
Switching       Sub -
Values         Project                              Ad
-45% Benefits  Totals   East Chui  West Chui   Bashinsky  Komsomolsky  Kugart  Orto
EIRR (%)        37.3        43          22          52            15         37      92
NPV (M Som)   22.6         64.3        38.7        26.7           0         14.3    5.8
Switching       Sub -
Values         Project                              Ad
+480% Costs   Totals   East Chui  West Chui   Bashinsky  Komsomolsky  Kugart  Orto
EIRR (%)        27.4        37          19          46            15         20      48
NPV (M Som)   47.5         139.6       66.3         66.8          0         11.5   12.5
Yield Sensitivity Analysis
The following table presents the results of the project's most sensitive factor, yields. Sensitivity 1
presents the resulting EIRR figures in the case that the "without project" assumption that yields would
continue their present annual 1.0 percent decrease would not occur, but instead would remain constant.
Sensitivity 2 presents the resulting EIRR figures with a change in "with project" assumption to zero yield
increases.
Sensitivities   Sub -
Project                              Ad
Totals   East Chui   West Chui  Bashinsky  Komsomolsky  Kugart Orto
Sensitivity 1:
EIRR (%)      65.4        45           18          81           20          56    228
NPV M Som    19.73        56.7         14.2        29.4         1.3        27.4   16.8
Sensitivity 2:
EIRR (%)      31.9        27           18         22           7.6        65.2   117
NPV M Som       11.49       37.1        19.3         11.6        -4.6        5.6   12.4
Risk Analysis
The following table illustrates the main identified risks of this project and their effects on the tasks' EIRR
and NPV. Risk 1 illustrates the scenario where the "with project" yields would increase by 5.0 percent
instead of 10 percent and the current 1.0 percent annual decline would resume three years after
completion of rehabilitation, due to insufficient improvements in O&M budget. Risk 2 illustrates the
scenario where the assumed 10 percent yield increase in the "with project" situation would be delayed by
two years.



Page 29
Sub -
Project                               Ad
Totals   East Chui   West Chui    Bashinsky  Komsomolsky Kugart Orto
Risk 1:
EIRR(%)       55.8       57           27           66           10        55   175
NPV          26.45      65.8         57.3         27.9         -0.9      24.6  8.7
(M Som)
Risk 2:
EIRR          51.4       54           32           56          29.3       55   138
NPV          60.88      143.3        140.0        59.4         9.7       32.9  12.9
(M Som)
Karabura Dam Economic Analysis
The main criteria for selection of the 12 dams slated for rehabilitation is safety. The most urgent and
extensive works are required for the Karabura dam to avoid a catastrophic breech of the dam. There are
two viable options for avoiding such a catastrophe. The Karabura darn is currently about 50 percent
completed. As a safety precaution, the reservoir is only filled to about 45 percent of design capacity. The
least cost option is to construct a spillway and keep the dam to its current height. The second option is to
complete the dam and raise the dam to its original design height, thereby increasing the carrying capacity
of the reservoir and allowing the irrigated area to be expanded. If the dam were completed to full design,
than it would hold approximately 27 million m3 water (or a nine fold increase in storage capacity) at an
approximate five fold increase in construction cost. The nine fold increase in storage would facilitate the
expansion of irrigation within the existing irrigation command area by about 1,800 ha (based on 10,000
m3 water/ha at a 60% delivery rate). The remaining 700 million m3 water would be distributed across
the entire 9,921 ha providing for a potential 10% increase in yields from the present situation.
Investment Options for the Karabura in Avoidance of a Calamity
Estimated Dam
ICOLD Risk        Restructuring        Total          Total
Category          Investment        Command       Investment
Dam - Karabura            IV               US$ mil.            Ha'        US$ per Ha
Spillway at current                         0.500             7,945          62.90
height
Full Completion                             2.600             9,921         262.00
to original Design
Based on these assumptions, the EIRR was calculated with the "without project" scenario being the least
cost option (i.e. creating a spillway at an estimated $500,000 over PY2 and PY3 and keeping yields
constant) and the "with project" case being full completion (i.e. dam completed to original design at a
cost of $2.6 million with a 10% increase in yields and 25% increase in acreage or 1,976 ha). The
resulting EIRR suggests it would be economical to complete the dam to full design.
I     By PY5.



Page 30
Table 4.6: EIRR based on Incremental Benefits of Full Completion of the Karabura Dam
over the Least Cost Option
Completion of Dam vs. Least Cost Option
EIRR                   NPV
20.8%               9.24 mil Som
See Working Paper for full model analysis



Page 31
Annex 5
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31, 1998 through 2004
Table 5.1. Project Costs and Financing Sources
Implementation Period
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Project Costs (US$ '000)
Investnent Costs           2,497   9,284   15,094   6,472   4,367   3,625    796
Recurrent Costs             81    1,565   1,262    939      571      175      95
Total                   2,578   10,849  16,356   7,411   4,938   3,800     891
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IDA                         82      75      80       69      68      67       63
Government                  18      25      20       31      32      33       37
Total                    100     100      100     100     100     100      100
Financial Farm Models
The purpose of this section is to demonstrate the effects of changes of water charges on four typical farm
models, which include: i) an individual farm of 10 ha in Kara Balta, ii) a peasant farm of 47 ha and five
households in Kara Balta, iii) an individual farm of 6 ha in Osh, and 20 ha and five households in Osh.
Table 5.2 shows the impact of moving to full cost recovery of O&M (Som 60 per 1, 000 m3 ) on the
percentage change in net incomes between the "with" and "without" project scenarios and on the water
costs as a percentage of net income. The "with project" case for this example just assumes a ten percent
increase in yields at full development. The various columns represent changing assumptions about input
and output prices and yield increases due to other investments in the sector.
Table 5.2 Net Income (after Taxes) Percent Increase and Water Costs as Percent of Net Income
(after Taxes). The without project case is at PY1 (i.e. yields remain constant)
PY6 w/proj 15  PY6 w/proj   wlproj. 60 WFP I w/proj. 60
Model                PY1 w/o   CFP            60 CFP                         Combined
Benefits
_ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   W FP
% Rise in Nel: Income                  21.1%        -1.8%            31.2%         113.2%
Water Costs              5.7%           6.3%        31.1%            23.3%          14.3%
2
% Rise in Net: Income                  19.2%        -.06%            39.0%         126.5%
Water Costs              4.9%           6.3%        26.4%            18.9%          11.6%
3
%Rise in Net Income                    25.3%         2.1%            14.2%         107.7%
Water Costs              6.1%           7.0%        31.6%            28.3%          15.5%
4
% Rise in Net Income                   17.4%         4.4%            18.2%         108.0%
Water Costs              5.3%           6.7%        27.4%            24.2%          13.8%



Page 32
Table 5.3 Net Income (after Taxes) Percent Increase and Water Costs as Percent of Net Income
(after Taxes). The without project case is PY6 (yields declined 5%)
PY6         PY6 w/proj.          PY6                            w/proj. 60
Model                    wlo          15 CFP              w/proj. 60    wlproj. 60        Combined
CFP           WFP              Benefits @WFP
% Rise in Net Income                             42.8%          16.6%            55.9%              153.2%
Water Costs                   6.8%                6.4%          31.1%            23.3%               14.3%
2
% Rise in Net Income                             37.5%          15.5%            61.5%               186.1%
Water Costs                   5.7%                5.6%          26.4%            18.9%               11.6%
3
% Rise in Net Income                             64.3%          24.2%            38.9%             152.77%
Water Costs                   7.4%                6.0%          31.6%            28.3%               15.5%
4
% Rise in Net Income                             52.2%          26.4%            43.1%               151.8%
Water Costs                   6.5%                5.7%          27.4%            24.2%               13.8%
Notes:
15 - 15 Som per 1,000 m3 for water
60 - 60 Som per 1,000 m3 for water (amount estimated at which the farmers would pay full O&M costs)
CFP - Current Financial Prices (below World Market Prices due to market distortions)
WFP - World Financial Prices
Combined Benefits - refers to ASS Project yield and related cost increases for the three concurring projects.
See working paper for full farm models.



Page 33
Annex 6
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of works and goods would be in accordance with the "Guidelines - Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997).
The Borrower would use the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works, including the
Bank's regional sample NCB documents. Recruitment of consultants would be in accordance with the
"Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997,
revised September 1997). For the consulting assignments the Borrower would use the relevant Bank's
standard forms of contract.
Responsibility for all procurement would rest with the PIU. The staff of the PIU would include a full time
procurement specialist. Moreover, the PIU would be assisted by management and engineering
consultants, which would provide a full time procurement specialist for at least the first two years of
project implementation. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and
recorded and quarterly reports would be sent to the IDA. These reports would also indicate: (i) revised
cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions and
completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv) compliance with aggregate limits on
specified methods of procurement.
The General Procurement Notice has been published in the UN Development Business of February 16,
1998. A Project Launch Workshop is scheduled for early August 1998, immediately upon expected
project effectiveness. As part of this Workshop, a Procurement Workshop will be conducted, in order to
strengthen the Borrower's capacity in procurement know-how.
Procurement arrangements are presented in Table A. Details are as follows:
Works: Contracts for the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure valued above US$1.0 million per sub-
project would be procured through ICB. Contracts valued between US$250,000 and US$1.0 million
would be procured through NCB up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 11.1 million. Contracts
costing less than US$250,000 would be awarded based on three quotations (procurement of Small
Works). The latter procedure would also be followed for the maintenance contracts, which are all
estimated at less than US$250,000 per contract. The total aggregate value of Small Works contracts is not
to exceed US$8.1 million.
Goods: ICB procedures would be used for contracts of US$200,000 and above (procurement packages
for maintenance equipment and machinery). International Shopping would be used to procure items
(vehicles, office equipment, spare parts, etc.) included in contract packages estimated to cost between
US$50,000 and US$200,000 per contract, with an aggregate value not expected to exceed US$1.45
million. National Shopping would be used for small items, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000, on the basis of at least three quotations from
qualified suppliers. Spare parts, proprietary in nature, up to US$350,000 would be procured through
Direct Contracting.



Page 34
Services: (i) PIU staff would be selected as individual national consultants, initially for one year, with the
possibility of extension upon satisfactory performance (total cost US$480,000); (ii) a joint venture of two
consulting firms has already been contracted with PHRD Grant finance for detailed preparation activities
during the period October 1997 to April 1998. The joint venture was selected under a fixed budget. Upon
satisfactory performance, the joint venture of management and engineering consultants would be offered
an extension of contract under the Credit for two years (Single Source Selection, justified as a
continuation of previous work carried out; total cost US$2.87 million). Consultants for further project
years would be selected according to Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS; US$1.33 million); (iii) a
team of FAO experts would be contracted under Single Source Selection to introduce the SIMIS software
for use in the Kyrgyz Republic and train staff of the DWR. FAO is the developer of the software and has
extensive experience with similar assignments (total cost US$300,000); (iv) four experts are expected to
be selected as individual consultants during the preparation phase to constitute a Panel of Experts on
Dams. Upon satisfactory performance during this phase, extensions of contracts would be offered under
the Credit (total cost US$360,000); and (v) an audit firm would be selected, based on Least-Cost
Selection, to carry out the annual audits of the project accounts (US$170,000).
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts (both good and works) and the first works contracts following NCB and Small Works,
regardless of their value, would be subject to prior IDA review.
With respect to Services, prior IDA review would be required for all terms of reference, irrespective of
the contract value. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 75,000 would be subject to IDA' s prior
review (the IDA would review the Request for Proposals, the terms of reference and short-list). For each
contract estimated to cost US$ 200,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the
technical evaluation report would be submitted to the IDA for its review prior to the opening of the priced
proposals. For contracts estimated to cost between US$ 75,000 and US$ 200,000 the IDA would be
notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial proposals. For
contracts with individual consultants costing US$ 40,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms of employment shall be furnished to the IDA for its review and approval. All other
contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the IDA on a random basis.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$35 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of six years, and
the expected closing date of the Credit would be December 31, 2004. There is no experience yet to form a
disbursement profile for the Kyrgyz Republic, but it is estimated that the country's ability to implement
the project over a six year period is reasonable, especially given that: (i) a PIU has been established; and
(ii) TA consultants are already assisting government with the preparation of the designs and bidding
documents for PYI works and would continue during project implementation.
Expenses incurred by the MOAWR for goods (Category 2) and consultants' services and training
(Category 3), after June 30, 1997 but prior to the date of the Development Credit Agreement, would be
subject to retroactive financing up to an amount of US$25,000 equivalent.
A condition for disbursement of expenditures made in respect of works (Category 1) would be that the
IDA has approved the concerned sub-project.



Page 35
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The following disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a)
goods under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 each; (b) works under contracts costing less than
US$ 1,000,000 each; (c) training; (d) maintenance costs; and (e) services under contracts less than US$
75,000 each for consulting firms, and less than US$ 40,000 each for individual consultants, under such
terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify . Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by
the Borrower and made available to the IDA during supervision.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a
commercial bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the IDA. The IDA would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million.
Initially the allocation would be limited to US$ 750,000 until disbursements have reached SDR 7.0
million, at which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment
of the SA would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary
documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement. The SA would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA.



Page 36
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other       N.I.F
1. Works
1.1. Dams                   9.4         1.4        0.6a/                    11.4
(6.4)      (1.0)       (0.4)                   (7.8)
1.2. Inter-farm Canal       4.4         9.7        3.7a/                    17.8
Networks                (3.0)       (6.6)       (2.5)                  (12.1)
2. Goods
2.1. Machinery and          4.8                    0.7b/                    5.5
Equipment               (4.8)                  (0.7)                    (5.5)
2.2. Spare parts                                   0.7c/                    0.7
(0.7)                   (0.7)
2.3. Vehicles                                      01d/                    0.1
(0.1)                   (0.1)
2.4. Office Equipment                              0.6e/                    0.6
(0.6)                   (0.6)
3. Services
3.1. PIU                                           0.5f/       0.3          0.8
(0.5)                   (0.5)
3.2. Technical Assistance                          4.7g/                    4.7
(4.7)                   (4.7)
3.3. Training                                      0.5h/                    0.5
(0.5)                   (0.5)
4. Recurrent
4.1. Incremental                                   3.8i/                    3.8
Maintenance                                    (2.5)                   (2.5)
4.2. PIU Operating Costs                                       0.9          0.9
Total                       18.6        11.1        15.9       1.2          46.8
(14.2)      (7.6)      (13.2)      (0.0)       (35.0)
Notes: N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
a/     Small Works for dam and irrigation network rehabilitation works.
b/    International Shopping (US$500,000) for dam monitoring instrumentation and
telecommunication equipment and National Shopping (US$200,000) for small
maintenance equipment,
c/    International Shopping (US$350,000) and Direct Contracting (US$350,000) for spare
parts.
d/    International Shopping (US$100,000) for vehicles for PIU.
e/    International Shopping (US$500,000) and National Shopping (US$ 100,000) for office
equipment for PIU and DWR offices.
f/     Selection of individual national consultants.



Page 37
g/    Single Source Selection (extension of contract) for Engineering and Management
Consultants (US$2.87 million) for PYs 1 and 2 (Consultants were selected under fixed
budget for detailed preparation activities between October 1997 and April 1998).
Consultants for further project years to be selected according to QCBS method (US$1.33
million); Extension of contract for Panel of Experts on Dams (US$363,000), selected as
individual consultants during the preparation phase of the project; Auditors to be selected
based on Least-Cost Selection (US$170,000).
h/    SIMIS (US$296,000) for which FAO team to be contracted under Single Source
Selection; miscellaneous local training activities to be conducted by Engineering and
Management Consultants (US$79,000); Study Tours (US$78,000).
i/    Small Works for maintenance contracts.



Page 38
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Works
>US$1,000             ICB                   All contracts ($13.8M)
>US$250               NCB                   First contract ($0.3M)
<US$250               Small Works           First contract ($0.1M)
2. Goods
>US$200               ICB                   All contracts ($4.8M)
>US$50                IS                    No prior review
<US$50                NS                    No prior review
N/A                   Direct Contracting for  No prior review
spare parts
3. Services
Consulting firms      N/A1                  Single Source         ToR; Contracts
Selection             ($3.2M)
>US$75                QCBS                  ToR; Contracts
($1.3M)
N/A                   Least-Cost Selection    ToR; Contracts
for Audit Firm        (US$0.2M)
<US$75                Consultants'          ToR
Qualifications
Individuals           >US$40                Selection of          ToR; Contracts
Individuals           ($0.4M)
<US$40                Selection of          ToR
Individuals
4. Recurrent Costs
Maintenance Contracts  <US$250              Small Works           No prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$24.1 M
Relates to: (i) Phase 2 of existing contract for Management and Engineering Consultants; and (ii) FAO contract.



Page 39
Annex 6, Table C: Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit
Category               Amount in             % of Expenditures
US$ million            to be financed
equivalent
Works                                           70%
(a) Irrigation Dams                 7.0
(b) Inter-fann Canals and Drainage  11.0
Channels
Goods:                                 6.8      100 % of foreign expenditures; 100 %
of local expenditures (ex-factory costs);
and 80 % for other items procured
locally
Consultants' Services and Training     5.7       100 %
Maintenance Costs of Selected          2.5       70 %
Irrigation Infrastructure
Unallocated                            2.0
Total     35.0



Page 40
Annex 7
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
263.41
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project               17 months             18 months
First Bank mission (identification)             08/05/1996           08/05/1996
Appraisal mission departure                     10/13/1997           11/18/1997
Negotiations                                    01/14/1998           03/16/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/01/1998           08/10/1998
Prepared by: Departmnent of Water Resources, with assistance from FAO and joint venture of
Temelsu and Gibb Consultants.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant of US$693,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Willem van Tuijl                 Task Team Leader / Irrigation Engineer
Roy Southworth                         Agricultural Economist
Joop Stoutjesdijk                        Irrigation Engineer
Piotr Kryzanowski                       Environmental Specialist
Nirmala Saraswat                       Environmental Specialist
Naushad Khan                           Procurement Specialist
Tom Ward                                  Economist
Janybek Omorov                            Operations Officer
Maurizio Ragazzi                            Legal Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai                        Disbursement Officer
Jean-Pierre Villaret                      Irrigation Engineer
Graeme Donovan                        Peer Reviewer / Economist
Nejdet Al-Salihi                  Peer Reviewer / Irrigation Engineer
Alessandro Palmieri                  Peer Reviewer / Dam Specialist
Joseph Goldberg                    Sector leader / Quality Assurance
Including US$137,800 planned in WPA for FY98.



Page 41
Annex 8
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Bank Staff Assessments
-  Economic Analysis (Working Paper, Sept.1997; Addendum, Febr. 3, 1998; Financial
Analysis, Feb. 3, 1998);
-  Costab Tables (January 1998);
C. Other
- Identification / Preparation Report (FAO/CP; December 1996)
-      Main Report
-      Working Paper 1: Country Profile
-      Working Paper 2: Irrigated Agriculture
-      Working Paper 3: Detailed Scheme Configuration
-     Working Paper 4: Engineering Costs and Contracts;
- Preparation Report (FAO/CP; May 1997)
-     Main Report
-     Working Paper 1: Dam Inspection Report
-     Working Paper 2: Irrigated Agriculture
-     Working Paper 3: Engineering
-     Working Paper 4: Economic Analysis;
-  Sector Environmental Assessment (FAO/CP; August 1997);
*Including electronic files.



Page 42
Annex 9
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference
Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions           expected
and actual
disbursements
Project ID   Loan or   Fiscal  Borrower           Purpose
Credit     Year                                     IBRD          IDA       Cancell  Undis-   Orig    erm
No.                                                                               bursed            Rev d
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 4
Active Loans
KG-PE-8518   IDA          1994       GKR      TELECOMMUNIC-            0.00      18.00        0.00     5.94  -1.31    0.00
26340                          ATIONS
KG-PE-8524   IDA          1995       GKR      PRIV. ENTERP.            0.00      15.00        0.00    12.20    8.10    0.00
27170                          SUPP.
KG-PE-8515   IDA          1995       GKR      SOCIAL SAFETY            0.00      17.00        2.00     4.12    5.46    1.57
26430                          NET
KG-PE-45631  IDA          1996       GKR      FINANCIAL SEC.           0.00       3.40        0.00     2.13      .67   0.00
28910                          TECH.
KG-PE-8519   IDA          1996       GKR      POWER & DIST.            0.00      20.00        0.00   18.12   5.24    0.00
28680                          HEAT
KG-PE-8523   IDA          1996       GKR      HEALTH                   0.00      18.50        0.00    10.95  -2.47    0.00
28600
KG-PE-8513   IDA          1996       GKR      SHEEP & WOOL             0.00      11.60        0.00     9.59   1.84    0.00
28590                          IMPROV.
KG-PE-8520   IDA          1997       GKR      RURAL FINANCE            0.00      16.00        0.00    13.43  -1.31    0.00
29590
KG-PE-8521   IDA          1997       GKR      PUB SEC RES              0.00      44.00        0.00    21.61  21.56    0.00
N0160                          MGT ADJ.
Total                                                                  0.00    163.50         2.00    98.09  37.78    1.57
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    57.52              211.90               269.42
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   161.50              210.00               371.50
Amount sold                                         0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid                :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :                98.09                0.00                98.09
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 43
Annex 10
Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Kyrgyz Republic at a glance                                                                 8127197
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Kyrgys    Central    Low-
Republic      Asia  income    |Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         4.6       479    3229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              570      2,180     500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                2.6      1,043    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990' 6
Population (%)                                         0.6        0.3      1.7
Labor force (%)                                        1.2        0.5      1.7     GNP                              Gross
per                            primar
Most recent estimate (latest yearavailable since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% of population)               45
Urban population (% of total population)                39        65       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68        68       63    1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                30        26       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                  75         .       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     3         ..      34
Gross primary enrollment (% oFschool-age population)   111        97      105               Kyrgyz Repubic
Male                                                 110        97      112                Low-incone group
Female                                               111        97       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      199S     1996
IEconomic ratios^
GDP (billions US$)                             ..        .        1.5      1.7
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                  ..    30.5        18.3     21.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..      ..       28.8     31.5             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    13.8       -0.7     -1.1
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..    13.8       -7.5     -7.6
Current account balance/GDP                     ..      ..    -25.9    -29.5
Interest paymentslGDP                          ..       ..        2.0      2.8     Savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                                   ..       .       50.8     60.
Total debt servicelexports                     ..        .       14.2     13.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debVexports                   ..       ..    138.4                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                      Kyrgyz Republic
GOP                                   ..        ..     5.4        5.6        .         ___Lwicmgru
GNP per capita                                        -6.3        4.5                        Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..      6.8      25.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1999
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and invesarnt (%)
Agriculture                                    ..    30.7        45.3     51.9     30
Industry                                       ..       ..      20.4      19.3     20
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..       8.6      8.1      10__s_                            /
Services                                       ..       ..       34.4     28.8     2
Private consumption                            ..    64.1        80.8     83.9    -30
General govemment consumption                  ..    22.1        19.9     17.2
Imports of goods and services                  ..        .      47.9     54.6                -GDt   -0-GDP
197545  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                          I Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                             ..       -2.3       ..     30
Industry                                       ..       ..    -12.3         ..    26 I
Manufacturing                                 ..       .          ..      ..    20.
Services                                        ..      ..        50        ..    105-
Private consumption                            ..        .       -0.8      8.9      s..
General govemment consumption                   ..      ..       -5.4     -8.5     -s      9 1    92   53    9// as   e5
Gross domestic investment                       ..      ..       -5.4     26.6    -is ..
Imports of goods and services                  ..        .       10.9     25.6
Gross national product                          .        .        5.4      5.5                Esportt    ---Imports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 44
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995      1996                                        __
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              1 000
Consumer prices                                   ..        ..       31.9      35.0      750 T
Implicit GDP deflator                           -2.3    -10.3        32.6      31.8      75008
Govemment finance                                                                        250
(%l of GDP)                                                                                0    I         __                _
Current revenue                                   ..        ..       16.4      15.2               SI   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                            ..        ..       -9.3      -7.0                   GDPdef  ---CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           *-        ,,      -13.5      -8.1
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Export and Import levels (mIll. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                ..       ..       409       526      1,000
na.                                                                 100      114        Boo
n.a.                                             .         ..        33       29        90
Manufactures                                     ..       ..        277      382        600
Total imports (cif)                               6. *-              672       901           I
Food                                             .         ..        87       98        4001             19AfDfl
Fuel and energy                                  .         ..       174      251        2004 
Capital goods                                    .         ..       144       182 
Export price index (1995100)                                         100       101             90  91   92  93  94   95  96
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..       ..       100       106    j               Eports   Xi Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..                  100       95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      ..       ..       430       548       0
Imports ofgoods and services                       ..       ..       715       950           9091    92   93   94   95   96
Resource balance                                  ..        ..      -285      -402           9
Net income                                         ..       ..       -68       -80      -10|
Net current transfers                             ..        ..       -35       -31                                    i
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                ..       ..       -388      -513     -20.
Financing items (net)                             ..        ..       341       513
Changes in net reserves                            ..       ..        47         0      -30 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                ..       ..       115       129
Conversion rate (locallJS$)                        ..       ..       10.8      12.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1995 (mIll. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..       ..       759     1,045
IBRD                                             ..       ..         0         0                         G
IDA                                             ..        ..       141       183                         12       B
Total debt service                                 ..       ..        62        76
IBRD                                             ..       ..         0         0
IDA                                             ..        ..         1         1            E
Composition of net resource flows                                                             292!                       C
Official grants                                 ,,        ,,       100       109                                      124
Official creditors                              ..        ..       129        96
Private creditors                               ..        ..       135       182
Foreign direct investment                       ..        ..        61        31
Portfolio equity                                ..        ..         0         0                         D
190
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..        ..        60        98      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..        ..        81        59       B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Pivate
Principal repayments                            ..        ..         0         0       C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..       ..        81        59            |-
Interest payments                               I.        .          1         1
Net transfers                                   ..        ..        81        58
Development Economics                                                                                                      8/27/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29380
70:                                                                                                                              751                                                                                                                               800,
o            25          50           75           100
M IES                           T.: 0,kuA
LAS                                                                                                  IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-   6'                                                                                                                                                                         Pee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fk P.IeyA
1580,,:       C)        ISSYK-KUL749,
/                                                                                    6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
IT
~~  CIo:eo,      ~DZALAL-ABAD
UZBEKISTAN    '--..-'i'                                                                                                                                                     U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RY 
U          IKe SugTTrA  NC
'7  ~~~~~~~~~,O  0.                                                                                                       -                                                            TABLES: EVER BASINS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TBL  : IERBSIS
'Ril: i4  09      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ A., 
(.            ..C1~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~~SH   r4~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                          CR,kM4    I.~~~~~~~~~~. .
I                              .~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             800~~~~I  ,  0
430  N.  '71                 6'                                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
*/'  . 6'  -2%  c's                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
OSH                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CH  I N   A                                                           PROJECT IRRIGATION SCHEMES (c,-AI Tbl 1)1
-r.,-....r'...-  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a~~~~)                                                                                                                                            miS    PROJECT DM40 TOP REIARIIITATION (cc.:: TeA  2)~~~~~~~E1  POJCT AAS ORREHBIITTIN (.-l b   2
OcT:':.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~  ~ ~~.                                                                                                                                                               EVER BASIN BOSNTARIES ANT NOMBERS 0:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VR ASN OUDAIE  TDeUMER   ,-1     3)l 3
TAJ IK ISTA N                                                                                                                            a ~  *-        ..6    uu-Iu6   Ky~AI-So,:  TABLE 2.' PROJECT DAMS FOR REHAB.                        ROBERS
70,                                                                                                       IT,e,E  I- 6  Kua..l h        A-unui.,ig  N                       I OroT&iRAILROS
Te M-,"B 'B       6  Ki,,..-K-hk,i,,           A-unuD,aiaag                        2  LAlg AIAra                                                OTATER BOATS
P H   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~E~N                           TABLE 1: PROJECT IRRIGATION SCHEMES.                    Kad-uti I-. Suh-a        Tot-GuIIiiBogohu                    3  S.all Al Aha.                                            MAIN ROADST
AZERB1BJAN        /                                                  .   -             K.I.aak-Sau Canal.6I  Kapa U.... Si           6  Chon-Bakdyga           6  Td-u Drainage                       4  Sakalelk                                                  SELECTED CITIES
(   ~~~- -~~ /   KAZAKASTAN                    .-~~~~~~~~.   6' ~E-t Chiu Canal.     6' MaiIi-Su               6  Bu,gauda               el, Kan-Kuldja                         5SSpentin                                                    OBLASTCAPETALS
C,                                                     t3                   'W-tt Ch,ui Ce,-I    6   K..., Ogau                 Khi.uj-Gair           6  Manoaski Drainage                   6  SftpinslId
Cy' ~~~~~~~~  7q~~~~~~~   N  ,"5,:45   -                          -                        -                                                                                                  NATION% CAP 0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAIOA CP A
A     &S-iDi,-.AKBu.hKd,A- C..1                                                                                                                                                               7 .-K.g-OBLAST BOUNDARIES
--~~~-~~   %,    I     -'oN- -Jz2 i      .'CSai.y1 'Bn    Cah... I                                                      ' Otu-Ady C6..             BigrdaCanci ...PagaN                                                                  - - .      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0   ~~~~ ~~  /~~~',                             6' O,tu~~~~~".Cua .. 6I T   Kaa-uui,ky Caul ..    6'1C  Ky,gyu-Atu         6   Opumaral                           IC brIDal.
RETPBC       ?           IC)  iaBe, Canu.l                                                            6', S,edae-May,e,ky           Abuhiti-Sni          6'Kaian-  Cu-c                         I IKim,                                                p,ua:c.I:u,:A::ecTLelie
REETB3C  ..-..  N~~~~    4Th,], ~C H I NA                          Ch6'~k              &  Di.. C...I                                                                                                                                              .0,.bAk.C ...u,:12eK.,b cA. -W :-u
AFGHANISTAN,    -    -C                                         Kuq                Q, TpAk C...I                  Z-,D6g                   N.   .                              1   h      id
750
APRI1 i98T



