                             Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                 Report No:ICR000003




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA Credit No. 3063-KG)




                               ON A

                              CREDIT

              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26 MILLION

                 (US$35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE

                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                              FOR AN

             IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT




                          January 25, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       ( Exchange Rate Effective 07/31/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = SOM
                                  SOM 1.00 = US$ 0.025
                                  US$ 1.00 = SOM 40.0

                                      Fiscal Year
                            JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDS     Country Development Strategy
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DWR     Department of Water Resources of MOAWRPI
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FEP    Flood Emergency Project
FSU     Former Soviet Union
GKR     Government of Kyrgyz Republic
IRP     Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ISF    Irrigation Service Fee
KDI     Kyrgyz Design Institute
KIRI    Kyrgyz Irrigation Research Institute
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MMG    Mobile Maintenance Group
MOAWRPI Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry
NIRSAP National Irrigation Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
OIP     On-Farm Irrigation Project
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
POED    Panel of Experts on Dams
SIMIS  Scheme Irrigation Management Information System
WMIP   Water Management Improvement Project
WUA     Water Users Association

                            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director: Annette Dixon
                          Sector Manager: Juergen Voegele
                     Project Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk

                                               Kyrgyz Republic
                                  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 21
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 24
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 25
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 29
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 32
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 40
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 46
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 48
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 49
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 50
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 51
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 53
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 54
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 55

1. Basic Information

Country:                Kyrgyz Republic       Project Name:           Irrigation
                                                                      Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P046042               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-30630
ICR Date:               01/25/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOVT. OF THE
                                                                      KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 26.0M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 25.7M

Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies

Department of Water Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 11/20/1996           Effectiveness:     09/21/1998         09/21/1998
Appraisal:         11/20/1997        Restructuring(s):                     12/02/1998
Approval:          05/07/1998        Mid-term Review:                      07/12/2001
                                     Closing:           12/31/2004         05/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)          Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                      65                80
Central government administration                            35                20
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Rural policies and institutions                Primary            Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure              Primary            Primary
Water resource management                      Primary            Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                 At ICR          At Approval
Vice President:                               Shigeo Katsu       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:                             Annette Dixon      Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                               Juergen Voegele    Kevin M. Cleaver

Project Team Leader:                          Joop Stoutjesdijk  Willem A. Van
                                                                 Tuijl
ICR Team Leader:                              Joop Stoutjesdijk
                                              Benoist Veillerette

ICR Primary Author:                           (FAO/TCIE)
                                              Abdel Aziz Tabet
                                              (FAO/TCIE)




                                          2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


After independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz economy went through a sharp recession. In particular,
the agricultural sector, which represented about 47 percent of GDP and 50 percent of employment
at the time of independence, declined dramatically and was only slowly starting to bottom out at
the time of project preparation and appraisal. The Government was facing financial and human
limitations to handle comprehensive and complex reforms of the sector, including market
liberalization, land reform, and farm restructuring.

The irrigation sub-sector (covering about 1.05 million ha or 80 percent of total arable land in the
country) was also affected by the difficult transition and the lack of Government and farmers'
capacity to cover operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of irrigation schemes, which resulted
in a rapid deterioration of major hydraulic structures, including dams and headworks, and canals.
By 1996, the deterioration of irrigation dams and related safety problems as well as the loss of
design capacity of many higher-order irrigation systems was having an increasingly negative
impact on irrigation water supply and use, and consequently agricultural performance. The
Government hence considered restoration of irrigation networks to their design capacity vital to
contribute to the improvement of the living standard of large sections of the poverty-hit rural
people. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1995 responded adequately to the
country priorities with a pragmatic and flexible lending program. Considering its importance, the
agricultural sector was seen in the CAS as a basis for solving many of the economic and social
issues in the rural areas.

By the time of project appraisal, the Government had taken the first steps to reverse the downward
trend of the irrigation sub-sector, in particular through: (i) the introduction of an Irrigation Service
Fee (ISF) in 1995, which in 1997 had reached respectable recovery rates of around 80 percent; (ii)
an increase of O&M budget by 50 percent in 1998 compared to 1997, which was the first increase
since independence; and (iii) a commitment to develop, by early 2000, a National Irrigation
Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan (NIRSAP). At the same time and to complement these
initiatives, it appeared urgent to prevent key irrigation infrastructure from further deterioration
and in some cases virtual collapse. The project was designed to mainly address this issue.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original Project Development Objective was to "increase the productivity of irrigated
agriculture in the project area through improved water supply". Key performance indicators
included: (i) the increase in agricultural output from areas benefiting from inter-farm irrigation
rehabilitation (a 10 percent yield increase, 4 years after completion of rehabilitation was
expected); and (ii) the increase in volumes of water diverted and delivered to the boundaries of
former state and collective farms upon completion of rehabilitation (on average 25 percent for all
project farms was expected).



                                               3

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

In order to finance the reconstruction of critical infrastructure that was damaged or destroyed
during 1998 summer floods, an adaptive restructuring took place and a project component was
added to IRP. The restructuring was approved by IDA's Board of Executive Directors on
December 2, 1998. The PDO was amended to also include: "to re-establish conditions of safety
and stability against future floods within the Suzak section of the Kugart River and for selected
irrigation infrastructure". The performance indicators included: (i) people living in the flood plain
in Suzak protected against future flooding through strengthening of levees up to design standards
(number of people estimated at 6,000); and (ii) ability to abstract design flows through repair of
up to six intake structures, commanding about 50,000 ha in total (25,000 farm families expected
to benefit).

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as
well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

Direct beneficiaries from the interventions in the irrigation systems were expected to be about
50,000 farm families on a command area of up to 345,000 ha of irrigated land (about 33 percent
of total irrigation area in the country). Besides, the farming population on nearly 495,000 ha
would benefit from improved dam safety. Also, 6 oblast and 32 out of 43 raion Department of
Water Resources (DWR) offices were expected to benefit from being better equipped.

At the time of the mid-term review, it was estimated that the irrigation area covered by the project
would reduce to about 250,000 ha, considering the project restructuring and changes in
disbursement percentages. As more schemes in the southern oblasts were expected to be included
in the project, the number of direct beneficiaries was not revised, as farm sizes in the south are
typically small.

The additional component benefited a population of 6,000 people living in the flood plain in
Suzak. About 15,000 farm families eventually benefited from the reconstruction of four damaged
headworks, which guaranteed the water supply to their schemes (about 30,000 ha).

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project originally had three components:

Component A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure (US $29.8 million, including price and
physical contingencies). This component aimed at low-cost rehabilitation of primary and inter-
farm irrigation infrastructure in order to return higher-order irrigation systems to their original
capacities and operational capabilities. The component also included a sub-component aiming at
the rehabilitation and/or completion of up to 12 irrigation dams and improvement in their
monitoring systems, in order to restore their safety and capacity.




                                               4

Component B: Capacity Building (US $13.2 million). The component was designed to strengthen
O&M activities of DWR to provide training to staff, and to promote more efficient water
distribution and management. Support aimed at provision to DWR oblast and raion offices of
computer and office equipment, software (for irrigation scheduling, management information
systems, etc.), and maintenance equipment to be able to react in a timely manner to emergency
repair needs. The component also was to finance the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
technical assistance consultants.

Component C: Financing Incremental Maintenance (US $3.8 million). The activities proposed
under this component were designed to support a small portion of the incremental recurrent costs
for maintenance works of the infrastructure that was to be rehabilitated under IRP. The rationale
of the component was that investments in the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure would not
be worthwhile if the remaining irrigation infrastructure within the command areas of the sub-
projects would deteriorate further because of lack of routine maintenance. The component would
also allow the testing of using private contractors for substantial routine maintenance activities.

The project was to be implemented over six years. The project cost was estimated at US $46.8
million, including an IDA credit of SDR 26 million (US $35 million equivalent at the time of
negotiations). The Credit became effective on September 18, 1998. There were two extensions of
the project closing date, the first for one year (from January 1 to December 31, 2005) and the
second for five months (from January 1 to May 31, 2006).

6.6 Revised Components

As a response to serious flooding that occurred during the summer of 1998 in Jalal-Abad and Osh
Oblasts, it was quickly agreed that IRP would support government's urgent efforts to provide post-
flood rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged river bank protections and irrigation
headworks. Government and IDA agreed to re-allocate up to US $4.0 million for a new
component -- Emergency Repairs to Flood-damaged Infrastructure -- meant to finance: (i) flood
protection works along the Kugart River within Suzak Town, in order to safeguard lives as well as
private and public property against future floods; and (ii) emergency rehabilitation of some of the
most severely damaged irrigation headworks with high risks of collapsing during future floods.

In addition and given the scale and severity of the flood problem, Government and IDA also
agreed to prepare the Flood Emergency Project (FEP; US $12.7 million; including US $10 million
approved by IDA on January 26, 1999, Credit No. 3166-KG) to deal with reconstruction of other
flood-damaged infrastructure (levees and irrigation headworks). FEP was successfully
implemented and closed in March 2004 (ICR dated September 16, 2004; Report No. 29944-KG).
Some works that were initially proposed for the new IRP component were eventually done under
FEP and only about US $3 million was used under IRP.




                                               5

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The project followed a program approach, with sub-projects to be selected from a long-list.
During the mid-term review in July 2001, the scope of the project was more accurately
determined as follows: the number of irrigation sub-projects and dams to be rehabilitated was set
at 20 (out of a long-list of about 60 sub-projects) and 4 (out of the possible 12), respectively.
Consequently, the command area affected by the project was reduced from up to 345,000 ha to
around 250,000 ha. The main reasons for this included: (i) US $3 million was used for repairs to
flood-damaged infrastructure; (ii) rehabilitation costs were higher than estimated for several
irrigation sub-projects; (iii) the dam safety issues were more serious and costly to address than
originally foreseen; and (iv) IDA agreed to increase its disbursement percentage for works from
70 to 85 percent, retroactively to January 1, 2000 to reduce the burden on scarce government
counterpart funds. Due to the difficult economic situation in the country there was a shortage of
government counterpart funds since 1999, resulting in large arrears in payments to especially
contractors for civil works, which in turn slowed down project implementation. The amendment
of IRP's Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to increase IDA's disbursement percentage for
the Works Category was signed on October 22, 2001.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The perceived sense of urgency to reverse the rapid deterioration of irrigation infrastructure and
to keep water flowing was justified considering the decrease in water abstraction, especially
constraining peak demands, and the critical reliance of crop production on irrigation, as well as in
view of the increasing risk of failure of some structures, including headworks and dams. The joint
Government of Kyrgyz Republic (GKR) and IDA identification concluded that the highest
priority was therefore the rapid rehabilitation, repair and upgrading, and restoration of the
capacity of existing head structures and main canals. This was the correct approach. IRP was the
first IDA-assisted irrigation project in the Kyrgyz Republic and the first sizeable project to
rehabilitate infrastructure on a nation-wide scale. A major lesson from similar projects in other
FSU countries at that time was that project scope and design should be simple.

The project design was indeed kept simple: its main focus was on the rehabilitation of
conveyance and inter-farm systems, which was appropriate considering government's priorities.
The project only included three components, and implementation only involved one main
institution (DWR). It had a national scope for reasons of equity (all six oblasts -- later seven, after
the separation of Batken from Osh -- and 32 raions benefited) and adopted a programmatic
approach through a screening process of a large number of sub-projects proposed by the
Government for rehabilitation. This approach appeared to adequately address the following needs:
(i) repair the most critical (i.e. most urgent and/or with highest impact) sections of main
infrastructure; (ii) cope with uncertainties and allow enough flexibility to adjust for any cost
overruns by reducing during implementation, as necessary, the number of dams or irrigation sub-
projects; and (iii) take into account lack of implementation experience. Project preparation


                                                6

succeeded in proceeding with a first screening, which ended up with the selection of about 60
irrigation sub-projects and in proposing a three-phase approach for the implementation of planned
activities. The final selection process required feasibility and environmental impact assessment
studies.

Project design also correctly recognized that to complement the rehabilitation of higher-order
physical infrastructure it would be necessary to start rebuilding the capacity of DWR to undertake
proper operation and maintenance.

The continuous dialogue between Government and IDA during preparation and implementation
were adequate to ensure stakeholder commitment and to incorporate the socio-economic context
of the country in transition. Public consultation meetings were carried out for most of the selected
sub-projects to obtain farmers' views on the rehabilitation proposals. The objective and tasks of
IRP were explained, and intended scope of rehabilitation works was discussed and agreed. Local
people showed a high level of interest in these meetings and attended them in large numbers.

Three major risks were rated as moderate in the PAD, while they proved to be much more
substantial. They were:

Insufficient budget allocation for project implementation. This negatively affected project
implementation between 1999 and 2001, when Government and IDA responded in an appropriate
manner to decrease the level of government counterpart funding from 30 to 15 percent for works.

Cost overruns during project implementation . The PAD's cost estimates and scope of works had
been drawn up in 1996-1997. By the time IRP was well under implementation, technical
condition of most structures had deteriorated significantly, causing an increase in the volume and
cost of rehabilitation works. This, together with diversion of funds for flood-damaged
infrastructure rehabilitation, caused a scaling down of project physical targets.

Insufficient funding for O&M. This risk was repeatedly highlighted during implementation and is
still a concern at the time of completion (see Section 9): (i) budget funding for DWR did not
reach the level requested as a covenant to the DCA; and (ii) this was not fully compensated by an
adequate increase in the level of Irrigation Service Fees during the implementation period, which
was doubled only from Som 15 to 30 per 1,000 m3, which is still well below the needed levels.
The newly approved Water Management Improvement Project (WMIP; US $28.1 million,
including US $19 million approved by IDA on March 29, 2006, Grant No. H212-KG) is expected
to place a lot of emphasis on setting of ISF at needed rates, which can now -- after the recent
approval of a new Water Code -- be done on a system-by-system basis, rather than by Parliament
as a blend price for the whole country.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared at start-up, aiming at specifying
implementation modalities and schedules. However, the PIP was more an extension of the PAD,



                                               7

rather than a concrete guide for implementation based on local conditions and requirements, so
that many obstacles which occurred during implementation were not foreseen, including financial
restrictions and the lack of experience in collaborating with international consulting firms and in
the bidding process for procurement of machinery and spare parts for DWR. Considering the lack
of experience at that time with IDA projects in the Kyrgyz Republic, it would have been difficult
in any case to predict all this kind of events. Instead, the implementing agency and the IDA task
team dealt with major issues as they occurred. During implementation, various factors impacted
the outcome of project activities as follows:

Dam Safety Sub-component. The investigations and design studies conducted during project
implementation as well as opinions of the Panel of Experts on Dams (PoED), recruited by the
Project and consisting of leading international and national specialists, revealed that the problems
at the large dams were much more extensive than envisaged at appraisal, especially at Papan
Dam, and that rehabilitation works were generally more expensive than originally estimated.
Following the recommendation at mid-term review, Government and IDA agreed to limit the
scope of the sub-component (supposed to cover up to 12 dams) to the three major irrigation dams
in the country, Kirov, Orto-Tokoi and Papan, as well as the uncompleted Karabura Dam. These
four dams store about 1.3 billion m3 of the 1.65 billion m3 potential storage in the country's 12
irrigation dams. The choice was highly justified as investments in these four dams had the biggest
impact both in terms of water supply and safety. The discovery of critical safety problems at
Papan Dam caused a review of priorities, with the main consequence to put on hold and to review
the scope of the completion and rehabilitation of Karabura Dam. The absolute necessity for
completion of the Papan and Karabura Dams was the principal reason for the two extensions of
the project.

Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation Sub-component. Rehabilitation of seven systems was
initiated during the first year of implementation of the project and served as a first test for a
learning-by-doing approach. Almost all other sub-projects were selected later from the "reserve
list" of potential sub-projects on the basis of selection criteria based mainly on government
priority, potential impact, and economic profitability. With the available funds a total of 20
systems (sub-projects) were rehabilitated. Rehabilitation designs were, in some cases, quite
simple (canal cleaning), in other cases more complicated (construction of aqueducts, hydroposts,
other associated structures, reinstatement of concrete lining), and in yet others very complicated
(reconstruction of headworks, water escape structures, and sediment basins). The criteria for
identifying critically-at-risk sections of systems were refined on a step-by-step process. Under
some contracts (especially the earlier ones), the rehabilitation works did not fully address all
bottlenecks that limited supply of irrigation water, mainly to limit the costs of a sub-project.

Incremental Maintenance Component. This component had delays initially, partly for lack of
clear definition of its selection processes. In total, 20 irrigation systems and two dams benefited
from the component, all of which also received support for rehabilitation. The contracts not only
included routine maintenance works in sections not covered under rehabilitation contracts, but
also some capital repairs to address omissions under some of the rehabilitation contracts.

Construction, Supervision and Control. In general the construction works were undertaken under
difficult conditions because of the harsh weather conditions and the obligation to ensure



                                               8

continued water supply during the irrigation season, which allowed short time windows for
construction. Besides this, most of the local contractors were lacking previous experience with
this type of extensive rehabilitation and were not well aware about international standards and
how to prepare bidding documents. Proper planning of the works was another difficult aspect
where contractors lacked experience. Considerable efforts have been made during project
implementation to ensure good quality of works despite the difficulties encountered due to the
remoteness of work sites, difficult accessibility, and wide spread of schemes. There were some
deficiencies in the quality of construction, particularly during the first year. This was partly due to
a lack of capacity and quality testing facilities of contractors. However, combined interventions
by consultants, the PIU, as well as by the IDA supervision teams resulted in the development and
enforcement of strict quality control measures.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E has been rather difficult under the project. There was a dedicated M&E staff in the PIU
since the beginning of project implementation and a large amount of data was collected. Quarterly
reports were timely produced, and of increasing good quality. The PIU also prepared a mid-term
evaluation report and a final implementation completion report.

Besides these reporting requirements, the PAD also described in the Logframe output and
outcome indicators, some of which proved to be difficult to measure. Neither in the PAD nor in
the PIP were key features of a suitable M&E system properly described, such as its purposes
(feed project management, report on progress, assess impact), a careful list of measurable
indicators, and a systematic data collection mechanism. A baseline survey was not undertaken at
the beginning of the project, as the sub-projects were not all known, instead relevant data was
collected at the time of designing each sub-project. To address the lack of experience within the
PIU, a short-term international M&E expert was eventually recruited by the PIU during 2001 and
2002, and this resulted in improvements and better focus.

Early on, M&E activities were mostly focused on physical and financial monitoring. Simple
indicators to evaluate the impact of project interventions could have been followed more
systematically and managed in a database, such as the evolution over years of water losses,
scheme efficiency, maintenance cost, area maintained per year, use of irrigated water per crop,
crop yields, cropping patterns, and crop intensity. Lessons were learned, and WMIP has a
comprehensive results framework and monitoring arrangements, which will allow DWR to set up
a good M&E system.

Despite these limitations, the M&E team undertook individual detailed cost-benefit analyses of
seven sub-schemes that had been implemented at mid-project. This commendable effort was not
pursued for other sub-projects as the relationship between rehabilitation and crop performance is
not straightforward because of many other factors influencing yields and also because little time
had passed since the completion of the sub-projects. Instead other economic criteria related to
switching values were adopted (see Section 8.3 below).




                                               9

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

There was no deviation or waiver from the three safeguard / fiduciary policies and procedures
relevant to the project:

OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. The project was classified as category B and a sector
environmental assessment was carried out in 1997. Each feasibility/design report of a sub-project
included an environmental impact assessment. There was no negative environmental impact
noticed from the project activities, which was also not expected as the rehabilitation works did
not change the general configuration and operation of the irrigation systems. The rehabilitation
and construction works were carried out within the 'Right of Way' of the canal systems, without
any disruption of arable land. Contractors were allowed to use only those quarries which had been
sanctioned by the project for extraction of rock, gravel, and sand. The terms of the contracts
specified environmental mitigation measures and the contractors were regularly and satisfactorily
supervised. The Ministry of Environment and Emergencies (MEE) was involved in the
supervision of sub-projects' construction to ensure their compliance with the legal environment
requirements.

OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. As dam safety was a concern of the project, project implementation was
constantly assisted and controlled by an independent Panel of Experts.

OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. On behalf of GKR, in December 1997, the World
Bank notified the project to the riparian countries through their respective Executive Directors.
The notification included all necessary technical information. No concern was raised by any of
the riparian governments. Data from rehabilitated sub-projects shows that river flows were not
adversely affected, and in some cases even improved.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The IRP is part of a longer-term program with a larger vision than the simple rehabilitation of
irrigation infrastructure. It is complemented by the On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP; US $29
million, including US $20 million approved by IDA on June 6, 2000, Credit No. 3369-KG) which
deals with the organization of water users and the rehabilitation of lower-order systems, managed
by Water Users Associations (WUA). Since August 2006, it is also complemented by WMIP
which aims at addressing water management on a national basis and further reform of DWR, in
addition to irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization.

Under IRP, there was no formal attempt of major DWR restructuring, as this was judged
premature for a first operation and in conditions of a rapidly changing political and economic
climate. Nevertheless some capacity was built through the provision of office equipment,
maintenance equipment, training, technical assistance, and the Scheme Irrigation Management
Information System (SIMIS). The project also contributed to the National Irrigation



                                                10

Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan (NIRSAP) and the OIP-financed DWR Restructuring
Study.

While the priority of the IRP was to "keep the water flowing", it is now important for DWR to
further improve its accountability, transparency, and performance in managing water resources.
This is the main focus of the WMIP, and is particularly important in view of the ongoing changes
in the sector, especially related to maturing WUAs. As WUAs in IRP command areas mature, as
system-by-system based ISF is introduced under WMIP, and as DWR is further reformed and
made more accountable and transparent, DWR is expected to be able to provide better O&M
which will secure the investments made under IRP.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Considering the continued contribution of agriculture to the country's economy, to employment,
and to reduction in rural poverty, the project objective was and is still highly relevant. The agro-
climatic conditions in the Kyrgyz Republic mean that growth in agricultural output depends to a
large extent on ensuring a guaranteed water supply, therefore focusing on irrigation rehabilitation
proved to be very relevant and complemented by other interventions (many of which financed by
IDA) dealing with rural finance and agricultural services.

The government's Country Development Strategy (CDS) for the period 2006 to 2010 specifies
that agriculture in the Kyrgyz Republic remains to be the main structural sector of the economy:
(i) by contribution to GDP and providing the industry with raw material resources, and the
population with food stuffs; and (ii) by number of the occupied population. The strategy states
that one of the most effective ways of increasing labor productivity in agriculture is a reliable and
effective irrigation of agricultural lands. During the past years, thanks to significant financing on
the part of donors, approximately 30 percent of all irrigation systems have been reconstructed, but
the remaining part still needs investments to re-establish reliability and effective functioning.

An important short-term priority of the CDS, supported by IDA and other donors, is a clear
division of the rights and responsibilities within the sector (especially DWR, WUAs), as well as
focus on irrigation system management and maintenance. In parallel with institutional
strengthening and training of WUAs and their merger into federations, a step-by-step transfer of
parts of state-owned irrigation systems to WUAs is proposed so that by 2010 only those irrigation
structures of national and regional significance remain state-owned. Another important problem
which needs to be solved is that presently ISF does not cover the full O&M costs. A step-by-step
increase to the level which will allow the proper carrying out of O&M is expected during 2007-
2010, with freed-up government resources targeted for rehabilitation of irrigation networks and
increase of their effectiveness. This ambitious set of strategic targets is supported by WMIP.




                                                11

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)

Notwithstanding the difficult circumstances in which the activities of the project were
implemented, it can be considered that it satisfactorily achieved its objectives. As further
analyzed below, the combination of project interventions resulted in a safer, more reliable, timely
and sustainable supply of irrigation water. Although not systematically documented by the M&E
system, evidence from field investigations showed improved agricultural performances in many
areas of the irrigation schemes where the supply of water was decreasing before the project. In
addition, IRP served as a catalyst element around which major water sector management issues
were organized, including development of the new Water Code and NIRSAP. Major
achievements and outcomes contributing to the PDO are summarized below. The related outputs
by component are detailed in Annex 4.

Dam Safety. The dam safety sub-component satisfactorily addressed the safety issues of the four
largest dams that had been classified under the highest risk category. Key achievements are
summarized in the following table.

  Feature \ Dam         Orto-Tokoi Dam                Papan Dam                   Kirov Dam               Karabura Dam            Total
      Name
 Nature of             Completion of the        Construction of a            Stabilization of           Embankment
 Works                 overflow                 unique, international        the left bank of           completion, raised
                       spillway, repair to      standard 70 m deep           the reservoir near         by 27 m (total 49
                       the outlet tunnel,       impermeable cut-off          the dam and                m) increasing the
                       stabilization of         wall through the center      stabilization of           storage volume to
                       the valve house,         of the dam body to           the left bank of           17 million m3;
                       grouting of weak         reduce seepage and           the river                  construction of a
                       areas, and               increase stability and       immediately                concrete spillway
                       replacement of           safety. This dam was         downstream of              and completion and
                       cone valves.             improperly                   the dam. Repair            extension of the
                                                constructed in 1980s         of cone valves.            offtake tunnel.
                                                and experienced high         Repair and
                                                seepage making it            installation of
                                                inherently unsafe.           monitoring
                                                                             equipment
 Risk Before           Risk 4; 1 million                                     Risk 4; 500,000
 Rehabilitation        people                   Risk 4; 1 million            people                     Risk 4; 20,000

                       downstream               people downstream            downstream                 people downstream

 Rehabilitation                                                                                                               US $9.82
 Cost                  US $2.65 million         US $4.2 million               US $0.3 million           US $2.67 million     million
 Storage
 Capacity
 Before                440 Mm3                  170 Mm3                       570 Mm3                   3 Mm3                 1,183 Mm3

 Rehabilitation
 Storage
 Capacity After        470 Mm3                  260 Mm3                       570 Mm3                   17 Mm3                1,317 Mm3
 Rehabilitation
 Agricultural
 Command               220,000 ha               45,000 ha                     142,000 ha                7,900 ha              414,900 ha
 Area
Note: Risk 4 is the highest risk category, and in case of a calamity there could be severe loss of life and property damage.




                                                                   12

Major outcomes include: a secured operational safety of the dams, resulting in improved safety of
downstream settlements (estimated at more than 2 million people, not only in the Kyrgyz
Republic but also in lower riparian countries); and guaranteed water supply provided to an
irrigated area of about 415,000 ha. As a result of the interventions, reservoir storage was allowed
to increase again to full supply level, increasing the combined storage capacity from 1,183 Mm3
to 1,317 Mm3, equivalent to an increase by 12 percent. This additional storage capacity and the
improved operation of the dams has allowed an improved water supply to the irrigation areas
under the command of the dams.

IRP also installed equipment to provide real-time communication between the three major dams
in the country (Kirov, Orto Tokoi, and Papan), three oblast centers (Chui, Osh, and Talas), and
DWR's headquarters in Bishkek. This equipment allows real-time sharing of data (water levels,
releases, etc.) and proper communication of decisions on release volumes, etc., which is
contributing to more efficient water use and adequate supply of water to schemes.

Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation. The project rehabilitated key infrastructure of 20
irrigation systems in the seven oblasts of the country with satisfactory outcome (a summary table
of sub-projects is provided in Annex 4). The main outputs included the rehabilitation or
reconstruction of 15 headworks, cleaning of about 160 km of canal, construction of about 70 km
of concrete lining, rehabilitation of some 300 hydraulic structures of various kind, rehabilitation
of four sediment basins, and construction of five new sediment basins. This has allowed a secured
and timely delivery of irrigation water to a command area of about 250,000 ha of irrigable land,
as a result of which agricultural performances could be maintained or improved benefiting an
estimated 50,000 households. Improved water supply especially benefited households in the
middle and tail-end sections of the irrigation schemes, thus making a significant contribution to
their agricultural production potential. It is noted, however, that increases in agricultural
production depend on many factors, with water being only one of the inputs. What can be
concluded is that in general irrigation water supply to the farm gates is now less of a constraint to
agricultural production than it was before the project. The system rehabilitation has taken an
important bottleneck away that has allowed many farmers to start their cropping season without
delays and hence increase their yields and others to start envision intensification and
diversification of their cropping patterns. In the next paragraph data from six schemes that
benefited from rehabilitation during the earlier project years is summarized.

Although the total annual water intake at the West Chui Canal headworks (covering 74,300 ha)
reduced after rehabilitation (as was the case in most systems), the ability to deliver the right
volume of water during the peak irrigation month increased. Comparing the average of three
years before rehabilitation and three years after rehabilitation, during the peak month of June the
average abstraction increased from 49 m3/sec to 59.6 m3/sec. Yield improvements have varied,
with little (2 percent) increase for wheat (grown on about 27,000 ha), some increase (5 percent)
for maize (grown on about 7,400 ha) and substantial increases (80 percent) for vegetables (grown
on about 2,600 ha). Farmers reported more water at the tail-end of the system, which relates to
increased equity of water distribution. The situation in East Chui Canal (43,500 ha) is very
similar, with a reduction in total abstraction, more equity and an increase in average abstraction
during the peak month from 41.2 m3/sec to 44.8 m3/sec. Yield increases of 10 percent for wheat



                                               13

(17,000 ha) and perennial grasses (8,300 ha) were recorded, with smaller increases so far for other
crops. Ad Bashinsky Canal (23,100 ha), also in Chui Oblast, shows similar impact. Wheat yields
increased on average by 30 percent (grown on 7,000 ha) and maize (2,200 ha) increased 18
percent. Yields of perennial grasses reduced by 2 percent after rehabilitation.

The data from Kainazar Scheme (4,500 ha) in Talas Oblast are much more dramatic. The main
canal was seriously deteriorated and water losses were high. After canal rehabilitation the water
intake more than doubled from about 22 million m3 to over 50 million m3, and abstractions
reached again the design flow if 8 m3/sec, almost double than in the without project situation. The
yield of winter wheat (grown on 2,100 ha) increased by 54 percent, the yield of spring wheat
(grown on 300 ha) increased by 63 percent, and the yield of perennial grasses (1,000 ha)
increased by 44 percent. Rehabilitation of the Kugart Canal in Jalal-Abad Oblast (4,600 ha)
allowed an increase in abstraction from 4 to 7 m3/sec. The yield of wheat (1,700 ha) increased by
42 percent and maize (200 ha) by 20 percent. Interesting in this scheme is the increase in cotton
area from 15 to 38 percent, a result of confidence by the farmers that water is guaranteed, and an
increase in yield by about 15 percent. Orto Headworks (4,600 ha) in Chui Oblast was a different
case. Even before rehabilitation the required 6 m3/sec could be abstracted. The headworks was in
an unstable condition and the river threatened to breach upstream levees which would lead to the
river bypassing the headworks. The rehabilitation works improved the safety and stability of the
headworks and strengthened the levees, thereby guaranteeing the scheme with a continuing
supply of water.

The large number of measuring posts (hydroposts) restored and upgraded by the project improved
the ability of DWR to monitor and bill volumes of water delivered, and allowed WUAs to double
check the water supply in a more transparent way. There is now a growing awareness among all
the stakeholders that water should be considered as a scarce resource and a cultural shift has
begun in earnest toward the value of water. Data show that the needed volumes of water are now
delivered to the farm boundaries, although certainly not up to 25 percent as described in the PDO.
An impact survey of 13 WUAs that benefited from rehabilitation under the OIP showed that
water abstraction reduced in nine WUAs after rehabilitation, but that the productivity per m3 of
water increased considerably in eight of these WUAs.

Post-flood Reconstruction Works. Although some contracts were completed with delays,
especially due to additional works, and one contractor was replaced due to non-performance, all
six sub-projects related to reconstruction of flood-damaged infrastructure were successfully
implemented by 2001. The sub-project for reinstatement of the levee on the Kugart River
pioneered a new technique for embankment lining in the Kyrgyz Republic, utilizing Reno
mattresses, which is recognized as having proved very cost-effective. The levee's performance in
subsequent recent high floods has been good and there has been no repeat of the significant flood
danger to dwellings and public buildings in Suzak, as occurred in 1998. The basic reinstatement
works at the irrigation headworks have proved to be of good quality and have allowed the
structures to withstand future floods and assured continued supply of irrigation water to a total
area of about 30,000 ha.

Enhanced O&M. Several activities have focused on enhancing the local capacity for O&M.




                                             14

O&M activities in oblasts and raions have been strengthened through the funding of maintenance
equipment and machinery (cars, excavators, bulldozers, dump trucks, and truck cranes) and the
purchase of spare parts. In order to improve the response time, DWR established Mobile
Maintenance Groups (MMG) which constitutes an innovative improvement. MMGs are managed
at the oblast level but have autonomous financial management, servicing raions based on an
agreed program on a cost recovery basis. At completion of IRP, the equipment is still in good
working condition and is being extremely useful to the DWR in carrying out maintenance
programs in a reliable way, with the limited available budget. The maintenance activities have
contributed to the ability by DWR to deliver the contracted volumes of water to WUAs. One
remaining issue is that the unit costs applied by the MMG are fixed by the Government and cover
only their operation costs but not the amortization (and therefore replacement) of the equipment.

The capacity of oblasts and raions in irrigation scheduling, management and information systems
has been improved. An agreement was signed between PIU and the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) to introduce the Scheme Irrigation Management Information System
software and train DWR staff in the use of it. Despite administrative problems encountered during
the first years of the contract implementation, the software was adapted to Kyrgyz conditions and
nearly 200 DWR field staff have been trained in software use and almost 50 field offices were
equipped with requisite resources (e.g. computers). The main focus has been on calculation of
water allocations to users, and managing and monitoring water use and irrigation service fees.
The software is now being used consistently in more than 30 raions and is very useful for
improved relationships with WUAs. Computerization of these tasks saves raion staff a lot of time
as slow and onerous manual calculations are not necessary anymore. Computerization of water
planning and allocation also allows DWR staff to more adequately respond to changes in water
requirements during the season. DWR has issued an Order that from 2007 onwards as much as
possible all raions should automate their data.

Capacity building. A group of international and national consultants was engaged during the first
years of project implementation. Despite some criticism from the PIU, this has been useful as the
international consultants made a contribution for the Kyrgyz specialists to understand the
importance of international contract implementation. Modern hydrological techniques, methods
for establishing unit costs, geotechnical investigations, and methods of construction supervision
are just four of the areas where the consultants contributed to local knowledge. Local consultants
continued the services independently during the second part of the project and have generally
implemented their tasks satisfactory.

The project supported study tours to France and Spain to gain experience in water resources
management and WUA development, and six PIU and DWR staff attended an international
training program on irrigation management in Italy. To improve construction quality control a
group of specialists visited Turkey. PIU specialists also attended short training courses on
procurement, financial management, and M&E, organized in Bishkek and Almaty. All training
activities widened the knowledge of DWR and PIU staff which has been beneficial not only
during IRP implementation but also during preparation and implementation of other projects.

Incremental Maintenance. The incremental maintenance component was designed to partly
compensate for the shortage of O&M budget by financing sub-projects for routine maintenance



                                             15

works to complement the rehabilitation of sub-projects. Although implementation was slow
initially, eventually a total of 35 contracts in 20 irrigation systems and two dams were completed,
including: (i) 247 km of selective canal bed cleaning; (ii) repair and maintenance of 1,204
structures and hydroposts; and (iii) maintenance of 407 km of service roads. Several contracts
focused also on removing bottlenecks in the lower-order systems of rehabilitated sub-projects,
rather than on typical routine maintenance activities. Nevertheless, the component allowed the
rehabilitated irrigation schemes to remain operational also at secondary canal level. The
component also introduced preparation of design reports and proper calculation of unit rates for
routine maintenance tasks. It also allowed the introduction of tendering for, and the involvement
of private contractors in maintenance works, while there was a much greater focus on
construction quality control compared to maintenance work carried out in-house by DWR.

The component has been an important learning ground for future involvement of private
contractors in routine maintenance activities, which is expected to increase over time. There is,
however, for the foreseeable future room for the MMGs as well, initially to contribute to
maintenance under a constrained DWR budget situation. Eventually, the MMGs should be turned
into units that provide emergency repairs and maintenance, e.g. to clear a landslide that has
blocked a headworks or a main canal during the irrigation season. MMGs would typically be able
to respond faster than private contractors in such cases, which is why even under full market
conditions, such units could be maintained by a government agency.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Annex 5 contains the full economic analysis, including the assumptions. According to the PAD,
the efficiency of the project should be measured against increased agricultural performance and
increased delivery of water for irrigation. The economic analysis of the PAD was based on an
increase by 10 percent (against a decrease by 5 percent without project) over four years in the
entire command area of the schemes where rehabilitation would take place. By applying this flat
assumption, Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) and Net Present Values (NPV) were calculated
for six sub-projects to be financed during the first phase of the project -- ERRs were very high,
ranging from 44 to 228 percent.

During implementation, the PIU rightfully recognized that irrigation is not the only factor
influencing agricultural performances (this was also foreseen by the IDA appraisal team, hence
the relatively low yield increases considered in the with-project situation), which are constrained
by the lack of farm machinery, advisory services, credit, quality of seeds, on farm water
management, etc. The PIU concluded that assessing project performance could not rely solely on
crop yields. The economic analysis carried out for the ICR involved four aspects.

Firstly, the changes over years in quantities of water delivered for agricultural use were analyzed.
While the PAD foresaw an increase by an average of 25 percent, this trend has not been very
clear, with overall water deliveries to a number of schemes actually reducing. This trend can
mostly be explained by a decrease in actual demand for water for a number of reasons: annual
demand depends on rainfall which can substantially vary from one year to another; the efficiency



                                               16

of the schemes, both on-farm and off-farm has increased and required less water upstream; and
water is now systematically charged so that consumers have started to be more careful in its use.
The conclusion is that annual quantities of water are not an adequate criteria to assess project
impact. More important is the capacity of the system to deliver water during the peak month. It
can be concluded from data collected from DWR raion offices that the ability to deliver the water
at the right time and in the right quantities has improved substantially, and is mostly satisfactory
for the rehabilitated systems. Also productivity per m3 of water generally increased, which is a
positive sign of increased efficiency.

Secondly, the PIU calculated switching values corresponding to the percentage by which
agricultural performances should increase (compared with the situation before project) to
economically justify the project, i.e. an EIRR calculated at 15 percent. The wide range of cost per
hectare is noteworthy: from 139 Som to 43,436 Som, largely depending on the nature of work
which range from deferred maintenance to complete rehabilitation and modernization. Most of
the switching values of individual sub-projects range between 1 percent and 10 percent; this
means that yields should increase only by between 1 percent and 10 percent to justify the project
economically (see Appendix 5). The three most expensive sub-projects -- Jirma Headworks and
Canal; Myrza Headworks and Canal; and Jerui Headworks and Canal -- have much higher
switching values and are not economically justified, based on this criteria only. The reasons are
the high investment costs compared with the small size of the command area. These sub-projects
were justified on social ground, mainly to avoid a complete closure of the schemes in case
headworks collapsed, which would leave remote rural communities without any source of
employment.

Thirdly, a more conventional cost-benefit analysis of sections of four representative sub-projects
was undertaken on the basis of indicative yield data collected by the PIU at the time of the ICR
mission. Benefits attributed to the project have been assumed to be a portion (25 percent) of total
yield increases to account for the fact that crops are influenced by other external factors. The
results are summarized below.

                                   Komsomolski          Jer Ui     Jon Main Canal      Kara Jal
                                   Canal (IRP06)       (IRP 11)        (IRP 13)        (IRP 22)
     Economic Cost (Soms)        9.1 million       30.0 million    8.9 million      12.4 million
     Agricultural Area           3,876 ha          1,943 ha        2,141 ha         3,529 ha
     Average Yield Increase      33%               27%             21%              22%
     ERR                         42%               - 1%            14%              26%
     NPV (at 15% discount rate)  18.5 million      - 19.9 million  -0.6 million     8.5 million


The fact that Jerui is not economically justified based on yield increases alone is confirmed with a
negative ERR. Other projects are justified, though ERRs appear somewhat more modest than in
the PAD.

Fourthly, other less quantifiable benefits also largely contribute to justify the project such as
increased safety of people, properties and infrastructure resulting from dam rehabilitation or flood
protection works, the avoidance of total collapse of irrigation structures (for example the case in
Jerui and Jon, where a total collapse of the headworks would take the systems out of operation for
several years resulting in a negative economic impact), reduced O&M costs resulting from



                                              17

increased efficiency, strengthened local capacities (of DWR and contractors), and employment
creation during construction works.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The purpose of the project was very relevant to the country needs and priorities. The
design focused on rehabilitating the most urgent sections/structures of irrigation schemes in the
country, while starting to build the local capacities to improve O&M work. This approach was
found appropriate for a first sectoral operation in a country in transition.

The outcome of the project interventions was found satisfactory, even though the Incremental
Maintenance Component had an initial lack of clarity in its design which led to delays in
implementation and use of the funds. However, even this component positively contributed to
maintaining key sections of especially secondary canal systems.

A pure economic evaluation of project impact was made difficult due to the multiple parameters
influencing irrigated agricultural performances. Nevertheless, there is enough evidence that the
project achieved two major impacts: (i) it allowed the irrigation schemes (often the major ones in
the country) to return to fully operational condition, resulting in a more efficient use of water,
while these systems would certainly have continued to deteriorate without the project; and (ii)
many agricultural yields have increased during project implementation partly as a result of the
project which allowed more secure and timely delivery of water. Even schemes that have
marginal economic parameters have been important for social reasons and reduction of future
O&M needs. The ease of operation has improved and less maintenance works are expected in the
future. For example, the sediment basin in Jerui was expensive, but is operating in a highly
efficient manner.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project target population includes agricultural households living in rural areas where, at the
time of appraisal, almost 50 percent of people were considered as living in poverty. Agriculture
(and for 80 percent of it, irrigated agriculture) is the main source of livelihood in the rural areas,
thus sustaining improved agricultural production on irrigated land contributes to poverty
reduction.

Gender is an issue in the rural areas where young men have moved out to seek job opportunities
either on a permanent or seasonal basis. Many women are responsible for agricultural activities
(with the help of their children) and an improved water supply to their fields simplifies their work
by reducing time spent on obtaining enough irrigation water.




                                              18

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

While the second component is named "Capacity Building", it was not aimed to substantially
reform the institutions concerned and in particular DWR. The project contributed to building
DWR's capacities through the provision of maintenance equipment, training, and SIMIS, which
have all contributed to increased water use efficiency. The project considered that the priority was
to keep the system in operation before reforming the institutions. In the meantime, during project
implementation, major preparatory steps were undertaken, including the generalization of
irrigation service fees, and the preparation of NIRSAP and a new Water Code, so that now the
time has come for DWR to reform and adapt itself to new policies and regulations in order to
improve its efficiency and long-term sustainable ability to manage water resources.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

IRP allowed contractors to develop their business after a difficult transition period after
Independence. In the mid-1990s, a large number of water specialists were rendered jobless and
many contractors were at the point of bankruptcy as a result of the dramatic decrease of the
budget dedicated to irrigation development and maintenance. IRP had a profound impact on the
national construction contracting industry, investing over US $16 million in construction
contracts with them, and much more through sub-contracts with international contractors. Some
IRP contractors are now among the strongest in the country from a technical point, although
financially they have to grow further so that equipment can be properly depreciated and new
equipment can be introduced. This increase in contractor's capacity and the gained experience
have been important and contributed not only to the success of the IRP, but also to long-term
national contracting development.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not Applicable (core ICR).

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risks to the development outcome have been carefully reviewed and discussed at the time of
project completion. They are low on the technical, political, and environmental side. The main
concerns are of financial, institutional, and to a lesser extent economic nature: (i) will financial
resources be sufficient in the long run to operate and maintain (and further improve) the
rehabilitated irrigation schemes; (ii) will DWR be able to reform itself for improved and
sustainable water management and O&M of irrigation schemes; and (iii) will the country's
economic situation remain stable and will the agricultural sector be able to take full advantage of
the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes? While the third risk could be considered as relatively
low, the first two (financial and institutional sustainability) have been the main concern




                                                19

throughout project implementation. However, many efforts by the project itself and by other
ongoing and upcoming interventions in the sector are being made to mitigate these risks.

On the technical side, considerable efforts have been made during project implementation to
ensure optimum quality of works despite the difficulties encountered due to the remoteness of
work sites, difficult accessibility, and wide spread of schemes. There have only been few
deficiencies in the quality of construction, particularly during the first-year works, which was
partly due to a lack of capacity and quality testing facilities among contractors. However,
interventions by the IDA supervision teams not only resulted in improved construction quality,
but also in the development and enforcement of strict quality control measures. Another aspect is
that the project rehabilitated the most urgent sections, while it was not designed to engage in
comprehensive rehabilitation. In some cases, in order to maintain the efficiency of the overall
schemes (and therefore ensure sustained benefits), other pieces of less-critical, yet important
works are expected to be required within the next five to ten years. This need is expected to be
covered by DWR.

The environmental impact of the project during and after implementation is minimal. No serious
environmental issues have occurred during project implementation. Under OIP, water and soil
quality measurement equipment has been provided to DWR raion offices and staff has been
trained to regularly monitor the quality of irrigation and drainage water and soils, and no negative
impact from the increased availability of water has occurred so far.

The long-term operation and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure continues to be an issue.
The project itself contributed to this positively not just through quality construction in general,
but also through the construction or rehabilitation of sediment basins, the extension of the
maintenance works program, and the delivery of O&M equipment and machinery. However, in
order to continue this task in a sustainable manner, DWR will require sufficient financial
resources from two origins: budget from the State Government, and increasingly from ISF. The
need for increased budget resources for maintenance work was repeatedly emphasized by the IDA
supervision missions. The DWR budget was 198 million Som in 2006 and the budget resources
appear to have stagnated in current terms over the last years. DWR considers that it only receives
less than half of the budget that it requires, and increasing both service fees and, in the interim,
budget allocations appear indispensable for sustainability of the irrigation schemes.

In terms of ISF, the recovery rate is now very high and estimated at more than 90 percent,
however with a large share still paid in-kind (up to 50 percent). During the project
implementation period the fee was only changed once from Som 15 to Som 30 per 1,000 m3 for
the O&M of the off-farm irrigation schemes under responsibility of DWR. Further increases did
not materialize during the project period mainly for political reasons. Until now ISF is set by
Parliament and has been kept low with the argument that farmers could not afford to pay too high
fees. The new Water Code approved in January 2005 aims to address the sustainability issue and
allows the setting of fees at an economic level on a system-by-system basis. However, until
WMIP is well under implementation, there remains a moderate risk for DWR to be unable to
internalize the ongoing reform process of the water sector as envisaged in the Water Code and to
set up sound, efficient and sustainable O&M arrangements.




                                               20

Finally, except in specific cases, the agricultural sector has not yet taken full advantage of the
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes for two main reasons: (i) the overall economic situation of the
country is only slowly adapting to demands for higher value agricultural production due to market
constraints; and (ii) though essential, irrigation is only one factor amongst others to revitalize the
agricultural sector, the others being adapted advisory services, good input supply, marketing, etc.
For the moment farmers generally adopt a conservative attitude, reluctant to introduce major
changes to their cropping patterns. There are indications that this situation will change once a
more dynamic market economy develops. This was observed by the ICR mission in Talas Oblast
where the area cropped with beans has increased dramatically from 5,000 ha to 18,000 ha, based
on contracts offered by private traders.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

In view of the particular economic and social conditions prevailing in the country during
preparation, the project was timely as it was urgent to undertake rehabilitation work in order to
avoid further deterioration and possible collapse of certain parts of irrigation systems, that would
lead to sharp decreases in agricultural areas. Its relatively simple design, as well as flexible
approach, responded to this sense of urgency and it appears that this was the right approach. It
also addressed two major constraints at the time of appraisal, which were the lack of information
and the uncertainties related to the evolution of the agricultural reforms.

Despite the lack of data and experience with large investment projects in the country, in about 15
months (from first identification in August 1996 until appraisal in November 1997), the
preparation team was able to assemble enough understanding to screen and rank a large number of
sub-projects, and to propose a largely suitable process for implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA sent regular (about every six months on average; 17 in total) and high quality supervision
missions. Very good, informative, and action-oriented aide memoires were instrumental to the
achievements of the project. Supervision missions systematically faced challenges in a
professional and pro-active way. Supervision missions were also very insistent on addressing
important issues for which the counterpart was not active enough, such as the need to increase
budget contribution to the DWR and the importance of capacity building activities such as
training and study tours. Finally, the IDA team was constantly responsive to needs and difficulties
encountered during implementation and found ways to solve them, such as the changes in
counterpart funding to cope with serious budget constraints or the need to extend the duration of
the project.




                                                21

The only minor shortcoming was probably that the missions were engineering-biased, with less
attention paid to other factors impacting the project, such as agricultural and economic aspects.
While initial activities had to be simple and focused on physical rehabilitation, more attention
could possibly have been given later to broader sectoral factors, although this was started during
supervision of OIP and the preparation of WMIP by basically the same task team.

In 2004 the project was assessed for quality of supervision, which was rated satisfactory. The
ECA region places a lot of emphasis on supervision and the adequacy of this was acknowledged
by the assessment. This included a suitable use of country office staff. The region also encourages
close cooperation with other donors and financiers and again the supervision team did well,
especially through very close interaction with the Asian Development Bank. The great emphasis
on dam safety and use of a high-level Panel of Experts on Dams link to the region's high
importance given to adherence of safeguards.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance was satisfactory at all stages: identification, preparation, appraisal, and
supervision.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF) has been very supportive to the project, was
involved during supervision missions, occasionally visited project sites, and typically authorized
disbursements as needed. It was important that there was a dedicated project officer in the
Ministry's Public Investment Program Department. The IDA task team had regular interaction
with this specialist, and with the Department's management as well, for discussions on project
progress and issues.

Between 1999 and 2001, severe budget constraints reduced the availability of counterpart funds
which slowed down project implementation, and contractors were left with very large arrears.
However, the issue was jointly addressed by the Government through the Inter-ministerial
Coordination Committee (ICC), MOEF, and IDA.

The Department of Water Resources of the MOAWRPI was hosting the PIU and was associated
both at national and local levels to project activities. Despite a lack of full involvement of DWR in
the construction supervision of works, these have all been transferred to the local (oblast and
raion) branches of DWR as the owners of the rehabilitated infrastructure.

Covenants were typically complied with, although occasionally late. For example, the NIRSAP
was delivered somewhat later than planned.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                              22

Implementing
Agency        Performance

Department of The staff of the PIU was dedicated to the project with high technical standard and
Water         largely contributed to the satisfactory outcome of the project, despite the initial
Resources     lack of experience with project implementation of most of the project team. In
              particular, the role of coordination and of supervision was well performed by the
              PIU.

              The procurement processes and contract management were challenging in view
              of the numerous sub-projects involved, the uncertainties related to the amount
              and nature of works (in particular for the dams), and the lack of experience of
              local contractors. However, through implementation, the implementing agency
              was able to adapt itself to the radical switch from the previous centrally planned
              procurement process to a new international one with new standards, rules, and
              criteria. Therefore, procurement was generally fair, competitive and transparent
              and the contracted works were eventually completed satisfactorily, though with
              delays in some cases. Only two contractors had to be replaced due to non-
              performance. This was achieved through the quality of the procurement team, the
              establishment of the procurement committee, the good collaboration between the
              partners involved, and the training provided by the IDA task team.

              However, shortcomings that could have been handled better included:

              Insufficient information sharing between the PIU in Bishkek (centralizing the
              contracts with contractors) and DWR oblast and raion branches which were not
              fully involved in design and supervision work, with the potential risk that they
              would not appreciate the rehabilitation works. The argument was that DWR staff
              was occupied with their main tasks of operating and maintaining infrastructure.
              Eventually there was full satisfaction among DWR staff to have the rehabilitated
              infrastructure transferred back.

              Two full-time staff were dedicated to financial management: a financial manager
              and a disbursement specialist. The project was audited every year by an external
              independent auditor and no major irregularities were revealed. However,
              financial reporting was considered only moderately satisfactory as it experienced
              some shortcomings such as late reporting and some discrepancy in the financial
              data submitted. The reasons included: (i) an abrupt change in the financial team
              in 2004 with no direct briefing between the two teams; and (ii) difficulties to
              operationalize the financial management software and to adapt it to local
              conditions.

              During the first two years of implementation, the PIU sometimes had a fractious
              relation with the international TA consultants in charge of designing sub-projects
              and at times undertook part of the consultants' responsibilities, rather than
              improving the environment for consultants to work in.



                                           23

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

All parties involved had a satisfactory contribution to the project.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

During implementation, the IRP management faced some difficulties in the selection of
interventions that could be considered in the project. Considering the desire to deal with as many
systems as possible, in some cases not all bottlenecks were removed from the systems. An
irrigation system should be considered as a whole water management unit and works should not
be carried out in individual distributaries without a proper water management system for the
entire scheme. For rehabilitation purposes a system approach has to be adopted (as now
advocated under WMIP), allowing an in-depth analysis of major shortcomings of the whole
irrigation scheme in order to propose the necessary improvements needed in light of an overall
objective of restoring capacity, increasing efficiency, improving operation and maintenance, etc.

In countries in transition, time is essential. This project turned out to be very timely as it was
urgent to reverse the deterioration of irrigation systems. A trade-off had to be found between the
quickness of preparation, appraisal, and start up and the level of detail of some preparation
aspects (e.g. more detailed description of scheme selection process). It is sometimes more
efficient to "sacrifice" some degree of detail to the benefit of more rapid interventions in these
situations where actions on the ground have to start quickly. However, even under these
conditions of urgency, the simplified project design should not be at the expense, during
implementation, of also dealing with broader and longer term issues such as the importance of
considering the features of water use for agriculture (rather than only the infrastructure itself) or
the need for institution strengthening of essential organizations (in this case the DWR).
Government and IDA dealt with this through several studies, regular interaction during project
supervision, and other projects (OIP, WMIP, and several IDA-financed agricultural projects). In
case there would not have been follow-up projects, some provision in the budget and flexibility
should have been introduced in project design to address the sectoral issues during later stages of
implementation, with the focus progressively switching from physical investments to institutional
strengthening.

Good supervision work is essential for satisfactory outcome. Besides the quality and commitment
of the PIU staff, the high quality and the continuity of the supervision missions was instrumental
to the satisfactory implementation of the project. The project was carefully and consistently
followed by the task team and its technical level and pro-active contribution to solving numerous
implementation issues were essential. Proper skill-mix is important to enable participation of
experts on a need basis in particular with project dealing with complex sectors.




                                               24

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower, and in particular DWR and its PIU, highly appreciated the support received by the
World Bank, and in particular the task team for its constant support and permanent, rapid and
efficient feedback, and also the country office which provided assistance and training in
procurement and financial management.

In turn, the PIU was more critical towards some of the international technical assistance received
during implementation. The PIU considered that the consultancy firm selected for the first two
years of implementation was lacking the local knowledge and was applying norms that were
developed in other countries but not necessarily adapted to local conditions. In fact, this was
somewhat expected between engineers having received a Russian education and not having
previously been exposed to other systems and engineers who were applying international norms.
FAO was criticized for the initial phase of implementation of the SIMIS sub-component, as time
was lost in administrative matters and it sent four different consultants, therefore lacking
continuity. However, after some delays a successful training program was implemented, the
results of which are now used by DWR staff, as explained in an earlier section.

MOEF considers the project as successful and that irrigation is essential for the economic
development of the country. It rightly considers that it has always been supportive to the project.
The only major issue has been the lack of counterpart funds which, however, only slowed down
implementation during the first three years of the project.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not Applicable.




                                             25

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The original Project Development Objective was to "increase the productivity of irrigated
agriculture in the project area through improved water supply". Key performance
indicators included: (i) the increase in agricultural output from areas benefiting from inter-
farm irrigation rehabilitation (a 10 percent yield increase, 4 years after completion of
rehabilitation was expected); and (ii) the increase in volumes of water diverted and
delivered to the boundaries of former state and collective farms upon completion of
rehabilitation (on average 25 percent for all project farms was expected).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

In order to finance the reconstruction of critical infrastructure that was damaged or
destroyed during 1998 summer floods, an adaptive restructuring took place and a project
component was added to IRP. The restructuring was approved by IDA's Board of
Executive Directors on December 2, 1998. The PDO was amended to also include: "to re-
establish conditions of safety and stability against future floods within the Suzak section of
the Kugart River and for selected irrigation infrastructure". The performance indicators
included: (i) people living in the flood plain in Suzak protected against future flooding
through strengthening of levees up to design standards (number of people estimated at
6,000); and (ii) ability to abstract design flows through repair of up to six intake structures,
commanding about 50,000 ha in total (25,000 farm families expected to benefit).




                                               26

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                          Original Target Values    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            (from approval        Revised         Achieved at

                                                 documents)          Target        Completion or
                                                                     Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Increase in agricultural output from areas benefiting from inter-farm irrigation
                 rehabilitation.
                 Yields of crops                                                Various crop-

Value            depressed by 10          10 percent yield increase,            dependent yield

(quantitative or percent because of       4 years after completion              increases have been

Qualitative)     inadequate and                                                 measured, varying
                 untimely water supply    of rehabilitation.                    from 2 to over 50
                 to the farms.                                                  percent.
Date achieved 01/01/1999                  12/31/2004                            03/01/2006
Comments         As presented in Section 8.2, yield increases have been observed for many crops in
(incl. %         the systems that were rehabilitated early during the project. The more equitable
achievement)     distribution of water has allowed tail-enders to benefit substantially.

Indicator 2 :    Increase in volumes of water diverted and delivered to the boundaries of the
                 former state and collective farms.

                 Water shortage to the On average 25 percent of                 All rehabilitated
Value                                                                           schemes are able to
(quantitative or project farm areas is all project farms, upon                  deliver water to
Qualitative)     on average 25            completion of
                 percent.                 rehabilitation.                       WUAs in contracted
                                                                                quantities.
Date achieved 01/01/1999                  12/31/2004                            03/01/2006

Comments         Water deliveries have actually decreased to many schemes--there is adequate

(incl. %         delivery of water during peak month(s), which is a more important indicator than

achievement)     overall water delivery. Water is used more efficiently and productivity per m3 has
                 increased.

Indicator 3 :    Re-establish conditions of safety and stability against future floods within the
                 Suzak section of the Kugart River and selected irrigation infrastructure.
                                          6,000 people in Suzak
                 People in Suzak were protected against future                  The newly constructed

                 at risk of future floods floods through                        levees are adequately

                 that could affect        strengthening of levees               protecting Suzak

Value            infrastructure and       up to design standards;               against 1:200 year

(quantitative or people's livelihoods. 25,000 farm families                     floods. Four

Qualitative)     Irrigation headworks benefit from abstract                     headworks, command

                 were unstable after      design flows through                  ing 30,000 ha and

                 the floods and at risk repair of up to six intake              benefiting 15,000

                 of collapse.             structures (total 50,000              farm families were

                                          ha).                                  rehabilitated.

Date achieved 01/01/1999                  12/30/2000                            12/31/2001
Comments         Rehabilitation of two irrigation headworks that required major works was
(incl. %         transferred to the Flood Emergency Project, as a result of which the command area
achievement)     and number of beneficiaries reduced.




                                                   27

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                         Original Target       Formally     Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         at Completion or
                                       approval documents)      Target
                                                                Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 : Infrastructure returned to operational condition.
                                                                           For dams (415,000 ha)
              Almost all irrigation   Up to 12 dams                        rehabilitated,
              infrastructure in the   (495,000 ha)                         guaranteeing their safety
Value         country, commanding     rehabilitated,                       and allowing full
(quantitative 1.05 million ha, is     guaranteeing required                reservoir fill; 20
or            performing below        safety. Irrigation                   irrigation systems
Qualitative) design standards due     systems (345,000 ha)                 rehabilitated (excluding 3
              to lack of repair and   rehabilitated, allowing              post-flood works)
              maintenance.            water supply as per
                                      design requirements.                 commanding an area of
                                                                           over 250,000 ha.
Date
achieved      01/01/1999              12/31/2004                           03/01/2006

Comments      There are several reasons, explained in the main text of this ICR why the originally
(incl. %      expected targets were not fully achieved. In any case, the project followed a program
achievement) approach, with the original targets being the best targets at the time of appraisal




                                                28

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                     Board   ISR Ratings at       Amount
 Restructuring     Approved  Restructuring     Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)           PDO                     Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                    Change     DO       IP       in USD M
                                                              In response to serious
                                                              flooding in the summer of
                                                              1998 in Jalal-Abad and Osh
                                                              Oblasts, up to US$ 4.0 million
                                                              was re-allocated for a new
                                                              component  Emergency
                                                              Repairs for Flood-damaged
                                                              Infrastructure  to finance
                                                              (i) flood protection works
12/02/1998        Y             S        S               1.30 along the Kugart River within
                                                              Suzak Town, in order to
                                                              safeguard lives as well as
                                                              private and public property
                                                              against future floods; and
                                                              (ii) emergency rehabilitation
                                                              of some of the most severely
                                                              damaged irrigation headworks
                                                              with high risks of collapsing
                                                              during future floods.
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets               Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets       Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                  Satisfactory




                                          29

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                          Appraisal
              Components                Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest     Percentage of

                                             M)         Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal

A1: Rehabilitation/Completion of Dams             8.80               10.40         118.18
A2: Rehabilitation of Inter-farm Canal
Networks                                         13.10               12.40          94.66

A3: Emergency Repairs for Flood-
damaged Infrastructure                            0.00                2.85

B1: Implementation Support                        5.30                5.20          98.11
B2: Institutional Development                     5.60                5.90         105.36
C: Incremental Maintenance                        2.90                2.60          89.66
                  Total Baseline Cost            35.70               39.35
Physical Contingencies                            5.20
Price Contingencies                               5.90
                   Total Project Costs           46.80
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                0.00           0.00
            Total Financing Required             46.80               39.35



(b) Financing


                                                  Appraisal   Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds              Type of                                Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing   Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD M)          M)          Appraisal

 Borrower                                             11.80              4.42       37.46
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                               35.00             34.93       99.80

 LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV.,
DISTRICT, CITY) OF                                     0.00              0.00
BORROWING COUNTRY




                                            30

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            31

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

                Component A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure

Sub-component A1: Rehabilitation/Completion of Dams. Satisfactory.

The purpose of this sub-component was to respond to urgent priorities aiming at
guaranteeing safety downstream of major irrigation dams and storing maximum amounts
of water. The dams showed risks related to uncompleted works (e.g. spillway at Orto-
Tokoi), structural problems (e.g. seepage at Papan), lack of maintenance, or absence of
sound monitoring measurement networks. Detailed dam examination and safety reports
were prepared by consultants for six dams, namely Ala Archa (large), Karabura, Kirov,
Orto-Tokoi, Papan, and Spartak. Reports for six smaller dams, Ala Archa (small), Bazar
Kurgon, Naiman, Stepninski, Sukuluk, and Tortgul, were not prepared. The studies
conducted by the consultants and the conclusions of the visits by the independent Panel
of Experts on Dams revealed that the problems at several of the major dams, especially at
Papan, were much more extensive than envisaged at appraisal, and rehabilitation works
were generally more expensive than originally estimated. Government and IDA agreed
that the three major dams in the country, Kirov, Orto-Tokoi and Papan, as well as the
uncompleted Karabura dam, were the most important ones to be included in the project.
These were, in fact, the dams that had the most safety issues and store the bulk of the
country storage capacity of water, with a total stored volume of 1.3 billion m3 , which is
about 80 percent of all the water stored in the 12 irrigation dams. Furthermore, the
discovery of critical safety problems in the Papan Dam caused a review of the priority of
dams to be rehabilitated, with the main consequence to put on hold and to review the
scope of the completion and rehabilitation of Karabura Dam.

Under this sub-component, the following activities have been implemented:

Orto-Tokoi Dam (earth dam, 52 m height, 470 million m3 storage capacity, 220,000 ha
irrigation area, both in the Kyrgyz Republic and Kazakhstan). The completion of the
overflow spillway, repair to the outlet tunnel, stabilization of the valve house, grouting of
weak areas, and replacement of cone valves took place. These rehabilitation works
allowed the reservoir to reach its full supply level for the first time since construction
was completed in 1962. The annual impounding volume was increased by 30 Mm3 and
with the completion of the spillway a safe flood discharge of 550 m3 /sec has been
assured (before the project there was no operational overflow spillway, which provided
an unacceptable high risk). Operation of the dam is carried out according to a newly
prepared operation plan and the dam is performing well.

Papan Dam (earth dam, 120 m height, 260 million m3 storage capacity, 45,000 ha
irrigation area, both in the Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan). The dam safety report
considered it to be a high-risk dam due to its height, the volume of the reservoir, the
seepage problem which was detected in the embankment, and related to that the
instability of the dam body, as well as the extensive damage and loss of lives that might
occur in the downstream area in case of dam failure. The dam operation could not be



                                             32

accepted with the upper part of the dam pervious, and seepage had to be cut off by a core
fulfilling its role according to acceptable international practices. Various rehabilitation
options were considered in detail, but it was agreed that a plastic concrete diaphragm
wall would be the preferred technical and also most cost-effective solution, even though
it was a unique, highly specialized solution only carried out few times before in a large
dam body and for which only few international contractors had sufficient experience.
The works took about three years, plagued by many technical problems and frequent
break-downs of the hydrofraise, but now that the works are completed they provide
safety to inhabitants living in Osh City and the Ferghana Valley downstream of the dam
and a guaranteed water supply to an irrigation area of 45,000 ha. The analysis of
piezometer readings shows that the works are efficient and have been important to reduce
the seepage through the dam. The level of the phreatic surface has decreased
considerably (already more than 20 m within the first year of completion) in the dam
body, to a level that reflects stability of the dam. No seepage appears on the downstream
slope of the dam, and the estimated seepage at the toe of the dam has reduced from over
100 l/sec to less than 20 l/sec when reservoir levels are high. All this indicates that the
rehabilitation works have a positive impact. It will be necessary to continue detailed
monitoring of the behavior of the dam for several years, which is being done by DWR.

Kirov Dam (concrete buttress dam, 86 m height, 570 million m3 storage capacity,
142,000 ha irrigation area, both in the Kyrgyz Republic and Kazakhstan). This dam did
not have serious safety problems. However, due to the dam's height, to the size of its
reservoir, and to the presence of large downstream settlements, great attention was paid
to the dam's safety both in terms of maintenance and proper monitoring of dam behavior.
The physical rehabilitation works which were considered essential for dam safety were
limited to stabilization of the left bank of the reservoir near the dam and stabilization of
the left bank of the river immediately downstream of the dam. A generator for back-up
power supply was installed and hydro-mechanical equipment, including large cone
valves, was either repaired or replaced. The state of the monitoring instrumentation in the
dam was investigated and substantial repairs and replacements were made to ensure that
the needed monitoring system is in place. Improvements in the collection and analysis of
monitoring data were made, including real-time monitoring of important parameters and
computerization of all monitoring parameters. It is noted that Kazakhstan also provides
some services on a regular basis to maintain the dam. For example, the left bank in the
downstream area was recently strengthened with funding from Kazakhstan.

Karabura Dam (earth dam, 49 m height, 17 million m3 storage capacity, 8,000 ha
irrigation area). Serious safety problems were identified, as the dam remained
uncompleted for many years (construction was stopped just before Independence), yet
water was stored (about 3 million m3) and uncontrolled overtopping took place several
times, putting the uncompleted dam body at risk of collapse with subsequent risk for
villagers living downstream of the dam. The main works comprised embankment
completion -- raised by 27 meters to a total height of 49 meters, increasing the storage
volume to 17 million m3; construction of a concrete spillway; completion and extension
of the offtake tunnel; and construction of a new canal and siphon to distribute water
downstream. The completion of the dam therefore not only provides the necessary safety



                                                33

against dam wall collapse, but also provides for increased volumes of irrigation water, as
a result of which the farmers in the area should be able to increase the agricultural
outputs and thus their livelihood. An irrigation network for about 8,000 ha exists, but for
many years farmers have suffered from water shortages during the peak of the irrigation
season, as the river flows were insufficient for the developed irrigation area. With the
completion of the Karabura Dam, water shortages are a thing of the past.

The equipment for telecommunication services between seven sites has been installed
and frequencies and licenses have been obtained. The seven sites are Kirov, Papan, and
Orto-Tokoi Dams, the central office of DWR in Bishkek, and the oblast offices of DWR
in Chui, Osh, and Talas. The systems are fully operational and allow proper
communication and information sharing, mainly focused on efficient water releases and
sharing of monitoring data.

Sub-Component A2: Rehabilitation of Inter-farm Canal Networks. Satisfactory.

The selection process of sub-projects started at the identification stage and continued
during preparation, which dropped the number of potentially "eligible" sub-projects from
more than one hundred to about 60. Of these, a first batch of six sub-projects were
considered in detail at appraisal. Their rehabilitation was initiated during the first year of
implementation of the project and served as a first test for a learning-by-doing approach.
All other sub-projects were selected later from the "reserve list" of potential sub-projects
on the basis of selection criteria based mainly on government priority, potential impact,
and economic profitability and cost effectiveness. During the first years of
implementation it appeared that the scope of work under some of the sub-projects did not
fully address all the major bottlenecks that limited the supply of irrigation water within
the schemes. Designs were in some cases quite simple (canal bed cleaning), in other
cases more complicated (construction of aqueducts, hydroposts, other associated
structures, reinstatement of concrete lining) and, in yet others, very complicated
(reinstatement and construction of headworks, water escape structures, and sediment
basins). The criteria for identifying critically-at-risk sections of canals were refined on a
step-by-step process.

Rehabilitation works have been carried out in 20 irrigation systems (excluding three
structures under the Emergency Repairs for Flood-damaged Infrastructure Sub-
component). Costs of works ranged from US $69,000 to about US $2.5 million, with the
seven largest systems accounting for about 53 percent of the total cost. The average per
hectare rehabilitation cost was about US $50, ranging from US $5 per ha (Ad Bashinsky)
to US $945 per ha (Jirma).




                                               34

  Oblast         Map System                             Command               Actual
                 Ref.                                    Area (ha;       Implementation
                                                         rounded)          Cost (US $)
  Batken            1 Burganda                                  5,000              444,000
  Chui              2 West Chui                                74,300              802,000
                    3 East Chui                                43,500              410,000
                    4 Orto                                      4,600               69,000
                    5 Ad Bashinsky                             23,100              110,000
  Issyk-Kul         6 Komsomolsky                              14,200              143,000
                    7 Jerui                                     2,800              761,000
                    8 Jon                                       2,500              198,000
                    9 Kara-Jal                                  3,300              350,000
  Jalal-Abad       10 Kugart Right Bank                         4,600              322,000
                   11 Jirma                                       900              850,000
                   12 Besh-Batman                               4,300              980,000
                   13 Kara-Ungur Sai                           14,200            2,496,000
  Naryn            14 Kenesh-Topon Aryk                         5,400              462,000
                   15 Chon-Baktygul                             2,000              226,000
  Osh              16 Khodja                                    2,400              149,000
                   17 Otuz-Adyr                                13,600              975,000
                   18 Kyrgyz-Ata and Naiman                    23,900            1,600,000
                   19 Myrza                                     2,200              862,000
  Talas            20 Kainazar                                  4,500              157,000
     TOTAL                                                    251,300           12,366,000

During Phase I, seven sub-projects were implemented with simple rehabilitation works
and the average cost was less than US$ 30/ha. During phase II, eight sub-projects were
implemented and the average cost was about US $150/ha, including Jirma scheme (US
$945/ha). During Phase III, five sub-projects were executed and the average cost was US
$200/ha, including Myrza scheme (US $400/ha). Achievements included the
rehabilitation or reconstruction of 15 headworks, cleaning of about 160 km of canal,
construction of about 70 km of concrete lining, rehabilitation of some 300 hydraulic
structures of various kind, rehabilitation of four sediment basins, and construction of five
new sediment basins.

The command area of the rehabilitated schemes is about 250,000 ha (262,000 ha
considering the additional area under the Emergency Repairs for Flood-damaged
Infrastructure Sub-component), with an estimated 50,000 farm families benefiting. The
actual project area is less than the 345,000 ha estimated at appraisal, mainly due to the
reallocation of about US $3 million for post-flood rehabilitation and reconstruction
works, changes in the disbursement percentage for works from 70 to 85 percent at the
beginning of 2000, and to a lesser extent also due to continued deterioration of the
technical condition of many structures over time, causing an increase in the volume and
cost of rehabilitation works.




                                              35

Sub-Component A3: Emergency Repairs for Flood-damaged Infrastructure. Highly
satisfactory.

The original plan under the modified IRP was to implement eight of the most urgent sub-
projects. During detailed investigations of the proposed irrigation headworks it was
determined that rehabilitation of two of them, would be much more complicated and
time-consuming, and it was decided to move these to the Flood Emergency Project which
has since been successfully implemented (PAD No. 18701-KG, dated December 29,
1998, and ICR No. 29944-KG, dated September 16, 2004).

Although some contracts were completed with delays, especially due to additional works,
and one contractor was replaced due to non-performance, all six sub-projects were
successfully implemented by 2001. Total disbursements for the sub-component were
around US $2.85 million, and the balance of the IDA funds was reallocated back to the
Rehabilitation of Inter-farm Canal Networks sub-component. In addition to
reconstruction of four irrigation headworks (Aravan Sai, Mailuu-Suu, Kara-Ungur Sai,
and Kugart), the sub-component included cleaning of the Kugart River within Suzak
Town and reconstruction of the right bank Kugart River levee just upstream of Suzak
Town. The sub-project for reinstatement of the levee on the Kugart River pioneered a
new technique for embankment lining in the Kyrgyz Republic, utilizing Reno mattresses,
which is recognized as having proved very cost-effective. Its performance in subsequent
recent high floods has been good and there has been no repeat of the significant flood
danger to dwellings and public buildings in Suzak, as occurred in 1998. The basic
reinstatement works at the irrigation headworks have proved to be of good quality and
have assured continued supply of irrigation water to a total area of about 30,000 ha.

  Oblast         Map System                            Command               Actual
                 Ref.                                   Area (ha)       Implementation
                                                                           Cost (US $)
  Jalal-Abad       21 Kugart Headworks                          8,900             189,000
                   22 Kara-Ungur Sai Headworks                14,200              244,000
                   23 Mailuu-Suu Headworks                      3,400             156,000
  Osh              24 Aravan Sai Headworks                      3,400             345,000
      TOTAL                                                   29,900              934,000

Design and Construction (general). Designs were typically prepared well, and only in
few cases were they found during contract implementation to have defects that required
substantial additional design work. A total of 39 biddings were held for irrigation system
and post-flood rehabilitation works (excluding dams), including six ICB, 26 NCB, and
seven Small Works. The number of bidders was 154, including 5 international
contractors. Thirty-five contracts amounting to US $17.8 million were signed, although
the actual cost for the implemented works was much lower, due to savings on activities
and favorable KGS - USD exchange rates (most contracts were in Kyrgyz Som) and
because of depreciation the Dollar amount (currency of the Special Account) decreased
during contract implementation. Three contracts were rejected due to high bid price.




                                             36

Many contracts experienced delays, some up to two years, in contract completion. It has
generally been difficult to accurately estimate the contract periods. During contract
implementation many constraints were experienced, such as delays in payment to
contractors from counterpart funds, late closure of canals at the end of irrigation seasons,
additional works, severe winter conditions, and poor contract management by
contractors. Nevertheless, all contracts were completed in a satisfactory way.

                            Component B - Capacity Building

A number of project activities have assisted DWR to improve its capacity to operate and
maintain irrigation systems and dams. Through these measures a start has been made to
improve the technical and institutional capacity of the Department to provide the required
water supply service to its users.

Subcomponent B1: Implementation Support. Satisfactory.

Project Implementation Unit (PIU). In accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, a Project Implementation Unit was set up in 1998
within the DWR. It consisted of six key professional personnel in Bishkek and
construction supervision inspectors, all selected on a competitive basis. Based on work
experience gained during the first years, and in accordance with IDA recommendations,
several changes were made to PIU staffing, particularly in relation to finance
management and procurement.

Technical Assistance. A group of international consultants was engaged during the first
years of project implementation, working in close cooperation with a team of national
consultants. The consultants stayed involved for the Dam Sub-component for the
duration of the project. Despite some friction and misunderstandings, especially between
the consultants and PIU, the services have been useful as the international consultants
made a contribution to the Kyrgyz specialists from PIU, DWR, and design institutes to
understand the importance of international contract management and implementation.
Local specialists associated with the international consultants gained experience in
design, preparation of design and tender documents, planning and management of project
works at international level, and the application of international norms and standards.
The national consulting firm was able to continue the services related to the irrigation
schemes after the departure of the international consultants.

Subcomponent B2: Institutional Development. Satisfactory.

Office Equipment. All DWR oblast and raion offices have received various pieces of
office equipment, including computers, printers, faxes, and photocopiers. This equipment
has been helpful for many administrative and technical tasks, including the introduction
of SIMIS (see below). Training to DWR has been provided in computer applications in
order to computerize water allocation and management procedures.




                                             37

Emergency Maintenance Equipment. Under the project US $4.1 million were spent on
machinery and equipment to upgrade the capacity of DWR to attend to maintenance and
urgent repair works. Thirty-three cars, 41 excavators of different types, 17 bulldozers, 43
dump trucks, and 10 truck cranes, along with smaller items were procured and distributed
among all oblasts, and three dams, and two major canal administrations. At the beginning
of 2003, DWR established Mechanized Mobile Groups in each of the seven oblasts.
Along with the IDA equipment, machinery which was previously available in oblast and
raion units was incorporated into MMGs. According to DWR the equipment and
machinery procured under the project, which was the first new and reliable equipment
provided to DWR in about 20 years, has been very important to carry out maintenance
activities. As DWR's budget continues to be depressed, it tries to carry out maintenance
as much as possible in-house. This has allowed DWR to do a considerable amount of
work every year, enabling it to continue to deliver water to the boundaries of WUAs.

Spare Parts. About US $635,000 worth of spare parts (about 2,500 pieces) were
delivered to DWR. These parts brought more than 150 units of heavy maintenance
equipment, such as bulldozers and excavators, back into operational condition at raion
level, much of which has also been incorporated in the MMGs.

Water Use Software. The sub-component was designed to introduce software for
irrigation management in order to promote efficient water management at the level of
oblast and raion offices of DWR. This was implemented through a 3-year contract with
FAO which succeeded in introducing the Scheme Irrigation Management Information
System (SIMIS) software, along with training in its use. Despite the administrative
problems encountered during the first year of this contract implementation, satisfactory
achievements have been registered. Under the contract with FAO, SIMIS software was
translated in Russian and Kyrgyz and the operational manual in Russian; four local
trainers and a technician were trained; SIMIS was adapted to include better the local
conditions; and staff from DWR raion offices was trained. After the completion of FAO's
contract, the local consultants have continued training activities, concentrating on the
introduction of seven modules to DWR oblast and raion staff, with the main focus on
calculation of water allocations to users, and managing and monitoring of water use and
irrigation service fees. Training took place in all seven oblasts and during 2005 and 2006
a total of 200 DWR staff was trained. Trainees from raions gathered in oblast centers,
where actual field data was used during the training courses. Computerization of these
important tasks saves raion staff a lot of time as slow and onerous manual calculations
are not necessary anymore. DWR has issued an Order that from 2007 as much as
possible all raions should automate their data.

Training and Study Tours. The objective was to train counterparts in modern methods of
project management and technical subjects such as system management maintenance,
water allocation, accounting systems, procurement of equipment, etc. A lot of this
training was on-the-job, as only few overseas study tours took place. The project
supported study tours related to water resources management to France and Spain, while
an international training program on irrigation management in Italy was attended by six
PIU and DWR staff. In relation to construction quality control a group of specialist



                                             38

visited Turkey. PIU specialists also attended short term training courses on procurement,
financial management, and monitoring and evaluation arranged in Bishkek and Almaty.

A large number of engineers benefited from on the on-the-job training performed by
international consultants and experts of the SIMIS component.

                       Component C - Incremental Maintenance

The maintenance component was designed to provide up to US $3.8 million for
supplementing GKR expenditure on routine maintenance works on approved sub-
projects. However, the absence initially of a clear understanding of the conditions under
which activities under this component were to be disbursed led to substantial delay in its
implementation. After an engineer with specific responsibility for the maintenance
component was engaged in the PIU, the implementation of the component improved.
Another constraint was that several contracts focused more on removing bottlenecks in
the lower-order system of rehabilitated sub-projects, rather than on typical routine
maintenance activities. It is true that the difference between rehabilitation and routine
maintenance requirements was not always clearly identifiable.

Despite the initial conceptual difficulties, maintenance works were carried out on 20
irrigation schemes and 2 dams from 2000 to 2005. A total of 35 sub-projects were
completed, including: (i) 247 km of selective canal bed cleaning; (ii) repair and
maintenance of 1,204 structures and hydroposts; and (iii) maintenance of 407 km of
service roads. Most of the works were carried out during the 2000 maintenance season
(October to March) and especially between 2002 and 2004.

It can be concluded that the practices employed in the component have allowed
maintenance of a substantial set of infrastructure, and have provided valuable experience
for DWR to adapt its own procedures, in particular: (i) adoption of a uniform
methodology for estimation of unit prices by all DWR oblast and raions; (ii) stronger
quality control over working documents; and (iii) stronger quality control over routine
repairs implemented by DWR divisions. Even though DWR is still inclined to carry out
as much as possible maintenance activities under force account, which is understandable
under depressed budget conditions, there is now a better experience with involving the
private sector in maintenance activities.




                                               39

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

I. Cost Benefit Analysis in the PAD

The economic analysis contained in the PAD consisted of separate cost-benefit analyses of six
sub-projects by valuing the impact of improved irrigation on agricultural performances. The
analyses were based on the following simple assumptions considered common for all sub-
projects (except Orto headworks, see below): (i) without project, crop yields would decrease by
one percent per year; (ii) with project crop yields would increase by 2.5 percent per year for 4
years (i.e. 10 percent) and then stabilize at this level; and (iii) these yield increases only
accounted for the impact of improved water supply, but not for other factors such as those
deriving from complementary interventions, e.g. on the agricultural side.

As a result, Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRRs) were calculated for the six sub-projects
(which had been firmly identified to be implemented during the first year), ranging from 44
percent (West Chui main canal) to 228 percent (Orto headworks, which took into account a
likely destruction of the headworks due to flood and instability reasons). The calculation of
switching values as well as sensitivity and risk analyses were undertaken and showed that the
project was "robust". This is logical considering the very high levels of the EIRRs in the base
case.

II. Methodological Issues

At the time of the preparation of the ICR, a systematic ex-post analysis with the same
methodology on all schemes was not undertaken because it was not judged feasible. The main
reason is that the M&E system did not collect systematic data on agricultural performances
during implementation and especially could not directly relate improvements in agricultural
production to improvements in irrigation systems, which in any case is very difficult to do. The
analysis would have required measuring annual yields for the main crops in each of the
command areas corresponding to each sub-project as well as yields in other parts of the
irrigation schemes or neighboring schemes not benefiting from project intervention (without
project scenario).

During the ICR mission, the team attempted to collect agricultural performance data from other
sources as well, but these were not satisfactory: (i) official statistics provide yields per raion
(district) which are not suitable because the raion boundaries do not correspond to the limits of
the area benefiting from project interventions, i.e. raion statistics would mix agricultural
performances in project areas with those of non-project areas; and (ii) although agricultural data
collected by the OIP are very relevant to assess the impact of that project, they are not for IRP
as the OIP data is focused at the level of the WUA, which is a much smaller entity than the
command area benefiting from IRP and (more importantly) are largely influenced by the OIP
interventions. Indicative agricultural data from a sample of four different type of sub-projects
were used for the analysis by the ICR team.




                                              40

The ICR analysis considered the following three ways to assess project efficiency:

    1. Besides agricultural performances, the other main performance parameter is the
       quantities of irrigation water released for agricultural use and their changes over time in
       the areas affected by the various sub-projects. The analysis is made in Section III;
    2. Section IV reviews the cost efficiency analysis undertaken by the PIU in its final report;
    3. Section V provides the indicative analyses of four sub-projects for which agricultural
       data was obtained as mentioned above; and
    4. Section VI includes a short discussion about additional benefits from the project.

III. Water Supply to Agriculture

The rehabilitation of canal sections or headworks was expected to increase the capacity of the
schemes and therefore the amount of water delivered to agriculture downstream. DWR provided
the annual quantities of water delivered to agriculture from 1995 until 2005 for 14 of the most
important sub-projects.




In almost all schemes the quantities of water delivered for agricultural purposes have been
decreasing over the past 10 years. In total, the quantities decreased from between 900 and 1,100
million m3 between 1995 and 2002 to about 800 million m3 since 2002. This represents a
decrease of about 20 percent while the PAD had fixed as a performance indicator an expected
increase by 25 percent. The data shows that the annual quantities of water delivered by the



                                              41

schemes was not an appropriate indicator because during project implementation many other
factors tend to decrease the delivery of water such as the following:

     During the time of implementation, irrigation service fee increased and water
        management within former farms became the responsibility of WUAs, and there was a
        progressively reduced demand for water from DWR to contain the total ISF by limiting
        consumption of water only to the required quantities. Indeed, before the project, large
        quantities of water were "lost" as they were delivered but not necessarily used for
        agricultural purposes. What is important today is the capacity to deliver water during the
        peak month(s), and this is not captured by annual figures. In order to achieve adequate
        delivery of water during peak periods it was very important to bring back to capacity the
        irrigation infrastructure, while rehabilitation also avoided a further deterioration and
        breakdown of systems;
     As a result of the OIP, the efficiency of many on-farm schemes (secondary and tertiary
        canals) has improved, thereby reducing the losses and therefore the gross requirement
        for irrigation water;
     Actual demand at field level for agriculture depends on the rainfall during the year, e.g.
        in good years less water would be required from the irrigation scheme, and the latest
        years were relatively wet years; and
     Finally, the overall efficiency of the main systems has increased due to certain
        modernizations thus decreasing the abstraction of water to the main canals.

The decreasing demand for and use of water by the WUAs is clearly confirmed by the M&E
data of the OIP across WUAs covered by that project. In nine out of 13 WUAs that were
surveyed in detail the water use reduced by between 20 and 50 percent, yet the gross value
production per unit water increased for eight WUAs by between 20 and 200 percent. Thus many
WUAs are doing better with less water. What is important is that the infrastructure that was
rehabilitated has been able to deliver the contracted volumes of water to the WUA boundaries,
even during peak periods. This ability has increased substantially after rehabilitation, as
reflected by DWR and also the high ISF collection rates (11 out of the 13 WUAs have increased
the ISF rate during the last few years and nine have collection rates exceeding 90 percent).

IV. Cost Efficiency Analysis

The analysis undertaken by the M&E team of the PIU is based on the calculation of switching
values which correspond to the percentage by which agricultural performances should increase
(compared with the situation without the project) to economically justify the project, i.e. an
EIRR of 15 percent. In other words, considering the rehabilitation cost, the size of the command
area and the crop output before project, if crop yields increase by the switching value
percentage at full development, the EIRR would be 15 percent and therefore the project
economically justified.

The results of this analysis are summarized in the following table.




                                             42

                                                              Command
          No of                                  Total Cost       Area    Cost per  Switching
         Scheme           Name of Scheme         (000 KGS)        (ha)    ha (Som)    Value
       IRP-01      West Chui Main Canal             36,719        74,300      494          1%
       IRP-02      East Chui Main Canal             11,855        43,466      273          1%
       IRP-03      Orto Regulator                    2,007        4,566       440          0%
       IRP-04      Ad Bashinsky Canal                3,225        23,135      139          0%
       IRP-05      Kugart Right Canal                9,632        4,583      2,102         4%
       IRP-06      Komsomolski Canal                 5,185        14,200      365          2%
       IRP-07      Kainazar Canal                    5,105        4,500      1,134         1%
       IRP-10      Kenesh Topon Aryk Canal          18,586        5,400      3,441        9%
       IRP-11      Jerui Headworks and Canal        35,747        2,790    12,813        19%
       IRP-12      Jirma Headworks and Canal        40,873         941     43,436       106%
       IRP-13      Jon Canal                         9,550        2,450      3,898         4%
       IRP-14      Khodja Intake                     6,623        2,389      2,772         6%
       IRP-15      Otuz-Adyr                        46,713        13,636     3,426         4%
       IRP-16a     Kara Ungur Sai Headworks         61,819        14,157     4,367         9%
       IRP-16b     Kara Ungur Sai Canals            48,152        14,157     3,401        9%
       IRP-17a     Kyrgyz -Ata                      42,425        5,020      8,451       10%
       IRP-17b     Naiman                           32,744        16,924     1,935         4%
       IRP-18      Chon-Baktygul                     9,565        2,034      4,703         3%
       IRP-19      Myrza                            38,063        2,239    17,000        26%
       IRP-20      Burganda                         19,299        4,974      3,880         4%
       IRP-22      Kara-Jal                         14,892        3,313      4,495         3%
       IRP-23      Besh-Batman                      38,479        4,300      8,974         8%
       TOTAL                                      537,258       249,317      2,154         3%

The cost per hectare averages about 2,150 KGS, equivalent (in 2006 rate) to about US $53.
However, the cost per ha considerably varied, largely depending on the nature of work, ranging
from deferred maintenance to comprehensive rehabilitation/modernization in other schemes.

The last column provides the necessary increased yields to justify the investment. If the
assumptions of the PAD are used, i.e. yields were expected to increase by 10 percent with the
project, all of the above sub-projects were justified except three of them: Jirma Headworks and
Canal; Myrza Headworks and Canal; and Jerui Headworks and Canal. The low economic
efficiency of these sub-projects had been identified at the time of the feasibility studies. The
sub-projects did not fulfill one of the selection criteria, i.e. the EIRR should be over 15 percent.
However, these were retained on an exceptional basis for social reasons as in the concerned
remote areas no economic alternative to agriculture was available for those farmers who would
have been left without water had there been no rehabilitation, considering the very high risk of
headworks failure.

V. Cost-Benefit Analysis

As mentioned above, the cost-benefit analysis of four different types of sub-projects is only
indicative, as only estimates of yields without- and with-project were made available. EIRRs
and net present values (NPV) were calculated for four sub-projects that have been implemented
during the three phases: Komsomolski Canal (IRP 06, phase I); Jerui Headworks and Canal


                                              43

(IRP 11, phase II); Jon Main Canal (IRP 13, phase III) and Kara Jal (IRP 22, phase III). Their
economic analyses are presented in the table below.

The analyses are based on the following assumptions:

    Actual costs monitored by the project without taxes (to obtain economic values) were
       used;
    Annual maintenance cost of the infrastructure was estimated at 2 percent of the
       investment cost;
    Cropping patterns and crop performances before and after project are the average ones
       estimated by the PIU at the time of the ICR mission;
    Economic values of crops have been provided by the PIU;
    Net benefits from the project were calculated as follows: the increase in gross outcome
       was divided by two, as half of the yield increases are assumed to result from the project
       (and half from other factors). In the absence of detailed crop budgets (and therefore
       proper estimates of input costs) it was again divided by two to account for the fact that
       increased yields require increased use of inputs (besides water); and
    The EIRR and NPV were calculated for a period of 20 years.

Based on these assumptions, these are the results of the analyses:

                                   Komsomolski        Jerui     Jon Main Canal     Kara-Jal
                                   Canal ( IRP      (IRP 11)        (IRP 13)        (IRP 22)
                                       06)
    Economic Cost (Som)          9.1 million    30.0 million    8.9 million     12.4 million
    Agricultural Area            3,876 ha       1,943 ha        2,141 ha        3,529 ha
    Average Yield Increase       33%            27%             21%             22%
    EIRR                         42%            - 1%            14%             26%
    NPV (at 15% discount rate)   18.5 million   - 19.9 million  -0.6 million    8.5 million


This analysis confirms that Jerui does not appear justified on economic ground alone.
Komsomolski and Kara-Jal seem highly justified while Jon appears marginal.

VI. Other Benefits

Besides improved agricultural performances, the project had other important benefits:

    Safety of people living downstream of the dams that were found to be unsafe. While
       more than two million people live in the command area of the dams that were
       rehabilitated, it is not fully known what fraction of them were actually at direct risk of
       dam failure, but it would certainly be a large number;
    Preventing the failure of irrigation structures (such as intakes) and sections of the
       schemes which would have dramatically affected the supply of irrigation water in some
       particular areas;
    Reduced O&M costs as a result of reduced water losses and more efficient O&M work
       derived from project machinery and other capacity building activities;
    The increase in contractor's capacity has been an important contribution by the project.



                                              44

  IRP had a profound impact on the national construction contracting industry, investing
  millions of dollars in construction contracts with them;
 Improved capacity of raion DWR offices to manage water as a result of the capacity
  building component; and
 Employment creation during construction work.




                                       45

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR

Lynette Alemar         Senior Program
                       Assistant             ECSSD              Project Support

Charles G. Chandler                          SAROQ              M&E
Timothy Robert
Jackson                Consultant            ECSSD              Engineering

Naushad A. Khan        Lead Procurement
                       Specialist            ECSPS              Procurement

Ainura Kupueva         Operations Officer    ECSSD              Operational Support
Nurbek Kurmanaliev     Procurement Officer   ECSPS              Procurement
Frances J. Maundrell   Consultant            ECSSD              M&E and Economics
Luciano Minetti        Consultant            ECSSD              Dam Engineering

John Otieno Ogallo     Sr Financial
                       Management Specia     ECSPS              Financial Management

Norval Stanley
Peabody                Consultant            ECSSD              Social Science

Fabrizio Pelli         Consultant            ECSSD              Dam Engineering
Irina Sarchenko        Team Assistant        CAGDR              Project Support
Orunbek K.
Shamkanov              Consultant            ECSSD              Operational Support

Joop Stoutjesdijk      Lead Irrigation
                       Engineer              ECSSD              Engineering

Hiwote Tadesse         Senior Program
                       Assistant             ECSSD              Project Support


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO            IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/17/1998              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            0.00
2   08/28/1998              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            0.00
3   03/15/1999              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            2.54
4   10/05/1999              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            4.59
5   04/02/2000              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            6.51
6   09/27/2000              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            8.67
7   03/20/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                           10.08
8   04/26/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                           10.08
9   10/01/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                           11.85
10 01/18/2002               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                           13.18



                                          46

11 04/10/2002               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            17.08
12 09/30/2002               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            19.69
13 01/17/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            21.17
14 05/28/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            23.26
15 09/29/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            24.90
16 03/18/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            26.01
17 09/28/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            29.03
18 02/23/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            31.06
19 08/18/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            32.44
20 03/29/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            34.95


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY96                                                            2.08
                    FY97                                                          357.68
                    FY98                                                          149.76
                                        Total:                                    509.52
Supervision/ICR
                    FY98                                                            3.94
                    FY99                                                           70.44
                    FY00                                         28                71.41
                    FY01                                         18                81.12
                    FY02                                         20                96.39
                    FY03                                         21                95.96
                    FY04                                         20                83.92
                    FY05                                         22                78.53
                    FY06                                         20               114.88
                    FY07                                          2                11.72
                                        Total:                  151               708.31




                                            47

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         48

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not Done.




                                       49

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not Done.




                                  50

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Government, through DWR and its PIU, produced a comprehensive "Project
Completion Report", also called the "Conclusion Report", dated May 2006. It contains a
main report summarizing the achievements of the project and conclusions of the PIU, as
well as summary tables and a number of annexes dealing with descriptions and
assessments of each sub-project, the various teams of consultants, and the equipment and
other related maintenance activities.

The Conclusion Report indicates that the design of the project was judged consistent with
the Government priorities and the needs of the country. However, it argues that the
objective of the project was difficult to measure, since yields are dependent on a number
of factors other than irrigation. The report considers that the objective should have been
"guaranteed water supply to areas covered under the project" thereby contributing to
agricultural development. The reports have also detailed descriptions of the activities and
outputs achieved during implementation:

Section 6 of the report on project management emphasized the fact that the PIU also
became responsible for the implementation of the Flood Emergency and On-Farm
Irrigation Projects. There is reference to disagreement with the IDA task team to assign
construction supervision to a consulting team as an independent third party to every
contract (in addition to the client and the contractor), while PIU considers that it should
have been its role. The task team maintained that the PIU is set up for day-to-day
management of projects and should not take on too many technical tasks for which there
are other offices available.

According to DWR/PIU procurement was efficient and usually made on time. A total of
79 construction contracts were signed and 295 bidders (including 32 international ones)
participated in the process. "A Tender Committee consisting of DWR, MOAWRPI,
MOEF and PIU officials was set up". The IRP tender process strengthened the capacity
of local contractors having participated in the project. However, in some cases, due to
their lack of experience some contractors suffered from not having included sufficient
financial safeguard conditions in the contracts. Most of the local contractors were found
reliable and of good quality. Some international contractors won contracts for which they
had to rely to a large extent on local sub-contractors.

The impact of the project is also analyzed. The report describes that the rehabilitation
works resulting in the ability to supply farming areas with reliable water, thereby
deterring out-migration and providing employment. However, the report notes that the
agricultural sector did not yet take full advantage of the project because other
interventions in the sector have "so far not resulted in an optimum improvement in
productivity or incomes. Much agriculture is still subsistence in nature, based principally
on cultivation of winter/spring cereals and fodder". It is argued that even the few
schemes that were not economically viable in the strict sense were nevertheless




                                              51

considered important for remote communities for which the irrigation systems were the
only meaningful measure of employment.

The performance of the World Bank was judged highly satisfactory in view of the high
quality of the supervision missions, the good support of the World Bank country office,
the prompt, explicit and detailed WB responses to messages, and the high standards
applied by the World Bank.

The performance of the Borrower was judged satisfactory for the Government and highly
satisfactory for the executing agency. It is claimed that there was regular site inspection,
and good and timely reporting to the World Bank.




                                              52

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic considers the project as
successful and that irrigation is essential for the economic development of the country. It
notes the high efficiency of the project and achievement of its objectives. Considering the
original performance indicators, it recommends that other countries take into account the
experience accumulated in the course of implementing the project.

MOEF considers that it has always been supportive to the project. The only major issue
has been the lack of counterpart funds which, however, only slowed down
implementation during the first three years of the project.

DWR and its PIU are highly appreciated the support received by the World Bank, and in
particular the task team for its constant support and permanent, rapid and efficient
feedback, and also the country office which provided assistance and training in
procurement and financial management.




                                              53

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Concept Note, August 1996
Identification / Formulation Report (FAO/CP). December 1996
Preparation Report (FAO/CP). May 1997
Sector Environmental Assessment (FAO/CP). August 1997
Project Appraisal Document, 30 March 1998
Development Credit Agreement, 22 June 1998
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). 15 May 1998
Supervision aide-memoires (17 between February 1999 and February 2006)
Mid Term Report on Monitoring and Evaluation (PIU), October 2002
Conclusion Report (PIU), May 2006
FAO Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission. July 2006




                                              54

MAP




       55

