CONFIDENTIAL
Report No: 9 7/0 78 CP-KYR
Date. 17.10.97
E-279
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED
Ffi        NATIONS ROME
INVESTMENT CENTRE DIVISION
FAO/WORLD BANK COOPERATIVE PROGRAMME






THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I. INTRODUCTION ...................1
Objectives of the Report ...................1
Approach .................               . ...1
II. POLICY, LEGAL ANQ ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ..........................................1
National Environmental Policy Framework ..................................................2
Administrative Structure ..................................................2
Government and Environmental Bodies ..................................................2
Important Environmental Laws and Regulations ..................................................3
Environmental Impact Assessment .................................................5
National Environmental Action Plan ..................................................5
The Sector Framework .................................................6
Water Resources and Utilization ..................................................6
Water Policies ..................................................7
Water Resources Administration ..................................................9
Administration of Water Quality .................................................                     10
Conclusion ......1: I I
III. BASELINE DATA ......................................                                                  12
Land Resources .....................................                                                  12
Water Resources ..................................... 13
Current Environmental Situation in the Sector .....................................                      15
Biodiversity ..................................... 18
Agriculture ......................................                                                     19
IV. PROJECT/PROGRAMMEDESCRIPTION .....................................                                      22
V. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ...................................... 26
Environmental Impacts and Issues ..................................... 26
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure ..................................... 27



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Impacts from  Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure ................                             28
Capacity Building ....................................................                                               31
Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement ....................................................               32
VI. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES .......................................................                                      32
Approach .......................................................                                                    32
Alternative 1: Without Project ........................................................ 32
Alternative Il: With Project (as proposed) ....................................................... 33
Conclusion .......................................................                                                  34
Alternative Ill: Sustainable Water Use .......................................................                      34
Conclusion ....................................................... 40
VII. MITIGATION  .................................................... 41
Primary Effects .......................................................                                                41
Follow-up Projects ....................................................... 41
Integrated Water Management Action Plan .......................................................                        41
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND  TRAINING  .............................................. 43
Improving Environmental Management in the Water Sector .................................................  43
Recommendations ....................................................... 44
Redefinition of Responsibilities and Integrated Water Management ........................ ................ 45
Projects under the NEAP Umbrella .......................................................                           45
Training ......................................................                                                        46
General ...............................                                                                             46
IWM - Training ............................... 46
Good Monitoring Practices ...............................                                                           47
General Environmental Training ............................... 47
IX. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN ................................. 48
Surface Water Monitoring Program  ................................... 48
User Monitoring ...................................                                                                 50
Institutional Aspects ................................... 51
Financing ................................... 51
X. PUBLIC CONSULTATION .................................                                                                   52
X]. REFERENCES .................................                                                                           54
XII. ANNEXES .................................                                                                             56
2



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.        This report has been prepared in the context of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project to be
financed by the World Bank as part of a national emergency irrigation rehabilitation programme. While
this project is addressing the irrigation infrastructure up to farm-level boundaries, a next intended
project will aim at improving irrigation on former state farms and co-operative farms. In accordance
with Operational Directive 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), this project has been ranked category B.
The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project has been ranked category B. For category B projects, a limited
sectoral environmental analysis is the appropriate form of SEA, according to the World Bank's
guidelines on Sector Environmental Assessment.
National Environmental Policy Framework
2.        A former part of the Soviet Union, the Kyrgyz Republic became independent in 1991. The
landlocked country of 4.7 million inhabitants (1995) is one of the smallest and poorest republics of the
Former Soviet Union (FSU) with an annual per capita income of US$610,- in 1994. Geographically,
most of its territory belongs to the Tien Shan mountain range with a total land surface of 198,000 km2.
3.        Administratively, the country is divided into six oblasts (regions), plus the metropolitan
region of Bishkek, the capital. Government is structured around the directly elected President of the
Republic, who is not only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces but also
appoints the Prime Minister, the cabinet and heads of administrative offices. He also oversees the work
of govemment and plays a crucial role in the legislative process of the two-chamber-parliament. Key
agency in charge of enviromnental policy and nature protection regulations is the Ministry of
Environmental Protection (Gaskompniroda). Its role is to co-ordinate environmental management within
all sectors of the economy, to develop and enforce environmental standards and regulations, and assist
government in designing and implementing policy and investment programmnes for environmental
protection.
4.        Environmental laws, standards and regulations in the Kyrgyz Republic are mostly
inherited from the former Soviet Union. The current situation is transitional: new environmental laws
and regulations are in the process of being introduced and existing ones rewritten. The most important
legal basis for environmental protection is the "Law on Protection of the Environment" (adopted by the
Zhogorku Kenesh in April 17, 1991). The law also lays out the principles for an obligatory review by
the "State Ecological Expertise" (similar to an Environmental Impact Assessment) which is required
for "selection of sites, design, construction, reconstruction, expansion and technical renovation of
enterprises, agricultural production, construction of military sites and other entities, their introduction
into production and operation, and liquidation".
5.        Environmental standards in the Kyrgyz Republic still rely exclusively on the ambient
environmental standards of the FSU, setting maximum permissible concentrations of polluting
substances in air, water and soil. Standards also exist for noise, vibration, electromagnetic fields and
radioactivity. These standards were established, however, with little consideration for the costs of
monitoring and enforcement. As a result they were (and still are) commonly violated, without
consequences for the polluters. The adopted standards and guidelines generally exceed the capacity of
tie monitoring system. They are very stringent but not taken very seriously by the key industrial
polluters. In addition to standard "command-and-control" instruments for environmental protection,
market-based instruments (emission permits) have been introduced. Lack of proper monitoring and
enforcement leaves them largely ineffective.



Water Resources and Utilisation
6.         The Kyrgyz Republic is a country of abundant surface and groundwater resources
which are of existential importance not only to its own population, flora and fauna but also key to
the economies of the other four central Asian states. More than 3,500 nrvers flow into river basins
within the country and on downstrearn through Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
and the Xijian Province of China. The Republic has extensive reserves held in over 2,000 lakes,
permanent snow fields and glaciers. At the sarne time, the country's arable farming depends almost
completely on irrigation and downstream countries to a large extent on the water resources allocated
to them under intemational water sharing agreements. The devastating ecological effects of the Aral
Sea's shrinking to half its size because of near total diversion of its inflowing water for irrigation
combined with excessive use of agricultural chemicals have resulted in a jointly developed regional
strategy to save the Sea, the Aral Sea Programme.
7.         The management of the country's water resources at the National, Oblast and
Rayon levels is the responsibility of the Department of Water Resources within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources of the Kyrgyz Republic. A former independent Ministry, the
Department was merged with the Ministry of Agriculture in 1996 to combine the budgets of the two
institutions and to assure better co-ordination of activities, both at Headquarters and field level. It
Tegulates the use of the country's water resources and is in charge of design, construction and
operation of all off-farm irrigation infrastructure.
Table I: Water Utilization in the Kyrgyz Republic (1993)
_ _million cubic meters/year
W Water Utilisation                          il__  i.
River Basin    Domestic  Industry  Agriculture Agriculture Other sectors   Total   Ground
total     irrigation                       Waters
1. Amu Daria           -        -        87         85           -       87        2
2. SyI Daria          98      236      4,684     4,570          53    5,071      454
3. Talas              10       I 1      933        915           5      959       15
4. Assa                I        -         98        97           -       99
5. Chu               274      601      2,781      3,072         17    3,964      325
6. IssYk-Kul          31       14      ',245      1,224          9    1,299       62
Lake
KNTgYZ Republic      414      852     10,119      9,671         84    1 1,479    859
in %                 3.6      7.4        88         84          0.7     100       7.5
Source: National Environmental Action Plan, 1995
8.         Total use of water in 1995 amounted to about 9,307 million m3, according to the
Department of Water Resources - down from 11,479 million m3 in 1993. Total consumption in 1994
was 10,915 million m3 . The following table gives an overview over the different uses of water in the
Kyrgyz river basins with the largest proportion used in the Syr Daria and Chu basins. By far the most
important water use is for irrigation with 84%, 7.4% for industrial and 3.6% for domestic purposes.
2



Current Environmental Situation in the Sector
9.        The following issues have been identified in the context of irrigated agriculture in the
Kyrgyz Republic:
10.       Soil Erosion: Out of 1074 thous. ha of irrigated area in the Kyrgyz Republic, 60
percent are reported to be to some extend eroded. Soil erosion has become one of the.primary issues
in the entire agricultural sector, affecting soil fertility, causing diffuse water pollution and the
accelerated siltation of water reservoirs, lakes and irrigation systems. Soil Erosion takes place both
up-stream from the irrigation schemes as well as on-farm within the irrigation schemes. An all-out
deforestation has elirminated a good part of the protective cover of the country's steep mountain
ranges, while the remaining protection from grasses is severely impaired by continuous overgrazing.
11.       Water Quality: The quality of the surface water is generally considered to be good
because the primary source of river waters in the Kyrgyz Republic is snowfall on the high mountain
slopes. However, in some locations drains, canals, and rivers near cities and industrial areas are
used by nearby households for washing and other non-potable uses and by children for recreation
and sometimes drinking where the water is described to be "generally very badly contaminated with
sanitary wastes, livestock manure, and industrial toxic and hazardous wastes". Such "hot spots" are
located in the most populated Chui river basin, lower sections of Kara Darya and Naryn tributaries
in Osh and Djalal-Abad Oblasts, and the Tup rivers flowing into Issyk-Kul Lake. Many small towns
and villages who still have to rely on surface water supplies are particularly vulnerable in times of
spring floods and intense summer rains as well as during times of low water flow in the river when
the assimilative capacity is also very low. In these areas (in Osh and Djalal-Abad Oblasts) parts of
the population resort to the irrigation infrastructure as their source of water supply with incidents of
Typhus and Hepatitis as a result. Other areas of concem regarding the quality of the surface water
are:
*  Poor condition of municipal sewer systems, and poor performance of existing biological
treatment facilities;
* Eutrophication and contamination by misapplication/handling of fertilizers and pesticides;
3  improper disposal of municipal solid wastes that allows leaching of contaminated liquids into
nearby rivers and drains;
* inadequate handling and storage of livestock manure; and
* improperly stored toxic wastes, and the absence of adequate pre-treatment of industrial liquid
wastes; and
* tailings of uranium mines.
12.       Nationally close to 90% of all drinking water is provided by centralized pipe systems,
and a high proportion of industrial water, is supplied from ground water. Generally, the tested
quality of freshwater from underground sources used in centralized distribution systems in rural and
urban areas meets the standards for dnrnking water. However, many raw water intakes are reported
to be in an unsatisfactory sanitary and technical condition. Efforts to enforce sanitary protection
zones in areas near surface water intakes or where water infiltrates,pn into the aquifer have proven
ineffective because of uncontrolled construction, livestock operations, laundries, storehouses for
agro-chemicals and fertilizers, and unsafe disposal of liquid and solid municipal and industrial
waste.
13        Main threats to groundwater quality are:
3



* unsafe storage and disposal of toxic and other industrial wastes, including waste oils, other
organic substances, and sanitary wastes by industries,
* the poor state of urban sewer systems which leak sanitary wastes into aquifers;
* disposal of municipal solid wastes in unsafe dumps from which organic wastes are leached into
the aquifer,
* poorly maintained and unsafely constructed household latrines, especially in newly developing
parts of the cities where sewer services are not available; and
*  incidents of uncontrolled exploitation of groundwater resources and resulting intrusion of saline
j    groundwater as well as nitrate contamination through intensive livestock operations e.g. down to
.i s 100-150 m in the Alaarchi aquifer, which supplies 60% of Bishkek's water supply.
14.        Salinization and waterlogging: In the Kyrgyz Republic, the irrigation system is based
on surface irrigation applied through furrows, which has to be considered rather inefficient in terms
of water utilization without adequate land levelling and irrigation scheduling leading to waterlogging
and consequent salinization. Currently about 105,000 ha are to some degree suffering from
salinization, 15,000 of which are heavily salinized.
15.        Application of pesticides, fertilizer, manure: The amounts of fertilizer and pesticide
application have decreased dramatically since 1991 thereby reducing environmental impacts. Main
concems are necessary improvements in application techniques and timing as well as handling of
residues. Large, concentrated livestock and poultry operations under the FSU posed a serious threat to
surface and groundwater resources. Most of these former state and collective farms are no longer
operating. For the remaining ones adequate storage, handling and dispersal of animal manure on the
land continues to be an important problem.
Project/Programme Description
16.        Arable farming in the Kyrgyz Republic relies heavily on irrigation. Only small areas,
mostly near the foothills where rainfall is higher, like on the eastern end of lake Issyk-Kul, have enough
rainfall for reliable crop production. With the existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure
deteriorating due to lack of maintenance, agricultural production and productivity are suffering from
insufficient water supply and drainage. Lack of maintenance is also the reason why a number of darns
are now seen as a risk for communities downstream- Because of the vital importance of the
agricultural sector for the country's economy, the Govemment of the Kyrgyz Republic has requested
the World Bank to finance a programme for irnrgation and drainage rehabilitation, including
* (i) rehabilitation or completion of 12 irrigation dams, in order to restore their capacity, safety
and stability,
*  (ii) rehabilitation of sections of primary and secondary canals for retuming the systems to its
original capacity;
* (iii) financing of maintenance contracts for project schemes on a declining scale of incremental
recurrent operation and maintenance costs.
17.       In addition to the physical works, the programme would have a capacity building
component providing
* (i) funding and equipment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Department of Water
Resources and technical assistance to support the PIU in the implementation of the project,
*  (ii) office equipment, software, and maintenance equipment to all involved oblasts and rayons.
* (iii) training and study tours; and
4



*  (i) funding and equipment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Department of Water
Resources and technical assistance to support the PIi in the implementation of the project;
*  (ii) office equipment, software, and maintenance equipment to all involved oblasts and rayons,
* (iii) training and study tours; and
* (iv) an action plan for irrigation efficiency improvement
18.       In the context of irrigation development, the Govemment of the Kyrgyz Republic has also
requested the World Bank to finance an irrigation project aimed at rehabilitating on-farm irrigation
facilities and introducing measures to improve water use efficiency in agricultural production.
Preparation is expected to start in October 1997. Complementary to these projects, the Asian
Development Bank and the European Union under its TACIS programme are already providing
Technical Assistance in the institutional Development of Water Users Associations. An Agricultural
Support Services Project is currently being appraised by the Bank mainly directed at the improvement
of agricultural advisory services and seed production.
Environmental Impacts and Issues
19.       In the context of the Sector Environmental Assessment the impacts of the individual
subprojects have not been examined individually. The SEA of a category B investment programme is
rather aiming at institutional, policy and legal issues but also identifying critical issues and hot spots
related to the planned investment. Assessments of the subprojects under the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project are required under the existing environmental legislation in the Kyrgyz Republic and will have
to be submitted by the Ministry of Agnculture and Water Resources for Ecological Expertise Review
within the Ministry of Environmnent.
20.       The intervention of the project takes place at the level of the nation's pnnciple aquatic
infrastructure, involving dams of reservoirs and headworks with spillways and hydraulic gates and
main feeder canals for irrigated fields. The main positive and negative anticipated environmental
impacts are summarized.in the Table II:
5



Table 11: Summary of Environmental Issues
Environmental Impacts                                               Mitigation Measures               Enforcement                Costs
Positive:
*  Rcduction of water losses through improved operation and
mnaintenance
*  Substantial improvement in the safety of thc country's thirteen major
irrigation dams
*  Reduccd risk of soil salinization by improved drainage1
*   Passage for fish through dams and headworks2
Ncgative:
*  Potcntially increased agrochemical pollution due to increased use of   *  to be addressed under on-  *  Ministry of          to be deterinied
pesticides and fertilizers along with improved availability of      farm irrigation project           Agriculture
irrigation water
*   Surfacc water contamination by potentially increased drainage   *  improved water quality        *  Ministry of             to be determinied
outflow due to improved water availability for irrigation and       monitoring, change in             Agriculture, DWR
improved drainage                                                   farming practices (reduction
of inputs etc.); to be
considered under the
Integrated Water
Management Action Plan and
the on-farm irrigation project
*  Aquatic habitats, downstream ecosystems (Aral Sea Basin) and     *   Integrated Water             *  Min. of Environment   USD 600,000
human uses of surface water could be negatively affected by         Management Action Plan           (lead agency) for
increased diversion of surface water for irrigation resulting from the                                Kyrgyz Government
improved convevance capacity of the rehabilitated canals
*   Indiscriminate depositing of excavated sediment deposits from   *  Training for DWR staff in the  *  Ministry of             to be determined
canals in the past has encouraged the creation of illegal waste dumps  field and proper contracting   Agriculture, DWR
and disturbed landscape and habitat function along the canals.      to ensure minimal
Rchabilitation and maintenance works in the canals would have the   disturbance of landscape
same negative impacts undcr the project if not executed in an
organised manner that minimizes the interference in the landscape
*   Vegetation alongside canals that has benefited ftom sccpagc and  *  to be addressed under         *  Ministry of             to be detcrmined
leaking irrigation infrastructure will be negatively affected by    individual impact assessment      Environment
rehabilitation works                                                for each sub-project              (Ecological Expertise)
*   Soil erosion associated with the continuation of existing       *  to be addressed under on-      *  Ministry of             to be determincd
unsustainable practices of agricultural production (long fuirrows on  farm irrigation project         Agriculture
poorly levelled ficids, poorly schcduled watcr application etc.)          ___
thc full bncefit of whichi would only be achicved in combination with improved irrigationt and on-farm drainage systems, which the current project does not finance but
which is cxpected to be addrcsscd under the planned on-farm irrigation project.
2 have not becn forcsccn in Ihc original dcsign but cotild, if adopted bv the rehabilitation project and where feasible, rcmovc obstacles for fish migration.



Recommendations
21.        Mitigation. Taking into account the importance of agriculture for the economy of the
Kyrgyz Republic and its almost complete dependence on irrigation for arable farming, the rehabilitation
of the irrigation infrastructure is essential. Addressing the issue of dam safety has to be considered
indispensable as well. It is recommended that negative environmental impacts would be partly
mitigated under the on-farm  irrigation project and the Agricultural Support Services Project in
addressing issues of adequate handling and storage of agricultural inputs as well as soil conservation
practices through extension and training. It is further recommended that all water quality and quantity
issues would be dealt with under a comprehensive Integrated Water Management Action Plan
identifying all water needs, their mutual interactions and opportunities. It would search and develop
(preferably budget neutral) opportunities for improving the benefits and integrate interests for the users
of ground and surface water such as agriculture, consumers of drinking water, industry, environment,
tourism, energy and mining. Site-specific mitigation measures will be defined under the Environmental
Impact Assessment Procedure for each individual scheme.
22.       Policy Reforms. The future financing of rehabilitation plus operation and maintenance
costs of the water supply infrastructure will remain a major challenge in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mobilization of sufficient local funds to cover essential operation and maintenance costs for domestic,
industrial, and agricultural water supply has not improved since the drafting of the NEAP. On the local
level, the Department of Water Resources is collecting water charges (mostly in kind) but charges are
far below actual costs. A gradual increase in domestic, industrial and irrigation water charges
considering affordability concems will be necessary for keeping up the system and providing incentives
for water conservation.
23.        Institutional Strengthening. The two basic recommendations in the NEAP regarding
institutional strengthening are strongly reiterated here. It seems necessary to focus on
* improving' the process for priority-setting, planning and capital budgeting by strengthening the
linkages among different agencies to ensure the flow of timely environmental, health and economic
impact data, and
* preserving and utilizing where applicable but also reestablishing where necessary the expertise and
experience of the Republic's water management organizations:
(A) Reliable, representative and timely data on water quality and quantity are
currently not sufficiently available due to budget constraints but necessary for
designing and evaluating policy options. For the provision of these data a co-
ordinated, streamlined monitoring system needs to be established. The existing
system is no longer operational. The improved data basis should be made available to
the public.
(B) Water management organizations can only function if key technical people
remain within the organizations and training is provided for staff development.
Necessary reorganization has resulted in the loss of many qualified staff which makes
more attractive remuneration and training particularly important.
24.       Monitoring. Within the context of the Action Plan a national aquatic monitoring
programme would be designed and implementation would be discussed with government and donors,
The monitoring programme would comprise of a net of strategically located monitoring stations for
6



both quantitative and qualitative observations, registration and data storage equipment and training for
registration, interpretation and reporting.
25.       Training. The training sub-component of the IWM would be developed as a process
which could continue along with implementation of the project; it should be flexible and meet the needs
of theproject. Future trainers would be specialists with an academic background and practcal
experience in water management, environment and agriculture. Courses should be offered in modules
of 2-3 day seminars by water management, environment and agriculture experts.
7



I. INTRODUCTION
Objectives of the Report
I.        This report has been prepared in the context of the national Irrigation and Drainage
Rehabilitation programme to be financed by the World Bank. While this programme is exclusively
addressing the irrigation infrastructure up to farm-level boundaries, a follow-up project will aim at
improving on-farm irrigation practices. The off-farm investment for Irrigation and Drainage
Rehabilitation has been ranked category B in terms of its environmental impacts. For B projects a
limited sectoral environmental analysis is the appropriate form of SEA, according to the World
Bank's guidelines on Sector Environmental Assessment.
2.        While it is intended to evaluate current environmental conditions in the irrigated
agriculture sector and water resources management in the Kyrgyz Republic in general, the report is
not an environmental assessment in the conventional sense in that it does not evaluate a specific
project. It is rather the examination of the relationship between current environmental conditions in
the Kyrgyz Republic and agriculture under irrigation. However, the Sector Environmental
Assessment provides a foundation for project-specific Environmental Impact Assessments, which
have to be submitted to the State Ecological Expertise in the Ministry of Environment.
Approach
3.        The work on the SEA was conducted by a small group of Kyrgyz and expatriate
experts' through various field trips and intensive contacts with the involved agencies, mainly the
Ministry of Environment and the Department of Water Resources within the Ministry of
Agriculture. The data situation is difficult, many agencies are not able to maintain monitoring
programmes for lack of funding and existing data prove to be inconsistent. The basis for this
document is the Preparation Report by the FAO Investment Centre and the project scope may be
subject to changes during project appraisal.
II. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.        A former part of the Soviet Union, the Kyrgyz Republic became independent in 1991.
The landlocked country of 4.7 million inhabitants (1995) is one of the smallest and poorest
republics of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) with an annual per capita income of US$610,- in 1994.
Geographically, most of its territory belongs to the Tien Shan mountain range with a total land
surface of 198,000 km2.
The team consisted of Lorenz Petersen (FAOJCP), Daniel Vreugdenhil (Consultant), Ms. Irina Nazarenko
(Ministry of Environment), Prof. Yusupov (Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources), Oleg Pakhomov
(interpreter) and was supported throughout by Mr. Yrysbek MALENOV, NEAP Co-ordinator.



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
5.        Since independence the country has been recognised internationally as one of the most
committed to political and econormic reform in the Central Asian Region. A new constitution has been
approved in 1993 followed by parlianentary reforrm and regular legislative (last in 1995) and
presidential elections (last in 1996). In spite of strong reform efforts but unsurprisingly, many of the
structures put in place as part of the soviet system are still prevalent, particularly on the lower levels of
govemmental administration. In some areas previously existing structures have been abolished but not
yet replaced by new institutional set-ups.
6.        After four consecutive years of economic decline from 1992 -1995 real GDP growth is
estimated at around 6% for 1996. A much improved graim harvest for 1996 has contributed to what is
considered to be an economic turning point highlighting also the agricultural sector's crucial role in the
Kyrgyz economy, producing 35% of GDP and accounting for 44.% of employment in 1994.
National Environmental Policy Framework
Administrative Structure
7.        The Kyrgyz Republic is a centralised country divided into six oblasts (regions) plus the
metropolitan region of Bishkek, the capitol. Each oblast consists of several rayons (districts) and towns
directly subordinated to the oblast. In each of the oblasts there are regional councils, but the main
executive authority is represented by the head of the oblast administration, who is appointed by central
government.
Government and Environmental Bodies
8.        The directly elected President of the Republic is Head of State and Commander-in Chief
of the Armed Forces, appoints and dismisses the Prime Minister (subject to approval by the
legislature; appoints the other members of the Government as well as heads of administrative offices
and other leading state posts and plays a crucial role in the legislative process. The President also
"supervises" the work of government and has the right to chair its sessions. In the context of
environmental policy, the President has specific authority on establishing rules of natural resources
use, defining and announcing ecological emergencies and ecological disaster zones as well as
procedures for collection and use of environmental protection funds. One of the Presidential advisors
had been assigned for directly taking up these responsibilities or others requinrng intervention on this
level but due to personal changes this functon was abolished and has not yet been tilled as
recommnended in the National Environmnental Action Plan.
9.         The 105 member Zhogorku Kenesh (Supreme Council) represents the legislative power
and comprises of two chambers: the 35-member, permanent Legislative Assembly (lower Chamber)
and the 70-member People's Assembly (Upper Chamber) which sits twice yearly and represents
regional interests.
10.       The executive arm of central government is headed by the Prime Minister and the First
Vice Prime Mimnster. Three additional Vice Prime Ministers are responsible for Industrial- Social-
2



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
and Agricultural (including Environmental) Policies and the supervision of the respective ministries
and national agencies.
11.       The Ministry of Environmental Protection (Gaskompriroda) is the key agency in charge of
environmental policy and nature protection regulations. It was created in 1988 already under the FSU.
Based on the Environmental Protection Act of 1991, a special Government Decree (No. 71 of
February 16, 1994) defines the position of Gaskompriroda within the Government: It requires that the
ministry co-ordinates environmental management within all sectors of the economy, develops and
enforces environmental standards and regulations, and assists the Government in designing and
implementing policy and investment programmes for environmental protection. Environmental data
collection, pollution control, provision of permits for the use of natural resources, management of
parks and protected areas and environmental impact assessment are the main operational
responsibilities of Gaskompriroda.
12.       Gaskompriroda has one central office and seven local branches (one in each of the oblasts,
i.e. Djalal-Abad, Issyk-Kul, Naryn, Osh, Talas, Chui and one in the city of Bishkek). The structure of
the central office includes the i) Department for Control and inspection; ii) Department of Ecological
Expertise; iii) Department of Economic, Management and Forecast; iv) a National Fund for
Environmental Protection; v) National Centre for Ecological Strategy and Policy and v) the office
of the National Environmental Action Plan. Most important source of information for the
governmental system of environmental protection is Hydromet, a national agency belonging to
the group of agencies under the Vice Prime Minister for agricultural policy which is in charge of
monitoring the quality of air, water and soil as well as for determining pollution from point
sources and imposing sanctions.
Important Environmental Laws and Regulations
13.       Enviromnental laws, standards and regulations in the Kyrgyz Republic are mostly
inherited from the former Soviet Union. Since independence a legislative reform has been in progress
to provide a more appropriate, implementable and also market-oriented legal framework for
environmental protection. The current situation is transitional: new enviromnental laws and regulations
are in the process of being introduced and existing ones rewritten. Annex 1 lists important legislation
in the field of environmental protection and indicates their current status.
14.       The "Law on Protection of the Environment" (adopted by the Zhogorku Kenesh in
April 17, 1991) is the legal basis for environment and nature protection. It introduces a number of
principles and provides the basis for more specific policies that to a large extent have-neither been
formulated nor implemented yet. The law establishes inter alia
* citizen's rights to a healthy environment;
* priority of protecting the environment as a public good over private economic activities;
* requirement to pay for the use of natural resources and compensate for pollution ("polluter pays
principle");
* "rational utilisation of nature" that will take into account the necessities of the current and future
generations;
* public access to environmental information;
3



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
* integration of regional, national and international interests in the sphere of environmental
protection;
* delegation of policing power to specific agencies on the national and provincial level for
implementation and enforcement.
15.       The law also lays out the principles for an obligatory review by the "State Ecological
Expertise" (similar to an Environmental Impact Assessment) which is required for "selection of
sites, design, construction, reconstruction, expansion and technical renovation of enterprises,
agricultural production, construction of military sites and other entities, their introduction into
production and operation, and liquidation". It applies to development programmes, urban plans,
investment projects among others in order to integrate environmental concerns into the preparation
and planning process (see below,section section on Environmental Impact Assessment). The review
is done under the responsibility of a special group within the Ministry of Environment either by its
staff or by external specialists on behalf of the Ministry. Foreign investments are regulated under
the "Law of the Kyrgyz Republic On Foreign Investments" of June 28, 1991, # 536-XII. The
obligation to observe environmental requirements is affirmed but also tax preferences are offered
for investments which would reduce pollution levels or lead to environmentally "safe" techniques in
extracting or processing mineral resources.
16.        The concept of liability is attended to in all environmental statutes including the Law
on Environmental Protection, Law on Enterprises, Law on Peasant Enterprises etc. The government
may sue for monetary compensation for both economic and environmental harm, and the money
would then be used to restore (if at all possible) the environment to its original condition.
Individuals and enterprises may bear both civil and criminal liability in accordance with the laws on
Environmental Protection, Land Reform, Enterprises, Land and Forestry Codes. Not addressed so
far is the issue of liability for past pollution which is of particular relevance in the privatisation
process. In Kyrgyz Law there is not yet an established decision mechanism on the question who will
assume the cost of the cleanup of contaminations that happened under previous ownership, New
draft legislation (for approval by parliament by the end of this year) suggests that all liabilities
resulting from pollution before 1992 will have to be born by the state after that the involved
companies/individuals will be held liable.
17.       Concerning environmental standards the Kyrgyz Republic still relies exclusively on
the ambient environmental standards of the FSU, setting maximum permissible concentrations of
polluting substances in air, water and soil. Standards also exist for noise, vibration, electromagnetic
fields and radioactivity. These standards (1080 for air quality alone) were estabhished, however,
with little consideration for the costs of monitoring and enforcement. As a result they were (and still
are) commonly violated, without consequences for the polluters i.e. sanctions and fines imposed by
the environmental authorities. The adopted standards and guidelines generally exceed the capacity
of the monitoring system. They are very stringent but not taken very seriously by the key industrial
polluters. In addition to standard "command-and-control" instruments for environmental protection
market-based instruments (emission permits) have been introduced as well. Lack of proper
monitoring and enforcement leaves them largely ineffective.
4



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
18.       The plan to transform the "State Environmental Appraisal Unit" within the Ministry of
Environment into an Environment Assessment Division is referred to in the National Environmental
Action Plan (1995) already. This transformation would involve training of staff in both supervising
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and environmental audits. For the ElAs a new legal basis,
the "Law on Ecological Expertise" is currently being reviewed by ministries and national agencies
before it will be presented to the government and parliament. The new law is expected toe passed by
the end of 1997. According to the officials in the State Environmental Appraisal Unit this would not
change the requirements for environmental assessment under the project.
19.       Currently, an "Ecological Expertise"-review is still being implemented according to the
established procedures by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Costs have to be bom fully by
the party who is submitting the EIA material to be reviewed by the ministry. The timeframe for the
review is determined according to the complexity of the subject under review starting from the
moment when all requested inputs have been obtained and the examination has been paid for. The
elements of the material to be submitted are similar to EIA procedures in other countries:
- determination of sources, types and objects of influence;
a projections on the changes in environmental conditions;
* projections on possible emergency situations and their consequences;
* determination of ways to reduce (prevent) negative effects on the environment and on the health
of the population (mitigation);
* determination of remaining risks and negative impacts, proposals for monitoring;
* ecological and economic evaluation;
* project alternatives.
20.       The conclusions of the state experts' appraisal are compiled to a document prepared by
a commission of experts or by a single expert that shall contain substantiated evaluation on
legitimacy of a proposed project from an environmental point of view. A positive result of this
evaluation is a mandatory condition for project implementation (list of required information for
state Ecological Expertise review in Annex 3). For the purposes of the Irrigation Project and its
rehabilitation character the individual schemes would have to examined but could be grouped
according to their nature and timing.
National Environmental Action Plan
21.        The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) for the Kyrgyz Republic was
prepared in 1995 and provides a comprehensive review of the environmental situation, its
administration, policies and key environmental problems:
* inefficient water resource management;
* land degradation, mainly due to overgrazing;
* overexploitation of fragile forest resources;
* threat of irreversible loss of biodiversity; and
* inefficient mining and refining practices.
5



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
In terms of the institutional situation in sector the NEAP document finds "both complementarity and
overlap among the agencies that are currently assigned to participate in development and
implementation of the state environmental policy". This description is still accurate for today's
administrative situation and organization of responsibilities. The analysis of the water sector
framework will provide ample evidence. Since the task of environmental protection is affecting all
policy areas in some way, co-ordination between the respective agencies and their mandate is of
particular importance. The vertical hierarchy of government inherited from the FSU is leading to
poor co-ordination and inefficiency.
The Sector Framework
Water Resources and Utilization
22.        The Kyrgyz Republic is a country of abundant surface and groundwater resources
which are of existential importance not only to its own population, flora and fauna but also key to
the economies of the other four central Asian  3   *A :than 3,500 rivers flow into river basins
within the country and on downstream through Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
and the Xijian Province of China. The Republic has extensive reserves held in over 2,000 lakes,
permanent snow fields and glaciers. At the same time, the country's arable farming depends almost
completely on irrigation and downstream countries to a large extent on the water resources allocated
to them under an international water sharing agreement (see table 2).
23.       Total use of water in 1995 amounted to about 9,307 million m3, according to the
Department of Water Resources - down from 11,479 million m3 in 19931. Total consumption in
1994 was 10,915 million m3 . Table I gives an overview over the different uses of water in the
Kyrgyz river basins with the largest proportion used in the Syr Daria and Chu basins. By far the
most important water use is for irrigation with 84%, 7.4% for industrial and 3.6% for domestic
purposes.
1993 figure is taken from National Environmental Action Plan 1995, 1995 figure is from the Department of
Water Resources in the Ministrv of Agriculture, reliability of the figures is difficult to assess.
6



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: IrTigation Rehabilitation Project
Table 1: Water Utilization in the Kvrgyz Republic (1993)
million cubic meters/year
Water Utilisation                                  incl.
River Basin      Domestic   Industr    Agriculture  Agriculture  Other sectors    Total    Ground
total       irrigation                           Waters
1. Amu Daria              -         -          87          85             -        87         2
2. Syr Daria             98       236       4,684       4,570            53     5,071       454
3. Talas                 10        11         933         915             5       959        15
4. Assa                   1         -          98          97             -        99          1
5. Chu                  274      -601       2,781       3,072            17     3,964       325
6. Issyk-Kul             31        14       1.245       1.224             9     1.299        62
Lake
Kyrgyz Republic        414        852      10.119       9,671            84    11,479       859
in %                    3.6       7.4          88          84           0.7       100       7.5
Source: National Environmental Action Plan, 1995
Water Policies
24.          Water Sharing  Agreements. Under the  FSU  arrangements were  made  for the
allocation of water among the central Asian republics. These allocated 11.57 billion m3 of water
annually to The Kyrgyz Republic, or 24 % of the water originating within the Republic. The two
key rivers that drain into the Aral Sea are Syr Darya and Amu Darya; the mountains of the Kyrgyz
Republic are the source of the headwaters for both of them. The extraordinarily devastating
ecological effects of the Aral Sea's shrinking to half its size because of near total diversion of its
inflowing water for irrigation combined with excessive use of agricultural chemicals have resulted
in a jointly developed regional strategy to save the Sea.
Table 2: International Water Allocation Agreement
Basins            Discharge (Billion m3)    Allocation to Kyrgyz
Republic
Mlonthly   Annual   % Flow    Volume   Ground-
water
Amu Darya         0.16      1.93       22.0      0.42      0.04
Syr Darva         2.25      27.25      18.0      4.88      0.85
Talas             0.14       1.74      55.0      0.95      0.02
Chu               0.42      5.09       76.0      3.85      0.40
lssvk-Kul'        0.39      4.68      32.0       1.50      0.10
iI                0.03      0.36      N/A        N/A       N/A
Tarim             0.51      6.18       N/A       N/A       N/A
Total:            3.90      47.23      24.5      11.60     1.41
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Issyk-Kul Lake has no outlet the basin is therefore a closed system.
7



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
25.       In February 1992 an agreement was signed among the five republics of the Aral Sea
basin for the co-operation, management, utilisation and protection of Water resources and for joint
measures for addressing the Aral Sea problem. This has yet to be formed into a legally binding
document) have to be consulted on the international water rights of the common river basin. With
this agreement an Interstate Commission for Water Co-ordination (ICWC) was established,
responsible for determining and approving annual water allocations for each state and approving
schedules for the operation of reservoirs. While this report is being written, this agreement has come
under heavy public attack for giving up Kyrgyz national interests in the property rights to the water
originating from its territory. Together with the World Bank, UNDP, UNEP and bilateral donors the
five riparian states have launched the Aral Sea Basin Program to
*  stabilize the environment of the Sea;
*  rehabilitate the lands around the Sea;
*  develop joint management of transboundary waters, and
*  build regional institutions to reach these goals.
26.       Phase One had seven programs or areas of focus':
;) Preparation of a regional water resources management strategy;
ii) Development of a regional environmental monitoring system which tracks water availability and
consumption;
iii) Reduction of agricultural, industrial and municipal water pollution;
iv) Research and selection of engineering options for environmental restoration projects;
v) Design and implementation of regional public education programs on environment and health;
vi) Integrated land and water management in the upper watersheds; and
vii) Institutional capacity building for regional environmental management.
27.       While all of these areas are of relevance to the irrigation sector in the Kyrgyz Republic,
program areas i), ii), iii) and vi) are of particular importance to its future development. Although
Kyrgyzstan uses only a fraction (4% according to the NEAP Document) of the total flow of the
Amu Darya and Syr Darya Rivers, "upstream activities in the Republics significantly impact
environmental conditions and activities downstream. Erosion due to deforestation and overgrazing
is severe, altering water regimes and degrading water quality. Poorly planned and managed
irrigation systems lose or contaminate many thousands of cubic meters of water."2
Phase Two is currently under preparation.
2 NEAP (I995), p. 24.
8



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Water Resources Administration
28.        Managing transboundary water resources in the Aral Sea basin has proven to be a
particularly difficult task even though a general agreement and the institution to implement it are
basically in place since 1992 and several donors have supported the development of the Aral Sea
Basin Programme (ASBP). Implementation of plans and programmes related to water resources
planning in the Aral Sea Basin has been disappointing. In addition to the ICWC, the Interstate
Council for the Aral Sea (ICAS) is envisioned to become a sort of water parliament and the Basin
Water Associations for the Syr Darya and the Amu Darya rivers are supposed to implement ICWC's
policies. To assist in formulating, then implementing the first stage of a regional Strategic Action
Programme a joint-donor project (EUITACIS, the Netherlands, USAID, IFAD, IBRD/IDA, GEF) is
currently being prepared.
29.       The main national statutory acts in the Kyrgyz Republic regulating water use and
water resources protection from depletion and contamination are the Constitution, the Water Law,
as of January 14, 1994 and the Nature Protection Law of the Kyrgyz Republic, as of 1991.
According to these acts "Nature and Its Components" including natural and artificial watercourses,
surface and gnwaters are the national property of the Kyrgyz Republic. Their ecological,
economic and cultural functions are protected under Kyrgyz' Law.
30.       The water resources (excluding mineral and thermal waters) at the National, Oblast and
Rayon levels are managed by the Water Resources Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources of the Kyrgyz Republic (MAWR, organisational chart in Annex 10). A former
independent Ministry it was merged with the Ministry of Agriculture in 1996 to combine the
budgets of the two institutions and to assure better co-ordination of activities, both at Headquarters
and field level. It regulates the use of the country's water resources and is in charge of design,
construction and operation of the all off-farm irrigation infrastructure.
31.       A division within the Department of Water Resources (DWR) is the Division of
Irrigation (DOI). The DOI is responsible for all aspects of impounding and distribution of irrigation
water and its delivery to farms levels. It also takes part in regular negotiations with its counterpart
organizations in neighbouring countries within the context of the Water Sharing Agreement. DWR's
present staff strength is just 90. While the DOI had a total staff of 5,500 in 1990, the number fell to
4,700 by 1993 and is currently much lower as most staff had to search for altemative employment as
budgets underwent cuts from year to year. DWR also includes the Institute for Water Systems
Design (SIWSD), the Scientific Research Institute for Irrigation (SRFI) and the Institute for
Technical Design, Water Measurement and Automation (ITDWMA).
32.       DWR has offices in all six oblasts with further 10 rayon departments in Osh, 9 in Jalal-
Abad, 5 in Naryn, 5 in Issyk-Kul, 9 in Chui and 4 in Talas. in addition, there are control stations
every 20 to 30 km along the main (interrayon) canals. Oblast offices are staffed by about 30
personnel while rayon offices vary between 10 - 120. The DWR 1996 and 1997 (draft) budgets were
Som 572 million (US$ 31.8 million) and Som 830 million (US$ 46.1 million), respectively. By the
time these budgets passed the approval process in the Ministry of Finance they were reduced to Som
123.1 million and Som 67.1 million, respectively for 1996 and 1997. The continued lack of funding
for maintaining the Irrigation infrastructure would eventually lead to its collapse even if financing
of the most urgent rehabilitation measures would be obtained from the World Bank under the
9



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
proposed project. The sustainability of irrigation will therefore depend upon securing a stable
financial base either through increased budget allocations or increased revenues.
33.       Water Fees. Resolution No. 455, dated October 26, 1995 governs the application of
user fees for water:
Table 3: Water Users' Fees*
Region/Quarter                I         II        III        IV
Difficult and unfavourable climatic    0.1       0.5        0.5        0.1
conditions
Lowlands                               0.5        1.5       1.5       0.5
Energy per KW/hour (for pumping)       3.0
* tiyns/ m3
Source: FAO Investment Centre Project Preparation Report: Irrigation and Drainage
Rehabilitation in the Kyrgyz Republic, 1997
34.       The DWR reckons that if above fees were collected rigidly throughout the country,
proceeds would still only cover about 20 percent of estimated requirements for Operation and
Maintenance of the national irrigation infrastructure including dams. Indeed recommendations by
the MAWR were to set the price per cubic meter at Tiyns 8. This was rejected by Parliament
however which considered this price level as politically not acceptable. Currently collection of user
fees is very uneven with payments mostly occurring in kind (70%) as farmers generally lack cash.
35.       Water licenses allocate the water resources regionally to the regions and to big
consumers and enterprises. A total of 2,380 water licenses, costing Som 1,150 each were issued to
oblasts as follows: Chui = 600, Dzhalalabad/Naryn = 450, Issuk-Kul = 300 and Talas = 180. DWR
has begun to establish a new water licensing system, ran, however, out of funds. MAWR had started
to issue water users' licenses to -Joint Stock Companies (JSC) and private farmers that began to
emerge after the break-up of the FSU. As for user fees, however, JSC are in arrears in paying the
Som 1,150 (US$ 68) license fee.
Administration of Water Quality
36.       In the Kyrgyz Republic the quality of water is managed by the following administrative
bodies:
10



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
* The Hydrometereology Agency (Hydromet) is responsible for the monitoring of surface water
quality of all 56 rivers of the country with regard to parameters ranging from oil products,
halogens and heavy metals to BOD, nitrates and phosphorus. Due to dramatic lack of resources
actual monitoring activities are currently undertaken only in the Chui valley in 9 rivers once
every 6 months.
* The State Agency for Geology and Mineral Resources carries out hydrogeological research
and monitors groundwater quality. It explores, tests and maps aquifers for various uses, grants
exploitation permits and monitors flow and the quality of wells. It operates a network of 800
wells, for monitoring and exploitation by different users, although 25% have not been
actively used in the last few years as a result of reduced budgets.
* The Ministry of Health Care and the Department of Sanitary and Epidemiological Services
have control over the sanitary condition of recreational water uses and supervise the quality of
drinking water.
* The Ministry of Environmental Protection and their regional offices execute the state control
over the protection and rational use of water resources. It issues pollution permits and monitors
inspection and analytical control over water discharges into surface waters. Due to lacking
resources the actual monitoring and enforcement activities are very limited.
* DWR licenses water use, regulates the use of water resources and collects as well as processes
reported information. It also executes control over the operation of irrigation systems.
Accounting and charging of the distributed irrigation water is very difficult, since the system
was created for large state or collective farms as consumers and since water charges are so low
that the incentives for accurate accounting are not very strong.
-  "Kyrgyzjilkomunsoyuz" (KJKS) is in charge of water supply and sanitation systems for oblast
and rayon centres, and small towns in the Kyrgyz Republic. KJKS is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of all urban and municipal infrastructure in the country except in the
city of Bishkek which is responsible for its own services ("Bishkekvodocanal").
"Kyrgyzselremstroi" develops piped water supply systems for rural people in the Kyrgyz
Republic. Piped water is available now for around 50% of the rural population. The remaining
villages still depend on open reservoirs and irrigation canals.
Conclusion
37.       The current situation of the Environmental as well as the Water Sector administration is
characterised by very severe resource limitations resulting in reduced activities in all agencies
involved in water quality and quantity administration. In order to become fully functional again,
operational funds are needed but also reform addressing the organizational structure of the involved
agencies and their sometimes overlapping responsibilities and lack of co-ordination in performing
their functions.
11



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
I11. BASELINE DATA
38.       Topography. The Kyrgyz Republic lies between 39.40 and 42.15 N and 69.15 and
80.20 E, 990 km from West to East and 410 km from North to South. The capital, Bishkek is on the
same latitude as Rome and is due North of Delhi. The Republic is dominated by the Tien Shan
Mountains which run mainly East-West and occupy the centre of the country, with the Ala Too
mountains forming much of the northern border with Kazakhstan and the Western Tien Shan
extending to the North and the Pamir Alai to the South of the Fergana Valley. More than 70 percent
of the country is mountainous with an elevation of over 2000 m, and 40 percent over 3000 m asl.
The lower slopes and the piedmonts provide natural pastures. The cultivated agricultural areas are
separated from each other by the mountains and are very distinct in potential. From East to West the
most important areas are lake Issyk-Kul basin at an elevation of 1500 m to 1800 m asl, the upper
Naryn valley at an elevation of over 2000 m, the Chui valley at an elevation of 750 - 850 m, the
Talas valley at an elevation of 1000 - 1500 m, and the Fergana Valley (Osh and Djalal-Abad) at an
elevation of 600 - 800 m. Of the 9.2 million ha of rangelands only 33,000 ha are irrigated.
39.       Climate. The Kyrgyz Republic has an extreme continental climate with cold winters
and hot, dry summers. Mean temperatures vary according to altitude, and to some extent according
to aspect and amount of cloud cover. Winter temperatures in the temperate agricultural areas
regularly fall to -5 to -10 C, while summer temperatures rise to the mid 30s. The Issyk-Kul basin is
temperate, the upper Naryn valley is Sub-Alpine, the Chui valley corresponds in the growing season
to southem Europe, while the Fergana valley is sub-tropical in summer with mean temperatures in
June-August over 23 C although mean temperatures in December - February are below freezing.
The frost free period is 185 days in the Chui valley, 120 to 140 days in Naryn and 240 days in the
Fergana valley in the South.
40.       Precipitation varies greatly with topography as well as altitude. On the northern and
south-eastern side of Lake Issyk-Kul rainfall varies from 230 to 400 mm, while in the Chui valley
annual rainfall is 400 to 600 mm and in the Fergana valley it is 350 to 700 mm. Generally only
about half of the precipitation falls in the growing season from April to September. The other half of
the precipitation falls in the form of snow, a large part of which does not melt until well into the
growing season, and thus creating favourable irrigation conditions for this otherwise water deficient
country.
41.       The average annual water deficit varies from 950 mm in the wetter parts of Issyk-Kul to
1,450 mm iin Djalal-Abad. Thus rainfed agriculture is only possible in a limited area near the
mountains, for instance around the edges of Lake Issyk-Kul basin, but even here rained crops
typically yield one third to one half those of irrigated crops.
Land Resources
42.       Arable land. The Kyrgyz Republic land surface is 20 million ha of which agricultural
lands are 10.9 million ha. Official estimates of arable farm land vary from 1.2 to 1.4 million ha, and
of this 732,000 to 837,000 ha was reported as irrigated as of 1.1.1995, essentially confined to:
* the broad plain of the Chui valley (500 - 1,100 m asl);
12



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
* the foothills surrounding the Fergana Basin (700 - 1,000 m asl);
* the broader terraces surrounding the closed lake Issyk-Kul (1,600 - 1,800 m asl);
* elevated isolated valleys associated with various river systerns.(Up to 3,000 m as]).
43.        Soils. Soil types vary according to underlying rock, over large areas these are granites
and other basement complex rocks interspersed with Precambrian read sandstones. The valleys have
large areas of Quaternary deposits. They vary from easily-worked, but potentially drought-prone,
sandy loams to heavy clays, often showing signs of moderate salinity. Much land towards the flatter
parts of the irrigated land tracts suffers from high water tables, especially during late summer. This
is a particular problem in the lower parts of Chui and Talas, and parts of Osh and Djalal-Abad.
44.        Under the FSU system, most of the soils are classified by colour as various types of
Serozyems which vary in type and colour according to altitude. The soils of the lower agricultural
areas are dominated by heavy gray, alkaline Serozyems, altemating with sands and gravels, but the
soils in the piedmont areas include darker Kashtanovye (Chestnut) soils or Chernozyems (Black)
soils. Under the FAO system the soils of the Fergana valley are classified as Calcic Xerosols. The
Chui valley soils are classified as Calcaric Gleysols and those in Naryn as Humid Cambisols.
Water Resources
45.        "Ineffective water resource management" is considered one of the most pressing
problems in the Kyrgyz Republic within the NEAP framework. Inefficient distribution and
inadequate protection from chemical and biological contamination pose a serious threat to the
country's vast water resources that are of critical importance to all five Central Asian States.
46.        Surface waters. Amu-Darya, Syr-Darya, Chu, Talas and the Sary-Djaz are the main
river basins in the Kyrgyz Republic. The Naryn and Kara Darya are the two largest rivers in the
country. Tte Naryn watershed area covers 59 thousand km2 or about 30% of the Republic with an
annual flow of 13.7 kM3, second largest river is the Kara Darya with a watershed area of 31
thousand km2 and an average annual flow of 4.4 km3. The basin of the Chui river occupies the
largest part of the northem section of the country and is one of the most important irrigated areas.
For a length of 221 km the Chui river forms the border to Kazakhstan. The watershed area of the
Chui river is 38 thousand km2 half of which is located in Kazakhstan. By far the largest lake in
Kyrgyzstan is the Issyk-Kul well known in Central Asia for its touristic, attractions and.. the
numerous resorts along its shore. While more than 80 rivers flow into it the lake has no outlet. Tota;
watershed area is 16 thousand km2.
47.        Characteristically, unregulated hill torrents deliver little water during March/April, rise
rapidly to a peak in July and then rapidly tail off into September/October. In years when there is
little snowfall in the mountains, and/or where a cold snap in April delays snow melt, crops, mainly
winter wheat, on the rapidly drying plains go short of water. The development of water resources for
hydropower generation and irrigation, therefore, requires the construction of storage dams. The
Kyrgyz Republic has so far developed 18 major dams of which five dams are only for hydropower.
The remaining 13 dams for irrigation provide a total live storage capacity of 1,656 million m3
13



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Imgation Rehabilitation Project
48.       Surface water availability in all Central Asian countries is dependant upon the sources of
the rivers and result in distinct seasonal flow patterns. Rivers fed by glaciers (as primary source) and
snow have their maximum flow in July and August. In watersheds where snow is more important than
melted glacial ice the maximum flow will occur from June to July whereas rivers fed by snow
exclusively have their peak in April and May. For rivers fed by rain and snow the high flow period
starts in February or March and ends in June, July or August. The two main sources for surface water
in the country are melting glaciers and snow.
49.       Groundwater. Ground water occurs in tertiary and older sedimentary rocks and in
guatemary alluvial areas. They are recharged by precipitation, river water infiltration and in some
areas also by infiltration from irrigation canals and irrigated areas. Main source though is considered to
be infiltration by river water Consequently, groundwater cannot be considered as an independent
source of water. Most groundwater is being exploited around the major cities. The groundwater
resources in the Kyrgyz republic are generally of high quality and therefore usable as drinking water.
The most important and abundant resources occur mainly in the inter-mountain valleys in alluvial and
glacio-fluvial deposits, sedimentary rocks of quaternary age, and in the piedmont and alluvial cones
that form the lower slopes of the mountains. Water bearing aquifers can reach depths of 300 meters or
more in thickness _ _ingmg  from 5 to 50 mr/day.
50.       The total estimated fresh groundwater resources are about 30 million m3/day, actual
proven reserves in 42 deposits were 10 million m3/day. As of mid-1994, about 5,900 wells had been
developed in these aquifers for domestic, industrial and agricultural water supply. It is estimated that a
quarter of the available groundwater is used - half of it for irrigation and the other half for industrial
and domestic purposes.
Table 5: Groundwater Reserves (1994)
Oblast         Estimated     No. of deposits  Confirmed    No. of existing
Reserves      with  estimated  reserves       wells
(m3/day)      reserves         (m3/day)
Chui               7648             13             5553            2207
Talas              2250             4              306             245
Issyk-Kul          5803              7             2083            1078
Naryn              9154             3               41             459
Osh                2595             13             1131            1105
Djalal-Abad        1898             2              1175            806
Total             29348             42       |   10289    1        5900
Source: Kyrgyz Republic: National Environmental Action Plan 1995.
51.       Like many glaciers elsewhere in the world, the glaciers of Kyrgvzstan are reported to
retreat in size as a result of climate changes (reduced snowfall). Due to the shrinking of the glaciers by
30-40% by 2025, a decline in water quantities from melting glaciers of 25-35% is anticipated.
These numbers are discussed on governmental level but no official source could be identified for them.
14



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Imgation Rehabilitation Project
As the glaciers function as major flow regulators for the nation's major rivers, net glacier melting
could have significant impacts for the water availability for many irrigation schemes and other forms of
water use in the Kyrgyz Republic, its neighbouring countries and ultimately for the Aral Sea.
Current Environmental Situation in the Sector
52.       Soil erosion. Out of 1074 thous. ha of irrigated area of the Kyrgyz Republic, 60 percent
are to some extend eroded and soil erosion has become one of the primary issues in the entire
agncultural sector, affecting soil fertility, causing diffuse water pollution and the accelerated siltation
of water reservoirs, lakes and irrigation systems (see Table 4).
53.       The problem is wide spread and takes place both up-stream from the irrigation schemes
as well as on farm within the irrigation schemes. An all-out deforestation has eliminated a good part of
the protective cover of the country's steep mountain ranges, while the remaining protection from
grasses is severely impaired by continuous overgrazing. In addition rainfed and primitive manually
irrigated agriculture on steep slopes without the application of soil conservation techniques severely
contribute to the problem. As a result many water reservoirs and lakes fill up at accelerated rates,
while severely sediment loaded rivers enter into the irrigation works where they quickly clog up the
main canals, thus increasing operational costs.
54.       Once the irrigation water reaches the fields, problems continue as a result of farming
practices, which basically ignore the topographical context of the fields, by applying furrow irrigation
at slopes too steep and in fields that are too large for the prevalent methods of land levelling, thus
loosening and suspending particles and chemicals from the topsoil. In some places the fertile fine earth
soil is washed out by water for irrigation and amounts to 30-50 tons/ha per season. Together with it,
1.0-1.5 tons/ha of humus, 50-60 kg. of nitrogen, 100-150 kg. of phosphorus and potassium are lost,
resulting in a sharp fall of soil fertility and yield of crops by 25-30 percent.
Table 4: Area of Eroded Soils in the Kyrgyz Republic ('000 ha)
Oblast                Area of agricultural         Eroded soils          Badly,
lands                                        medium
includ. rangelands                                eroded
slightly    medium    badly
Osh                                1155        352         499      303         803
Djalal-Abad                         825        286         412      125         538
Naryn                              1606        810         600      195         796
Chui                                428        238         138       32         170
Talas                               608        163         265       180        445
Issyk-Kul                          1813        419         311       799        1110
In the Republic:                   6435       2771        2527     1136        3663
15



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
55.       It is recommended that under the planned on-farm irrigation scheme, the issue of erosion
should be addressed through
* Watershed management programs in mountainous regions;
* Introduction of less erosion causing irrigation techniques and application of soil conservation
techniques such as mulching, reduced tillage, contour ploughing, strip cropping, etc.
56.       Water quality. The quality of the surface water is generally considered to be good
because the primary source of river waters in the Kyrgyz Republic is snowfall on the high mountain
slopes. Glacial melt rivers have a low concentration of salts (0,04 to 0.15 g/l). Most contain only 0. 1-
0.3 g/l of minerals on leaving the mountains. According to the NEAP report the water of most river
basins in the Kyrgyz Republic has low levels of pollution. Observation in all river basins shows an
adequate oxygen regime and low content of organiic and nutnent substances (BOD5 is usually below 2-
3 mg/l and nitrates below I mg/1).
57.       In the same report reference is made to water in drains, canals, and rivers near cities and
industrial areas that are often used by nearby households for washing and other non-potable uses and
by children for recreation and sometimes drinking. This water is described to be "generally very badly
contaminated with sanitary wastes, livestock manure, and industrial toxic and hazardous wastes".
Such "hot spots" are located in the most populated Chui river basin, lower sections of Kara Darya and
Naryn tributaries in Osh and Djalal-Abad Oblasts, and the Tup rivers flowing into Issyk-Kul Lake.
Elevated concentrations of ammonia (1mg/I), oil and grease (0.5 mg/I), and pesticides (0.002 mg/I)
have been detected in these rivers. As a consequence, many small towns and villages who still have to
rely on surface water supplies are particularly vulnerable in times of spring floods and intense summer
rains as well as during times of low water flow in the river when the assimilative capacity is also very
low. In these areas (in Osh and Djalal-Abad Oblasts) parts of the population resort to the irrigation
infrastructure as their source of water supply with increased incidents of Typhus and Hepatitis as a
result.
58.       Under the FSU, uranium was a critical strategic asset and in high demand, but since
independence, uranium mining has ceased. A number of tailing dumps, however, will continue to be of
concem, particularly the one Kara-Balta. The protective covers of the tailings have been partially
eroded and they are now leaking radio-active residues into the rivers. Currently the concentrations of
18 - 40 microroendgen/l at a monitonrng station 3 km downstream from the most polluted site have not
yet reached the norm levels of 60 microroendgenll, but a continuous alert is required, both with
relation to general public health and with regard to the utilization of potentially radioactive water in the
irrigation schemes.
59.       The summary of the main threats to surface water quality given in the NEAP
document still holds (see Annex 6 for an overview):
* Poor condition of municipal sewer systems, and poor performance of existing biological treatment
facilities;
*  Eutrophication and contamination by misapplication/handling of fertilizers and pesticides;
* improper disposal of municipal solid wastes that allows leaching of contaminated liquids into
nearby rivers and drains;
16



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
* inadequate handling and storage of livestock manure; and
* improperly stored toxic wastes, and the absence of adequate pre-treatment of industrial liquid
wastes;
* tailings of uranium mines.
60.         Nationally close to 90% of all drinking water is provided by centralized pipe systems,
and a high proportion of industrial water, is supplied from groundwater. Generally, the tested
quality of freshwater from underground sources used in centralized distribution systems in rural and
urban areas meets the standards for drinking water. Many raw water intakes are reported to be in an
unsatisfactory sanitary and technical condition. Efforts to enforce sanitary protection zones in areas
near surface water intakes or where water infiltrates an into the aquifer have proven ineffective
because of uncontrolled construction, livestock operations, laundries, storehouses for agro-
chemicals and fertilizers, and uhsafe disposal of liquid and solid municipal and industrial waste.
61.        The majority of towns and villages does not have central drinking water and sewage
treatment systems. Where they exist many of them are not functioning properly and need
rehabilitation and repair. Wastewater treatment facilities in Osh, Kara-Kol, Balykchi, Jalal-Abad,
Naryn and others are considered to be in a critical condition. Longer term monitoring data if
available indicate that groundwater quality is deteriorating with increasing nitrate concentrations
(exceeding maximum of 45mg/I in several wells), particularly near major cities as Bishkek and
Kara-Balta and bacterial pollution in open reservoirs and water channels.
62.        Salinization and waterlogging are interrelated problems which result from irrigation.
As the surface irrigation raises the levels of the groundwater, evaporation of groundwater increases.
As a result dissolved minerals from deeper layers are gradually drawn up to the top soil, where they
accumulate over time, thus creating levels of salinity which can be tolerated by less and less
commercial crops. If no timely mitigation measures are taken, these soils will eventually become
unusable for agricultural purposes. Mitigation actions would at first involve adequate drainage of
waterlogged soils to discontinue the process of drawing deeper salts to the surface, but even more
importantly the introduction of more effective irrigation methods. In the Kyrgyz Republic, the
irrigation system is based on surface irrigation through furrow irrigation, which is considered rather
inefficient from the point of view of water utilization without adequate land levelling and irrigation
scheduling. Its application leads to considerable waterlogging and consequent salinization.
Currently about 105,000 ha are to some degree suffering from salinization, 15,000 of which are
heavily salinized.
17



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Table 6: Characterization of Soils by Salinization
Name of       Area of       Area of low   Area of        Area of high
region        unsalinized    salinization,  medium       and very high
soil, ha      ha           salinization, ha  salinization, ha
Osh                 192642         4122            1361              628
Djalal-Abad         127222         2548             317                0
Naryn               115245         7592            3207             3305
Issyk-Kul           157405         5655            1747              508
Talas               106431         5401            2290              993
Chui                260894        35466          23432             10317
Republic            960137        60784          32354             15751
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources, 1997.
63.       The NEAP documents lists as main threats to groundwater quality (see Annex 6 for
an overview):
*  unsafe storage and disposal of toxic and other industrial wastes, including waste oils, other
organic substances, and sanitary wastes by industries;
D  the poor state of urban sewer systems which leak sanitary wastes into aquifers;
3  disposal of municipal solid wastes in unsafe dumps fro which organic wastes are leached into
the aquifer;
-  poorly maintained and unsafely constructed household latrines, especially in newly developing
parts of the cities where sewer services are not available; and
*  agriculture and irrigation through uncontrolled exploitation of groundwater resources and
resulting intrusion of saline groundwater as well as nitrate contamination through intensive
livestock operations e.g. down to 100-150 m in the Alaarchi aquifer, which supplies 60% of
Bishkek's water supply.
Biodiversity
64.       Ecosystems diversity in the KR is naturally high due to the diverse landscape types and
microclimates. Elevations vary from about 400 m in the alluvial lowland valleys to 7.439 meters
with a wide variety of habitats ranging from semi-desert to broadleaf and conifer forests to high
alpine meadows. The Western Tien-Shan have the broadest range of ecosystems (22 out of 24
classes); followed by Inner Tien-Shan (18 classes out of 24), the Alai and Northern Tien-Shan (16
classes), and the Issyk-Kul and Central Tien-Shan regions (12 classes each).
65.       The aquatic habitats include fast flowing perennial and intermittent mountain streams;
slower flowing wide rivers of the foothills and upper-lowland planes; several large mountain lakes,
some of which without outlet; water reservoirs; low-land pools and small lakes; and a system of
thousands of kilometres of irrigation canals with greatly varying conditions. Natural swamp habitats
and shorelines occur in alluvial valleys of many rivers and along the borders of Lake Issyk-Kul, but
their total areas only represents 0,5% of the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic. Man-made swampy
18



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
habitats have developed through out the irrigation systems as a result of vegetation growth along
soil-lined canals, leakage from dams and canals, water-logging and pre-irrigation lake remnants.
Lake Issyk-Kul is remarkable for being the world's second deepest mountain lake and its very
remarkable ecological conditions, which include warm-water wells, great transparency resulting
from low nutrient contents, the absence of an outlet and the resulting special chemical mildly-saline
conditions, its endemic subspecies of fish, etc.
66.       Most of the larger mammals in the Kyrgyz Republic have a broad geographical
distribution and require habitats of different nature, varying from high mountain habitant with mere
mountain streams (Marco Polo Sheep, Mountain Goat, Snow Leopard, Tien-Shan Bear, Lynx,
Mensbir's Marmot, foxes and wolves), to the more protected habitat with reed cover, bushes and
trees along the rivers and the lakes. Particularly in winter time many species prefer to descend to the
milder weather conditions and the more abundant food in the valleys, which often coincide with the
irrigated lands. Other mammals like Roe Deer, mice, hares, squirrels, badgers, wild boar, etc. have a
natural preference for lower elevation habitats, while beavers and musk-rats are typically water-
dependent mammals.
67.       Along the shores of the lakes, reservoirs, rivers and irrigation canals, bird life is very
rich and includes Plovers, Thick Knee, Lapwing, Gulls, Terns, Grouse, Rails, Herons, Egrets,
Harriers, ducks (including Bar-headed Goose), Grebes, Swallows and occasionally a Sea Eagle.
Particularly in the irrigated planes, a variety of song birds nest in the reed marshes, riverine trees
(poplars, willows) and near-water woodlets with oaks, maples, ashes, etc. More terrestrial bird
species, that greatly benefit from human activities related to irrigation schemes include: Sparrows,
Swallows, Shrikes, Doves, Little Owls, Hoopoes, Magpies, Hooded Crow, and the Eurasian Roller.
68.       With rivers belonging to very different main watershed and lakes without outlets, the
KR has been blessed with an extremely rich diversity in fish species, totalling 83 different species
and subspecies. About IO% of those are considered to be endemic to Central Asia. In addition to the
natural distribution of the native species, a number of species has been imported from elsewhere and
some native species have been introduced beyond their native habitats. Commercial fishing only
takes place on lakes and some of the reservoirs, the latter often being less suited for fishing as a
result of large fluctuations in water tables.
69.       As may be expected in this high altitude head waters nation, most species are riverine
fish and well adapted to rapid flow conditions. Most of those species have some degree of migratory
behaviour, but none of them is known to require completely different habitats for the different
phases of their life-cycles. Dams. and iUr systems have significantly altered the aquatic environments,
but no species is known to have disappeared as a result of that, or is currently under threat of
survival. National biologists are concerned however that as the populations of several species have
been split up for good into different sub-populations, that particularly the isolated up-s.ream
populations may suffer from genetical loss. In general, it is felt that wherever possible, dams and
headworks of irrigation systems should be passable for fish.
Agriculture
70.       The Kyrgyz Republic has about 1,200,000 ha of arable lands, which is equivalent to
about 7 percent of its territory and 13 percent is considered to be otherwise productive under various
19



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
forms of land use; particularly grazing and potentially forestry. Approximately 850,000 ha or 70%
of the arable lands are irrigated. The principal crops are cereal (winter and spring wheat, winter
barley and maize), feed crops (maize for silage, alfalfa, spring barley), potatoes and vegetables
(tomato, cabbage, melon, pepper) and other crops (cotton, tobacco, sugarbeet and silk) (see table 7).
The crop sector contributes to 40 percent of the gross value of agricultural output, while livestock is
estimated at 60 percent of the output. The entire agricultural sector comprises 30 percent of the
Kyrgyz Republic's GDP.
Table 7: Major Crops in 1993
Crop        Total Area    Irrigated Area (ha)  Rainfed Area (ha)
(ha)
Grain                 623,800             326,400            297,400
Maize                  40,700              29,100              11,600
Cotton                 20,300              18,800               1,500
Tobacco                22,200              20,800               1,400
Sugarbeet              12,100              11,000               1,100
Potatoes               26,600               8,900              17,700
Vegetables             14,900               7,900              7,000
Watermelon              1,500               1,100                400
Maize silage           71,500              68,500              3,000
Lucerne               350,000             225,400            124,600
Fruits/grapes          37,400              14,200             23,200
Total               1,221,000            7332,100            488,900
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources.
71.       The main crop producing regions are Fergana Valley in Osh and Djalal-Abad Oblasts;
the Chui and Talas valleys and the Issuk-Kul basin. About 625,000 ha of cereals were harvested in
1993, half of which was from irrigated lands. One third of cereals are grown in Chui Oblast, which
the remainder was evenly distributed over the other regions. Chui is also the main area for sugarbeet
production. Cotton is mostly grown in the Fergana Valley, rotated with alfalfa (35,000 ha). Potatoes
and late cabbage are grown in Issyk-Kul, while early vegetables are primarily grown in the Fergana
Valley. Fruit orchards can be found on the lower slopes in all regions.
72.       Yields are generally low on irrigated lands by world standards, but they are about three
times as high as yields from non-irrigated areas. Average yields for irrigated cereals (wheat and
barley) are about 3,5 ton/ha, while average rainfed yields are in the range of 1,2 to 1,5 ton/ha; In dry
years crops may fail all together. Cotton yields generally range from 2.2 to 3.2 ton/ha and sugarbeet
is currently at 25 ton/ha.
73.       Fertilizers and manure. The current average annual input (140 kg/ha) in the KR is
one third of the input in Germany (410 kg/ha) and one fifth of the one in the Netherlands (770
20



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
kg/ha). Even under the FSU, when it was 180 kg/ha, it could not be considered excessive or a major
threat to the quality of the surface water, provided that it would be applied properly. However,
unsatisfactory irrigation practices, which have been described above, do lead to significant losses by
washing out the fertilizers, thus causing production losses to the farmers and increasing the nutrient
levels of the surface water and groundwater to undesirable levels at certain locations. The average
use of manure is I - 5 ton/ha/y. When properly applied in these very moderate amounts, manure
should not cause any losses from run-off. It has been noted however, that local inappropriate
management and storage frequently leads to localized pollution of streams and ditches and more
seriously, to groundwater pollution. Similar observations have been made for the handling and
storage of fertilizers and pesticides.
74.       Large, concentrated livestock and poultry farms under the FSU posed a serious threat to
surface and groundwater resources. Many of them produced as much as 80,000 tons of manure per
year without adequately storage facilities to deal with such quantities. As a result, much of it was
disposed on small areas of land from where it ran off into the surface water and polluted the
groundwater, or was flushed directly into the surface water. Most of these forrner state and
collective farms are no longer operating.
Table 8: Groundwater Contamination by Nitrates at Selected Sites of the Chui Valley
Year         Depth in m       Nitrate in ml/l
1975             10               2-5
1985             80              10-15
1992             150             50-60
1997             150             60-90
1997             250             45-45
Source: State Agency for Geology and Mineral Resources 1997.
But where they do their impact on surface and groundwater quality is still prevalent. While
quantities of fertilizer and manure today are not excessive proper storage and application have to be
introduced once the level of factor inputs has picked up again.
75.       Like other factor inputs, the use of pesticides has declined considerably as indicated in
table 9. Application has fallen from 5.2 kg/ha in 1980 to 1.4 kg/ha in 1994, which compares
favourably to 6 - 7 kg/ha in the United States and Europe.
Table 9: Use of pesticides per year in the Kyrgyz Republic (tons)
1980     1981     1985      1990     1991   1 1992    1 993
7303     6139     4364      4530     3479      2380      1900
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources.
21



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
76.       The agricultural sector of the KR is in a transition from the FSU production system
towards a market oriented system and farm prices are now fully liberalized. One of the goals of
freeing the price of wheat, for example, has been to encourage a shift in consumption to imported
wheat, which can be produced cheaper in the neighbouring republics. Then the good irrigated soils
of the KR could be planted with higher value crops for export. As a result, it is presently difficult to
predict what the future needs of pesticides may be, as they are different for each crop. For instance,
cotton and Tabasco need very high inputs of insecticides and fungicides, while herbicides are
particularly needed on cereals and maize. Among the different pesticides, 'the insecticides and
herbicides are considered to be most harmful. So, as economic demands for crops, change, so may
the needs for different kinds of pesticides as well as the quantities required for each product. It is
expected however, that no matter which crops will prevail in demand, the use of pesticides as a
whole will increase with the recovery of the agricultural sector.
Table 10: Use of pesticides on main crops in the KR in tons (1993)
Insecticides  Fungicides  Herbicides  Defoliants  Total
Cotton              84.3        931.0        29.2        212.0   1256.5
Cereals              1.1          0.2         84.2         0.0     85.5
Maize                2.1          0.0        80.0          0.0     82.1
Fruit trees         15.1         17.5          0.0         0.0     32.6
tobacco              3.9          1.0          0.3         0.0      5.2
Lucerne             21.9          0.2          2.6         0.0     24.7
Grapes               4.5         19.8          0.0         0.0     24.3
Vegetables           3.4          8.7         11.7         0.0     23.8
Potatoes             2.5         16.4          2.4         0.0     21.3
Sugarbeet            6.5          2.5         14.0         0.0     23.0
Source: National Environmental Action Plan 1995.
IV. PROJECT/PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
77.       Arable farming in the Kyrgyz Republic relies heavily on irrigation. Only small areas,
mostly near the foothills where rainfall is higher, 1ike on the eastern end of lake lssyk-Kul, have
enough rainfall for reliable crop production. With the existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure
deteriorating due to lack of maintenance, agricultural production and productivity are bound to
suffer from insufficient water supply and drainage. Lack of maintenance is also the reason why a
number of dams are now seen as a risk for communities downstream. Because of the vital
importance of the agricultural sector for the countryys economy, the Government of the Kyrgyz
Republic has therefore asked the World Bank to finance a programme for Irrigation and Drainage
Maintenance and Rehabilitation including a component for dam safety.
78.       In the context of Irrigation development, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic is
also considering an on-farm irrigation project addressing the improvement of the efficiency of water
22



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Inrigation Rehabilitation Project
allocation and use in actual agricultural production to be financed under a World Bank loan.
Preparation is intended to start in 1997 and implementation is to start in 2000. Complementary to this
project, the Asian Development Bank and the European Union under its TACIS programme are
providing Technical Assistance in the institutional Development of Water Users Associations. An
Agricultural Support Services Project is currently being appraised mainly for the improvement of
agricultural advisory services and seed production.
79.       A team of national experts and the FAO Investment Centre has prepared a preparation
report (May 1997) for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project proposing the following components:
A. Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure: including i) primary and secondary
irrigation infrastructure and drainage canals, and ii) up to thirteen dams.
B. Capacity Building: including i) project implementation support to MAWR at central,
Oblast and Rayon levels, and ii) introduction of a private sector based, national operation
& maintenance system for irrigation infrastructure.
C. Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement: including i) analysis of options
for institutional reform and ii) preparation of a national strategy for irrigation
improvements.
80.       Under a programme approach that allows for some flexibility in the selection of the
project sites 48 schemes were selected on a preliminary basis out of 126 schemes proposed by
Govemment. The criteria for selection were economic viability, simplicity of works, responsiveness to
farming community needs and quality of local institutions. For implementation starting in 1998, 10
schemes have been identified (see list of first year project sites below). Estimated base costs for the
Rehabilitation of the Irrigation Facilities is US$ 30 million (see map of location of irrigation schemes
and all project sites in the Kyrgyz Republic in Annexes 4 and 5).l
81        Of the thirteen dams proposed for rehabilitation under this project, both the civil and
mechanical/electrical works are found to be in poor condition. Karabura Dam has never been
completed. Chon Kainda reservoir has the only dam that is not in the highest risk category. The
majority of the others has large numbers of people living downstream both in the Kyrgyz Republic and
m neighbouring countries. Spillways are all small when compared to those for dams in other parts of
the world and the low level outlets are generally needed to discharge part or even all of the design
flood. Hydrological data will be reviewed under the project. Because of the small flood discharge
capabilities of all dams there might be a severe security risk, although the small spillways may, in
some instances, be justified by the arid climate and high catchment elevations (for a list of the
proposed dam safety measures see Annex 7) Estimated base costs for the dam safety measures are
US$ 7.7 million.
All cost figures here are based on the FAO Investment Centre preparation report and are subect to changes under
Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal.
23



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC~ lrrigation Rehabilitation Project
82.       The second main component of the project, Capacitv Building, would invest in a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (Base Cost US$ 2.9 million) within the Department of Water
Resources. This PIU would fall under the direct supervision of the Vice-Minister (for Water
Resources) and would be responsible for managerial, financial and administrative aspects of project
execution. PIU personnel would be recruited on a contract basis under competitive conditions. This
component would also contain the Establishment of Cost Accounting Systems (Base Cost US$
1.0 million).
83.       As part of the effort to improve 0 & M capacity of the DWR, Oblast and Rayon
accounting personnel would be trained in western cost accounting. Under this contract DWR would,
inter alia, be assisted with the selection and installation of appropriate cost accounting software,
operational training of Oblast and Rayon personnel, and periodic implementation supervision and
follow-up. Capacity Building would also include assistance in the Analysis of Annual 0 & M
Budgetary Needs (Base Cost US$ 0.12 million). To help DWR in determining appropriate levels of
O & M costs, expatriate engineering and financial consultants would be retained for 4 months each,
to travel to each Rayon to assess their needs in 0 & M costs. At the same time, they would also
review the state of the national irrigation infrastructure with a view towards determining as to
whether the value is reflected fairly in the DWR accounts.
24



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
The Kyrgyz Republic
Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project
Proposed schemes on the projects of the first year
Name of scheme    Proposed work on rehabilitation                Oblast  Rayon
I -Western Chui   Selective mechanical cleaning over 51 km.      Chui    Issyk-Ata
main canal
2-Eastern Chui    Mechanical cleaning over 44 km.
main canal                                                     Chui    Chui
3-Orto            Maintenance of river bed and headworks, repair of
rollers downstream and upstream at the headworks   Chui    Moskovsky
Mechanical cleaning over 9.7 km.              Chui    Alamedin
4-Chumysh
At-Bashin canal
5-Kugart          Selective replacement of lining over 5 km. and  Djalal-  Suzak
mechanical cleaning of the right main canal   Abad
6-Komso-          Mechanical cleaning over 5.7 km. and partial rise  Issyk-   Ak-Suu
molsky          in the bank over 1.6 km. by concrete bermn     Kul
7-Kenesh          Mechanical cleaning over 14 km.                Naryn   Kochkor
8-Kara-           Selective replacement of lining over 1.5 km. and  Osh   Uzgen
Darya            mechanical cleaning over 12 km.
9- Kara-          Replacement of lining over 500 m. at the  Osh           Kara-Kuldja
Kulja           headworks of main canal, repair of bridge and
mechanical cleaning over 3 km.
Elimination of broken slabs over 7 km. and
I 0-Kainazar      replacement of lining, repair of five supervision  Talas    Bakai-
wells and related to the road inspection as well as    Atinsky
installation of side drain.
84.       Last part of this component would be investment in 0  &  M  Machinerv and
Equipment (Base Cost US$ 4.4 million). To permit Rayons to carry out emergency works such as
canal breaches - work for which time would be inadequate to tender or appoint contractors -, and
small scattered works such as gate repairs, erosion repairs, road grading, etc., the project would
provide a pool of essential equipment per Oblast and Rayon.
25



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
85.       C. Third main component of the project would be an Action Plan for Irrigation
Efficiency Improvement (Base Cost US$ 0.6 million). The objective would be to assist the GOK
with a strategy for efficiency improvements of the national irrigation system during the transition
period to a market economy. The main focus should be on areas that can be adapted within the sub-
sector itself, such as reformulating the institutional (who does what when and where) legal and
supervisory frameworks. Along with the institutional reform the MAWRIDWR should prepare a
national strategy for irrigation efficiency improvements. This strategy is to outline the conditions for
- and pave the way towards - eventually turning over as much ownership of the national irrigation
assets as much as possible to the private sector for operation and maintenance.
V. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
86.       Approach. The proposed Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project would neither
expand the extension of the irrigation lands nor the design levels of reservoirs, but it would restore
the proper functioninbg of the main canals and of 12 dams, finish one dam, return 29,000 ha of
fallow land to irfigafion and clean the main drains of currently
87.       Waterlogged soils. There are several different ways at assessing the environmental
impacts: from the point of view of (1) the Design Situation or (2) the Current Situation.
88.       The document reviews the impacts from  the viewpoint of the current situation
comparing "with" and "without project" scenarios. Alternatively, it could be argued that the project
aims at the rehabilitation of the system to its design under the FSU irrigation system, thereby having
only minor impacts when taking the design situation as a reference point. This would implicitly
sanction the previous water resources management system thereby limiting potential mitigation
measures. Many issues raised in the NEAP find their origin in the out-dated designs of the irrigation
infrastructure and the application of inefficient irrigation techniques. Irrigation schemes use too
much water, they wash out much of the agricultural inputs, contribute to waterlogging and
salinization and they are erosion prone. For the sake of conceptual clarity in the following the
"with" and "without project" approach as well as for the identification of actually existing
environmental issues, the currently existing situation is considered the "without project" scenario.
Environmental Impacts and Issues
89.        In the context of the Sector Environmental Assessment the impacts of the individual
subprojects will not be examined individually. The SEA of a category B investment programme is
rather aiming artinstilutnal, picy and legal issues but also identifying critical issues and hot spots
related to the planned investment. Assessments of the subprojects under the Irrigation and Drainage
Rehabilitation Project are required under the existing environmental legislation in the Kyrgyz
Republic and will have to be submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources to the
Ecological Experts Committee within the Ministry of Environment.
26



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
90.       The intervention of the project takes place at the level of the nation's principle aquatic
infrastructure, involving dams of reservoirs, headworks with spillways and hydraulic gates and main
feeder canals for irrigated fields. The execution of the project would have the following main
environmental impacts:
Positive:
* Reduction of water losses;
* Substantial improvement of dam safety;
* Reduced risk of soil salinization by improved drainage, the full benefit of which would only be
achieved in combination with improved irrigation and on-farm drainage systems, which the
current project does not foresee but which is expected to be addressed under the planned on-farm
irrigation project;
* Passage for fish through dams and headworks have not been foreseen in the original design but
could, if adopted by the rehabilitation project remove obstacles for fish migration.
Negative:
* Potentially increased agrochemical pollution due to increased use of pesticides and fertilizers
along with improved availability of irrigation water;
* Surface water contamination by potentially increased drainage outflow due to improved water
availability for irrigation and improved drainage;
o Soil erosion associated with the maintenance of existing unsustainable practices of agricultural
production (irrigation with long furrows on poorly levelled fields, poorly scheduled water
application etc.)
- Aquatic habitats, downstream ecosystems (Aral Sea Basin) and human uses of surface water
could be negatively affected by increased diversion of surface water for irrigation resulting from
the improved transportation capacity of the rehabilitated canals;
- Vegetation alongside canals as well as flora and fauna in canals that has benefited from seepage
and leaking irrigation infrastructure will be negatively affected by rehabilitation works;
* Indiscriminate dumping of the dredge material from the rehabilitation and maintenance works in
the canals have had in the past and would have negative impacts under the project for landscape
and habitat function at the strip alongside the canals if not done in a proper way.
91.       The environmental analysis in this report is focused, in addition to the potential impacts
of the infrastructure works, on issues associated with the institutional capacity for environmental
monitoring and water management (see Annex 6 for an overview of the environmental issues in the
water sector of the Kyrgyz Republic). The institutional aspects of the proposed project will be dealt
with in the following chapters.
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure
*  Overall works
*  Rehabilitation of dams
*  Rehabilitation of canals
*  Rehabilitation of drainage
27



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Capacity Building
* Technical support and Training
Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement
* Preparation of Action Plan
* Rehabilitation of monitoring system
Environmental Impacts from Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure
92.       Overall works. As a result of several factors, agricultural output has severely declined
over the past five years. About 29,000 ha out of the more than 400,000 ha under the proposed
rehabilitation have been taken out of production, as they could no longer be supplied with sufficient
irrigation water. In the remaining area irrigated agriculture continues but according to DWR
officials the land is underirrigated compared to previous scheduling and amounts of water applied.
Almost in the entire irrigated area furrow irrigation is being practised. Out of the 48 proposed
schemes, 4 consist of drainage schemes which are not associated with an irrigation scheme. Two of
the 48 schemes (one in Chui: West Chui main canal and one in Djalal-Abad namely Kugart) have a
drainage component for cleaning collector drains. Total drainage area to be rehabilitated is
estimated at 28,700 ha.
93.       The rehabilitation project would restore the flow of water to those areas, and they
would return to their former agricultural use with evident beneficiary effects to the population. This
would include restoration of the capacity of the main and secondary irrigation canals, rehabilitation
of the irrigation headworks and structures, and rehabilitation of the main drainage system. Actual
works would be: mechanical cleaning of canals; repair or replacement of headworks, including
diversion barrages, stilling basins, emergency escapes, gates, outlets and associated river bed and
bank protection; the repair or replacement of other hydraulic structures such as control structures,
flow observation stations (hydroposts), superpassages, off-take structures, drop structures and
piezometric observation wells.
94.       Agrochemical Pollution. In combination with agricultural reforms and the return to
productivity of aforementioned 29000 ha it is expected that agricultural inputs would gradually rise
again but not to levels which were customary during the FSU era due to the much increased price
for inputs under market conditions. This would lead to increased levels of pollution of both surface
and groundwater.
95.        Increased levels of phosphates may become problematic in downstream stagnant waters
such as downstream reservoirs or lakes. Depending on the half-time of permnanence of the water and
the phosphate concentrations, eutrophication may occur. Phosphates usually don't cause major
problems in fast flowing rivers, as their half-times are too short to generate serious eutrophication,
but problems arise when rivers stop flowing and water becomes stagnant in remaining pools and
oxbows. As phosphates are readily attached to the upper levels of the soils, they usually cause little
problems to groundwater.
28



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
96.       Nitrates are extremely mobile, they readily wash out from the field, and depending on
the characteristics of the groundwater hydrology, they may penetrate to great depths. Groundwater
is the primary source of drinking water and nitrate contamination of drinking water causes serious
health risks. This is of immediate concern for the cities of Bishkek and Kara Balta, where drinking
water is currently rapidly deteriorating with rising levels of nitrates. To a lesser extent this is a
concern everywhere in the country, as the majority of the Kyrgyz population depends for its
drinking water on groundwater, which could eventually be contaminated with nitrates and nitrites.
In some cases this might lead to increased costs for having to transport water from more remote
wells or, in a more remote future, it might even require costly treatment of the groundwater. If such
higher costs could not be borne by the users, they might need to use drinking water with nitrate
levels that exceed the health norms.
97.        It is expected that also the use of pesticides would increase as a result renewed
intensification of the agricultural sector. A rise in the use of pesticides to FSU-design levels (and
subject to changes in composition as a result of changing crops generated by market forces) would
cause threats in the first place to the rural population living in the areas of their application, as well
as to nature. With increased use, inadequate storage and handling accidents would increase.
Persistent pesticides would accumulate in the fat tissues of mammals (including humans) and birds
and could cause anomalies at high concentrations. Particularly in inefficient i/d schemes, such as
those in the KR, significant parts of the applied pesticides are washed away with the irrigation water
and they end up in the downstream rivers, where they may impair downstream water uses (drinking
water, irrigation, aquatic ecosystems, etc.).
98.        More irrigation water combined with better drainage would reduce salinization risks but
could also lead to increased washing out of mineralized salts, which would pollute the surface
water downstream. To actually assess the impact, inflowing irrigation and outflowing drainage
water would have to be carefully monitored in terms of quantity and quality issues. This may not be
an immediate concern for the Kyrgyz Republic, as it is located at the headwaters of all its rivers and
streams. For down stream water users of the Aral Sea Basin, gradual accumulation of concentrations
of salts may rise to levels that fighting salinization becomes increasingly more difficult, requiring
progressively more water. In general, an increase of drainage water is considered to elevate the
levels of all agricultural residues in the waters downstream from the irrigated fields.
99.       Soil erosion. Sheet erosion and loss of topsoil leads to siltation of canals through
maintenance of undesirable irrigation practices like poor levelling and scheduling of water
application. Soil conservation practices are lacking and so are treatment practices that retain eroded
sediments and remove them from entering surface waters and canals.
100.       Rehabilitation of dams. In any dam project, the safety of the down stream residents
should be the first and predominant concern. This project would make a significant contribution to
improve the safety of inhabitants downstream from 13 dams, which in the case of the Papan dam
involves the 250,000 inhabitants of the city of Osh.
101.      Resettlement. By restoring the dams to their original design capacities or completing the
dam at Karabura, no expansion would take place of the design sizes of reservoirs and no
resettlement of people would be foreseen.
29



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: irrigation Rehabilitation Project
102.      Water availability for aquatic ecosystems and irrigation schemes. The MAWR has
been following a safety procedure under which its water managers have released a part of the
accumulated water, whenever a reservoir would come under threat of flooding from particularly
heavy snow melts. This practice has been applied more frequently as the state of maintenance
deteriorated, which resulted in steeper fluctuations of water levels in reservoirs. This has had a
negative effect on aquatic and amphibious organisms, that depend on shallow shores and marshlands
with only moderate fluctuations. The project could lead to some reduction in fluctuations in water
levels of reservoirs,
103.      Reduction of water flow in rivers. On many headworks, poor maintenance of the spillway
gates has allowed water to pass through the structures. This has contributed to maintaining water
flows beneficial to riverine ecosystems and fish. Restoration of the gates would allow the headworks to
be closed off completely and during periods of water scarcity, water managers would have the option
to close off all flow from the main rivers, with subsequent ecological effects for the rivers and
ultimately the Aral Sea Basin.
104.      Availability of water within irrigation schemes. Reduced leakage through the spillway
gates would be beneficial for the schemes irrigated from these particular headworks and their intemal
aquatic ecosystems, most notably during periods of water scarcity.
105.      Passibulitv for fish.Dams have always formed a major obstacle in the migration routes of
migrant fish, in particular Aspiolucius esocinus and Glyptostemum reticulatum. Upstream
populations have been isolated from their parent populations and as a result their genetical diversity
might diminish. 1 Properly designed spillways could sometimes provide bypasses for fish. Where
needed, rehabilitation and construction of spillways should provide opportunities to improve passibility
of headworks for fish.
106.      Rehabilitation of canals. Leakage through cracks and damaged areas in 1,548 km of
main canals inevitably leads to losses of water for irrigation purposes and sometimes it may cause
waterlogging with associated salinization. Major reductions of water losses within the schemes, might
provide tie option to. the system manager to leave more water in the main streams to the benefit of
downstream irrigation systems, riverine aquatic ecosystems and the Aral Sea Basin in general..
Rehabilitation of linings over 81 km or 5% of the total lengths of the canals would lead to better
distribution of water over the irrigation schemes both towards the end of the growing seasons and to
the more remote parts of the irrigation systems, but it would probably not lead to the reduction of
water use of each scheme as a whole.
107.      Aquatic ecosvstems in irri2ation schemes. These leakages have also created local aquatic
micro habitats in the areas next and below the canal water levels, that have partially replaced the
aquatic habitats in the low land planes, originally lost during the installation of the schemes.
Rehabilitation of the linings would lead to some, but not significant losses of aquatic micro habitats in
irrigation schemes at the downhill bases of canals.
In Kyrgyzstan, a considerable number of non-native specics has been introduced in rivers, lakes and reservoirs.
Those species have not been considered in this environmental impact study.
30



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
108.      Ecological decline in canals. Particularly canals with concrete linings must be
considered ecologically rather sterile. Earth walls and natural stone reinforcements are ecologically
much more beneficial to aquatic life, as they may provide spawning and hiding places for aquatic
life and appropriate substrate for marsh plants. Rehabilitation of the 5 % of the linings would lead to
some, but not significant losses of aquatic micro habitats within canals. Today's vegetation along
the irrigation canals thrives on the basis of the seepage form the canals. To maintain this vegetation
after rehabilitation, irrigation would be necessary to where valuable mircohabitats have developed.
This would be subject of the individual impact assessments for each of the subprojects.
109.      Effects on landscape. This is an impact for both the design situation and the current
situation. It has been noted that in the past, desiltation works have been carried out with little
consideration for the landscape. Silt has been dredged from the canals and has been deposited into
chaotic heaps which often attract illegal dumping of trash. In some cases abandoned equipment and
unused construction materials have aggravated the situation. Such practices are unrelated to the
design situation and must be expected to continue. They should be addressed under the
Environmental Impact assessment for the individual schemes.
110.      _1itation of drains. The project would rehabilitate main drains, which would be
beneficiary to the reduction of salinizaiion and water use efficiency both of which are important at
the level of the irrigation works and at the level of the Aral Sea Basin. It should be emphasized
however, that the full benefit of improved drainage would only be achieved in combination with
improved irrigation and on-farm dminage systems, which the current project does not foresee but
which is expected to be addressed under the planned on-farm irrigation project.
Capacity Building
Ill.      The project would be executed by a Project Implementation Unit and the project would
finance:
* the assisting and training of PIU personnel in project administration;
? evaluate feasibility of schemes to be approved, establishment of work plans;
e procurement, disbursement matters, cost accounting, monitoring and preparation of progress
reports;
- project personnel (including Oblast and Rayon) in determining appropriate levels of O&M,
preparing periodic progress reports and western accounting;
* procurement of a pool of essential equipment per Oblast and Rayon for small scale maintenance
and emergency works;
* conduct/manage preparation of Environmental Assessments for individual subprojects.
112.      It is expected that the capacity building component would have a positive effect on
O&M of the irTigation schemes, and that it would result in more cost-effective operations. Without
addressing broader water management issues and environmental issues, which inter alia have been
mentioned in the NEAP, this component would risk to contribute to the perpetuation of many
problems related to sustainable water use.
31



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Projcct
113.       Conceming the ongoing works some emergency equipment Will be provided directly to
the DWR for works not undertaken by contractors under the rehabilitation component of the project. In
order to avoid indiscriminate dumping of dredge material it is recommended to provide training for
MOA staff in proper depositing of the material in consideration for the effects on the landscape so that
contractor documents reflect clearly how the dredge material should be handled.
Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement
114.      Preparation of action plan. Along with the institutional reform, the MOAWR/DWR
would prepare a national strategy for irrigation efficiency improvements. This strategy would outline
the conditions for - and pave the way towards - eventually turning over as much ownership of the
national Irrigation assets as possible to the private sector for operation and maintenance. As this plan
would be exclusively focus at irrigation related issues, it would ignore many water related issues that
would require harmonization of interests within the water sector. Sustainable use of water would be
more difficult to achieve.
VI. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
Approach
115.      Irrigation is indispensable for a productive agricultural sector in the Kyrgyz Republic. The
rehabilitation of dams as well as irrigation and drainage infrastructure is essential to its functioning and
to the security of communities living downstream of the dams. Without the project, the irrigation
infrastructure would further deteriorate leading to productivity losses and considerable safety risks.
116.       On-farn level irrigation has not been included in the project but its justification is based
on securing/improving agricultural productivity. For the benefits from the project to fully matenalise in
terms of agricultural productivity, but also in terms of increased efficiency in the use of water
resources for Imgation the implementation of the second irrigation project addressing the farm level
for water use efficiency, the Agricultural Support Services Project and the Rural Credit Project for the
productivity benefits are essential.
Alternative I: Without Project
117.      Without the project it is assuned. as in the feasibility studv that in most irrigation schemes,
the systems would not fail completely or immediately, but that water and surface .losses would
gradually increase until headworks or dams would brake down under the pressures of extreme floods.
Then an entire system would become dysfunctional from hence onward with devastating consequences
for the livelyhoods of the rural population. According to engineering reports, by the end of 1996 the
project's total "Design Irrigated Area" of 422,427 ha decreased by 29,455 ha. This decline would
certainly continue in a "without project" situation. In the preparation report it is pointed out that with
less water reaching the fields, yields would further diminish, followed possibly by changes in cropping
pattems.
32



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC. Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
118.      With continuing deterioration of the irrigation infrastructure, which for the most part
implies siltation of canals up to a point where canals would have to be completely closed, water
diversion from natural streams would be substantially reduced, the effects of the deteriorating
infrastructure could be considered to some extent positive. As less and less water would be directed
into the system, more would remain available in the original river beds. The water quality would
continue to improve, as agricultural inputs would fall. This would with no doubt be beneficial for
the riverine ecosystems and fish populations and ultimately more and cleaner water would remain
available for the Aral Sea Basin. At the same time, this cannot be considered a sustainable scenario
regarding the effects on the agricultural productivity and the population generally.
119.      Conclusion. Taking into consideration the dramatic social cost of the without-project-
scenario, this alternative would be disastrous for the rural population and the national economy as a
whole, and should be regarded as unacceptable. If consideration would be given to the desirability
of the ecological advantages of this alternative, then those advantages should be achieved through
other means (Alternative III, the IWM alternative).
Alternative II: With Project (as proposed)
120.      The rehabilitation of parts of the irrigation system through restoration of works and
maintenance is expected to help turning around the trend of declining agricultural production.
Present yields, affected by a shortage of most factor inputs, are expected not to decline any further
but increase somewhat as farming intensity increases generally and farmers are ready and in a
position to invest in purchased inputs and land cultivation. As a result of the transition to market
conditions with higher input prices and the issue of produce marketing this increase in intensity will
most likely not reach FSU-levels. Total use of irrigation water in the Kyrgyz Republic will therefore
also not go beyond the levels of the FSU era.
121.      Scheme selection and phasing. Scheme selection and phasing has been carried out in a
multicriteria selection study. The criteria applied included:
- the greatest area possible
- safety of downstream population (in the case of dams)
- economic benefits
- technical urgency (threat of immediate collapse)
Due to the emergency character of the Rehabilitation Programme, environmental aspects have not
been taken into consideration for the schemes selection or its phasing. Rehabilitation meant also that
expansion of the existing schemes would not be part of the project.
122.      Institutional aspects. The politically determined extremely low fees for water use in
the Kyrgyz Republic do not represent an effective incentive for on-farm water conservation and for
the installation and maintenance of a more sophisticated distribution and monitoring system to
reduce water losses from the irrigation infrastructure managed by the Department of Water
Resources. Clearly, affordability concerns would have to be addressed and the political situation
regarding the difficulties introducing higher water charges taken into account. But without changes
33



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
in the incentive and revenue structure, reduction of water losses and water conservation will most
likely not reach their potential and the sustainability of the project is not being assured.
123.      The third project component "Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement"
addresses the issue but limits itself in the preparation study to "areas that can be adapted within the
sub-sector itself such as reformulating the institutional (who does what when and where) legal and
supervisory frameworks". It is recommended that the institutional interaction between Water Users
Associations that are to be created and a restructured/partly privatised future irrigation
administration as well as the ongoing EU/TACIS and ADB projects and the activities under the Aral
Sea Basin Programme should be attended to.
Conclusion
124.      Institutional weakness is one of the major reasons for environmentally unsound
development. It is recommended that the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project takes up the opportunity
to address the necessary transition of the Kyrgyz water sector towards an institutional set-up that
reflects economic and political changes in the country since independence in 1991. Even if
considering the emergency character of the project, an integrated water resources management to
water policy is needed that deals with all water needs within the Kyrgyz Republic and aims at
improving water use efficiency and water quality, improving the water conditions in the country and
in the Aral Sea Basin. The role of agriculture as biggest water consumer versus other uses for the
resource should be defined and the institutional structure readjusted accordingly both in terms of
organization as well as rules and regulations (see Alternative III).
Alternative III: Sustainable Water Use
125.      Integrated Water Management Action Plan. The Sustainable Water Use alternative,
would build upon alternative II, the "with project alternative", by carrying out the rehabilitation
works but at the same time develop and gradually introduce water management concepts that ensure
improved water use efficiency and water quality in all fields of water consumption in the Kyrgyz
Republic. Indispensable part of the Integrated Water Management Plan would be reform of the
institutions involved in the administration of the country's water resources based on the analysis in
Section I (Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework) and along the lines proposed in Section VI]
(Environmental Management and Training).
126.      At the time of construction, environmental concerns did not play any significant role in
the design of the irrigation infrastructure in the Kyrgyz Republic and in the FSU. As a consequence,
opportunities to address environmental concern have not been exploited and many present-day
environmental problems are not being dealt with. As a result, poignant water issues are not
addressed, unnecessary pollution threatens public health, salinization reduces arable lands and
aquatic ecosystems and marshlands have disappeared as a result of the production ideology under
the Soviet system. However, some of such lost opportunities may be recovered with some
adaptations to O&M, even at no - or little - additional costs.
127.      The identification of all water needs, their mutual interactions and opportunities for
improved management would require a cross-sectoral action plan for the sustainable use of water.
34



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
The plan would integrate water uses and interests at all levels of operation, varying from the large
scale infrastructure down to the detailed practices of the beneficiaries. The Sustainable Water Use
Alternative would expand the Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement to an Integrated
Water Management (IWM) Action Plan. The project would envisage to initiate a broadly oriented
integral water management approach which would: Identify all water related issues and their inter-
relationships, search and develop (preferably, budget-neutral) opportunities for improving the
benefits of surface and groundwater for all water users, such as agriculture, drinking water, industry,
environment, ecology, tourism, fishing, energy and mining, harmonize their interests, improve the
environment and enhance ecological recovery.
128.      Overview. In order to illustrate the kind of issues to be integrated in the plan a number
of main themes are presented here which are illustrated with examples thereafter:
1. Harmonize water uses
2. Integrate water quality and quantity concerns
3. Integrate management of surface water and groundwater
4. Enhance aquatic ecological conditions
5. Enhance soil conservation
6. Institutional Arrangements
7. Monitoring
8. Financing mechanisms
129.      Harmonize water uses. Reduction of water use is relevant from different perspectives.
From a financial point of view, excessive use of water involves higher costs for consumers. As
society evolves, new additional demands of water develop. In many countries this has lead to
intersectoral competition for water. Particularly drinking water and industrial water needs are likely
to increase per capita with growing per capita income. Water demands for irrigation and for the
production of hydroelectricity would have to be co-ordinated (season) in order to achieve highest
overall benefits. The Action plan would deal with such issues and identify mechanisms of
harmonization for different scenarios.
130.      More efficient water use is of particular importance on the farm level, considering the
paramount role of agriculture as a water consumer. As a follow-up to the present project, the World
Bank currently considers the financing of a project to improve on-farm-irrigation. For this project,
the IOM would produce a detailed, solid basis for water use efficiency improvements to be
incorporated with the project design.
131.      Integrate water quality and quantity management. Water pollution occurs at a
variety of different places and the overall reduction of pollutants will take considerable investments
and many years to execute. In some cases, the reduction of effects may be established through
quantitative in stead of qualitative management. For instance, if a certain trajectory of river would
suffer from high concentrations of certain pollutants, a moderately higher flow in the main river
might significantly dilute the concentrations. This may not be considered a permnanent solution for a
contamination problem, but from the point of view of the receiving water body and its ecosystem,
the problem would be reduced. In a situation, where the country is currently not in the position to
solve many of its environmental problems at once, it may be considered a valid temporary solution.
35



THE KYROYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
After the identification of the different uses (i.e. irrigation from agriculture, main river water
quality, main river aquatic ecosystem and possibly temporary pollutant storage capacity) and a
thorough analysis of their characteristics, a computer model could simulate more advantageous
environmental water conditions while respecting the water needs of the irrigated fields.
132.      Salinization. As a first step towards the reduction of salinization and waterlogging, the
project would rehabilitate main collector drains. It has been recognized however, that the current
irrigation methods are wasteful with water, and that they cause more salinization compared to a
situation with precision land levelling and optimized irrigation scheduling. The impact of the salt
loaded drainage water may vary, depending on how it is being handled. If salt concentrations are
low, drainage water may be re-used for irrigation after adequate dilution with fresh irrigation water.
133.      Measures on how to reduce salinization and the interrelationship of each measure with
other water uses would have to be identified. Measures requiring further investments would have to
be addressed in the Agricultural Support Services Project and the Rural Credit Project.
134.      Effluent management. Effluents of industrial processes and sewerage plants are often
released with no consideration of their effects on the receiving water bodies and the groundwater.
Often (in the case of sewerage plants) effluents are first channelled through sedimentation ponds,
where part of the contaminants stay behind. In order to remain effective, such ponds need
management, such as removal of the sediments, which then would have to be dumped elsewhere. As
a result, contamination of groundwater might take place at two locations: (a) the sedimentation
ponds and (b) the disposal site. In the case of the highly mobile nitrates, this may cause considerable
problems if they reach aquifers in drinking water exploitation zones (e.g. Bishkek). In some cases it
might be less harmful to release the effluents directly on the surface water, or only temporarily hold
them back in ponds. Each situation would need an analysis on how the situation could best be
handled, taking in consideration physical conditions of surface and groundwater and the needs of
the different water users. The Action Plan would identify the most pressing situations and perform a
preliminary analysis of each situation and indicate avenues for problem resolution.
135.      Manure management. Similar problems occur from inadequate manure management on
livestock farms. Whereas manure is generally regarded and treated as a resource for agriculture, in
practice, poorly managed manure from large livestock farms ends up to be a menace for both
surface and groundwater. Often, manure is not properly stored and animal urine is not being
collected at all, ending up in the groundwater or seeping away into irrigation canals or streams. As a
result, a potential resource is being turned into a pollutant, which is particularly alarming in water
exploitation zones ar near water courses. Required measures may.vary, depending on surface and
groundwater conditions.
136.      Prevention of pollution by agrochemicals. Losses of agrochemicals take place tl.rough
inadequate handling, accidents and washing out from the fields as they dissolve in rain and
irrigation water and get removed as surface run-off. Inadequate handling and accidents need to be
prevented through training, usually requiring little investments. Field losses are very much related to
erosion prevention and irrigation methods; to a minor extent, losses may be prevented by their
means of application, something that may be dealt with in training courses. As they have major
effects on the water quality as well as on the safety and health of the rural population, these aspects
would have to be dealt with in the Action Plan.
36



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
137.      Eutrophication prevention/reduction. Eutrophication is primarily a problem of stagnant
water. In many of the mountainous lakes of the Kyrgyz Republic, the problem does not occur, as
they are situated up-stream from the sources of pollution. More problematic are the small lakes in
the low-land plains, especially in the Chui valley, which around Bishkek also serve recreational
purposes. In rivers, eutrophication may occur when effluents are discharged in dry riverbeds.
Especially the reduction of phosphate levels is crucial for reducing eutrophication. This could be
achieved through the reduction of sewerage sludge, phosphate treatment of the effluent (costly),
improved manure management, etc. In some cases, it may be possible to reduce eutrophication
through management or isolation of watercourses from specific point pollution sources and treat
moderately polluted water by running them through a helophyte filter. This consists of a shallow
pond covered with reed and sedges. The moderately polluted water slowly runs through this marsh,
leaving the phosphates behind. The phosphates and other nutrients are absorbed by the vegetation.
(For instance, in 1991, a project of the European Union financed an IWM project in Hungary, which
inter alia included the objective to restore a desiccated lake. The required water management was
simulated with a computer model. It turned out that in summertime, the available irrigation water
would be too nutrient rich to enter directly into the lake. Therefore the irrigation water was first
channelled through a former marshland, where the water quality could improve, before it was
allowed into the lake. As a result not only the lake could be restored but also the marshland.)
138.      Radio active seepage. Addressing this problem is a serious concern, as it influences the
quality of food production and human health. Dealing with radioactive contamination will at least
require adequate monitoring, but in some cases, it may require restoration of protective covers of
tailings. If temporarily increased levels are detected in irrigation water, discontinuation of irrigation
may be required until the source is properly isolated. Strict application of the rules with regard to
maximum levels is crucial, as radioactive contamination of food would be extremely damaging, not
only to the health of the population, but also to the acquisition of new export markets for
agricultural produce.
139.      Integrated management of surface water and groundwater. Wherever aquifers are
being exploited for drinking water and industrial use, it may be needed to replenish the aquifers with
surface waters. As long as the surface waters are of high quality, this may be applied without major
restriction. Problems may arise however, when the surface waters are also in use for the reception of
effluents, in which case specific management programs (such as delusion , rerouting of effluents or
irrigation water of better quality, etc.) may be required, or extraction of drinking and industrial
water from other aquifers.
140.      Aquifers and irriga:ionldrainage. Irrigation and drainage effect aquifers in several
ways. Irrigation increases the groundwater tables and it strongly effects the composition of the
groundwater, changing the levels of minerals, salts, and organic substances. Such changes may have
considerable consequences. In many places in the Chui valley, cellars of some houses had become
inundated and in many more cases in the countryside, houses had become much damper, thus
affecting public health. Changes in chemical compositions of the groundwater may also occur,
which is particularly relevant in areas of groundwater exploitation and in micro habitats of
groundwater dependent marsh vegetations. Changes may be caused by minerals, salts and organic
substances transported from elsewhere. by the surface water, or by mineralization of salts from the
soil at greater depths. Depending on the different water uses, changes in the chemical composition
37



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
of groundwater within the irrigation schemes may need to be considered and micro management
may be needed to reduce unintended side effects.
141.      Enhance aquatic ecological conditions. While recognizing the major achievements in
water management for safety, energy generation and enhancement of agricultural production, one
must not overlook the major losses that have occurred to aquatic ecosystems and marshlands in the
valleys. The Action Plan would build upon opportunities for ecological improvement and recovery
as they arise from the rehabilitation works and improved management. In this context particular
attention should be paid to the most threatened group of species, which are several species of fish
and the pollution sensitive Rana asiatica. Where feasible, those ideas would be incorporated in the
technical designs of the project works.
142.      Passage migrant fish. The routes of migrant fish are always interrupted by dams and
headworks. If not considered in ihe construction designs, upstream populations may be cut off from
the rest of the populations or in some cases from marine habitats, which may be important during
parts of their life cycles. Particularly for fish, it could be considered of vital importance to continue
at least a basic flow of water in the main rivers throughout the year. Special design adaptations such
as fish ladders or passage channels incorporated in spill ways may further enhance the integrity of
their habitats. This may be achieved through special operational regimes of the water gates.
Structural requirements would be studied in relation to rehabilitation works and operational
opportunities would be identified for incorporation in management regimes, with emphasis on
restoring basic uninterrupted water flows to rivers.
143.      Stagnant aquatic and marsh ecosystems. Most natural stagnant aquatic and marsh
ecosystems of the valleys have disappeared or have become incorporated into the irrigation and
drainage systems. On a minor scale, new aquatic micro-habitats have emerged as a result of the
deteriorating irrigation systems. Inadequate drainage and seepage through levees and dams have
created many small moist or wet habitats throughout the irrigation schemes, to which many aquatic
and marsh species have responded. There is a trade-off between improvements in water use
efficiency and the occurrence of aquatic and rnarsh dependent species. Targeted management
however, could achieve help conserve the most highly valued secondary habitats even under with an
efficiently functioning irrigation infrastructure.
144.      Flow Regime. During periods of low flow, there is the risk of rivers to have their flow
reduced to a critically low level. As a result, the river beds downstream from the headworks and
dams could fall dry for at least a part of the growing season aquatic species would not be abie to
survive. Fish populations getat least temporarily split up. Effluents, discharged into such streams
remain in smelly pools, where evaporation increases the concentrations of their pollutants, until the
winter flows wash them away. A balanced water regime for the irrigation schemes is required,
which would take into consideration the irrigation needs, aquatic ecosystems within the schemes.
effluent discharges and ecological requirements of the main rivers. To what extent low flow phase
pose a problem in the proposed scheme could not be assessed because of lack of data and Mission
timing did not allow for own investigations.
145.      Reduction of erosion. Large scale erosion probably has become the primary socio-
ecological land use issue in the Kyrgyz Republic. Silts, collected from the mountains, fill up hydro-
electrical reservoirs and irrigation canals, reducing the economic lives of investments worth billions
38



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
of dollars and increasing their O&M. By first taking down the finest - most fertile mineral and
organic particles - erosion reduces the fertility of the soils that stay behind, both in the upper
watersheds and in the irrigated fields. Dependency on fertilizers increases, which raises the
production costs. Heavy silt loads are also harmful for aquatic diversity and rapid sedimentation
along shores of rivers, lakes and reservoirs may cover shallow aquatic and marsh habitats. In the
Kyrgyz Republic, both land-use practices of the mountain ranges and the irrigation practices are
extremely erosion prone, while the topographic conditions of the country require cautious soil
conservation practices. As one of the measures to be taken, is inclusion of silt monitoring in the
national network. Water management and soil conservation are very closely inter-linked and need a
joint approach in the Kyrgyz Republic. Reduction of erosion would have to take place at two levels:
(1) through watershed management upstream from the project, and (2) through the introduction of
more appropriate irrigation methods.
146.      Upstream soil conservation. Most of the Kyrgyz mountains have probably been covered
with natural forests in the past, but at present, less than 4% of the country is covered with forest; on
most of the mountains there is only a thin cover of heavily over-grazed layer of grasses and herbs or
no vegetation whatsoever. Given the urgency of this project, comprehensive watershed
management, addressing grazing regimes and possibly natural - or active reforestation, is beyond
the scope of this or its follow-up projects, but it should be recognized that this issue needs to be
addressed seriously, as it poses a future threat to the nation's agriculture and to its hydro-electrical
power works. It would probably require the gradual elimination of grazing from the steepest
mountain slopes, which would allow natural forest recovery at the most erosion prone slopes. In
other areas a reduction of grazing pressure would probably be required. Within this context, it is
noteworthy to mention that Columbia, by law has to spend 6% of its income generated from hydro-
electricity on watershed management and reforestation. This has made the power companies the
largest active forest managers in the country.
147.      On farm soil conservation. The most effective way of reducing soil erosion within the
irrigation schemes of the Kyrgyz Republic would be through improving irrigation practices in
applying soil conserving measures including precision levelling and optimized scheduling for
improving furrow irrigation as well as gradually changing from furrow irrigation to other forms of
irrigation. This would also result in significant reductions of water use and salinization. It is
recommended that the application of such methods would be dealt with under the aforementioned
Agricultural Support Services Project.
148.      Institutional arrangements. Within an IWM framework, the irrigation sector would
probably be organized on three levels of operation:
* Central government with mainly normative tasks;
* At the oblast level water management authorities for O&M of primary aquatic infrastructute and
supervision of water norms;
* Water users organizations (water users associations, drinking water providers, sewerage plants,
power companies) for fee collection and O&M of users infrastructure.
149.      Reconciliation of water uses. Decentralized and partially privatized water management
units would lead to major reductions of water losses and increased water efficiency, but this would
most likely happen without any consideration of other water uses, unless specific mechanism would
39



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
build into the system to harmonize different interests. For instance, three decades of indiscriminate
application of such mechanisms in the Netherlands had lead to effective water users payment systems
with very high recovery rates, In the nineteen eighties water use efficiency had effectively come about,
but at the expense of a loss of 80% of the diversity of aquatic and swamp environments and alarming
pollution of surface and groundwater. The management administrations had no economic interest in
taking water and habitat needs of plants and animals into consideration, and as a result aquatic and
marsh habitats had been effectively eliminated in most of the I&D systems of the country. Only after
specific balancing mechanisms had been introduced, did the water management administrations start
to harmonize the interests of all water uses. From then on water quality and groundwater levels were
partially restored and some ecological losses could be reversed, all of which has come about at
considerable expenses. Since the Kyrgyz Republic still is at the beginning of setting up its water
management system, some of the costly mistakes of the West may be avoided, if incorporated early on
in the restructuring of the water sector. The Action Plan would identify conflicts that would need
organizational and administrative mechanisms to promote effective harmonization.
150.      Financing mechanisms. The govemment's policy to set up a pricing system, for
irrigation schemes and collect water charges from water users associations would be the core of
financing the O&M of the irrigation system. Other pricing mechanisms would be needed for the
decentralized production and distribution of drinking and industrial water. Each user or user group
would have to pay for its own use and the O&M it takes to produce the water and to treat effluent.
Even though the current politically determined extremely low water fees are not likely to immediately
cause water consumption to reduce, the principle is expected to gradually set in as an increasingly
strong incentive to use water efficiently and to reduce production and distribution costs.
Conclusion
151.      A profound change in water management policy cannot be achieved over night. The
outlined changes would need a number of years of reform within the water sector. Lessons learned
from countries where IWM has been introduced indicate that it has motivated water managers to
become more creative in managing their water resources to serve broader needs of society, often
applying new - budget-neutral or even economizing - approaches. By expanding the Irrigation
Efficiency Action Plan to a broadly oriented IWM Action Plan, the project would initiate a process of
change, without having the ambition to achieve all of its objectives during the life of the project, but
rather taking a longer term view including the problems of the whole water resources sector and the
institutional aspects connected with them.
152.      Preparation and implementation of the IWM  Action Plan is recommended here as it
would address the emergency situation of the agricultural sector in the Kyrgyz Republic, and at the
same time it would introduce a broadly oriented sustainable water use policy, which would harmonize
the needs of all water uses (including the environment) within the country and simultaneously put the
water sector on track to meet the Republic's commitments to the agreed water policies of the Aral Sea
Basin.
40



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: iTigation Rehabilitation Project
VII. MITIGATION
Primary Effects
153.      The mitigation program of the project would go beyond mitigation of direct project
induced impacts. With regard to direct effects the program would particularly focus at the mitigation
of poor construction practices: The detailed designs would include the designs of properly landscaped
silt deposits and the contractors for construction works would be obliged to remove all equipment and
un-used construction materials after the works. Undesirably high levels of groundwater would be
partially mitigated by improving drainage in some areas, which would also benefit health problems
resulting from increased humidity in houses.
Follow-up Projects
154.      But beyond that, the project would be considered as the first step in a series of projects, in
which the increases in (1) water use (2) inputs of agro-chemicals (3) waterlogging and salinization and
(4) erosion would be dealt with in the follow-up World Bank's On-Farm Irrigation Project,
Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP), a Rural Credit Project and the Sheep Project.
155.      The newly established Water Users Associations, would be instrumental in fomenting
cost awareness, as the farmers are being charged - although moderately - for actual water use. The
water associations are directly responsible for maintaining the local irrigation infrastructure, which
brings the water to the fields, while the O&M of the primary infrastructure at oblast level is to be paid
by the Water Users Associations. These user fees are expected to gradually bring costs down by
reducing both consumption (switch to more efficient irrigation methods) and system losses (reduction
of leakages).
156.      Reduction of on-farm water use inefficiencies would be addressed under the On-Farm
Irigation Project and training by the Agricultural Support Services Projects and access to credit by
private farns from the Rural Credit Project, which would enable the farmers to upgrade their irrigation
practices from furrow irrigation to more sophisticated irrigation schedulimg and land levelling. In
pnority areas, soil conservation practices and reduction in waterlogging, salinization and erosion along
with economically feasible and technically appropriate I&D and other new productivity enhancing
technologies as well  as farm restructuring, would be fomented involving training and technical
assistance, by the ASSP and Rural Credit Project.
Integrated Water Management Action Plan
157.      Section VI recommends an Integrated Water Management Action Plan (IWMAP) to be
included in the project. The IWMAP would initiate a process to prepare the water sector for its
broader roll in society by introducing an Integral Water Management (IWM) approach. It would
41



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
have an IWMAP would not only elaborate actions for mitigation of project effects, but would also
create an ecological framework to tum mere mitigation measures into opportunities and actions of
ecological restoration.
158.      First, the plan would identify all current and potential forms of water uses and their
stakeholders and describe expected trends including such issues as increasing needs of drinking water
and industrial water needs per capita for a growing population, demand for export of hydroelectricity,
potential changes in water needs from the growing season towards the winter, when the demand of
electricity is highest, etc.
159.      The most pressing situations of effluent discharges of industrial processes and sewerage
plants would be identified and their actual and potential effects (including eutrophication) on surface
water and groundwater and the potential social and econormical harm (e.g. higher costs of drinking
water) and health would be prognosticated. For each situation it would be indicated - partially on the
basis of prelimninaiy computer models - how these effects could be reduced at the most cost-effective
way (including temporary storage or rerouting of effluents, dilution, helophyte filters, etc.), taking in
consideration physical conditions of surface and groundwater and the needs of the different water
users.
160.      The situation of radioactive pollution and the risks of harming food production and human
health would be analyzed and a specific subprogram in the monitoring program would provide
adequate data to minimize risks of radiation pollution in irrigation schemes and drinking water. Where
and when appropriate, measures would be proposed to divert risks, including protection of tailings,
temporary disconnection of irrigation and drinking water systems, dilution, etc.
161.      Economically feasible avenues for diverting water contamination from hot spots of
manure contamination and converting manure into a valuable resource for agriculture would be
investigated. Measures would be proposed to reduce losses of agrochemicals through inadequate
handling, accidents and washing out from the fields, (other than those through different irrigation
methods, which are already dealt with under task 7, Annex 8 "Terms of Reference: Integrated Water
Management Action Plan"), including timning and 'methods of application.
162.      Specific management programs would have to deal with threats to drinking water and
industrial water exploitation wells, such as delusion, rerouting of effluents or irrigation water, or
extraction of drinking and industrial water from other aquifers. Other opportunities for ecological
improvement and recovery as they arise from the rehabilitation works and improved management
would be investigated, paying particular attention to the most threatened group of species and
ecosystems, including several species of fish, fhe pollution sensitive Rana asiatica and low land
stagnant aquatic ecosystems. Opportunities may include fish ladders, adjusting the operational regimes
of hydraulic gates, etc. Although the project would not be able to finance specific works to make them
passable for migrant fish, a few designs would take these needs in consideration. In cases where long
steep flunes have been provided with low sills to dissipate hydraulic energy, these barriers could be
built in a way that would considerably increase -he passability for riverine fish. Also in some
headworks the passability is merely dependent on their operation, and within the framework of the
IWM Action Plan, it would be assessed how operational schedules might be adapted to make those
dams more accessible to rmigrant fish.
42



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rchabilitation Project
163.      The Action Plan would  identify the current institutional situation and make
recommendations on institutional requirements for a modem administration of a broadly oriented
water administration. It would deal with the responsibilities of the central administration (e.g. O&M
of main water infrastructure, legislation, norms, licensing of groundwater use, monitoring law
enforcement, etc.) versus decentralized administration and/or water users associations (O&M local
system, fee collection, water distribution, etc.), drinking water producers, industrial water users,
managers of nature reserves, etc. It would propose mechanisms, checks and balances to
institutionalize harmonization of interests of water users in reglementation, pricing systems and
institutional organization.
164.      Finally, the IWM Action Plan would further elaborate the minimally required national
qualitative and quantitative monitoring system to support the execution of the plan and estimate its
personnel and financial requirements.
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
Improving Environmental Management in the Water Sector
165.      Most of the conclusions concerning the state of environmental management in the water
sector have already been highlighted in the NEAP document:
* The country has sufficient quantities of water of good if not excellent quality available for
domestic and industrial use. Water availability could become a constraint to expanded irrigation,
land reclamation and improved productivity of irrigated areas, unless significant efficiency
improvements in distribution and use of water on farms will be achieved. Water conservation is
imperative not only to provide enough water for its main use in the Kyrgyz Republic, irrigation,
but also for a minimum level of water in natural waterbodies and streams and their contribution
to the Aral Sea Basin.
* Regulation of land use and enforcement of pollution prevention has been inadequate in areas
where human activities directly contaminate water sources. These contaminations result in
negative health impacts with higher morbidity and mortality rates for parts of the population with
vulnerable water supplies - particularly in communities that rely on open water resources
including the irrigation system.
* The present system for financing maintenance, rehabilitation, repair, replacement, and
modernization of infrastructure for drinking water, and irrigation water supply is not adequate
and not sustainable. In most areas, the distribution system is already over 30 years old, including
intakes, pumps, desinfection equipment, canals, gates, and distribution pipe systems. Economic
costs (including health, reduced agricultural production etc.) are already evident and will grow as
the present infrastructure ages and performance and functions deteriorate further. External
financing of operation and maintenance cost of the irrigation infrastructure cannot replace a
viable system of operating the infrastructure in the water sector.
* The key water management/monitoring organizations on which the Republic depends have been
weakened to a point where some can no longer be considered operational. Reduced size and
improved efficiency of govemment organizations have been important goals during the transition
43



THE IYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
period. However, the current situation is characterized by high losses of qualified staff
(especially younger staff) and in some cases almost complete lack of operational budgets,
equipment and maintenance to carry out their assigned tasks. Reliable water quality data are no
longer available, monitoring and enforcement of existing standards impossible. The negative
implications of the drain of qualified staff and funding does not affect all institutions in the same
way but will leave a number of them permanently mangled.
Recommendations
166.      The findings listed above lead to the inevitable need for new  institutional and
organizational arrangements. The end of the Soviet Union and the subsequent economic and
institutional changes have resulted in an erosion of basic water management and sanitation
infrastructure, that is essential for the health and economic survival of the population in the Kyrgyz
Republic. Without functioning public sector organisations and relatively simple, low-cost
investments in the existing, substantial water infrastructure, it will be impossible to maintain or even
improve the water supply standards achieved under the Soviet System. Many of the following
recommendations have been already made under the NEAP document:
167.      Policy reforms. The future financing of the water supply infrastructure will remain a
major challenge in the Kyrgyz Republic. Mobilization of sufficient local funds to cover essential
operation and maintenance costs for domestic, industrial, and agricultural water supply has not
improved since the drafting of the NEAP. On the local level, the Department of Water Resources is
collecting water charges (mostly in kind) but charges are far below actual costs. A gradual increase
in domestic, industrial and irrigation water charges considering affordability concerns will be
necessary for keeping up the system and providing incentives for water conservation.
168.      Institutional strengthening. The two basic recommendations in the NEAP regarding
institutional strengthening are strongly reiterated here. It seems necessary to focus on
a improving the process for priority-setting, planning and capital budgeting by strengthening the
linkages among different agencies to ensure the flow of timely environmental, health and
economic impact data, and
* preserving and utilizing where applicable but also re-establishing where necessary the expertise
and experience of the Republic's water management organizations:
(A) In the existing situation of limited financing, rigorous analysis of the relative
impacts of different choices is necessary. This requires good quality and timely
data on water quality and quantity, public health, flow distribution, water
shortages and outages, and production in irrigated areas which are currently not at
all or insufficiently available.
(B) For the provision of these data a reliable, co-ordinated, streamlined
monitoring system needs to be established. The existing system is no longer
operational (see Section VIII. Environmental Monitoring Plan). The improved data
basis should be made available to the public.
(C) Water management organizations can only function if key technical people
remain within the organizations and training is provided for staff development.
44



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Necessary reorganization has resulted in the loss of many qualified staff which
makes training particularly important.
Redefinition of Responsibilities and Integrated Water Management
169.      The extensive water administration with overlapping responsibilities and a lack of
efficiently organised exchange and co-ordination under the FSU system is no longer operational but
no real organizational reformn has taken pJace yet. Such a reorganisation would have to be combined
with an integrated water resources management approach that takes into account the different, often
conflicting water management requirements frorn domestic, industrial, agricultural and
environmental perspectives. For this reason it is suggested here, that the Irrigation Efficiency
Action Plan under the project would be expanded to a national Integrated Water Management
Action Plan that would address the requirements of all water uses and the environment, and would
also suggest an administrative 'structure that would best serve this approach and the need of
improved water use efficiency and quality control (see Section VI.). Existing/planned projects and
programmes in the water sector and the analyses made in the course of their preparation would be
linked to a comprehensive basis for policy and institutional reform in the sector.
Projects under the NEAP Umbrella
170.      Various projects in the environmental field and under the NEAP umbrella have been
addressing or are planned to address issues in the context of the water resources management sector.
Among them are
* Project on the Establishment of Water User Associations (ongoing, financed by Asian
Development Bank TA and EU-TACIS TA)
* Institutional Strengthening of the Environmental Administration, including review/revision of
existing Environmental legislation, Environmental Impact Assessment (completed, financed by
Asian Development Bank TA)
* Environmental Monitoring in two regions (planned, to be financed by Finnish Government and
Asian Development Bank TA)
* Study on market-based environmental policy instruments (planned, to be financed by EU-
TACIS)
* Pollution Permit System (proposed to be financed by Finnish Government TA)
* Hazardous Waste Management (planned)
* Risk Assessment of Mining Residua)s (planned)
* Rural Water Supply (planned)
* Urban Water Supply (planned, to be financed by Swiss government TA)
171.      While all of the already started or proposed projects address very important problems
and issues in the environmental sector, more co-ordination among the donors could lead to more
sustainable results. Support for the re-establishment of a functioning monitoring system would be
very important for donor support but would only have a real positive effect if its long-term
sustainability is ensured and the system would eventually cover the whole country.
45



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Training
General
172.      Training would play a very important role in the Action Plan, as it would be the first
opportunity to internalise the Integrated Water Management (IWM) concepts into the Water Sector.
The IWM training would be fully integrated with the proposed capacity building for Department of
Water Resources staff on organization and financial administration at oblast level. Key staff of other
government organisations involved in water resources management like Hydromet, Gaskompriroda,
the Geological Agency, Kyrgyzjilkomunsoyuz (sanitation and water supply in oblast and rayon
centres) and Kyrgyzselremstroi (in rural areas) as well as members and existing future staff of water
users associations. Project related technical support and training would consist of a technical
assistance and a training sub-component. Technical assistance would render support and
institutional strengthening on administration, organization and technical issues to
* MOAWR, the Ministry of Environment Protection and other related institutions;
* (semi) private water users associations and environmental organizations in the sector.
IWM - Training
173.      The training sub-component would be developed as a process which could continue
along with implementation of the project; it should be flexible and meet the needs of the project.
Trainers who will provide training shall be trained on efficient western methods of training for 2-3
months. Future trainers will be specialists with an academic background and practical experience in
water management, environment and agriculture. Courses should be offered in modules of 2-3 day
seminars by water management, environment and agriculture experts.
174.      The training sub-component would include: IWM for managers and policy makers of
MOAWR, monitoring staff of O&M staff at the oblast and water users levels to introduce the
principles of IWM. In the agriculture sector, training would focus on environmental issues, safety
and health (e.g. handling and storage of pesticides, fertilizers and manure), and on sustainable
irrigation and drainage (water and soil conservation and salinization reduction). Issues in the
training component would include:
*  Review of the currently carried state policy on environment,
*  Legal and organizational framework,
*  Management and monitoring methodology for development and implementation of water
management and agricultural programs (including I&D alternatives, water use reduction and
soil conservation);
* On farm water management;
*  O&M;
*  Water quality management;
*  Biodiversity conservation;
*  Pest Control;
*  Fertilizer and Manure management;
*  Storage and safety of Agrochemicals and mamure;
46



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
* On-farm monitoring;
*  Irrigation Organization and farmer participation;
*  Financial administration of water users associations.
In addition to in-country training courses, the project would provide special training by means of
one - two weeks work visits to ministries and technical objects in foreign countries and international
conferences.
Good Monitoring Practices
175.      Proper monitoring is a very demanding task, that requires thorough planning, sampling
and storage procedures, timing, and great discipline of the monitoring staff to carry out the
observations using the correct procedures. Since the involved institutions have lost many qualified
staff Hydromet and the State Agency for Geology in particular but also local water suppliers and
District offices of the Department of Water Resources would need to have their monitoring capacity
reinforced by adequate and regular training.
General Environmental Training
176.      Environmental management in the Kyrgyz Republic is in need of reorganization and re-
establishment. While many professionals have left their positions since the break-up of the FSU,
many others have stayed and are in need of training in modern environmental management and law
enforcement. This not only applies to the environment ministry Gaskompriroda, but to all ministries
and institutions that are related to the environment, most notably MOAWR, the Ministry of Justice
and the Ministry of Health. IWM would only function well while addressed on an interministerial
level by officials with a general environmental awareness.
177.      In the preparation of training materials, the NEAP should be used as an important
background source book. In addition to in-country training courses, special training should be
provided by means of one - two weeks work visits to ministries and technical objects in foreign
countries and international conferences.
178.      The training component would include: environmental training and criteria for planning
in the area of irrigation and drainage; render support to organizational reinforcement of
environmental organisations in the sector; training and strengthening of environmental management
including environmental protection and monitoring. Therefore a general environmental training of
key ministries would be very important, although such training would not be provided by the current
project.
47



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
IX. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN
Surface Water Monitoring Program
179.      Within the context of the Action Plan a national aquatic monitoring program  (NAMP)
would be designed and plans for implemention could be discussed with government and donors.
The monitoring programme would comprise of a net of strategically located monitoring stations for
both quantitative and qualitative observations, registration and data storage equipment and training
for registration, interpretation and reporting.
180.      During the FSU era, Hydromet used to monitor a large number of standardized
parameters (see table 11) at many stations distributed over the country at a standard frequency of
once per month. The data were published yearly. Since then monitoring has been reduced to once of
twice per year and the annual publication of data has stopped. The remaining stations seem to be
distributed without apparent management relationships and according to verbal communications at
the institution, they are partially oriented towards scientific research programs. Important locations
from a water management point of view, now appear to be without monitoring stations. The water
sector, including irrigation, cannot function properly w-thout monitoring data.
181.      It is expected that this programme would only monitor those data which are absolutely
necessary for taking management decisions (see table 11), such as data on the flows of the main
rivers, on the net use of the different utilization schemes (irrigation and hydro-electricity), on
erosion, on the water quality of entering and retuming water flows from the different users and
downstream of potential sources of crucial pollution (tailings of uranium mines). It would have to
be extremely cost-oriented, because the higher the cost, the more likely a discontinuation of data
collecting would be. It would reduce the number of parameters to the very minimum, considering
that it is better to have fewer but continuous series of data, than a larger number of parameters,
whose measurements could not be continued.
182.      The national network of monitoring stations would include the following types of
locations:
* the headworks of irrigation schemes and reservoirs and the national borders;
* the end of drainage canals before they enter the rivers;
* at intersections in main rivers where stations are further than 200 km apart;
* up-stream and downs-stream from problem areas, such as cities, industrial areas;
* downstream from concentrations of livestock farms and tailings of active and abandoned
mines.
48



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Table 11: Parameters for surface waters
Parameters; Cost factors  Frequency  Number  Measure-   Costs per Total
of stations ments/year  measure  Costs
ment      (US$)
Total flow of river and main Daily*  60        21600                 6000
canal *                                                                      I
silt                     Monthly    60         720         $5        3600
Salinity *               Daily*      60        21600              _ 6000
pH *                     Daily*      60        21600                 6000
Na,                      Monthly    60         720         $5   per 122400
K,                                                         ion;
Ca,                                                        $10  per
Mg,                                                        org.
Cl,                                                        comp.
HCO3,
N,
NH4,
S04,
N02,
N03,
BOD5
COD
5 oil products,
5 pesticides
Micro elements:          Foothill    30        60          $5 per ion 23100
Cu,                      stations:
Zn,                      bi-annual
Mn,
Ni,                      Mid-and    30         360
Pb,                      downstream
Fe,                      stations:
CrF,                     Monthly
Cd,
Co,
Hg,
Ur
Bacterial contamination  Monthly    60         360         $100      36000
growing
season
Transportation                       _         720         20/visit   14400
Total Costs                                                         1217500
* Automatic measurement and registration
49



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
183.      It is anticipated that national monitoring of groundwater would continue to be the
responsibility of the State Agency for Geology, which has reduced its program to about 75% of the
wells that were monitored during the FSU era. This is considered to be still adequate within the
context of the current project, but also the program of the State Agency for Geology would be
reviewed within the context of the IWM Action Plan.
User Monitoring
184.      It is strongly recommended that dischargers of effluents should monitor their
wastewaters before releasing in the surface water. Their monitoring programs should be prescribed
by Goskompriroda, depending on the potential compositions of the effluents. Additionally,
Goskompriroda should take (unannounced) inspection samples, which should be paid for by the
discharger.
185.     It is suggested here that the drinking water company of Bishkek and the nationally
operating State drinking water and sewerage treatment organization, Kyrgyzjylkommunsoyuz
(KJKS) - through their local units, "vodokanals" - and industries would monitor quality and quantity
of their own intakes of water and make this information publicly available. In addition, they would
be supervised by Sanepid (Sanitary and Epidemiological) Service. The parameters strongly depend
on the composition of the raw water source, which in almost all cases is groundwater. Once
sewerage treatment plants in the country start working again on a broad basis, thorough
monitoring is also a prerequisite for proper operation.
186.      In order to improve water use efficiency and introduce stronger price incentives for
water conservation, the water quantity monitoring has to improved. Rayon-level offices of the
Water Resources Department and/or future water users associations should monitor water flows in
secondary canals until the water reaches the farms. Water quality should be monitored in main
drainage canals in which the parameters listed in Table 12 should be monitored on a monthly basis
during the growing season.
Table 12: Parameters for RayonslWater Users Associations
Silt
Salinity
pH
Na,
K,
Ca,
Mg,
Cl,
HCO3
Organic matter
Pesticides
50



10* kYKurZKki'UbL1L. Arrigatlion Rehabiiacation Project
Institutional Aspects
187.      As conditions in rapidly flowing systems continuously change, monitoring only makes
sense if it produces statistically reliable long-tenn observation series; often the significance of short
- project oriented - observation series must be considered too limited for any solid conclusions.
Institutional efficiency would form an important aspect of a monitoring system. As inefficiency
ultimately translates into high costs, it would put a financial burden on the system and thereby it
would threaten the paramount continuity for lack of funds. The question of how to improve
Hydromet's organizational structure would therefore be a part of the Action Plan.
188.      In order to complete the national monitoring system for the entire water sector, the
Action plan would further analyze the monitoring needs and elaborate a long term program,
including:
* The objectives of the monitoring program (provide data for harmonization of user needs; reduce
net water use, improved water quality);
* A nation wide network of monitoring stations that could meet the objectives at the lowest
possible national costs (set criteria for characteristics, density and distribution of monitoring
station and identify locations);
* Definition of parameters and observation frequencies;
* Identification of data processing needs (hardware and software);
* Definition of interpretation methods and reporting;
* Institutional improvements;
Budgeted recurrent costs.
189.       The main network for surface water would be operated by Hydromet, whereas the
groundwater network would be operated by the State Agency for Geology. Specific monitoring of
relevant parameters in effluents (e.g. BOD, P, N02, N03, etc. depending on the expected
composition of the effluents) would be the responsibility of the water users, such as water user
associations, industries, sewerage system operators, etc. which could contract their monitoring to
Hydromet or private laboratories.
Financing
190.       Cost estimates for the monitoring programme would be provided under the Integrated
Water management Action Plan. This would include measuring equipment, chemicals and basic
computerized data processing equipment for the monitoring of surface water. It would absorb the
recurrent costs on a declining basis, unless other financing sources could be found. Recently
incidental short-term observations have been carried out with the assistance of GTZ, and currently
the Government of Finland is investigating the possibilities for providing technical assistance for
monitoring, in which case IDA-financing would not be required.
51



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Projcct
Table 12: Environmental Performance Monitoring Indicators
Effect                         Indicator
Increase of irrigation water use  Canal Discharge Measurement
Increase fertilizer use       National sales of fertilizers
Nutrients in surface water: NAMP
Increase Pesticide use        National sales of pesticides
Pesticides in surface water: NAMP
Passability migrant fish      Detailed designs
O&M plans
Riverine ecosystems           River flow: NAMP
Salinization                  Flow drainage canals: Monitoring Water
Users Associations
Salt content drainage canals: Monitoring
Water Users Associations
191.      After donor or IDA financing, the counlry would have to allocate reliable, continuous
financing in order to ensure the long-term viability of the monitoring system. One possibility would
be to allocate a share from hydro-electricity revenues.
X. PUBLIC CONSULTATION
192.      In the case of a national programme like the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Improvement
Project for a whole sector, countrywide consultations of all potentially affected people does not
appear to be feasible. Instead, discussions with NGO's in the agricultural and the environmental
field, with scientific and government agencies and with beneficiaries on oblast level sought to
ensure stakeholder participation.
193.      A series of workshops on oblast level (Bishkek for Chui and Talas Oblasts, Osh or
Djalal-Abad and Osh oblasts and Bosteri for Issyk-Kul and Naryn oblasts) were held in June 1997
organised by the Department of Water Resources. Main purpose of these workshops were to raise
awareness of stakeholders about the project's contents, to inform concerned government officials
and NGOs as well as to solicit the views of the farming community. Short presentations were given
by the national members of the preparation leam from Ihe Design Institute for Irrigation and the
leader of the project preparation team from the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme. Each of
these seminars was attended by some 50 participants representing different backgrounds: Major
concerns expressed were related to the level of anticipated water users fees and the sustainability of
future O&M of rehabilitated schemes. Important subject of interest were the novel procurement
procedures for civil works under the project.
194.      In the framework of the SEA preparation, environmental NGOs were contacted for their
views on the proposed project. The NGO scene is very diverse with a large number of them being
rather small groups working at local level. Around 20 NGO's are listed as environmental or
ecological groups in the Aral Sea Basin NGO Directory for the Kyrgyz Republic. Only a handful of
52



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
them operates on the national level. In consultations with InterBilim, Tabiat, Aleyne no concerns
about potential negative environmental impacts of the project were raised. Tabiat and Aleyne
offered their services as local consultants for project preparation. With substantial amounts of donor
funds coming into the country consulting work has become the major source of income for the
bigger NGO's who have academically trained members among them. Interbilim's role is one of co-
ordination among non-governmental organisations and support in their activities through provision
of communication facilities, information financed international donor support.
53



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Imgation Rehabilitation Project
XI. REFERENCES
ADB (1995): Agriculture Sector Programme Loan, Further Agriculture Reform Measure. Final Report
Volume I - Main Report.
ADB (1995): Agriculture Sector Programme Loan, Further Agriculture Reform Measure. Final Report
Volume II - Annexes.
Anonymous (1997): Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States 1997. Third Edition.
Caritas, Switzerland (1995): Background to the Erosion in Besch-Badam and the Rest of the Karaunkur
Valley in Southern Kyrgyzstan. Measures to Check Erosion and achieve Sustained Land
Utilisation. Mission Report, Hergiswill July/October 1995. 86 pp.
EBRD (1997): Strategy Update for Kyrgyzstan. London. 39 pp.
Ministry of Agriculture, Kyrgyz Republic (1997): Irrigation Rehabilitation Project - Inspection of Dams.
Mission Report by J. L. Hinks, February 1997 for the FAO/World Bank Co-operative
Programme.
NEAP (1997) Ecological Indicators in the Framework of the National Environmental Action Plan for the
Kyrgyz Republic. in Russian.
TACIS (1995): Water Resources Management and Agricultural Production in the Central Asian
Republics - "WARMAP PROJECT" - Volume 1. Support to the EC-ICAS and Co-
operating Institutions. European Commission, DG I External Economic Relations.
TACIS (1995): Water Resources Management and Agricultural Production in the Central Asian
Republics - "WARMAP PROJECT" - Volume 11. Formnulation and Analysis of Regional
Strategies on Land and Water Resources. European Commission, DG I External Economic
Relations.
TACIS (1995): Water Resources Management and Agricultural Production in the Central Asian
Republics - "WARMAP PROJECT' - Volume 111. Hydrometeorological Survey. European
Commission, DG I External Economic Relations.
TACIS (1995): Water Resources Management and Agricultural Production in the Central Asian
Republics - "WARMAP PROJECT" - Volume IV. Irrigated Crop Production Systems.
European Commission, DG I Extemal Economic Relations.
TACIS (1995): Water Resources Management and Agricultural Production in the Central Asian
Republics - "WARMAP PROJECT" - Volume V. Integrated Land & Water Management
in the Upper Watersheds. European Commi1ssion, DG I External Economic Relations.
TACIS (1995): Water Resources Management and Agricultural Production in the Central Asian
Republics - "WARMAP PROJECT" - Volume VI. Legal and Institutional Aspects.
European Commission, DG I External Economic Relations.
World Bank, Environment Department (I 993): Sector Envirnimental Assessment. Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook Update. October 2993, Number 4. Washington D.C.
World Bank (1995): Kyrgyz Republic: National Environmental Action Plan. 145 pp.
54



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Other Information:
List of Consultants in Environmental Field (Mr. Robert GTZ)
Map of Oblasts (Mr. Robert)
Chart of Local Administration in Kyrgyz Republic
List of NGO's GTZ Seminar
List of NGO's from official publication
Forderung der Umweltzusammenarbeit mit Kirgistan. Projekt-Zwischenbericht fuer GTZ
Dieter Robert: Kyrgyz German Technical Cooperation Projects
55



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
XII. ANNEXES
Annex 1: List of Laws and Regulations of the Kyrgyz Republic in the Field of Environmental
Protection
Annex 2: Nukus Declaration - International Waterways - Among the states of Central Asia and
International Organizations on Issues of Sustainable Development of the Aral Sea
Basin
Annex 3: Requirements for Submission of an Environmental Impact Statement to the
Ecological Experts Committee (Translation of Information provided by the
Ministry of Environment, April 1997)
Annex 4: Location of Irrigation Schemes
Annex 5: Location of Irrigation and Drainage Schemes per River Basin
Annex 6: Environmental Issues in the Water Sector of the Kyrgyz Republic
Annex 7: Dam Safety Component: Work Programme, Implementation, Costs
Annex 8: Terms of Reference: Integrated Water Management Action Plan
Annex 9: Organizational Chart Ministry of the Environment
Annex 10: Organizational Chart Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Annex 11: Fish and Bird Species in the Kyrgyz Republic
56



'rbG.l 7 rFri11 ?    Iricidrlon. Yfhobii[atior Ptojec
GHENf-AI. IVIAP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  .-                                                                                                           -
I                                                 (r__ 12                                        68/X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*1 MWf\ Y
,' '-.,~~~~ p jt jj ..                                                                                     LkJs4C I   .-,i<*I 1I ;
-IJ 'I i' ,,),1 .1N !                    '1 N                                     - --L a- - -              r lAY'               k Nain.-Kij
1~ ~~~H                                                                lli--    --ai  -  '""-''f r-''                                               TahV.hlI- d\       ;
E ; ~~~~~~I ;/*^. ,; -     S;- e
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1L~~            ~~~        -~  -  .- s.              .        :> .............  q                             -~i/                 ~ ~ ~ (             [T | N
~ ~~~~:,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      /~~~~~. 
{ > l 5 1   ''""') 2tf    ittjf   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 7lff                                rt r/A 
5,r   . tri-<l$h:R;*  f   f   1||~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LBI~l                                   
0  1.^. ill t',lAr     5         1%, ihol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lolvil 
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                      I.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j-e
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 'J r1                                                       C.asio Lf Eaft-l-l-ii 
Sao
{,,.1,,,,, /1,1,,,$ ''                                        5   _     !>   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sel 
_ N 1-, J1'., !ri. .:,(\ apo;-V _  oFW
*     j,    --..''l'                              '      i        '     ''m



%   l          %         e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 1
LIST OF LAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
IN THE FIELD OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Date &#                     Name                         Remarks
17.04.91     Law on Protection of Nature         new version being
prepared
14.01.94     Law on Water
# 1423-XI I
1983        Law on th'e Protection of the       submitted to the
Atmosphere                          Government
Land Code                           new version being
.___ ____ ____ ___  _ _prepared
1982        Law on Use and Protection of        new version being
Vegetation                          prepared
7.05.93      Law on Approval of the Forestry Code
#1198-MI
Administrative Code                 new version being
prepared
29.12.60     Criminal code                        new version being
_               ~~~~~prepared
Law On solid waste                 is being developed
Law On radiation safety of population   is being developed
28.05.94     Law on specific protected territories
# 1562-XII
Law On Ecological Experts'          draft distributed among
Exarnination                        Ministries and
Administrative Agencies
Law On Mineral Resources            submitted to the
Zhogorku Kenesh
(Parliament)
16 May 1996    Govermnent Resolution: On state
# 225       registration of potentially toxic chemnical
substances
Provisions on State Registration of
Potentially Toxic Chemnical Substances
Instructions on Procedures for State
Registration of Potentially Toxic
I________________   Chemical Substances
25.01.95     Government Resolution: On the
# 19        approval of normative acts developed
according to the Resolution of the
Zhogorku Kenesh of the KR of 14.01.94
# 1423 Enforcement Procedures for the
Law on Water of the KR.



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 1: List of Laws and Regulations of the Kyrgyz Republic in the Field of Environmental Protection
* Regulations on State Statistical
Reporting on Terms and Conditions
of Water Use in the KR.
*  Regulations on the State Registration
l________________    and Control of Water Use in the KR;
*  Regulations on the Water monitoring
I _______________        ifund  in  the  KR;
*  Regulations on Licensing Procedures
l_________               for Water Use in the KR;
* Regulatipns on the State Register of
Water Economy in the KR.
* Regulations on Procedures to
Maintain the State Water cadastre.
2



ANNEX 2
NUKUS DECLARATION - INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS
Nukus Declaration
Among the States of Central Asia and International Organizations on Issues of Sustainable
Development of Aral Sea Basin
We do agree that the states of Central Asia shall recognize previously signed and
currently in force conventions, agreements and other legislative instruments regulating the states'
interrelations on water resources in the basin of Aral Sea and take them for undeviating
execution.
Nukus, September 20, 1995
AGREEMENT
among the Republics of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan
on co-operation to jointly manage usage and protection of
water resources of interstate sources
The Republics of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan,
hereinafter referred as to the Parties,
Being guided by the necessity to solve issues ofjoint management of water resources
of interstate sources in coordinated and organized manner and in order to continue to carry out a
coordinated policy in the interests of development of economy and improve the living standards
of population;
Proceeding from the historically formed community of nations living on the
republics' territories, their equal rights and responsibility to provide for rational use and
protection of water resources;
Recognizing the inseparable dependence and interrelation of the interests of all the
republics to solve issues of joint management of water resources based on principles common for
all the region and fair regulation of the resources consumption;
Assuming that only alliance and joint coordination of actions shall contribute to
creation of favourable conditions to solve social and economic problems, enable to ease and
stabilize the tensed environmental situation caused by depletion of water resources, as well as
taking into account the fact that in the Republic of Tajikistan there is a disproportion in provision
with irrigated area per capita. recognizing possible increased provision of irrigated farming with
water;



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 2: Nukus DeclaTation - International Waterways
Paying respect to the formed until today structure and principles of allocation, and
proceeding from the currently in force normnative documents on allocation of water resources of
interstate water sources, agreed on the following:
Article 1: Recognizing that the region's water resources are common and single, the Parties shall
enjoy equal rights to use and share responsibility to ensure their rational use and protection.
Article 2: Contracting Parties shall assume an obligation to secure strict compliance with the
procedure agreed on and rules established concerning water resources usage and protection.
Article 3: Each Party to this Agreement shall assume an obligation not to permit to take place
actions on its territory which affect the interests of the other Parties and are capable of inflicting
damage on them, resulting in change of agreeda.mo if at&ex consumption and water source
pollution.
Article 4: The Parties shall assume an obligation jointly carry out the works to solve
environmental problems connected with drying out of Aral Sea, as well as set volumes of sanitary
releases for each specific year proceeding from water bearing capacity of interstate sources. In
case of an exclusively dry year a special separate decision shall be taken concerning supply of
water to areas suffering from an acute shortage of water.
Article 5: The Parties shall promote broad information exchange on scientific and technological
progress issues in the area of water management, comprehensive use and protection of water
resources, carrying out joint research on scientific and technological base necessary to solve the
problems and expert assessment of projects important for water management and national
economy.
Article 6: The Parties shall take a decision on joint use of industrial potential of water resources
of the country.
Article 7: The Parties have decided to set up on the parity basis the Interstate Water Management
Coordination Commission to be in charge of Tegplation, Tational use and protection issues in
respect of the water resources of the interstate soucces, members to the Commission shall be top
level executives of water management organizations with the Commission sittings to be held
quarterly or as necessary though initiation by the Parties. The sittings of the said commission
shall be held by turns chaired by representatives of the states in corresponding capital citv.
Article 8: The Water Management Coordination Commission shall be entrusted to:
(a) determine the regional water management policy, work out its directions taking into account
all needs of the national economy, comprehensive and rational use of water resources, long-term
program of water supply to the region and measures on its implementation,
(b) develop and approve water consumption limits annually by each of the states and region in a
whole in compliance with the water reservoir operation regimes. adjust the limits based on
2



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 2 Nukus Declaration - International Waterways
updated projections depending on actual water bearing capacity and currently formed situation
with water resources.
The Syrdariya and Amudariya basin water management associations shall be bodies of execution
and interdepartmental control to the Interstate Coordination Commission.
Article 9: The Syrdariya and Amudariya basin water management associations, the bodies of
execution and interdepartmental control to the Interstate Coordination Commission, shall work
under terms and conditions that all the structures and facilities on rivers and water sources
operated by them shall be the property of the Republics and considered as given to them for
temporary use without the right to assign and purchase as of January 1, 1992. The basin water
management associations operation shall be financed out of deductions to be made by the water
management bodies of the Republics on the parity basis and individual share.
Article 10: The Coordination Commission and its execution body shall provide for:
(a) undeviating compliance with the water release and consumption regimes;
(b) taking measures on rational and thrifty use of water resources, passage of sanitary flows along
trunks of all the rivers and irrigation systems (in case stipulated), discharging to delta of rivers
and Aral Sea a guaranteed amount of water resources in order to improve environmental
situation, maintain the quality of water according to agreements reached.
Article 11: Decisions taken by the Water Management Coordination Commission concerning
observance of limits set for consumption of water, rational use and protection of water resources
shall be mandatory for execution by all the water consumers and users.
Article 12: The Parties have agreed to develop a mechanism of economic and other type of
responsibility for violation of established regimes and water use limits.
Article 13: Managers of water management organizations of the Republics shall solve all the
disputable issues involving as necessary a representative of the non-interested Party.
Article 14: The Agreement shall be revised or amended only upon joint consideration by all the
contracting Parties.
Article 15: This Agreement shall be effective upon the date of signature.
The Agreement was concluded in the city of Almaty on February 18, 1992.
On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan,        N. Kipshakbaev
On behalf of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan,        M. Zulpuev
On behalf of the Republic of Turkemenistan,     A. Ilamanov
On behalf of the Republic of Tajikistan,        A. Nurov
On behalf of the Republic of Uzbekistan,        R. Ghiniatullin
3



I     



ANNEX 3
REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT STATEMENT TO THE ECOLOGICAL EXPERTS COMMITTEE
(TRANSLATION OF INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE MINISTRY OF
ENVIRONMENT, APRIL 1997)
The following information shall be collected and analysed during execution of EIA:ways to
implement proposed activities (parameters of proposed technical and technological solutions for
construction. operation and liquidation (redesigning) of a given project, sources of raw materials
and energy):
& amounts and qualitative parameters of wastes determined on the basis on material balance of
production;
* conditions of the environment at "this current moment of time" of construction of an object
that shall include parameters of air and water, land allocated to the project, description of
climatic, geological, etc. conditions, of flora and fauna, of recreational and protected
territories, etc., and other ecological parameters.
* existing social and economic structure in the district of location;
* The available information shall become the basis to determine sources, types and objects of
impacts from different project alternatives.
Number and exact types of influences shall be determined through a preliminary study
("search") with the purpose to determine:
* objects of impacts;
* scope of impacts;
geographic scale;
* dynamics of impacts over time;
* probability of impacts to occur.
Identified impacts shall be evaluated in terms of:
* impact boundaries (geographic scope, number of objects);
* intensity (modification of the level of pollution of natural resources, noise level,
etc.);
* duration (type of influence according to its time duration: short time, continuous,
periodical, emergency).
Economic estimates and calculations in EIA shall be made in the following order:
* estimates of full social expenditures on implementation of proposed project
alternatives with accounting for all the determined consequences;
* additional estimates shall be made (where applicable) regarding necessary
compensation payments, mitigation expenditures etc.;
A cost-benefit analysis for the project shall evaluate the efficiency of expenditures related to
implementation of the project that accounts for all the project's consequences, comparing with
and without project scenarios.



I



V'G4JYZ PRLOB1.1jC:  I         rq>abor, Re';  biihjo J-iO!ec
ti<^^>fXx {  (-c   C'io: of    t igi !rrrr Sc.lerll2s
\    R           1  1   \ A      A kAN
.42r 2               ./ !                            7.K                                       A 14  k 1  S T A  N
' r')%~           (/ ~r                                9      (     tg]^'/72t,1  - ;) 
C3 ~      ~~~ 7iItftlIm_                                -- -Ir, 0\ GZ                           t                                                      -   #
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii    (  S                                             )                                                              /                    ,             *
~~~~~~~(9                                        I'ArqI lXr,,                             $i'1   ai- -'r  -   "
Lake)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Lk
NARYk    HI?YNPAR.
j   l,1,i'1''. F:(+ 1U 1 1 V S 78 ; ..~. - --   -         - .  L) HALAf_ O.H                                                                            -                                       0AL-AfAD
n#                            ....'-                                'F   -. _ .-  (--  -   -tN, 55{.!l
(TI~~~~~~~~~~N(
lrnlarntofnanl boundary                 iN./E(R S/ASZI$,
t1(Iicrnni copnla 
~~ann  -----     -- -                                 N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ob;ojst caaDito'2A't
4 ISSYI  1I 1
-;                        -t r                                                  (7)  Irrkrihotncnschernier'e (See Table Al      5 SYR DAF'YA
Peser ,o,r for irrigolton (See Tabl( B)  7  ;/?!N-
Ir~         I          \/                                                                 1 ..  Ir_    _       _                 _= ,- 1 Cm  -Rver



I



Annex 5:
Location of irrigation and drainage schemes per river basin
Oblot   No.       Scheme name          Water source       Irrigated area      River Basin
ha
Chui     I   Kalmak-Suu Canal   Chu river                    2,S09              Chu
2   East Chul Canal       Chu river                43,466              Chu
3   West Chui Canal    Chu river                   74,312              Chu
4   Shamrisi              Sharnsi river            9,801               Chu
5   Djalamnysh           Djalamysh rivcr           2.050               Chu
6   Noruz                 Nuroz river              1,437               Chu
7   Orto Canal            Sokuluk river            4,225               Chu
8   Djetigen Canal       Kara-Balta nver           5,288               Chu
9   Chumyshsky           Chu river                23,153               Chu
Dz*bad   10   Kugart                 Kugartnver                8,912           SyT Darya
11   Kara Ungun Sai       Kara Ungun Sai river     23,735           Syr Darya
12   Maili-Su             Maili-Su river           3,359            Syr Darya
13   Konur Oguz           Konur Oguz river         1,121            Sr Darya
14   Djynra               Naryn nver                941             Syr Darya
15   Bash Batmran         Podsha-Ata river         2,273            Syr Darya
lsyyk-Kul  16   Kara-Jal Canal       Ak-Suu river              3,300            Issyk-Kul
17  Klomsomnolsky Cana  Jrgalan river              9,200            Issyk-Kul
1 8   Sredne-Maycvsky     Jergalan river           3,690            Issyk-Kul
19   Djon Canal           Ton river                2,450            Issyk-Kul
20   Tupski Canal         Tup river                6,500             Issyk-Kul
21   Konur-Olen           Kongur-Olen river        3,418             Issyk-Kul
Narym    22   Kentsh                Dgon-Aryk river          3,073               Chu
23   Kairma-Kochkor       Kochkorsko river          1,675              Chu
24   Kadzerti ri. Sch.    Kadzerti river           3,081            Syr Darya
25   Chon-Baktygul        Terek river              2,034            Syr Darya
Osh     26   Burganda              Sob river                10,6S9           Syr DaTya
27   Khodja-Gair          Isfairam-Sai river       3,150            Syr Daya
28   AK-Burrah            Ak-Burrah river          16,034           Syr Darya
29   Otuz-Adyr            Korshab river            17,500           Syr Darya
30   Kulurnda Canal       Lailak river             2,644            Syr Darya
3 1   Kyrgyz-Ata          Kyrgyz-Ala river         37,273            Syr Darya
32   Abshir-Sai           Abshir-Sai river          5,336            Syr Darya
33   Kara-Darsya          Kara-Darya river          2,775            SwyDarya
34   Zerger Drainage      Zerger river              3,534            Syr Darya
35   Kyzyl-Suu            Kyzyl-Suu river           4,800           Amu Darya
36   Aravan Irrigation    Aravan-Sai river          7,200            Syr Darya
37   Aravan Drainage      Aravan-Sai river          550              Syr Darya
38   Tort-Gull rrigation    Isfarariver            11,810            SyrDarya
39   Tort-Gul Drainage    Isfara river              4,450            Syr Darya
40   Kara-KtIdja          Kara-Kuldja river         1,470            Syr Darya
Talas    41   Manasski Drainage    Talas river               6,794              Talas
42   Kydr-Ali Canal       Talas river               7,135              Talas
43   Bordo Canal          Kenkol river              2,700              Talas
44   Big Talas canal      Talas river               9,800              Talas
45   Orumaral             Orumaral river           10,400              Talas
46   Kainazar Canal       Orumaral river            4,500              Tadas
47   Imanbek Canal        Kurkuro river             3,000              Talas
48   Nogoi Canal          Kurkuro river             3,580              Talas
Total
Total                                  422,427
Sourc. State loatinit for Water Synters Dewt (SIWSD)
Noto.
I/ Foal yo projct wge uqhhoted at bold
V S.. bhol fo.r nmxbr of ach-e. pertyer btroat. Out of 48 echoee only are dnuncF- 4eo
Nc. of I&D schemes                                                         I&D are (ht)
CObNTIF(E9ES6, 'Syr D.ye)                     22          SUM1F(SFS9.SFS56, -Syr Da-yo, SES9.SES56)            169 .S11
COUNW1F(M9ES.6Amut Darys')                    I          SUMFlSF(S9-SFS56, '-Amu Datya', SES9SES66)           4,800
CONTItF(E9.E56, Chu-)                         11          SUMIF(SFS9 3FS56, 'Chu,SE39 ES56)                    l71,289
CMANTIFRE9E56, Tu-aa)                         8           SOMIR(SFS93SFS56, *-Talo', SES9SES56)                47,909
COUN71F(E9 E56, "beyk-Kr')                     6          SU,IF(SFS9:SF$56, -bssyk-Kul', SES9SES56)            2N,558
Total        48                                                                422,42n
ANNTX5.XLS3:08 PM



I
I



ANNEX 6
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES IN TilE WATER SECTOR OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Environmentai lssue    -  :: -:: :-hre. :-                               :      pr bl       e   1   :         at d         :  or  ff  ter !es
,ri'ina   i        .  ;:      .                                                            .....*.
Organic pollution of rivers and aquifers   Industry: discharge of untreated industrial efflucnts      Water supply: contamination
Sanitation: poor condition of municipal sewer systems, poor  Ecology: change or loss of the country's / regions aqulatic
performance  of existing  biological treatment facilities,  ecology  (Aral Sea Basin)
improper disposal of municipal solid wastes, poorly
maintained and unsafely constructed household latrines
Siltation of rivers and reservoirs         Agriculture: inadequate land use techniques and overgrazing   Agriculture : soil loss; inadequate irrigation water storage
leading to soil crosion                                   Energy (hydro-power) : loss of storage capacity
Forestry: deforestation                                   Flood control: redticed flood protection
'toxic pollution of surface and ground water   Industry: improper storage/disposal of hazardous wastcs and   Water supply: contamination of drinking water
discharge of industrial effluents without adequate pre-  Ecology:  toxic effects to aquatic organisms and changes in
treatment                                                 aquatic habitats
Agriculture: inadequate handling/application of pesticides
Nutricnts: groundwater contamination and  Agrictilture: surface runoff or infiltration from  agriculture   Water supply : cxcess nitrate in drinking water
eutrophication of lakes and reservoirs     lands of nitrogen. phosphorus applied as fertiliser or animal  Energy(hydro-power). irrigation and flood control: impairment of
wastes                                                    reservoirs due to eutrophication
Sanitalion: discharge of raw  sewage or iifiltiation from   Ecology : disruption of food chaini and propagation of unwanted
inadequate disposal of human wastes                       species
Water borne diseases                       Urban and Rural Sanitation: discharge/infiltration of raw   Water supply : unsafe drinking water
scwage and inadequate disposal of domestic solid waste
Education and Hlealth: lack of hygienic eduication
Water logging and salinity                 Irrigated  agriculture:  inefficient  use  of  watcr  and   Agriculture: reduccd productivity of arabIc land
linsufficient/ineffective drainage
Radioactive contaminaiton  of' ground and   Mining: unsafe storage of uranium  mine tailings          Water Supply : potential threat to drinking water
Surface w\ters                                                                                        Agriculture: potential threat to food safety



I
I                                                                      I



ANNEX 7
DAM SAFETY COMPONENT: WORK PROGRAMME,
IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS
PRiORITY I               s                 PRtORITY II             S                PRIORITY III             S
Papan            Plunge pool                     515,000     Strndbry geriesor               40,600     Gauging station                28.000
Prezorneters (6)                128,000
Groutng                         508,000
standby generator                40,600
Naiman           Piezorneters (6 No)              51,200
replace valves                   31.300
Torgul          replace gates                     33,500     Headworks                       20,000     Reservoir lining           12.460,000
Piezoreters (12)              64,000     repairfeeder canal             56,000
Bazar Korgon     repair slabs                    222,400    intake gates (22T)               28,700    line reservoir               S,064.000
dyke spillway                   400,0O      gatle at darn                    3.000
repair intake                   5,000
Sparlak          Valves (4)                       82,350
Increase treeboard              116,500
Piezomneterm                     38,400
downstream slope                 13,8B0
Sokuluk          new valves (4)                   61.750                                                desit eservoIr              2.470,000
repair slabS                     34.500
Orto Tokoi       complete spillvay               588,000     1 cone valve                   132.00
grout near cone valve           175,000     grout tunnel                    16d500
canal for mudsirdes             120,000    iammed gate                       5.000
repair gates (ST stee)           13,000    repair cone valve                13,100
standby generator                40,600
Kirov            plunge pool                     ig5,00D     uts Iandslip                    20,000
releve pressure                   7,500    limit switcthes                   2,000
shotcrete left abutment          11,600     1 cone vrlve                   132.000
Si for landslIp                   1,000    repair cone valve                13,100
standby generator                40,600     computer                         5,000
Chon Ka2nda                                                  rebuild drnm                  1,220,000
plezometers (8)                    ncl
afIp bucket                       mcI
KarabUtil        comp,ete darr                 2,910p000
construct splllway                 mcl__._



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 7: Dam Safety Component: Work Programme, ImplementationL Costs
Ala Areha        toe erosion (2 datms)            31.200     piezometer (20)                31.800
Off line
piezometers (30)                47,700
Ala Archa        complete abutments             876,0t0      rntrnes in tunnels             65,000
ImDounding
instrumentation                 94,700    forced venblation                33,800
Obsernation wells (30)          94,700
Stepninski       drop structure                 134.500
us protection                  1 4,000
TOTAL                         7,471 .410                                1,850.800 _2007000
NOTE            Figures on table intclude conbngencies of 15% and VAT at 20%



ANNEX 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTEGRATED WATER MANAGEMENT (IWM) ACTION PLAN
Background
1.        One third of the labour force of Kyrgyzstan is employed directly in primary
agriculture, and another 10 percent of employees works in industries processing fibre, food, and
agricultural by-products. Primary agriculture contributes about one-third of gross national
product, and the sector's contribution is augmented by value added in the processing industries.
Since 1990, Kyrgyz agriculture has been on a downward spiral of declining output, worsening
productivity, retreat of farms from marketed transactions into self-sufficiency, falling earnings in
money and in kind, and a deteriorating natural resource base.
2.        Under the Former Soviet Union (FSU) substantial resources were invested in the
Kyrgyz Republic's irrigation and drainage infrastructure, allowing the country to become a net
exporter of agricultural products. Given the macro-economic difficulties associated with the
transition to a market economy and the resulting lack of financial resources, much of this
infrastructure has deteriorated over the past 5 years, mainly for lack of maintenance. As a result,
the country's irrigation network can no longer fulfil its intended purpose: to provide the farming
community with a secure supply of water to enable it to produce sufficient output to satisfy
domestic demand. Restoration of the national irrigation infrastructure to its design capacity has
thus become a must as the livelihood of a large segment of the population depends on agriculture.
3.        In addition, also mostly for lack of consistent maintenance, some of the 13 principal
dams serving the irrigation network have deteriorated and, thus, cannot adequately store the
quantities of water necessary to provide command areas with reliable water supplies. Besides,
some of them must be considered unsafe at this juncture, making rehabilitation work a matter of
urgency. Overall, the disrepair of the irrigation infrastructure including the dams is to a great
extent responsible for the agricultural sector's poor performance; it has led to water logging and
salinity, poor water management in general and considerably reduced yields.
As a part of an integrated package designed to restructure the Kyrgyz agriculture towards free
markets principles, and a logical follow-up of the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, a
project is being considered for financing, with the following objectives:
A.        Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure: including
i) primary and secondary irrigation infrastructure and drainage canals, and
ii) up to thirteen dams.
B.        Capacity Building: including
i) project implementation support to MOAWR at central, Oblast and Rayon levels,
and



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 8: Terms of Reference - Integrated Water Management Action Plan
ii) introduction of a private sector based, national operation & maintenance system
for irrigation infrastructure.
C.         Action Plan for Irrigation Efficiency Improvement: including
i) analysis of options for institutional reform and
ii) preparation of a national strategy for irrigation improvements.
4.         The Government, with the assistance of FAO/CP has prepared an Irrigation Sector
Environmental Assessment. The report concluded, that many poignant water issues - not
necessarily environmental impacts - were not being addressed in the Action Plan for Irrigation
Efficiency Improvement. In order to harmonize all water uses, the plan would require the
identification of all water needs, their mutual interactions and opportunities for improved
management. It would require a cross-sectoral approach for the sustainable use of water by
integrating all water uses and interests at all levels of operation, varying from the large scale
infrastructure down to operational practices of the beneficiaries. Therefore, the scope of the
Action plan was expanded to deal with issues related to the entire water sector and to harmonize
all interest into an Integral Water Management (IWM) Action Plan to which preparation the
current terms of reference formulate the rqpird sr
Objective
5.         The objective of the Integral Water Maaagemei Acton plan is
* to provide a national strategy for the sustainable use the nation's water resources, including
irrigation improvements;
* to harmonize water uses;
* to analyze of options for institutional reform;
* to identify specific actions for elaboration under this or related projects.
Services Required
6.         Consultancy services will be required to prepare an Integrated Water Management
(IWM) Action Plan, which would provide the basis for introducing a broadly oriented integral
water management policy to the entire water sector. The consultant services shall include the
identification all water related issues and tbeir inter-relationships and proposals for actions
and investments to:
* improve the benefits of surface and groundwater (including efficiency) for all user sectors, such
as agriculture, drinking water, industry, environment, ecology, tourism, fishing, energy and
mining;
* harmonize the water uses;
* improve the water quality of surface water and groundwater;
* enhance ecological recovery.
Furthermore consultant services are required to
* elaborate the minimally required national monitoring svstem to support the execution of the plan;
* propose institutional arrangements;
* recommend a financing system;
2



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Anncx 8: Tcrms of Reference - Integrated Water Management Action Plan
* prepare a training course for trainers, who would train IWM to government staff and managers of
(semi) private water organizations.
Scope
7.         The Contractor shall analyze all water related issues of the KR exhaustively, provide
detailed descriptions of the issues and shall provide preliminary indications towards
harmonization of conflicting interests on the basis of basic water models. For-full analysis of
complex problems the contractor shall develop terms of reference for detailed studies using full
computer models and present cost estimiates of each such study.
Specific tasks
Task 1: Groundwater Baseline Information
Collect and present all relevant quantitative and quwi ative baseline informnation of all watersheds and
the most intensely used groundwater systems of Kyrpyzstan.
Task 2: Water Uses and Stakeholders
Identify all current and potential forms of water uases and their stakeholders, describe current uses and
expected trends and their social and economic relevance. Include such issues as increasing drinking
water and industrial water needs per capita (or a fast growing population, demand for export of
hydroelectricity, potential changes in water needs from the growing season towards the winter, when
the demand of electricity is highest, etc.
Task 3: Water Use Efficiency
Indicate the main opportunities to reduce water consumption and describe the required actions to
materialize each opportunity; including irrigatim efficiency improvements in general and reduction
of water on the farm level in particular.
Task 4: Water Discharges
Catalogue the most pressing situations of effluent discharges of industrial processes and sewerage
plants and indicate their effects (including eutrophication) on surface water and groundwater and the
potential social and economical harn (e.g. higher costs of drinking water) and health hazard. Analyze
for each situation how these effects could be reduced at the most cost-effective way (including
temporary storage or rerouting of effluents, dilution, helophyte filters, etc.), taking in consideration
physical conditions of surface and groundwater and the needs of the different water users.
Task 5: Radioactive Pollution
Separately analyze the situation of radioactive pollution and the risks of causing harm to the
production of food and human health. Design a specific subprogram in the monitoring program to
provide adequate data to minimize risks of radiation pollution in irrigation schemes and to human
health. Where and when appropriate propose measure to be taken to divert risks, including protection
of tailings, temporary disconnection of irrigation and drinking water systems, dilution, etc.
Task 6: Pollution Reduction Measures
Explore the needs to reduce water pollution through quantitative instead of qualitative management,
including such measures as diluting concentrations of contaminants with greater water flows in rivers,
temporary pollutant storage until seasons with greater water abundance for dilution, re-direction of
water flows or effluent discharge, etc. Where appropriate use preliminary computer modelling to
simulate more advantageous environmental water conditions while respecting the water needs of the
irrigated fields.
3



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 8: Terms of Reference - Integrated Water Management Action Plan
Task 7: Salinization, Waterlogging, Erosion
List priority areas for the reduction of salinization, waterlogging and propose more appropriate but
economically feasible methods of l&D (including improved water efficiency, reduced salinization,
waterlogging, losses of agrochemicals and erosion) for consideration under the Agricultural Support
Services Project and the Rural Credit Project, including desalinization through leaching in harmony
with water abundance in winter time (during relative water abundance resulting from increased
generation of hydro-electricity).
Task 8: Manure Problems
Identify the hot spots of manure pollution and explain their primary causes. Propose economically
feasible avenues to divert water contamination and convert manure into a valuable resource for
agriculture.
Task 9: Agrochemical Pollution
Recommend measures to reduce losses of agrochemicals through inadequate handling, accidents and
washing out from the fields, (other than those through different irrigation methods, which are already
dealt with under task 7), including timing and methods of application.
Task 10: Ground Water Exploitation
Inventory specific threats to drinking water and industrial water exploitation wells and propose
specific management programs, such as delusion, rerouting of effluents or irrigation water, or
extraction of drinking and industrial water from other aquifers.
Task 11: GroundWater Quality
Identify undesirable or harmful changes in the chemical composition and levels of groundwater and
propose mitigating measures where needed, particularly in relation to health problems resulting from
increased humidity in houses and well-water dependent ecosystems.
Task 12: Ecological Improvements
Search for opportunities for ecological improvement and recovery as they arise from the
rehabilitaticn works and improved management. Pay particular attention to the most threatened group
of species and ecosystems, including several species of fish, the pollution sensitive Rana asiatica and
low land stagnant aquatic ecosystems. Opportunities may include spill ways, operational regimes of
hydraulic gates, etc.
Task 13: Erosion Reduction Measures
Elaborate the main avenues to reduce erosion both through (I) watershed management upstream from
the project, and (2) the introduction of more appropriate on-farm soil conservation methods to be
included in aforementioned Agricultural Support Services Project.
Task 14: Water Policies
Review of the current state policy on environment, legal and organizational framework, and propose
mechanisms, checks and balances to institutionalize harmonization of interests of water users in
reglementation, pricing systems and institutional organization.
Task 15: Institutions
Considering the findings and conclusions of task 14, propose institutional arrangements for IWM at
three levels of organization, including:
* The central govemment MOAWR/DWR with mainly normative tasks:
* At the oblast level water management authorities for O&M of primary aquatic infrastructure, co-
ordination of water users and planning, and supervision of water norms;
4



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 8: Terms of Reference - Integrated Water Management Action Plan
* Water users organizations (water users associations, drinking water providers, sewerage plants,
power companies) for fee collection and O&M of users infrastructure.
Task 16: Training
Transform the Action Plan into a training course and train a team of trainers.
Task 17: Oblast Level IWM
Prepare a model Oblast IWM plan , enriched with examples, to be used by each oblast to write their 5
yearly IWM plans.
Task 18: Monitoring
Elaborate the minimally required national qualitative and quantitative monitoring systems of both
surface water and groundwater to support the execution of the plan and estimate its personnel and
financial requirements.
Consultant Team
The following expertise would be required: IWM specialist, Hydrologist, Aquatic Ecologist;
Water Modelling Specialist, Water Quality Specialist; Sanitation Engineer, Grazing Specialist,
Institutions Specialist, Irrigation Engineer, Legal Expert, Financial Analyst/Economist and any
other specialist proposed by the contractor. The duration of the contract should be about 20
person months for expatriate and 24 person months for local consultants.
5






Annex 9: Organizational Chart Ministry of Environment
Ministry of
Environment       Approved by the Kyrgyz Republic Govemment Decree
Environment                                #443 as of Sept.26, 1996
Protection
National Fund of Enviromnent          Environmental Control
Protection                     State Inspectorate
Environmental Strategy and   . -- i     Environmental    ]
Policy National Center     .      Monitoring Department
Chui-Talas Territorial              Small Size Vessels
Department of Environment   .             Inspectorate
Protection
. Issyk-Kul-Naryn    .               Monitoring
Monitoring Division                Territorial Dept. of  _    Division
Environrent Protection
Kara-Kol Inter-Rayon L
[ Bishkek City State Inspectorate          Inspectorate     I
Tokmok Inter-Rayon                  Naryn Inter-Rayon
Inspectorate                       Inspectorate
Osh-Jalal-Abad    ... ........ Monitoring |
Talas Inter-Rayon Inspectorate          Territorial Dept. of  _   Division
Environrnent Protection
[   Kara-Balta Inter-Rayon             Jalal-Abad Inter-Rayon |-
F       Inspectorate           j           Inspectorate    i
Specially Protected Territories:      Kyzil-Kiya Inter-Rayon |
[      National Parks         j            Inspectorate     }
.   Economic Management                 Ketmen-Tube Inter-
Department                     Rayon Inspectorate  F






Annex 10: Organizational Chart Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
APPROVED by the Kyrgyz Republic Government Decree 005l as of Feb.3, 1997
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND WATER MANAGEMENT
National Center on       Plants Protection                                  Water Management             State Veterinary
Agrarian and Land          Department             Oblast Agriculture           Department                  Department
Reforms                                    Departments (funded by                                                                  Central Audit 
local budgets)                                                                 _     Supervision
uDept.(self-payii
Oblast Market Information                                       IF                          Republican
________ ___________                    Sections on Training and                                Oblast State Veterinary           Association o
Oblast Centers on                -         D Consultation of peasnats,                                    Dep rtments                      Capital
Agrarian and Land                             farmers and cmembers of         Water Management                                           Construction
Reforms              Oblast Plants       cooperatives                    Basin Departments                                           (self-paying)
Stations                                                                                                  | KyrgyzSelRem
Oblast Agriculture    |                                                          -      RCpublica
IF t                                  g Departments (funded by                                          4,                       Association (se
Rayon Centers on                                   local budgets)     l|Rayon State Veterinary                                             paying)
Agrarian and Land  L                                Market Information                                     D partments                 AgroPromEner
Reforms                                          on Training and                                                                   State Cooperati
Rayon Plants         Setoso   riigadAssociation (se
Protection          Consultation of peasnats,        Rayon Water                                                  paying)
Stations            farmers and cmembers of          Management                                                   paying)
   0  | cooperativef   #    0  Departments                                                or_SemOvos
Production
Association
-| Central Techniz
Inspectorate
Kolkhozes, Rural     State Agricultural          Industrial       Peasant Farms and          Pedigree Stock           Servicing           Maintenance and
Cooperatives       Enterprises               Enterprises of        Associations           Farms and Seed         Enterprises and        Construction
I________L_______        Agricultural                                     Farms,              Procurement           Organizations
|    Products    |                      | Experimental Seed        Organizations         servicing Agro-
Stations                                  Industrial Complex






ANNEX 1 1
FISH AND BIRD SPECIES IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Fishes and their distribution (+ = naturally present; A = Introduced; E = Central Asian
endemic)
SPECIES    NAME    / Yssyk  Chu  Naryn/   Talas  Sari-Jaz  Balcha
WATERSHED                 -Kul          Kara-             /Ak-Say  m
Daryya                    _
Acipenser baeri                            A
Salmo trutta oxianus               A       A        A
Salmo ischchan              A      A       A
issykkogegarkuni                .
Salmo gairdneri iridius     A
Coregonus lavaretus         A              A
Coregonus pelled             +             A
Coregonus nasus                            A
Coregonus autumnalis        A
migratorius
Coregonus albula                           A
Esox lucius kirgisorum              +
Leuciscus leuciscus          +
kirgisorum
Leuciscus lindbergi                                 +
Leuciscus squaliusculus                     +
Leuciscus schmidti           E
Leuciscus bergi              E                                    _ __
Leuciscus idus oxianus              +
Phoxinus poijakovi                                                     +
Phoxinus issykkulensis       E      =
Phoxinus issykkulensis              +
relictus
Phoxinus dementjevi                 +
Rhutilus rutilus aralensis          +
Rhutilus caspius                    +
Scardinius erythrophtalmus          +
Ctenopharyngodon idella            A                +
Hypophtalmichtys molitrix           A       A       +
Aristichtys nobilis                 A               +
Aspius iblioides                    +               +
Aspiolucius esocinus                        +
Tinca tinca                  A      A               A
Alburnoides taeniatus        A+
Alburnoides taeniatus               +
d rjagini



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex 11: Fish and Bird Species in the Kyrgyz Republic
SPECIES    NAME    J Yssyk  Chu  Narynf   Talas  Sari-Jaz  Balcha
WATERSHED                 -Kul          Kara-             lAk-Say  m
Daryya
Abramis brama orientalis    A      A                A
Capoetobrama                        +
kuschakewitschi orientalis
pelecus cultratus                  A
Barbus capito conocephalus          -
Barbus brachycephalus               +
Barbus capito conocephalus         +
m. tanuensis
Gobio gobio lepidolaemus           +       +        +
Gobio gobio latus           +
Hemiculter leucisculus             +
Pseudorasbora parva         A      A       A        A
Schizothorax intermedius'                  +
Schizothorax                                                          +
pseudoaksaensis
Schizothorax                E
pseudoaksaensis issykkyli
Schizothorax issykkyli             +
tschuensis
Schizothorax intermedius                            +
talassi
Schizothorax intermedius                   E
eurycerhalus
Schizothorax saltans                                A
Diptichus gimnogaster        +     +       +
Diptichus gimnogaster        E
microcephalus
Diptichus gimnogaster              +       +
oschanini
Diptichus sewerzovi          +     +       +                 +
Diptichus micromaculatus                            +
Diptichus dybowskii          +      +       +       +        +
Diptichus dybowskii          +                                         +
primitiva
Diptichus dybowskii                +
bergianus
Diptichus dybowskii          E
lansdelli                                         .
Carassius auratus gibelio   A      A                A
Cyprinus carpio              +      +       +       A
Cobitis aurata aralensis            +      +
Noemacheilus stoliczkai      +             +                +
Noemacheilus stoliczkai      +                               +
elegans                                         .
2



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rchabilitation Project
Annex I 1: Fish and Bird Species in the Kyrgyz Republic
SPECIES      NAME       / Yssyk  Chu  Naryn/   Talas  Sari-Jaz  Balcha
WATERSHED                  -Kul          Kara-             /Ak-Say  m
Daryya
Noemacheilus dorsalis        +       +       +
Noemacheilus strauchi        A                                           +
Noemacheilus labiatus                +
Noemacheilus                                 +
kuschakewitschi
Noemacheilus                                         A
kuschakewitschi badamensis
Noemacheilus stauchi                                                    +
reuniensis
Noemacheilus stauchi         E
ulacholicus
Noemacheilus conipterus                              A
Noemacheilus paradoxus                               +
Silurus glanis               +               +
Glyptosternum reticulatum                    +
Cottus spinulosus                            +
Cottus jaxartensis                          +
Gambusia affinis                    A       A
Stizostendion lucioperca     A      A   ____               ____
Perca fluviatilis                   +
Perca schrenki                      A
Pungitius platygaster               +
aralensis
Channa argus                        A
warpachowskii
Hypseleotris einctus         A      A
Pereottus glenii                    +                A
1997, Dr. Lidia A. Kustarova, unpublished.
Aquatic Birds of Kyrgyzstan
SPECIES NAME
Gavia arctica
Podiceps ruficollis
Podiceps nigricollis
Podiceps auritus
Podiceps griseigena
Podiceps cristatus
Pelecanus crispus
Pelecanus onocrotalus
Phalacrocorax carbo
Phalacrocorax pygmeus
Botaurus stellaris
Ixobrychus minutus
3



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irfigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex I1: Fish and Bird Species in the Kyrgyz Republic
SPECIES NAME
Egretta alba
Ardea cinera
Ardea purpurea
Platalea leucorodia
Plegadis falcinellus
Ciconea ciconea
Ciconea nigra
Phoenicopterus roseus
Cygnus olor
Cygnus cygnus
Cygnus bewickii
Anser anser
Anser albifrons
Anser fabalis
Rulabelia indica
Tadorna ferruginea
Tadorna tadorna
Anas platyrhynchos
Anas crecca
Anas formosa
Anas strepera
Anas penepole
Anas acuta
Anas querquedula
Anas clypeata
Netta rufina
Aythya ferina
Aythya nyroca
Aythya fuligula
Aythya marila
Melanitta fusca
Melanitta nigra
Bucephala clangula
Mergus albellus
Mergus serrator
Mergus merganser
Oxyura leucocephala
Burhinus oedicnemus
Squatarola squatarola
Pluvialis dominica
Pluvialis apricarius
Charadrius hiaticula
Charadrius dubius
Charadrius leschenaultii
4



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex I t* Fish and Bird Species in the Kyrgyz Republic
SPECIES NAME
Charadrius mongolus
Charadrius asiaticus
Charadrius alexandrinus
Eudromias morinellus
Chettusia gregaria
Vanellus vanellus
Vanellochettusia leucura
Himantopus himantopus
Recurvirostra avosetta
lbidorhynchus ostralegus
Tringa ochropus
Tringa glareola
Tringa nebularia
Tringa totenus
Tringa erythropus
Tringa stagnatilis
Actitis hypoleucos
Xenus cinereus
Phalaropus lobatus
Arenaria interpres
Phylomachus pugnax
Calidris minuta
Calidris subminuta
Calidris temminckii
Calidris ferruginae
Calidris alpina
Calidris alba
Limicola falcinellus
Lymnocrytes minimus
Gallinago media
Gallinago gallinago
Gallinago sclitaria
Scolopax rusticola
Numenius tenuirostris
Numenius arquata
Numenius phaeopus
Limosa limosa
Limosa lapponica
Larus canus
Larus argentatus
Larus ichtyaetus
Larus ridibundus
Larus minutus
Rissa tridactyla
S



THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Annex I 1: Fish and Bird Species in the Kyrgyz Republic
SPECIES NAME
Chlidonias hybrida
Chlidonias leucoptera
Chlidonias nigra
Gelochelidon nilotica
Sterna hirundo
Sterna albifrons
Hydroprogne caspia
Alcedo atthis
Bird List of Kyrgyzstan, Dr. E.I. Gavrilof, c.s., 1991/Personal information Dr. Valentina I.
Toropova, 1997.
6



