Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3063 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3063 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1998, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ICC” means the Borrower’s Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
“MOAWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources;
(c)
“Panel of Experts” means the review panel referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established within the 
Department of Water Resources of the MOAWR;
(e)
“Som” means the currency of the Borrower;
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
“Sub-project” means either a sub-project for the rehabilitation of 
sections of primary and secondary inter-farm canals and/or drainage channels or a 
sub-project for an irrigation dam, selected and carried out by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4, and Schedule 6, to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
26,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  3
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2008, and ending April 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2018 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the MOAWR, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering and  
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  
Page  4
the  goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;\0c
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
Page  5
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, shall have been appointed to assist the Borrower in 
carrying out Part B(ii) of the Project; 
(b) 
independent auditors, acceptable to the Association, shall have been 
appointed; and 
(c) 
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, shall 
have been established.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
245156 NUR KH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Page  6
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 70%
(a)
Irrigation dams
5,190,000
(b)
Inter-farm canals and
8,150,000
drainage channels  
(2)
Goods
5,040,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) 
and 80% of local  
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services and 
4,230,000
100%
Training
(4)
Maintenance Costs for Part C(i)
1,860,000
70% 
of the Project
(5)  
Unallocated
1,530,000
TOTAL
      26,000,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “maintenance costs for Part C (i) of the Project” means the 
costs for works relating to the maintenance of selected irrigation infrastructure, 
over and above the maintenance and operation budget for fiscal year 1997, including 
water charges, for the irrigation infrastructure.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  7
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
19,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1997; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Sub-project in respect of which 
disbursement is sought has been approved by the Association in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $1,000,000 equivalent each; (c) training; (d) maintenance costs for Part C (i) of 
the Project; and (e) services under contracts costing less than $75,000 equivalent 
each for consulting firms, and less than $40,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the productivity of irrigated 
agriculture in the Project area through improved water supply.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation Infrastructure
(i)
Rehabilitation and completion of irrigation dams, including the improvement of 
their monitoring systems.
(ii)
Rehabilitation of sections of primary and secondary inter-farm canals and 
drainage channels.
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Building
Improvement of the institutional capacity of the PIU, and other agencies of the 
Borrower, by means of:
(i)
the provision of goods and consultants’ services to the PIU to improve its 
Project management, review dam safety and auditing capacity; 
(ii)
the provision of goods, training and consultants’ services to the PIU to improve 
its Project design, bidding document preparation, procurement, and contract management 
capacity; and
(iii)
the provision of goods and consultants’ services to oblast’ and rayon offices of 
the MOAWR to improve their system operation, management and maintenance capacity.  
Part C:
Maintenance of Irrigation Infrastructure 
Provision of: (i) works for maintenance of selected irrigation infrastructure; 
and (ii) goods for emergency repairs of irrigation infrastructure. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  8
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $11,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment and costing $350,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  9
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B of this Schedule; (ii) the first contract awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the first contract 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.5 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
The first contract under Part B(ii) of the Project and services under Part 
B(iii) of the Project may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  10
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, in a 
manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, an ICC, composed 
by the First Deputy Minister of the MOAWR (as its Chair), the Deputy Minister of 
Finance, the First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, the Advisor to the 
Department of Agricultural Development of the Office of the Prime Minister, the Deputy 
Chief of the Donor Cooperation Unit of the Foreign Investment Agency of the State 
Commission of Foreign Investments and Economic Aid, and the PIU director (as its 
Secretary). The ICC shall be responsible for reviewing the progress of Project 
implementation and resolving any general issues related to inter-agency coordination 
Page  11
within the framework of the Project.
3.
The MOAWR shall be responsible for Project implementation and supervision. The 
PIU shall be responsible for day-to-day Project administration, management and 
coordination, including activities related to procurement, accounting, disbursement, 
auditing, reporting, as well as the identification, preparation, analysis, and 
selection of proposed Sub-projects, and the monitoring and evaluation of  
Sub-projects.  Throughout the implementation of the Project, the PIU shall be 
maintained with a sufficient number of qualified staff, consultants, adequate 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) select the Sub-projects in accordance with the 
procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in Parts A and B of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; and (b) carry out the Sub-projects in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
5.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a 
Panel of Experts, whose composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the 
Association and whose primary purposes shall be to: (i) review the proposed plans for 
rehabilitation and completion works of irrigation dams, including the improvement of 
their monitoring systems; (ii) inspect such works at least once during construction; 
and (iii) upon completion of such works, inspect the works at least once every five 
years.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30 of each year, before submitting to the Borrower’s 
Parliament its annual budget proposal for the Department of Water Resources of the 
MOAWR, provide to the Association, for its review, a draft annual budget proposal 
showing that proposed budgetary allocations to the Department of Water Resources, 
including the expected collections of water charges and other revenues, but excluding 
proposed expected expenses for investment projects, will amount to at least Som 
350,000,000 in fiscal year 1999, and at least Som 400,000,000 in fiscal year 2000; and 
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said draft annual budget proposal taking 
into consideration the Association’s comments thereon.   
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the 
Association, for its review, a work program for Sub-project preparation activities to 
be carried out during the following fiscal year; and
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said program taking into consideration 
the Association’s comments thereon.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1999, prepare and submit to the Association, 
for its review, a national irrigation rehabilitation action plan, including proposals 
for the development of irrigation institutions, for inter-farm and intra-farm 
rehabilitation, and for budgetary allocations to the Department of Water Resources for 
the years after fiscal year 2000; \0c
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said 
action plan taking into consideration the Association’s comments thereon; and
(c)
carry out said action plan in accordance with its terms.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  13
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria, and 
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Sub-projects
Part A:
Procedures
1.
The Borrower shall, through the PIU and prior to the selection of each 
Sub-project, submit the proposal for that Sub-project to the Association for its 
review and approval.  
2.
In submitting a proposal for a Sub-project to the Association for its review and 
approval, the PIU shall prepare and furnish to the Association:
(a)
If the Sub-project is for inter-farm canals and/or drainage channels: (i) 
a feasibility report satisfactory to the Association; (ii) an environmental assessment 
satisfactory to the Association; (iii) the conclusions of a State ecological expertise 
review satisfactory to the Association; (iv) a report on the process and results of 
the public consultation with the communities and other interested parties in the 
Sub-project satisfactory to the Association; and (v) such other information as the 
Association shall reasonably request. The feasibility report shall contain: (i) a 
description of the Sub-project, including the condition of the intra-farm 
infrastructure; (ii) design criteria and technical details of the Sub-project; (iii) 
cost estimates for the Sub-project; (iv) an economic analysis of the Sub-project; and 
(v) an assessment of the potential impact, if any, of the Sub-project on other 
riparian countries.  
(b)
If the Sub-project is for an irrigation dam: (i) a dam site examination 
Page  14
report satisfactory to the Association; (ii) a design report satisfactory to the 
Association; (iii) an environmental assessment satisfactory to the Association; (iv) 
the conclusions of a State ecological expertise review satisfactory to the 
Association; (v) a report on the process and results of the public consultation with 
the communities and other interested parties in the Sub-project satisfactory to the 
Association; (vi) the report of the Panel of Experts; and (vii) such other information 
as the Association shall reasonably request. The design report shall contain: (i) an 
examination of alternatives for the Sub-project; and (ii) engineering designs and cost 
estimates for the Sub-project. In addition, only for irrigation dams with major 
completion or rehabilitation works and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, the 
PIU shall prepare and furnish to the Association: (i) an assessment of the condition 
of the irrigation canal in
frastructure associated with the dam; and (ii) an economic analysis.
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria
1.
Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Association, including the criteria set forth below.
2.
In selecting a Sub-project for an inter-farm canal and/or drainage channel, the 
Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that:
(a)
the Sub-project shall seek to rehabilitate an existing irrigation 
infrastructure, with no irrigation of new areas or expansion of the existing 
irrigation infrastructure;  
(b)
depending on the assessment of the potential impact, if any, of the 
Sub-project on other riparian countries, the Sub-project shall be in conformity with 
policies and procedures acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the intra-farm infrastructure associated with the Sub-project shall be in 
a condition to convey water to the farms of that infrastructure; and
(d)
the Sub-project shall have an economic rate of return equal to or greater 
than fifteen percent (15%).
3.
In addition to the criteria listed in paragraph 2 of Part B above, the Borrower, 
through the PIU, shall ensure for each Sub-project that:
(a)
the Sub-project shall not drain or reclaim any significant area of 
natural wetland which has or is likely to have a significant impact on an important 
area of wildlife habitat or major fishery;
(b)
the Sub-project shall address the risk of encountering unknown 
archaeological or historical sites by adopting and following appropriate procedures, 
satisfactory to the Association, addressing such a risk; and
(c)
the Sub-project shall be in conformity with all local and national 
environmental standards and requirements, and its design and implementation shall 
provide for adequate mitigation measures to ensure full compliance with local and 
national health, environmental, and safety standards and requirements.
Part C:
Terms and Conditions
1.
Each Sub-project shall be carried out with due diligence and efficiency under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers, and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, engineering and environmental standards, including local and national 
environmental requirements.
2.
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall allow the representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, to inspect the sites, works, plants, 
goods and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents.
Page  15
