Report No. PID4671
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic - Irrigation (@)
Rehabilitation Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture (Irrigation and Drainage)
Project ID                       KGPE46042
Borrower                         Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           April 13, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        January 29, 1997
Appraisal Date                   November 18, 1997
Proposed Board Date              May 7, 1998
Background
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.      Agriculture is the lead sector of the Kyrgyz economy.    In 1996,
agriculture, including agri-business activities, accounted for 47 percent of
Gross Domestic product (GDP) and 49 percent of total employment. With
potential annual crop water deficits ranging from 360 mm to 1,450 mm under
rainfed conditions, irrigation is critical for crop production. Approximately
1.1 million ha have been developed for irrigation or over 80 percent of the
arable land in the country. Almost 730,000 ha of the irrigated area is cropped
land (mainly wheat, maize, cotton, vegetables and sugarbeets), the remainder
is range land. Irrigated agriculture contributes more than 60 percent of the
total agricultural output and about 20 percent of GDP.
2.      Most of the irrigation infrastructure, including 13 irrigation dams, was
constructed during the 1950-1980 period. The developments were in most cases
capital intensive and large-scale. The break-up of the Former Soviet Union
(FSU) in 1991 has resulted in: (i) the deterioration of the irrigation dams
and related safety problems; and (ii) reduced capacity of the primary and
secondary irrigation systems, due to siltation and deterioration of
infrastructure. The corresponding reduction in net irrigation water use on
the farms, estimated at about 10 percent, has contributed to yield decreases
in the same order of magnitude.
3.      Irrigation infrastructure within the boundaries of the former farms has
been affected by lack of maintenance as well. Many pumping stations have
slowed or stopped operations. In-field water application is inadequate due to
lack of equipment and farmer skills. The clogging of drainage systems is
leading to increased water logging and soil salinization.



Institutional Framework
4.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR) is responsible
for design, construction and O&M of the irrigation infrastructure up to the
boundaries of the former state and collective farms. Most of the research and
design work is carried out by specialized institutes, supervised by MOAWR.
There are six oblast (province) offices covering the whole country, each
supervising between five and ten rayon (district) offices. The rayon offices
have major responsibility for organizing the O&M activities. After 1991 the
MOAWR and the specialized institutes lost most of its experienced staff, while
operational budgets reduced considerably.
5.      Before Independence the construction and maintenance of the irrigation
infrastructure was carried out by state construction enterprises. Most of
these were (semi-) privatized after 1991. At present there is little demand
for their expertise due to lack of funds.
6.      Previously, the state and collective farms were responsible for the
design, construction, acquisition, maintenance and operation of all irrigation
facilities on their land, including tertiary and quaternary canals, land
leveling, sprinkler equipment, minor drains, pumps, etc. The present land
users have now been given the responsibility for O&M of the intra-farm and
on-farm irrigation infrastructure.
Issues for the Irrigation Sub-Sector
7.      In the short term, two major issues have to be addressed to rapidly
revitalize the irrigation sub-sector, namely: (i) the lack of capital
resources to finance the rehabilitation of the main irrigation facilities; and
(ii) the insufficient funding of O&M activities from budget appropriations and
proceeds of water charges.
8.      In the medium term, the irrigation sub-sector will face the challenges
of successfully operating in a market-driven economy and without Government
subsidies. Increasing the productivity of the farming activities will be a
critical objective. A prerequisite will be to obtain a higher level of
efficiency of the irrigation facilities to ensure timeliness, reliability and
flexibility of the water supplies. In this respect, three interrelated major
issues will have to be addressed to secure the future sector performance,
namely: (i) the lack of adequate tertiary facilities and flow control
throughout the entire canal system; (ii) the financial unsustainability of O&M
activities; and (iii) the excessive involvement of the Government in O&M
activities. In this respect, considerable investments and significant
institutional reforms will be required to: (i) upgrade the canal systems to
properly deliver water to a multitude of users making individual decisions;
(ii) down-size the irrigated areas by closing non-viable sections; (iii)
enhance farmer capability to invest in their own on-farm facilities through an
appropriate credit scheme; and (iv) give a greater role to organized water
users in system management.
Current Strategy and Programs
9.      The strategy in the agricultural sector has concentrated on: (i) land
reform; (ii) price deregulation and trade liberalization; (iii) restructuring
the rural credit system; and (iv) redefining the role of the State. Two Bank-
- 2-



supported, sector-oriented investment projects, namely the Rural Finance
Project (RFP) and the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP), are
expected to have a critical impact on the recovery of the irrigated
agriculture.
10.     As for the irrigation sub-sector, Government strategy has focused on
putting in place the legal instruments supporting three important reforms,
namely: (i) the imposition of water charges to the irrigator farmers to start
contributing to the cost of O&M; (ii) the creation of Water Users
Associations; and (iii) licensing of water rights and developing markets for
water. These reforms are still at a very modest level of implementation.
Government and the IDA have agreed that a National Irrigation Rehabilitation
Action Plan will be prepared not later than December 31, 1999. The main
objective of the Plan will be to develop an overall plan to ensure and promote
the technical, financial, economic, institutional and environmental
sustainability of the sub-sector. In addition, a regional water and
environmental management project for the Aral Sea Basin is being prepared for
funding by the Bank, GEF and other donors. This study would include the
preparation of comprehensive national water strategies, which are expected to
be available in 2002.
11.     Due to the shortage of capital investment resources, only technical
assistance projects are currently underway, with financing provided by ADB,
USAID, and EU. These projects aim to encourage the creation of water user
associations and train farmers on efficient irrigation methods. The proposed
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) would be the first capital investment
operation in the irrigation sub-sector since the country's Independence
Project Objective
12.     The development objective of the project is to increase the productivity
of irrigated agriculture in the project area through improved water supply.
Progress towards the development objective would be measured based on: (i) the
increase in agricultural output from areas benefiting from inter-farm
irrigation rehabilitation (expected is a 10 percent yield increase, 4 years
after completion of rehabilitation); and (ii) the increase in volumes of water
diverted and delivered to the boundary of former state and collective farms
upon completion of rehabilitation (on average 25 percent for all project
farms).
Project Components
13.     The project would constitute a six year program for irrigation
rehabilitation, with expected effectiveness in July 1998. It would have three
components: (a) Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure; (b) Capacity
Building; and (c) Financing Incremental O&M Costs.
(a)      Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure: The project would support
emergency repairs and selective low-cost rehabilitation of the inter-farm
irrigation infrastructure. More specifically, it would support: (i) the
rehabilitation and/or completion of up to 12 irrigation dams and improvements
in their monitoring systems, in order to restore their safety and capacity;
and (ii) the rehabilitation of sections of primary and secondary irrigation
canals and, possibly, restoring the functioning of several major collector
drains; this would return the canal networks to their original capacities and
-3 -



operational capabilities, and improve drainage. These works would include
items such as dam grouting, completion of spillways, installation of
piezometers, reconstruction of headworks, replacement of gates, repair or
replacement of canal lining, and cleaning of canals. (Base cost is estimated
at US$21.9 million.)
(b)      Capacity Building: The project would provide implementation support and
strengthen O&M activities of the DWR through: (i) the funding and equipping of
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the DWR and provision of technical
assistance to the PIU for the implementation of the project; (ii) provision to
all involved oblasts and rayons of computer and office equipment; software
(for irrigation scheduling, management information systems, cost accounting,
etc.) and maintenance equipment to handle emergency repairs for which
contracting operations would not be suitable; and (iii) training activities
and study tours. (Base cost is estimated at US$10.9 million.)
(c)      Financing Incremental O&M Costs: Investments in the rehabilitation of
selected irrigation infrastructure would not be worthwhile if the remaining
irrigation infrastructure deteriorates because of lack of routine maintenance.
In view of the government's shortage of budget resources, IDA would finance,
on a declining scale, a portion of these incremental recurrent costs. This
would be achieved through the financing of maintenance works, to be carried
out by contractors. (Base cost is estimated at US$2.9 million.)
Cost and Financing
14.     The total project cost is estimated at US$46.8 million. The IDA Credit is
planned to be equivalent to US$35 million. The Kyrgyz Government contribution
is expected to be the equivalent of US$11.8 million, inclusive of US$8.0
million for taxes. The categories of expenditure are: Works; Goods; Services;
and Recurrent Costs.
Implementation
15.     The MOAWR would have responsibility for project implementation. A PIU
would be established within the DWR for the daily management, administration
and coordination of the project. Direct responsibility for contract management
and construction supervision would rest with engineers, who would be employed
at oblast level and contracted by the PIU as consultants.
16.     A team of consultants would be recruited by the PIU to assist with
project implementation. International consultants have been employed for the
preparation of PY1 sub-projects and would continue to assist with project
implementation for the first two project years. The need for further
expatriate consulting services would be examined towards the end of PY2.
National consultants would continue for the duration of the project. The
consultants would be directly responsible for the preparation of feasibility
studies, Environmental Assessments (EAs), engineering designs and bidding
documents. They would further assist the PIU with general project planning,
administration and management; monitoring, contract management and
construction supervision; and carry out on-the-job training of DWR staff and
the national consultants. A team of experts of the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) would be recruited to train oblast and rayon staff in data
base management, O&M cost accounting, and irrigation scheduling, using
software specifically developed by the FAO for that purpose. An independent
- 4 -



panel of experts on dams would be recruited to review the work of the
consultants and undertake site inspections during construction.
Sustainability
17.     Adequate and regular maintenance of the rehabilitated irrigation
facilities is critical for the sustainability of project benefits, for which
sufficient O&M resources should be available. An annual budget of around Som
400 million is required for the sustained operation and maintenance of all
irrigation infrastructure under the control of the DWR. The approved budget
for 1998 was Som 218 million, including estimated revenues from water charges
collection. An assurance has been obtained from Government that it would
submit annual budget proposals for DWR to Parliament amounting to at least Som
350 million in 1999 and Som 400 million in 2000, including the expected
collections of water charges and other revenues, but excluding proposed
expenditures for investment projects. Proposals for budgetary allocations to
the DWR for the years after fiscal year 2000 would be prepared under the
National Irrigation Rehabilitation Action Plan.
18.     Proceeds from water charges, introduced in 1995, remain limited because
the water charge at Som 15 per 1,000 m3 is very low. Collection rate has been
increasing steadily from 20 percent in 1995 to around 80 percent in 1997. It
is expected that under the proposed On-Farm Irrigation Project (OFIP) water
charges would be raised substantially above current levels to further assure
sustainability of the country's inter-farm irrigation systems and dams.
Lessons learned from Past Operations
19.     The Bank Group's first two investment projects in the agricultural sector
are just getting underway, which means that there is little project
implementation experience in the sector in the Kyrgyz Republic. Experience
from other FSU countries and irrigation projects in other regions suggests
that: (i) project scope and design should be simple in view of the country's
limited implementation and coordination capacity; (ii) rigorous economic and
environmental criteria should be applied in project planning and design; (iii)
privatization of O&M activities should be encouraged; (iv) there should be
major emphasis on construction quality control; (v) revenues from water
charges should mainly be earmarked for O&M within the areas of collection; and
(vi) projects with low per ha investment costs have generally high economic
internal rate of return (EIRR).
Environmental Aspects
20.     The project has been ranked Category "B". A Sector Environmental
Assessment (SEA) has been carried out . The implementation of the project is
considered to have a number of positive environmental, while there could be
some potential negative impacts as well (see Annex 1 for details). Under
Kyrgyz legislation EAs have to be prepared for the sub-projects. Recommended
mitigation measures would become an integral part of sub-project design and
implementation.
Benefits and Risks
21.     The project would benefit up to 345,000 ha of irrigated land. It would
- 5 -



remove the major bottlenecks in the flow of water in main irrigation canal
systems, resulting in a better and more reliable water supply. The increased
water delivery would reduce the extent of under-irrigation and result in
expected crop yield increases of about 10 percent, to be achieved over a 4
year period after completion of rehabilitation. In addition, an estimated
17,000 ha within the project area, that is presently not cultivated because of
water shortages at farm level, would be returned to production.
22.     A start would be made at oblast and rayon level to improve inter-farm
water management and O&M. The latter would conserve government assets in the
irrigation sub-sector. Involvement in construction and subsequent maintenance
activities by national civil works contractors would significantly boost the
development of local construction firms. Construction work would generate
employment opportunities for about 2,000 skilled and unskilled workers and
some of these workers would be needed for subsequent maintenance activities as
well.
23.     The major risks faced by the project would be: (i) farmers unable or
unwilling to pay water charges in full; (ii) insufficient government budget
for O&M; (iii) insufficient budget allocation for project implementation; (iv)
unsatisfactory capability of local contractors to implement projects; and (v)
insufficient professional staff in employment of the DWR to implement the
project.
Contact Point:                   Willem A. van Tuijl
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 473 2740
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 10, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
1.      The implementation of the project is considered to have the following
positive environmental impacts: (i) reduction of water losses through improved
O&M; (ii) substantial improvement of dam safety; (iii) reduced risk of soil
salinization from improved drainage; (iv) the removal of obstacles for fish
migration, where feasible.
2.      Potential negative impacts of the project are: (i) increased agrochemical
pollution and surface water contamination, resulting from increased use of
pesticides and fertilizers, along with improved availability of irrigation
water; (ii) soil erosion associated with the maintenance of existing practices
of agricultural production; (iii) impacts on aquatic habitats, downstream
ecosystems and human uses of surface water resulting from the restoration of
the canal conveyance capacities to the pre-1991 level; and (iv) indiscriminate
dumping of excavated sediment deposits from the canals.
3.      The mitigation of items (i) and (ii) will be addressed under the ASSP and
the OFIP. Aspects under item (iii) will be examined under the National Water
Strategies to be prepared under the anticipated Aral Sea Basin's Water and
Environmental Management Project. Item (iv) will be addressed during the
preparation of Environmental Assessments, which are required for individual or
groups of similar sub-projects under the existing environmental legislation in
the Kyrgyz Republic. Recommended mitigation measures will become an integral
part of sub-project design and implementation.
Preparation of a second IDA project in the sub-sector, the On-Farm Irrigation
Project (OFIP), aiming at the rehabilitation of the intra-farm irrigation infrastructure,
started in October 1997. Implementation is expected to start in FY00.
The SEA has been available for public review in the Ministry of Environmental
Protection in Bishkek since September 25, 1997 and is, since October 14, 1997, also
available in the Bank's Public Information Center.
- 7 -



