CIRCULAtTING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE Copy                                     Document of
FILE COpy                        The World Bank
OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No, P-1842-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1976
Thb document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS -/
IS$1                Tk 13.0
Tk 1           -    US$0.077
Tk 1 million        US$77,000
GLOSSARY
aman      -    rice planted before the monsoon (June-October)
and harvested in November or December
aus       -    rice planted in March and harvested in June
or July
boro      -    winter rice planted in October or November and
harvested in March or April
thana     -    administrative unit below district
union     -    administrative unit below thana
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BADC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BJSB      -    Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank)
BKB       -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Bank (Bangladesh Krishi
Bank)
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety
IRDP      -    Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS       -    Village Cooperative Society (Krishak Samabaya Samiti)
0 & M     -    Operation and Maintenance
RWP       -    Rural Works Program
TAO       -    Thana Agricultural Officer
TCCA      -    Thana Central Cooperative Associations
TEO       -    Thana Extension-Officer
TIP       -    Thana Irrigation Program
TTDC      -    Thana Training and Development Center
UAA       -    Union Agricultural Assistant
UMPCS     -    Union Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society
UNDP     .-    United Nations Development Program
VEA       -    Village Extension Agent
ac        -    acres
mi        -    miles
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   The taka is officially valued at 28.10 to the pound sterling, having
been revalued on April 26, 1976 from its previous rate of Tk 30 to L 1.
The pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and, as a consequence,
the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used
in preparing the data for this report is Tk 13.0 to US$1, the rate
prevailing at the time of preparing the report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIO$i OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIIECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equiva-
lent of US$16 million on standard IDA tertis, to help finance a rural devel-
opment project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455b-BD dated September 15,
1974) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An
updating report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Performance and
Short-Term Prospects" (Report No. 1038-BD, dated March 22, 1976), was
distributed on March 29, 1976. Annex I contains country data sheets.
Background
3.        The Basic Economic Report describes the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlines a course of action to maximize the country's
limited development prospects. The high ratio of population to natural
resources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weakness of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and.3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variation within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by mas-
sive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastation of the cyclone
of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts of food
aid were distributed, refugees were resettled and vital port, road and
rail facilities were brought back into operation.  A new constitution was
adopted, and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought
Sheik Mujibur Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming
parliamentary majority.
5.        Overall economic progress since independence, however, has been
inadequate. Agricultural output remains insufficient for a population growing
at 3% a year. Industrial output, heavily dependent on imports, has been
badly affected by scarcity of foreign exchange. State enterprises have
been hampered by management deficiencies, excessive government controls,
shortages and price regulation. Exports hlave been stagnant and barely
1/   Part I is substantially the same as in the-President's Report and
Recommendation for the Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.
622-BD, Report No. P1768-BD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori2ation.



finance a quarter of import needs. Bangladesh has been severely affected by
an adverse shift in its terms of trade since 1973. Trade problems are
compounded by dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million tons, even
in years of favorable weather, and by heavy reliance on imported industrial
raw materials. Government revenue has been insufficient to meet current
and development expenditure needs. Bangladesh has had to depend on large
flows of external assistance to meet the wide gap between national output
and expenditure.
6.        On August 15, 1975 a military coup ousted the government of Mujibur
Rahman replacing him as President with Khondaker Mushtaque Ahmed, formerly
Minister of Commerce and Foreign Trade. However, events beginning on November
3, 1975 culminated in further political changes. President Ahmed resigned as
favor of a former Chief Justice of Bangladesh, A.S.M. Sayem. Martial law is
in effect countrywide, with the new President serving as Chief Martial Law
Administrator. The three chiefs of the defense services are serving as
Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The three Deputy Chief Martial Law
Administrators and seven civilians have been appointed to form a President's
Advisory Council and each of the members has a responsibility for one or more
ministries. The new government has confirmed that it intends to introduce
economic reforms such as subsidy reduction, agricultural taxation and import
liberalization. Whatever its longer-term objectives and orientation might
be, however, the fundamental problems of the country, namely over-population,
weak administration, inadequate infrastructure and insufficient reserves
continue to confront Bangladesh.
Current Economic Picture
7.        Given this background of fundamental weaknesses in economic struc-
ture, inadequate economic progress since independence and political instabil-
ity, Bangladesh's economic situation requires persistent efforts at efficient
economic planning and implementation. On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated
an economic stabilization program in conjunction with a standby arrangement
with the IMF. Its principal elements consisted of a credit restraint program
and elimination of deficit financing combined with some import liberalization.
This was preceded by a devaluation of 58% in May 1975. The record so far is
that the credit restraint program has been a success: after an estimated rate
of inflation of about 80% in 1974, prices declined by 10% in 1975. The Gov-
ernment has not merely avoided deficit financing, it has retired some of its
debts to the banking system. The import-licensing program has been relaxed
in the first half of 1975/76; besides increasing allocations to an average of
95% of entitlements, licenses have been renewed on expiry and there is greater
fungibility in the use of exchange allocations for selected categories of im-
ports.
8.        At the beginning of 1975/76 the credit restrictions may have been
too pervasive and insufficiently selective; jute purchases by trading
corporations were hampered, productive credit was scarce, and import
allocations could not be utilized. Measures have been taken to rectify



- 3 -
this situation. Overall, however, the impact of the credit restraint pro-
gram on the reduction of the rate of inflation has been salutary. It has
been reinforced by other factors:
(a)  The recent Aman rice harvest is expected to amount
to 7-7.5 million tons and output for 1975/76 may be
about 13 million tons, representing an increase of
about 17% over 1974/75. Rice harvests in West Bengal
have also been exceptionally good and prices have
been declining rapidly there.
(b) The border with India is being policed intensively and
smuggling has dwindled.
(c) The supply position for raw materials has improved
during 1975/76. Larger import allocations have been
boosted by substantial declines in the prices of key
imports.
(d) Capacity utilization and output have increased in a
number of industries and inventories of finished goods
are higher.
9.        The devaluation has made possible a reduction in the price of raw
jute exports from the unrealistic level of £ 200 per ton (late 1974 and early
1975) to f 150 per ton (from July 15, 1975), f.o.b. Chittagong, they now
stand at a level of f 166 per ton. This has led to an increase in sales of
raw jute.  However, export earnings from manufactured jute goods are likely to
fall in 1975/76 because the large decline in export prices has not been com-
pensated by an increase in export volume. The problem is especially acute for
jute manufactures because of the international economic recession, and because
of increased competition from India which has reduced tariffs for some products
and provided export subsidies for others. Bangladesh's non-traditional exports
have derived benefits from the devaluation and as a result, these exports may
be expected to pick up in the course of 1975/76. The total value of merchan-
dise exports is expected to be about US$350 million in 1975/76 compared to
about US$400 million in 1974/75. On the import side, improvements are notice-
able in the licensing program, but import procedures continue to be compli-
cated. In spite of recent measures to reduce the role of the Trading Cor-
poration of Bangladesh it continues to monopolize a substantial part of the
import business. It is estimated that about 1.6 million tons of food valued
at about US$358 million (including shipping) will be imported in 1975/76.
Sizeable imports of edible oil, cement, cotton, yarn, fertilizers and raw
materials are also indicated. The total value of merchandise imports is
expected to approximate US$1,286 million in 1975/76, but import payments are
likely to approach US$1,420 million due to retirement of outstanding letters
of credit from 1974/75.



- 4 -
10.       For the first time since independence, the availability of external
resources was not a binding constraint on the Bangladesh economy in 1975/76.
The year began with a relatively high level of foreign exchange reserves
(US$265 million).  Aid, bolstered by the agreement with the International
Monetary Fund, continued to be at a high level. Excluding IMF assistance
(US$106 million), the commitment of foreign aid in 1975/76 was about US$945
million, about two-thirds of which was in the form of food and commodities
aid. The level of aid disbursement in 1975/76 (including IMF assistance) is
expected to be about US$1,011 million. In 1976/77 it is estimated that approxi-
mately US$950 million of aid disbursements will be required.
11.       The agricultural sector has done quite well in 1975/76 with over-
all production increasing more than 10%; however problems remain. The
small-scale irrigation program (comprising low-lift pumps, shallow and deep
tubewells) has again fallen short of its target; procedures for the allocation
of fertilizer, though much improved, continue to be deficient, and credit is
insufficient and inadequately distributed. Because of the steep fall in the
free market price, Government procurement of rice has increased dramatically
- procurement in 1975/76 is expected to approximate 400-450 thousand tons -
although farmers are still hampered by the stringent moisture content require-
ments and the unfamiliar payment procedures. This has led to farmers selling
their paddy at prices below the procurement price. This helps alleviate the
Government's budget and storage problems but undermines the ability of the
Government procurement program to provide a floor price for rice. Storage
facilities for foodgrain have been strained and problems arising from expo-
sure of foodgrains to the elements are beginning to be of some significance.
The Government is considering phasing imports of foodgrains; in the meantime,
efforts are being made to rehabilitate approximately 200,000 tons of
derelict storage capacity.
12.       In the industrial sector capacity utilization has improved in a
number of industries, especially fertilizer, and the supply of raw material
and spares is more stable. But stocks remain unsold in the case of a
number of consumer products primarily due to inflexible pricing policies;
production of the wrong assortment (e.g. in textiles); competition from
imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme; and a reduction in consumer demand
(partly as a result of dissaving that occurred during the preceding three
years of inflation). With a few exceptions, public enterprises are still
generally deficient in management and labor productivity, and lack autonomy
in the matter of staffing and pricing policies.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
13.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August,
1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially on reacti-
vation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to
Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an
aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1 million for the



repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the corresponding previous
credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh. In addition, 14 new
credits have been made totalling US$431.7 million. Of these US$275.0 million
have been for program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricul-
tural development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunica-
tions and transport. In October 1975 Bangladesh applied for membership in
IFC. The Board of Governors have since passed a resolution approving this
application and Bangladesh is expected to become a member soon.
14.       The debt service ratio in 1974/75 was 15.9 percent.   For 1975/76,
the ratio is estimated at nearly 20 percent. Negotiations are underway
between the Government of Bangladesh and the various bilateral and multi-
lateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of a portion of the
debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh became independent. Bangladesh's
debt service ratio is therefore expected to increase further in the coming
years. With respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh has agreed to accept
liability for certain debt for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and
completed before independence. A consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million (based on the
January 1, 1960 exchange rate) were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank
Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is not expected to
rise significantly over the next few years.
15.       Bangladesh's severe balance of payments difficulties require that
increased amounts of aid be given in a flexible, fast disbursing fashion.
Program lending should therefore remain a feature of IDA assistance. For
the next several years the requirements of existing productive capacity
will remain high for the types of goods - spares, components and raw
materials - financed by IDA program credits. However, long-term improve-
ment in the Bangladesh economy can be expected only if sound policies, pro-
grams, and development projects are pursued. Thus, projects of the highest
priority must also be supported. Given its low per capita income, Bangladesh's
investment requirements cannot be met entirely from local resources. In
view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should
cover all foreign exchange costs. Taking into account the level of financing
expected to be available from other external lenders, and in order to direct
IDA lending to those sectors (such as agricultural and rural development)
where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financ-
ing of local currency expenditures is also justified.
16.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of March 31, 1976 and notes on the status of
execution of ongoing projects. After an initial slow start, disbursement
performance under the program credits has been good, keeping pace with the
estimates made during appraisal. In contrast, disbursements under project
credits have lagged far behind expectations. Reasons for this include
problems associated with release of local funds, clearance of contracts,
employment of consultants and appointment of needed staff. The Government
of Bangladesh is aware of what the bottlenecks are and recently has taken
steps aimed at eliminating the most pressing of them and speeding up the



implementation of projects, especially foreign aided projects. The release
of local funds for projects to semi-autonomous government agencies now
requires one application per year instead of the previous disruptive require-
ment of quarterly applications. The approval of the President is no longer
required for contracts and the ceiling for contracts which can be approved
directly by the project implementing agencies has been raised from Taka
700,000 to Taka 10 million. The requirements that the President approve
all consultant's contracts has been waived. The responsibility now devolves
upon the parent ministries of project agencies to approve the appointment
of consulting firms for projects with National Economic Committee approval,
or for project preparation activities. Finally, in the area of appointment
of staff recent changes require the Establishment Division and the Ministry
of Finance to issue specific instructions making the authorization of the
appointment of staff automatic in the case of approved projects.
17.       Long-term improvement in the Bangladesh economy can be expected
only if sound policies, programs and development projects are pursued. IDA
recognizes the prime importance of the agricultural sector and of efforts
to close Bangladesh's food gap. In this connection the Population, Ashuganj
Fertilizer, Barisal Irrigation and the Karnafuli Irrigation Projects as
well as the Agricultural and Rural Training Project which was recently
approved, all fit into the strategy of increasing food production and reducing
the food gap in the future. The proposed project also fits within this last
category of projects, and as such, it must be accorded a high priority. Other
priority projects are at an advanced stage of preparation - many of them in
the agricultural sector. These include irrigation works in the Muhuri area
and a shallow tubewell project. A development finance company project
(Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project) is also being considered by the Executive
Directors. While development of the rural sector must have top priority, the
growth of other sectors cannot be neglected. Particular emphasis should be
placed upon projects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector, or which
process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the strain on
Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Several sector studies supported by
IDA - for example in industry and transportation (also assisted by the United
Kingdom) - should help the Government and IDA to develop a suitable pipeline of
projects consonant with mutual assessments of economic priorities. Further
economic studies will be oriented to the same goal. Finally, IDA has provided
funds under the Technical Assistance Credits to assist the Government in im-
proving project preparation and implementation capabilities.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in Bangladesh
18.       Bangladesh is predominantly agricultural.   The agriculture sector
accounts for as much as 55% of GNP, 75% of all employment and over 80% of
all exports. It has, however, been unable either to feed adequately the



- 7 -
country's rapidly increasing population or to provide gainful employment
to its largely unskilled and illiterate labor force.
19.       Practically all 22.5 million ac of cultivable land are already
under cultivation. The total cropped area in 1973/74 was about 30.5 mil-
lion ac, giving a cropping intensity of some 136%. Of the cropped area,
rice accounts for 24.4 million ac; jute 2.0 million ac and other crops 4.1
million ac. Rice production in the 1960s increased at an annual average
rate of 2%, but lagged behind the population growth of close to 3% per year.
Food imports have caused a heavy strain on the foreign exchange resources
and have severely limited imports of other commodities.
20.       Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by risks of
floods, lack of irrigation facilities, erratic weather conditions (cold spells
in November-December can seriously reduce the aman yield) and deficient
transportation for moving farm inputs and produce.
21.       Almost as restrictive are the sociological and institutional con-
straints. Some 30% of the village dwellers are landless. Among farmers
who own land, about 50% own 2.5 ac or less. Even the larger farmers are
small by the standards of many developing countries, with over 80% of the
cropped area occupied by farmers owning less than 12.5 ac. However, farmers
in Bangladesh generally are hard working and receptive to proven improved
farming practices.
Rural Administration and Programs
22.       A number of Government ministries, institutions, departments and
autonomous agencies are responsible for providing supporting services to
rural areas. However, these institutions, mostly staffed by insufficiently
motivated and trained personnel at the local level, and often dominated by
larger farmers, have generally failed to fulfill these key functions.
Initially successful programs have deteriorated over the past decade. Im-
pressive early gains under the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP), which started
in the mid-1960's and aimed at forming pump and tubewell irrigation groups,
have not been sustained due to poor utilization of irrigation equipment.
The Rural Works Program (RWP), which constructed many rural roads and em-
bankments in the 1960s, has now lost its vitality due to poor project planning
and implementation constraints.
23.       Cooperatives.  The cooperative movement began in the early 1900's
in Bangladesh (then part of British India) In the 1960's, 4,000 Union
Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies (UMPCSs) were organized to extend credit
and provide other services. However, the structure was not able to reach
the majority of farmers and instead the UMPCSs were dominated by the larger,
more affluent farmers.
24.       Starting in the late 1950's, a new approach to cooperatives was
developed by the then Pakistan Academy for Rural Development. Using a
pilot project in the Comilla district, a new system was developed on the



theory that rural development must come from the grass roots up rather than
being imposed from the central administration downward. The rural people par-
ticipated through locally elected councils. Village Cooperative Societies
(KSSs) met once a week to discuss production plans, make savings deposits,
arrange their crop credit needs and, annually, to elect a manager, an
accountant and a model farmer. These KSSs were in turn federated into Thana
Central Cooperative Associations (TCCAs). The elected KSS representatives
went to the Thana Training and Development Center (TTDC) once a week for
supplies and services. This two-tiered approach was very successful and
the Comilla program received world-wide publicity. Based upon this expe-
rience, the thana became the focus of activities during the late 1960's and
it was planned to form a TTDC in each thana. All ministries and programs
dealing with rural areas were to be represented at the TTDC. In 1970, the
Government launched the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) under
the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives to
extend the Comilla type TCCA-KSS program throughout the country, as the
basic institutional framework for rural development. The IRDP had expanded
to 152 thanas by June of 1974. There was a freeze in the extension to new
thanas during 1974/75, but IRDP plans to expand to 250 thanas in the near
future.
25.       While the Comilla approach remains valid,excessively rapid expan-
sion, combined with the disruptive events of the 1970's, has caused serious
deterioration in this program. New teaching materials have not been developed,
the control of courses is erratic, and the courses are often repetitive.
The TTDC buildings are sometimes diverted to other uses. There are still
too many agencies and officials for farmers to deal with, and inter-agency
cooperation and coordination is often minimal. However, the IRDP strategy
still appears to be well adapted to Bangladesh circumstances. Furthermore,
its basic structure is already in existence, and it has a core staff which
is well-trained.
26.       Rural Credit.  Agricultural credit has been a major problem in
Bangladesh. It is estimated that 85-90% of all credit comes from non-insti-
tutional sources. Loan recovery rates for institutional credit (except for
the initial years of the Comilla experiment) have been well below fifty per-
cent in the past and most of the UMPCSs were overwhelmed by defaults and
arrears. Often the defaulters were the larger farmers who had the repay-
ment capacity, but who had enough political power to avoid being penalized.
For instance, the Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (BJSB) had 68% of its loans
in arrears in 1974. In addition to problems of arrears, the agricultural
credit institutions, the BJSB and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Bank (BKB), lack sufficient trained manpower.
27.       Because of the deficiencies in the BJSB and the BKB, the IRDP
has recently shifted its credit operations to the Sonali Bank, the largest
nationalized commercial bank in the country. Loan recoveries under the
Sonali Bank have been much better, but it has limited resources. Adequate
credit for rural development will require rehabilitation of the entire cre-
dit structure. To this end, the Association undertook a review of credit
institutions, the findings of which were recently reviewed with the Govern-
ment.



- 9 -
28.       Irrigation.  The development of water resources in Bangladesh has
presented many difficulties involving irrigation, flood control, drainage,
and protection from both saline intrusion and saline inundation. The need
to maintain a minimum flow in the rivers during the dry season (both in
order to prevent saline intrusion and harmful effects on navigation and
fisheries), constrains the potential for surface water irrigation. The flat
terrain precludes the development of large storage reservoirs for either
controlling the impact of the floods or releasing water for irrigation in
the dry season. Partially for this reason, irrigation has been slow to
develop in Bangladesh.
29.       Farmers in Bangladesh have for centuries used bucket-lift irriga-
tion methods for cultivating their land near the numerous rivers, man-made
channels, and low-lying water bodies. Early in the 1960's small pumps (low-
lift, diesel driven pumps of one or two cubic feet per second capacity) were
introduced, and this was the key factor in expanding dry-season irrigation
from 1 million acres in 1960 to over 2.5 million acres in 1974. However,
the Government estimates that another 5-10,000 low-lift pumps will exhaust
the resources for this form of irrigation. Many areas in Bangladesh have
the potential for irrigation by tubewells - both shallow and deep. This
potential is only now beginning to be exploited. Since independence)Bangladesh
has followed a strategy of placing more emphasis on this kind of quicker-
yielding investment, rather than on longer-gestation, more capital-intensive
projects, and it is expected that the next 5-10 years should see a major
expansion in tubewell programs. IDA has supported this policy and the
existing tubewells project will, it is hoped, be followed by more projects,
including a shallow tubewells project recently appraised.
30.       Extension. Farmer Training and Agricultural Education.   The
Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, the basic vehicle for providing technical advice to farmers,
operates at the Division, District, Subdivision, Thana and Union levels. It
employs about 4,200 Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) as field extension
workers, who are supervised by 413 Thana Agriculture Officers (TAOs). A
separate cadre of specialized jute extension assistants (JEA) has been de-
veloped since 1971. The IRDP provides training at TTDCs, focusing on the
training of leaders (model farmers and village cooperative managers) who
are expected in turn to train other members of the cooperatives. Other
agencies, such as the Ministry of Forestry, Fishery and Livestock, the Water
Development Board and the Sugar Mills Corporation also employ extension staffs.
31.       The extension service has a broad infrastructure but its programs
tend to be obsolete and diffuse, seldom focusing on specific attainable
objectives. The technical advice given by extension workers is often be-
hind practical research findings. The staff is poorly trained and handicapped
by a lack of transportation facilities, housing and training materials. Ex-
tension workers are often used by other agencies for administrative work,
such as the census, and statistical reporting. In particular, food procure-
ment responsibilities have been extremely detrimental to creating a climate
of confidence between farmers and extension agents.



- 10 -
32.       Improvements in extension materials, organization and staff train-
ing are required. Realizing the present serious understaffing of field
level extension officers, the Ministry of Agriculture has begun a sustained
program for training and employing increasing numbers of officers at the
thana and union levels. The plan is to create two new levels of officers:
Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) and Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) who
will eventually replaces the TAOs and UAAs respectively. The TEO would be
better qualified than the existing TAO. The TEO would supervise the VEAs
who, in turn, would each supervise several villages. During the transition
period, it is expected that the TAO would assist the TEO in his work and
that the VEAs would serve in priority rice growing areas, while the UAAs
would reassigned to other areas.
33.       Assistance from Japan and UNDP is helping Bangladesh improve its
facilities and programs for extension staff. Furthermore, the Association
has recently signed a credit for an Agricultural and Rural Training Project
(Credit No. 621-BD) which will finance the construction of new or expanded
training institutes, together with technical assistance and fellowships.
Under the proposed credit, key measures will be taken to improve the quality
and effectiveness of the extension training organization.
34.       In particular, the Government has established an interministerial
National Committee on Rural Training under the Planning Commission to inte-
grate rural training policies with a view to adopting a more rational
division of responsibility among existing training institutions, which
should result, inter alia, in greater coordination between extension and
TTDC activities. The objective is to prepare a comprehensive and integrated
long-term plan to strengthen the rural training system, improve its effect-
iveness and enhance its contributions to rural development.
35.       Supply of Inputs.  The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
(BADC) of the Ministry of Agriculture is in charge of the supply of key agri-
cultural inputs. It imports, produces and distributes rice seed in Bangladesh.
BADC has recently started a new seed production program with IDA Credit No.
410-BD (Cereal Seeds Project) to produce about 10,000 tons of certified rice
seed annually. Under this program, BADC will distribute certified seed
through TCCAs as well as approved private dealers. BADC is also responsible
for procurement and distribution of fertilizer. Distribution is made through
TCCAs and approved private dealers located in market places. Pesticide
materials and application equipment are ilaported by BADC and handed over to
the Plant Protection Division of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension.
This Division is responsible for ground operation, which involves training
of farmers, storage and cash distribution of pesticide materials, and storage,
maintenance and use of application equipment.
ProJect Formulation
36.       The proposed project was formulated to tackle the following major
constraints to rural development:
(a) Poor information on which to base equitable distribution
of inputs and credit.



- 11 -
(b) Lack of clearly defined working procedures for implement-
ing the various programs.
(c) Frequent side stepping of approved procedures at District
and thana levels because of political pressures.
(d) Ineffective supporting services due to insufficiently
motivated, trained, organized and equipped field staff.
37.       These constraints have hindered agricultural growth and led to
channeling of the bulk of development resources to the more prosperous
farmers. These farmers constitute the majority of the membership
of the Cooperative Management Committees, Ward Committees and Union
Councils. They have been in a unique position to submit requests for
inputs and credit in the name of the cooperative, a village, a ward or
a union and to exert pressure on different levels of government officials
to direct such supplies in their favor. The proposed project would help
disseminate inputs and services on a more equitable basis. Project funds
and equipment would be provided to reactivate rural works and minor irri-
gation programs, and to enable all thana union officers to bring techni-
cal services to the villages. Inter-agency coordination would be im-
proved by clearly defining work procedures of all project components and
responsibilities of all thana officers,l and by channeling most of the
project works through the TCCA-KSS cooperative system. The joining of
TCCA-KSSs by small farmers would be made attractive, equitable distribu-
tion of production inputs and rural credit would be fostered and coopera-
tive discipline enforced.
38.       The project covers seven thanas in the Bogra and Mymensingh
Districts, out of the 413 thanas in Bangladesh. Its main objective is
to serve as a model for revitalizing the rural development program. It
is designed so as to be easily replicable in other parts of the country
and, if the initial results of the program are favorable, it is expected
to lead to many similar projects in the near future.
39.       The Government and IDA also are cooperating in other efforts to
attack the constraints referred to above in paragraph 36. As already noted,
the Agricultural and Rural Training Project will build up the extension
system. A complementary Minimum Package Project is being developed with
assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program to help disseminate new
technologies through the revamped input distribution system. The credit
review mentioned above has led to technical assistance proposals for
strengthening the credit system which will eventually lead to preparation of
credit projects suitable for external assistance.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project has been prepared by an Interdepartmental Gov-
ernment Unit for Rural Development (IGU/RD) of the Bangladesh Government,
with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. In 1974, the IGU/RD
carried out project area surveys which were financed under the Technical
Assistance Credit (Credit No 409-BD, 1973). An IDA appraisal mission visited
Bangladesh in November - December, 1974 and a post-appraisal mission was there
in February-March, 1975. Negotiations for the proposed Credit took place in
Washington in February 1976. The Government of Bangladesh was represented
by a team led by Mr. A.K.M. Ahsan, Member, Planning Commission, Ministry of
Planning. Attached as Annex III is a Credit and Project Summary.
Description of the Project
41.       The proposed project consists of a rural works program (rural
roads, drains, rural markets, and fish ponds), minor irrigation (low-lift
pumps, shallow tubewells, and hand pumps), and thana facilities (offices
and living quarters for thana officers, and cooperative godowns). It
would also strengthen rural institutions and services (Comilla type coop-
eratives, as well as extension, animal health services and fisheries, and
credit facilities). The project would contribute to achieving substantial
increases in agricultural production and income. The project would benefit
from the Agricultural and Rural Training Project (Credit No. 621-BD) in the
seven thanas.
42.       Rural Works.   The project would rehabilitate six mi of paved roads
and construct 9 mi of new roads to connect two thanas to their District
headquarters; improve 300 mi of earth dirt roads; rehabilitate 500 ac of
abandoned fish ponds; construct 40 paved and roofed rural markets; and im-
prove 60 mi of drainage channels. These works would generate about four
million man-days of employment, primarily for landless people, over a five-
year period.
43.       Minor Irrigation.   The project would replace about 805 existing
oversized two cusec low-lift pumps with about 1,400 one cusec pumps over
three years; provide about 2,500 new 1/2 cusec shallow tubewells and about
5,000 hand pumps. Low-lift pumps and shallow tubewell equipment would be
distributed by BADC to TCCA-KSS members. These powered pumps and wells are
expected to increase the irrigated rice area from 39,000 ac at present to
about 97,000 ac. BADC and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Bank (BKB)
have recently initiated programs to sell on credit shallow tubewells to farmers
or cooperative groups. Since one of the aims of this project is to strengthen
the TCCA-KSS system, it is preferable not to have in the project area a
credit arrangement for shallow tubewells that would compete with the TCCA/
Sonali Bank system supported under the project. Thus, assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that BADC and BKB would not sell on credit any
shallow tubewells in the seven project thanas during project implementation
(Section 3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement - DCA). This approach
should also enable BADC to concentrate on technical services, since, otherwise,
the new BADC program would place an additional burden on the already heavy
workload of BADC's field staff.



- 13 -
44.       Thana Facilities.   The project would complete the construction of
four TTDCs and four houses for the Thana Circle Officers (Development), con-
struct 11 residential buildings for field officers, and build four new 3,200
sq ft fertilizer warehouses and seven new 2,000 sq ft general stores at the
TCCA headquarters.
45.       Rural Credit.  The project would provide about Tk 42 million of
short-term credit and would finance equipment worth about Tk 70 million (net
of price contingencies), through medium-term credit, over a five-year period.
The credit would be channeled to the TCCA-KSS members through the Sonali Bank.
The short-term credit would be for financing the cost of inputs (mainly
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) used in crop production. Medium-term credit
would finance the purchase of shallow tubewells, hand pumps, and simple
processing equipment such as paddy driers and rice husking machines. Short-
term loans would be made for a period of six months for all crops (except
sugarcane which would require 14 months). Interest rate charges for short-
term loans at the farmers' level would be 17.5%, of which 3.25% would be kept
by the Bangladesh Bank for contribution to a Guarantee Fund for bad debts and
another 2.5% would be retained by the KSS, also as a provision for bad debts.
Users of medium-term loans would put up 10% of the total cost as downpayment
and repay the rest in up to five annual installments. Interest rate charges
of medium-term credit at the farmers' level would be 13% per annum, of which
1.5% would be kept by the Bangladesh Bank' for contribution to the Guarantee
Fund and 2% retained by the KSS, as a provision for bad debts.
46.       To help ensure credit discipline, it would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that the Government furnish to the Association guidelines
satisfactory to IDA for the repayment of outstanding institutional debts
including, where appropriate, the rescheduling of the debt to be repaid
(Section 5.01(c) of DCA). TCCA-KSS members, in order to obtain funds from
the proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit, and farmers, in order to be eligible
to join TCCA-KSSs, would have to make arrangements for repaying or reschedul-
ing their debts in a manner consistent with these guidelines (Sections 4.05(a)
(iv) and (v) of DCA). Since the TIP-KSS pump groups are to be reorganized
into TCCA-KSS pump groups, TIP-KSS members would thus sign an agreement for
repaying or rescheduling their debts in accordance with the guidelines in
the first year, before their acceptance to the TCCA-KSS membership. Those
who fail to comply would forfeit their right to belong to any pump group.
The UMPCS members would be similarly processed when they want to transfer
their membership to TCCA-YSSs. Farmers not belonging to any cooperative and
without outstanding cooperative debts would be recruited by TCCA-KSS outright.
Loan processing, supervision and bookkeeping procedures of TCCA-KSS would
be improved to minimize willful defaulting. Also, an inventory of outstanding
institutional debts by farmers in the project area would be made under the
joint supervision of the Registrar of Cooperatives and the Director-General
of IRDP (Section 4.05(a)(i) of DCA).



- 14 -
47.       Rural Institutions and Services.  The proposed project would
strengthen rural institutions and services by providing office, field, and
laboratory equipment and vehicles for field officers; improving working pro-
cedures; and conducting short on-the-job training of departmental officers at
the District, thana and union levels, and of managers, accountants, model
farmers and inspectors at the TCCA-KSS level. The expected improvements for
the various activities are summarized below:
(a) TCCA-KSS. The main purpose would be to strengthen
TCCA-KSS operation and to promote and strengthen
equitable input and credit distribution. This would
be achieved by: revising the membership registration
to include assets (land and draft animals) and lia-
bilities (outstanding debts of members); improving
the screening of applications for inputs and rural
credit; following better financial and accounting
procedures; preparing land capability registers for
members; and coordinating the expansion of membership
throughout the area. Low-lift pumps, shallow tube-
wells, hand pumps, processing machines, and fish ponds
provided under the project would be exclusively for
TCCA-KSS members. The TCCA-KSS would receive sched-
uled visits by extension livestock and fishery officers
who would carry out the mass vaccination, and deworming
of draft animals and poultry.
(b) Agricultural Extension. The main task would be to make
the training of the TCCA-KSS model farmer more effec-
tive. The training would emphasize field practice
instead of classroom teaching. Extension officers
would visit TCCA-KSS villages on scheduled dates. A
Thana Extension Officer (TEO) would be assi ned to each
project thana and at least 180 Village Extelsion Assis-
tants (VEAs) would be assigned to the 90 project unions.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that
VEAs would be employed full-time on agricultural exten-
sion work (section 4.06 of DCA). The objectives for
the next ten years would be to improve basic cultural
practices, and extend HYV on 75% of land identified as
suitable for rainfed HYV aman and 50% for HYV aus. Spe-
cial attention would also be paid to increase production
of jute and vegetables.
(c) Livestock Improvement. The main purpose would be to
reduce the prevailing high mortality and disability by
controlling major diseases and parasites. Also, demonstra-
tions of improved forage and fodder crops would be carried
out.



- 15 -
(d) Pond Fisheries. The primary objectives would be to bring
derelict ponds into production and to provide an addi-
tional source of income for landless people in the vil-
lages. Some 500 ac of publicly-owned fish ponds would
be selected by the Thana Fishery Officers and reclaimed
by the Rural Works Program (RWP). Landless people would
be organized into TCCA Fishery Cooperatives, to manage the
reclaimed ponds. Thana Fishery Officers would operate
demonstration ponds, advise these Cooperatives on pond
management and supply fish fries.
(e) Training. The in-service training program, essential
for strengthening rural institutions and services, would
be an extension of the IDA Agricultural and Rural Train-
ing Project (Credit No. 621-BD) in the villages and would
emphasize improved working procedures and content of the
regular weekly training sessions for the TCCA/KSS staff.
The trainees would include the District and thana IRDP,
extension, livestock and fishery officers, and Union
Agricultural Assistants. These officers, in turn, would
train the TCCA-KSS managers, accountants, inspectors and
model farmers. New officers joining the project would
also be trained. Training costs are included under dif-
ferent project cost categories.
48.       Technical Assistance.  The project would employ consultants for
assisting the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
in implementing the rural works and thana facilities programs, as well as
short-term consultants for providing training to TCCA/KSS staff on rural
credit operations and subsequent supervision. As need arises, for other
project components, the Government would arrange for experts working on
international and bilateral projects in Bangladesh to provide advice to
this project (Sections 3.02 (a) and (b) of DCA). The Central Project
Executive Committee (paragraph 58) would collate requests of participating
agencies for such technical assistance. Special training programs (both
in Bangladesh and abroad) would be arranged during project implementation
for key Government officers involved in project implementation.
49.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Project implementation would involve
a large number of agencies, and would require adherence to strict schedules
and working procedures (paragraph 60). Close supervision and monitoring
would be of crucial importance for coordinating the efforts of various
agencies and for spotting problem areas at an early date. The monitoring
system for the project would be built into the regular progress reports by
the thana and District officers of the various agencies. Project Executive
Committees (paragraph 58) at the various levels would compile and review the
reports and recommend appropriate actions.
50.       Due to the importance of this project to rural development in
Bangladesh, the impact of the various project components would need in-
depth evaluation. Particular emphasis would be placed on assessing the



- 16 -
impact of the project on small farmers and on landless rural people. Evaluation
would be conducted twice -- at the mid-point and at the end of project imple-
mentation. Socio-economic data from the 1974 survey by IGU/RD, supplemented
as necessary, would be the benchmark. The evaluation would be conducted
by an independent agency acceptable to IDA. The Government has agreed to
submit to IDA for concurrence, within six months of credit effectiveness, a
detailed plan for project evaluation (Section 4.04 of DCA).
Project Cost
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$24.7 million equivalent,
including US$1.6 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is estimated at US$7.7 million or 31% of the total. The project costs
include about US$1.0 million for physical contingencies (unforeseen expend-
itures) and about US$7.2 million for price contingencies (expected future
inflation).
Project Financing
52.       The proposed IDA credit of US$16 million would finance about 69%
of the total project costs (net of taxes and duties), representing the full
foreign exchange cost and about 50% of local currency costs. Funds equivalent
to US$1.6 million would come from the Sonali Bank which, in addition to its
present portfolio, would provide half of the incremental short-term credit
needs of the project area farmers.    Users of medium-term credit would put
up US$0.8 million as down payment and would provide another US$2.3 million
as installment payments during the project implementation period. The
Government would finance the remaining project costs of US$4.0 million (in-
cluding US$1.6 million in taxes and duties). To ensure prompt availability
of funds for local expenditures, the Government has agreed to establish two
revolving funds -- a Rural Credit Fund for the rural credit component and
a Project Fund for all other components -- and to replenish these funds at
the beginning of each month to maintain balances adequate to cover the
estimated requirements for the following three months (Section 3.07 of DCA).
Procurement
53.       Except for common items such as vehicles and office equipment,
each agency would be responsible for its own procurement under the project
and would submit all documents to the Central Project Executive Committee.
The Committee would be responsible for procuring common items, and for
maintaining records of all equipment and services procured under the proj-
ect. Equipment and supplies, estimated to cost about US$4.4 million (net
of contingencies), would be procured after international competitive bidding,
in accordance with IDA Guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, domestic
manufacturers will be given a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate
of import duties, whichever is lower. Vehicles (estimated to cost US$0.2
million) would be procured through local competitive bidding under Government
procedures satisfactory to IDA, since the number of vehicles involved is



- 17 -
small and, therefore, it would be difficult to attract foreign bidders for
these contracts. Procurement of off-the-shelf imported items costing less
than US$10,000 each would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures. Such purchases would, however, be limited to US$200,000 in
total. Goods financed with short-term credit would be procured through
commercial channels.
54.       Because most of the civil works, amounting to US$4.7 million (net
of contingencies), would be individually very small, labor intensive, scat-
tered over a wide area, restricted to seasonal construction, and could not
be grouped into large contracts, they are unsuitable for international, and
in some cases for local, competitive bidding. With the exception of the
earth works part of the rural works and thana facilities programs, civil
works would be carried out on the basis of local competitive bidding under
Government procedures satisfactory to IDA. The earth works for the rural
works and thana facilities programs would be carried out on a force account
basis as is the usual practice of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives.
Disbursements
55.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would be made as follows:
(a) civil works - 70% of expenditures; (b) vehicles, equipment and materials -
100% of foreign expenditures if directly imported or 100% of local expend-
itures (ex-factory) if manufactured locally or 70% of local expendituies if
locally procured; (c) short-term rural credit - 50% of net incremental loan
disbursements; 1/ and (d) consulting services, technical assistance and pro-
ject evaluation - 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures.
The Central Project Executive Committee (paragraph 58) would be responsible
for collating, preparing and sending applications for reimbursement to IDA.
Each fiscal year, the projects account would be audited by auditors acceptable
to IDA. In particular, the audit of the rural credit component would continue
until all loans provided during the implementation of the project are repaid
(in principle, five years after disbursements are complete).
Project Organization and Implementation
56.       Agency Responsibilities.   The Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives, has four agencies participating in the project:
(a) Integrated Rural Development Program - IRDP would
be responsible for organizing and supervising the
operation and management of TCCA-KSSs. IRDP offi-
cers serve as secretaries of the Project Executive
Committees (paragraph 58).
1/   Increase in lending at any time over that of the highest Aman lending
volume previously. For year one, it would be the increment over the
1975 Aman loans made by Sonali Bank in the project area.



- 18 -
(b) Rural Works Program - A Joint Secretary of the
Ministry, with an engineering staff, is in charge
of the RWP. The RWP District Engineers would pre-
pare designs and estimates, issue tenders, select
bids and supervise the construction of roads as
well as make payments to contractors.
(c) Department of Cooperatives - The Department of
Cooperatives would be responsible for making
inventory of outstanding debts by members of
traditional cooperatives, rescheduling and
causing such debts to be collected and for
cooperating with IRDP in re-organizing the
existing non-TCCA low-lift pump and shallow
tubewell groups into TCCA-KSSs. It would also
register all new cooperatives, including TCCA-KSSs.
(d) Local Government Department - Supervised by the Local
Government Department, the Deputy Commissioners of
the two Districts, and the Circle Officers (Development)
would serve as Chairmen of the District and Thana Proj-
ect Executive Committees respectively (paragraph 58).
The Thana Circle Officer (Development) would be respon-
sible for the construction and rehabilitation of earth
dirt roads and rural markets, fish ponds, and drains.
The Ministry of Agriculture has two agencies participating in the project:
(a) BADC - BADC would be in charge of procurement and
distribution of low-lift pumps and sha,llow tubewell
equipment. The BADC Thana Irrigation Officers
would be responsible for selecting sites, installing
the equipment, supplying oil and fuel, and training,
operators. The BADC thana workshops would be respon-
sible for maintenance of pumps and equipment. Fertil-
izer for TCCA-KSSs would also be allocated and distributed
through BADC.
(b) Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
The Directorate would be responsible for revitalizing
the model farmer training and extension programs.
The Ministry of Forestry, Fishery and Livestock has two agencies partici-
pating in the project:
(a) Livestock Department - The Livestock Department would
supply the vaccines, serum and veterinarians, and
implement vaccination and forage/fodder demonstration
programs.
(b) Fishery Department - The Fishery Department would
implement the fish pond component of the project.



- 19 -
The Sonali Bank would be responsible for extending both the short-term and
medium-term credit to TCCA-KSS members.
57.       Coordination.  As the previous paragraph shows, a large number of
agencies, at all levels of administration (from Central level down to village
level), would participate in the implementation of this project. Thus,
ensuring proper interagency coordination is of critical importance for the
success of this project. To this end, a number of coordinating committees
have already been established.
58.       Project Executive Committees.   There are seven Thana Project
Executive Committees, two District Projec; Executive Committees and a
Central Project Executive Committee. These committees are in charge of
day-to-day project follow-up and execution. Thana Circle Officers (Devel-
opment) serve as the Thana committee chairmen, and District Deputy Commis-
sioners chairmen of the District committees. The Director-General of
IRDP will be the chairman of the Central Project Executive Committee (Section
3.03(b) of DCA). IRDP officers serve as executive secretaries of the committees
at all three levels. All participating agencies are, represented on the three
levels of committees, thus maintaining their respective chains of command. In
particular, the Central Project Executive Committee would be responsible for
overall project execution, and for reporting progress to IDA. The Committee
would review the annual work programs of the various participating agencies.
It would also manage the two revolving funds to be established for the proj-
ect. The IRDP Director for Extension and Training serves as the secretary
of the committee.
59.       Central Project Coordination Committee.   A more senior committee,
the Central Project Coordination Committee, would be established under the
co-chairmanship of the Secretaries of Agr.Lculture and of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives (Section 3.03(a) of DCA). Its members
include: Chief of Rural Institutions Division, Planning Commission; Joint
Secretary Ministry of Forestry, Fishery and Livestock; Chairman of BADC;
Director, Agricultural Credit Department of Bangladesh Bank, and Director-
General of IRDP, who would also serve as the secretary. The Committee would
settle policy issues. The Committee would see to it that Government project
funds will be allocated to the implementing agencies according to the project
budget, that major coordination problems are resolved and it would correspond
with IDA on policy matters related to the project.
60.       Implementation Procedures.   The project would focus on providing a
replicable pattern of interagency coordination at the field level, not only
by delineating the areas of responsibility for the various participating
agencies, but also by establishing clear work procedures. The Central Proj-
ect Coordination Committee would approve detailed work procedures submitted
by the Central Project Executive Committee. Approved procedures would be
issued as official orders by the ministries concerned (Section 3.03(c) of
DCA). Issuance of the relevant orders is a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(b) of DCA). The Government has agreed to implement the various
project components in accordance with procedures and timetables acceptable



- 20 -
to IDA (which would include, inter alia, the provision of necessary additional
staff) (Section 3.08 of DCA).
61.       Operation and Maintenance.  The estimated operation and main-
tenance (O & M) expenditures, during the five-year implementation period,
for equipment and vehicles for the various participating agencies have been
included in the project cost estimates. Once the implementation of the
project is completed, the Government would provide adequate funds for 0 & M
costs through its regular budgetary appropriations to the concerned agencies.
The 0 & M costs of low-lift pumps, shallo-w tubewells, processing machines,
fish ponds, and rural markets would be borne by the users. The maintenance
cost of thana facilities, roads, and drains would be borne by the Government.
It is expected that the TCCA-KSSs will be financially self-sufficient by the
third year of project implementation.
62.       The BADC-owned low-lift pumps would be rented to user groups.   In
addition, the pump group would pay for diesel oil, spares and the pump driver.
These charges would cover only about 50% of the overall cost of pump irrigation.
They would represent a substantial improvement, however, since in the past,
BADC used to pay for the spares and the driver as well.
63.       Currently, vaccination of animals and poultry is provided free
of cost. This policy reflects in part the ineffectiveness of the current
programs. To promote a rapid acceptance of the mass vaccination and deworm-
ing programs proposed under the project, the existing policy would have to
be followed until the project has produced a visible impact at the village
level. It has been agreed that within three years of credit effectiveness,
the Government would review the situation and propose a fee collection plan
from the users to recover at least the 0 & M cost of the equipment and
vehicles in use for the livestock disease control program, as established
under the project (Section 4.03(b) of DCA).
64.       The Government has agreed to present to IDA for its concurrence,
within one year of credit effectiveness, proposals for the management of
rural markets to be constructed under the project with a schedule of fees
to be collected from the users of these rural markets (Section 4.03(a) of
DCA).
Implementation Schedule
65.       Project implementation would take five years.   All operational
equipment would be procured in the first year. The construction of project
buildings would be completed in two years; the construction of paved roads
and replacement of low-lift pumps in three years. Other project works would
be spread over five years in line with the growth of TCCA-KSSs.



- 21 -
Environmental Impact
66.       The project would enhance the environment by improving land drain-
age, rehabilitating stagnant fish ponds, and providing water supply to rural
markets and road access for rural health services. The extension service
would teach farmers the safe use of pesticides.
Benefits and Justification
67.       There would be substantial foreign exchange savings (about US$15.0
million per year) through increased rice production (75,000 tons of rice).
The project would also help increase the draft animal power supply and pro-
duction of fish (which forms 80% of the protein supply in the Bengali diet).
The cultivators in the project area would benefit from increased farm in-
comes. One of the most important (and possibly most difficult to attain)
aims of the project would be to ensure that the larger farmers would not mono-
polize the rural institutions supported under the project. Through better
operation of the rural institutions, more efficient and equitable distribution
of inputs, better and more frequent contact between field workers and farmers,
and more credit discipline, small farmers would be expected to become more
active in, and benefit more from, rural institutions. The landless laborers
and the underemployed marginal farmers would benefit from increased employment
opportunities, from intensified agricultural and fishery activities, rural
works programs, and secondary services such as transportation, marketing and
processing. The rural population in the area would also benefit from improve-
ments in social infrastructure such as village markets and roads. Perhaps
even more important is the role of this project as a prototype for strengthen-
ing and revitalizing the country's rural institutions which are vital to
improving the conditions of the rural people.
68.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated to be over 40%.
The rather high returns estimated for this project are due to the fact that,
in contrast to the conventional capital intensive projects, the primary
emphasis in this project is to achieve increased production by promoting
practical and better technology (such as rainfed HYV cultivation) through
marginal (capital) investments and institutional improvement. It should be
noted though, that the preparation and implementation of projects such as
this require mobilization of all field level officers to perform their
duties effectively and in a coordinated and disciplined manner. Although
the project harbors chances of spectacular success, given the difficulties
in project coordination and implementation in this field in Bangladesh, the
risks of failure are also considerable. However, these risks are well worth
taking because of the importance of the project to Bangladesh's future rural
development.
69.       An important issue is the financial, administrative and technical
feasibility of replicating the project in other areas. The model developed
in this project would be suitable for most of the country. Financially,
the project represents an investment of about US$100 per rural family,
spread over a five year period. However, this low per family investment



- 22 -
should not hide the fact that extending the project to the estimated 10
million rural families in Bangladesh would still represent a cost of about
US$1 billion, a large amount for Bangladesh. In addition to existing staff,
the project would require about 300 Government officers, involving US-0.1
million equivalent in salaries per year. Expanding the project to the rest
of Bangladesh would entail about US$5.5 million equivalent in salaries per
year. Thus, besides the need to overcome Bangladesh's obvious administrative
constraints, substantial further foreign assistance will have to be enlisted
if the project is to be replicated throughout the country. Administratively,
the project, which supports on-going rural programs, is designed to make the
maximum use of rural institutions and organizations and to strengthen and
improve them. It is hoped that the improved working procedures applied in
this project would be transferable, in total or in parts, to other areas in
the country. The on-the-job training programs emphasized in great detail in
this project should produce a fairly large cadre of middle-level field
staff, well versed in the planning and implementation of such projects.
Finally, the project is essentially based on the promotion of HYV cultivation
under rainfed conditions and of better utilization of surface and groundwater
through minor irrigation schemes. Both of these have a large potential in
most parts of Bangladesh, thus making the project experience applicable on
a country-wide basis.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of the draft resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit Agreement are being distributed to thke Executive
Directors separately.
71.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement which are of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 43, 46, 48, 50, 52, 58, 59, 60,
63 and 64 of this Report. The establishment of the Rural Credit Fund and
the Project Fund and the deposit of an initial amount of Taka 4.0 million
in each Fund, the issuance by the Government of the necessary orders to
the Central, District and Thana Project Executive Committees on the
detailed procedures, acceptable to IDA, for the implementation of the
project and the submission to IDA of guidelines, acceptable to IDA, for
total or partial repayment of outstanding debts, are additional conditions
of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01 of DCA).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 7, 1976






ANNEXI
Page I of 4 pages
TABLE 36
R*AIILAOESN             SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET
...............                         S~~~~~ANOLADESH                        REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        182.84                                         MOST RECENT
AOgIC.        97.1                         1960       1970    ESTIMATE            INDONESIA       INDIA           MALAYSIA 
GAP PER CAPITA(U)                             So.O          O.0;        00100                            1           4.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISRICS
9OPULATION (MIT)&tR. 4lLl.ION)             53.          i.6          74.0                115,6       536.1         10.9
POPULATION DENSITY
AER SQUARE NM4.                         37.           9b.0       538.0                 61,0        166.0         33.0
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND               .*                    745.0                   .
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BRTRHI RATE PER THOUSAND           £47.0        40.1         47.0                A2.0         38,0         34.0 f
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            10.0         21.0         17.0                21.0         16.0          7.0 77-
INFANT M4ORTALITY RATE 1/THOU)              ..        40.0        3300.0.0                            .0         414 0 7!a
LIFE EXPECtANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)              4. oB,                 58.0                07.4         50.          6 O4.07
GROSS REPRODUICTION RATE                   3.5         3 .1          .                   3.2         2.9          0. 8
5OPULATInN GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTA-L                                     ..          2.7          2 .6                0.0          2. 3         3 .1
URBA                                        *           ,            ,                   3.6         a.I
JR5*N POPULATION It OF TOTAL)...                                      7.0                 17.0        20.0         09.0 I
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           47,0           ..         44.9                44.1         42.0         45.0/a
is TO 68 YEARS                           4IQ.t          ..          2.2                S3.4         55.0         S2.o77
65 YEARS AND OVER                          3. 9                     2.9                 0.5          3. 0         3.077
AGE DEPENDENCy RATIO                         1.0           ..         0,9                  0,9         0.8          0 ,£9 a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    I .6         ..a         1.4 /a                            1.?Ila     I1.777
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUJMULA0IAE, THOIJI               ....                                     2 59.3     11308.0       220.1
USERS (S OP MARRIED OOMEN)                  ...                                            .*8.Il/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCe (THOUSAND)            17100,0      22300.0     26 2 0 0 .0                      2 2 10 00a.0 lb  2900.0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (t)              76,0        71.0...                                       71.0         47.077.
JNEMPLOYED 01 OP LABOR FORCE)                 ...                    15.0/b                00I         3.0 Ic       6.077a4
INCOME DIStRIBUT1JN
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST   St OF HOUSEHOLDS               18,3 /b      16.7 Ia        .                              25.0 Id      28B. 3
HIGHEST 20t OF HOUSEHOLDS                40.57?m      02 . 377                                      53.t 7-d?    560
LOOEST   l0t OF HOUSEHOLDS                6,9 7?      ,7.977         ..                   .          uoT          3.5
LOMEST   A0t OF HOUSEHOLDS               t7,97 7-b    19.677         I. .3. If7l                                 11.2
DISTRIBUTION OFr LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED Ay TOP 10% OF OWNERS                  ,.        3oSlb          .
t OMNED BY SMALLEST 101 COWNERS               ..          I.7F          ..q.
HEALTH AND NU7RITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                10000     c    600I      10000.0              27614.0       41800.0      3860,0/.c
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          11 0000:00 le  7243,,00 577.  77780o: 0            1010                     80 .0
POUATD  ER HOSPITAL BED           11000         sz      do  6790:0               40100       5110.0       170.
PER CAPITA SUppLY OF-
CALORIES It OIF REQUIREHENTS)               ..          ,          eo                  89.0         93,0         93. OL±
PROTEIN tGB6 Ms pER DAY)...                                        40,0                43,0         530          09 0/a a
-OF AHICH ANMLADPULSE                    ,....                                          0,        lb:.        in     _
)EASH BATE C/THOU) AGES 1.0                   ,.,*.....
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SC4OOL                           42.0 le      50.0 Ia      56,0                69.o         68.0         89.1a l
SECONSARY SCHOOL                          &.E         1.7             .3.                            60          3.7
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 1o.o         10.0         10.0                12.0         12.0         13.Oo.-
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
u% Or SECONDARY)                           I. .0                     ..28,0                          6.0 /e       a,/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (tZ..                                            2.$...                                        7.7
HOJSINAG
--;MS;NS PER R0D4 (AVERAGE)                    2a.                       a                    ,.                       .3
OCCIUPIE DWELLINGS VITH0UT
PIPED MATER ES                              .,                        .                   ,,                      50
ACCESS TO eLECTRICITO                                                                                               50/
(Z OF ALL OWELLING9)                       ...                        ..                               .        43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X1.                                      ..                               .            .         3.
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                .          6.0                             1 14,0       at0          410
PASSENGER CABS (PER THOU POP)                 ,,          10    1.0                        0040                    2.
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                 3,aa0¶202.                                              1110         360/
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     ...                     02.2034.0 
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE..............



ANNEX. I
Pa-ge2 of Co pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between, 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recent Eotionte between
1971 end 1973.
onSejection, of Malaysia as an objective country is based on Malaysia's oucceos ir -oltining a high rate of econnoc. growth and an adequtte
1e-1 of welfare concurrently with diveraifing its econoic structure .
RANGIAIESN    1960 /a   Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;   /b  1963-6-;    In  Registered, not all
practicing to the country;   /d  Government hospital establishnets OEtY;     /b  Apps;Fiiste enrolloent 00 percentage of
population in 6-10 and U1-iS age groops respectively.
1970 /a 1966467;     /b  1967-68i   &g  Re0aiarxed, out all practicing in the country;   /d   Ooveeet hospiteal eetablishne±to only;
/a ApprexL=te enrollaent en percmentge of population in 6-10 and n.-is age groups respectivelyv.
MOST RECENlT ESTIMAT'E: L. kaio of population under 15 and 65 ann ove.r to total labor force; /b Mainoly oeoployed workers ..eeklog
their firet job.
INDONESIA     1970 /a   Registered applicants for sorb.
INDIA         1970  /.  kaio of population under 15 and 60 and nest to labor force age 15-59 years;     /b AID estmoate of labor force in geg
group 15-59. IBRD report giveo a figure of 180.1, sllion lamed on 1971 population ceneus. The difference io due to
changes in the definition, of a workcer. In the 1971 census, persons were classified only on the basis of their mi.o
activities.  This led to the exclusion of oeveral categories such on housewives;    /c  Registered applicants for
work;   /d  1967-68 ;  /e  1965.
MALAYSIA      1970 /a   West Malaysia;   /b  Registered applicante for worh;    /g  Registered, cot .1f practicing in the country;    /d  Governmet
only;   /e  196b-66;   If 1967;    Ig   Piped water inside.
N7, April 3O, 1976
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
DEPINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lasd Area (thou he                                                                    Populatio  ocpr oursing person, - Population divided by smeof practicing
Total -Totol sorfoce area camprising land are.aond island waters.                       mal aed female graduate nurse, "tr-i-sd" or 'certified" nurses, wed
Aei.-Moot rece.nt estimate of ogricultorol orea mend temporarily or per-           oumilinry perocoel with traimino or eaperisocs.
--netly for crope, paw torso, cachet & bitchen gardena or to lie fallow.            Population per hospital bed - Popolati.n divided by nuber of hospital
bedo available io public and private general1 aad opecialised hospital
GNspeor capita (US$) - GNiP per capita  sotbotee at market Prices, calco-               end rehabilitation centers; eocluden noroing homes end establiohitset
laced by sam  conversion method as World Beob Atlas (1972-74 basis).                  for custodia1 and preventive care.
per capit.a.ppsly of ca1-ien ft of resoir--ets) - Coopoced from
Population and vital otatistice                                                         energy equivalent of net food supplies available to country per
PPoplation, (old-yr. million) - An of July firer,  if not availebls, average            capita per day; available aupplieo conprine domestic prodoction , imports
of two emd-_year estimates.                                                          le.. sporto, and changes in tcoch; nor     uppliso soclude asmal tend,
seeds, quantitlon owed in food prceniog and b ..ean in diotribution;
Ppopl.ti-s demaity - cot 0000rc ho - Mid-yost population pint square kilo-              requirmanto were eatimated by PAO based on Physiological needs for
meter (100 hebarters) of total area,                                                  no   1a activity and health considering omviros-omtal tsaprature, body
Population density - per assre koe of agric. lend - Computed as above for               weighto, age and sea distribotions of population, and allowing lit for
agnicult-rl land only.                                                                waste at honsehold level.
Per capita awpsly of protein Coron per day) - Protein content of pee
Vital statistics                                                                        capita net supply of food Per day, met supply of food is defined es
Crudo birth rate per thenoand - Annu al live births per thounand of aid-year            above, reqoirenento for all countries entablished by ESDA gEo-oic
population; usually fine-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 inc              Rese..rch Services provide for a minimu  allowance of 60 gram  of total
developing coutrien.                                                                  protein per day, and 2D gr-n  of animal and pubs. protein, of which
Crude death rete per thooseod - Acanal deatho per thousand oi mid-year                  10 grams  h-u1d be animal protein; the.e trandardo are lower than
population; ensually five-year averagen ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for             those oi 75 gran of total protein anod 21 gra-o of animal protein as
developing coutris,an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Imfast oortalitv rate   /hu   -A A.mua deatha of inf-nte onder one year of              SurveY.
ege per thounand live birthe.                                                       Per capita protein enpply frto  animal and poles - Protein aupply of
Life espectaocV or birth Cyr.) - Average nuber of yearn of life remaining               fond derived frun a-ima1 and pu1.os is gram    per day.
at birth, ossally five-year averagno coding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for              Dosath rate C/tbou) ages 1-4 - Annual deatha per thounood is ags group 1-4
daveloping countrine..                                                                yeara, to children in this aeg group; augges ted aamindicator of
groso reprodoction rate - Averoge muber of live daughters o woman will                  ma1ntrition.
bear in hsr norma reproductive Period if she epenionces present age-
opecifin fertility rates; oualIly five-year averageo ending to 1960, 1970           Edeca.tio.
and 1975 for developing contire.                                                   Adlunt.d enrollmet ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all agew an
Population growth rate Cl) - total - Compound anmoal growth rateo oi mid-               percentage of primary school-age population, include, children oged
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, aod 1960 to most recen.t year.                  6-11 years hut adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Populatio- growth rate it) - urban - Cemputed like growth rate of total                 f or -outeiro with universal .do.ati-a, nsrollsot coy conesd 100%
popoletios; differont defiaitiona of urban areas may affect tempera-                  since omen popile ore below or above the official ochonl age.
ility of dat amog coutr ie..                                                       Adjusted enrol1nmt ratio - secondary school - Cemputed ao above,
Ulrba  population f% of total) - Ratio of urban to total popuIlaion, diffe-             socondary educa.tion requires or least four yeara of approved primary
rent de finititona of urba  .-ea. may afiet comparability of data among               iostrution; providee general, vocatiosal or teacher training
countries.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~intruc tions for popila of IS to 17 yearo of age, correopondence
Ann otructure (perc-t) - Childrem   (0-li years), worbing-age (15-64 years)             couroes are generally eocloded.
adrtired (65 years and over) on percentages of eId-year popalation.             Yeoro of sehoolino provided Crtenaecond levels) - Total yearn of
Age,d1eonode-cy ratio - Ratio of popolation umdr 15 ond 65 and over to                  scooin;etseonay          evl voatinald       srcinmyb          atal
those of agea 15 through 64.                                                          or completely encluded.
Uco-oic dependency ratio - Ratio of population, under 15 and 65 and over              Vocational enrollment  t of -aecndary) - Vocotiono1 in,titutieen
to the lbo   freiaggouof1-64 yeara.                                                   include technical, induntrial or other prugrams which, operate iode-
PoiyPamn-7-AS..on     cmlaie       to)- Comulativo sonber of                     pendontly or a. depa-m-nto of secondary institutions.
oc eptore of birth-control davices under au.pi... of national folly                Adult literacy rate Ct) - Literate oduIte Cable to red sod write) 00
planning program wince ine.ption.                                                     percentage of total adelt population aged 15 yearn mid over.
Fonily planning - usera ft of married wumn) - Percentages oi married
wo-.o of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who one birth-control devices              Hmsoing
to all married w-e   in soam age group.                                             Persons per roum (average) - Average moocer of Persona, per room in
occu pied convetional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings .ealude non-
Pooploymeet                                                                             pe-maset oIructures and unoccopied parts.
Total labor force (theunasd) - Ecomoically active persons , icoluding                 Occupied dwellings without piped woter (%) - Occupied conve -ntional
armd forces and umonployed hot eacludiog housewives, students, etc.                   dwellings in urb-an sd rural arson without inside or outside piped
definitions in variun coutries re not comparable.                                     water facilitieo so perc...tage of all occu pied dwellings.
Labor fores in ariculture   %  -Ariutua        labor force (is facoig,                Access to electricity (% of all dwlins     - Convestio-al dwellings with
foreotry, bunting and fishing) as percestage of total labor force,                    electricity in living qunrters as percent of total dwellings in urban
Unemployed Ct of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as person                and total areas.
who are able and wi lling to take a job, out of a job on a gives day,               Rural dwellings connected to electricity (t) - Conputed aso above for
remained out of a job, and ..eebing work for a specified minm-   period               cral. dwellings only.
not "exeding one week; may not be comparable between couentries don to
dif feren t definition  of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employ-             Consumption
sent office sta titics, nemple surveys, conPulsory uneployment insurance.           Radio receivera (per thojpop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
caste to general public per thousand of population, eacludes unlicensed
Inc-m diotrihution - Percentage of private incomse (both in cash and kind)              receivers is co0atrien and in yearn when regintratios oi radio setews
re..si-ad by rioheat 51, richoat 201, poorest Sit, and ponr.et 40% of                 to eifeot, date for recant years say not ho  onparable itcs most
householda.                                                                           coontries abolished Icens..ing.
Distrib.tion of land  - h~~~~~~~~~~                             Passe.nger ears iper thou pop) - Passenger cars cmprise umter,.ara seating
nioriboron o  lan  ow Erai - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest            lees than eight persons; ...cludes ambulonces, hearses sod ailitary
10T  nTIj  _r_eiFTf0  of lend owner..                                                 vehicles.
IL-Ith Ind Nutriti-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity Cloh/yr per cop) - Annual comnonption of induatrial, cnr-
Oealth sod Nutrition                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~cial, public sod private electricity is kilowatt hours per capita,
Ppoplation per physician - Population, divided by number of practicing                  generally honed on production, data, without allowance for losses is
pbysiciase quoalified item a edical school at univereity level,                       grids but allowing for imports and esporto of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita sonal consuption in kilograms
estimeted from dometic production plus met imports fUeeeprint.



ANNEX I
ENOfOD EWPMK!   DALTA                                             Page 3 of 4 Pages
(Amount. imn millilon. of u7.s. dollars)
Av.196769 19  -Actual                      Proete       19 60.,  19 65 -1  19 73-   17-        Av.
Av.96-691972/73 19 73/74      1475     19    5   36       19 65/ 19 70/     _97        97       16-91       3/7419 75/76
NATIONALL ACCOUNTS19776f767                                                                               7j     195      197          -
In Constant 1972/1973          Prices & Exchange Rates       Averae Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             6,012    5,663     6,201       6,325     6,800     7,100.         .     .       5.7     5.9       98.5     101.8    101.6
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)         89         -     -109         -83      -106      -118                                           1.5      -1.8     -1.6
Gross Domestic Income              6,101    5.r       6,092       r424      *TM          M          5.6   2.5      5.0     5.8       17~     TU        TT
Import (mncl. NES)                   879      747       617         687       817       777        20.6   6.8    -4.1      6.3       14.4      10.1     12.2
Exports    "(import capacity)        598       373      220         252        246      279        12.3 -14.6    -17.8     5.2        9.8       3.6      3.7
Resource Gap                         281       374      397       4r35                  491                                         -77      -98.5
Consumption Extpenditures           5,668   5,800     6,226       6,424     6,870     7,158         5.7   3.6      5.2     5.6       92.9    102.2     102.6
Investment       (mncl. stocks)       714     237       263         253       395       326        13.3   8.8     3.3     13.5       12.9      4.3       5.9
Domestic Savings                      433     -137     -134        -182      -176      -172         4.3  10.0   -15.3      2.9        7.1      -2.2     -2.6
National Savings                      416     -113      -99        -153       -148     -132         8.7  20.5    -16.4     7.7        6.8      -1.6     -2.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of Total
Imports                                ..      100      135         135        155      210          .     ..     12.9    23.2        ..       16.9     12.1
Capital goods                        ..      176      237         379        388      411           .    ..     46.7-    4.1        ..       25.8     30.2
Intermediate goods 6wsLfues1)
Fuels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum              .        23       87         155       145       152                .    159.6      6.0        .        9.5      11.3
Corsntion goods                          428     4A39         733        598      577                       30.9    -8.8        ..       47.8      46.5
Tota   Msrch. Torts (cif)           547      727      918       1,402      1,286    T3              .    .       89     -.                   0.       0.
Exports
Primar~y products (emol. fuels)      ..      146      153         113        130      166                      -12.0    21.2        ..      41.1      39.2
Fuels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum2.
Mnfcued goods                   ..     193       219         246       202       239                       12.9     2.6       ..       58.9      60.8
Tota  Mac    . E9ports  fob)       3J                                          2 iY- 307           2.9                   8.8
Tourism and Border' TradGe10.                                                                                                                        10.
Merchandise Trade Indices                            1972/73   100
Export Price Index                   61     100       108         130       114       122                       14.0    -3.1
Import Price Index                   52     100       156         191       172       189          .            38.2    -0.5
Terms of Trade Index                118     100        69          68        66        65                      -17.5    -2.2
Exports Volume Index                148     100       102          84        91       103                       -8.3    10.7
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 19 72/73 Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total.
Agriculture                      3,542    3,402     3,788      3,713      4,100     4,200          .     ..      4.5     6.4       59       61       60
Industry and Mining               42         412      472        467        495      530           .     .       6.5     6.5      3Z        31       3
Service                         2,83 18      4      1.941     ..2..145    2,205    2,37                          7.7     5.1              -     
Total                           6,012     5,663     6,201      6,325      6,800    7,100                         5.7     5.9     100       10       10
FUD3LIC FINANCE                                                                                                                       As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                   317      280       400        471        576       615                       29.7    14.3     5.3       6.5       8.5
N :n                     ~~~~~~365  364      450         420       534       555                         7.4   15.0      6.1      7.2       7.8
Bogtr  avings                -48      -84       -50         51         42        60                                        0.0      -0.7       0.7
Other Pablic Sector                 .         .        ...                   ...
Public Sector Investment          421       213       237        220        280      270                         1.,6   10.8     7.0       3.       4.1
us $ million LA
CURPENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                        Actual              Eat.     Proj.       DETA-IL ON                              At end 1972/Z.P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)             1969/7 192/73      1973/74   1974/75 1975/76      PUTBLIC SECTOR                      First Plan     %Of TPtal
Education                                 1..            14.     7 I~   --T.3    T3T      INVESTMENT PROGRAM                   (19 7 3/74  - 1977 /78)
Other Social Services                      .        4,0        3.8      4.3       4.7     Social Sectors                            758          15.3
Agriculture and                                                                           Agriculture                             1,302          26.4
other Economic Services                    .       11.2        8.4      7.2       7.1     Industry and Mining                     1,024          20.7
Administration and Defense                 .       67.4       69.0      68.0     66.7      Power                                    529          10.7
OYther                                     .        2.7        4.1       5.0      6.5      Transport and consamicationa             802          16.3
Total Current Expenditures                        10 0. 0    10 0.0   T100. 0   100.0     Other                                     524          10.6
_____________________________________________________________________ Total Expenditures                     4,940         100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-      1965-    1970-    1973-       FINANING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1965       1970     175      1978
Average ICOR                         ..       3.74~      ~~~~~~~~ .. 188        public Sector Sav-ings                 784          1.
Import Elasticity                                   .         1.29        ..        .           Program aid counterpart             2,022          40.9
Marginal Domaestic Savings Rate                     .         0.22        ..        .          Foreign Project Aid                  1:009          20.4
Marginal National Savings Rate                      .         0.35        .                     Total Financing                     4,940         100.0
IABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                 Value AddedPe   Wore (172/23         Pric es& ExC Ra~tes)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Millions        _%_of Total          1961 - 73          In U.S.Dollars     Pekrcekntoil iverage        170 -73
1960/61 ~1972/73 1960/61       1972/73  Growth Rate          1969/70   19 72/73    1969/70    1972/73    Growth Rate
Agriculture                     16.1         20.5      85        78           2.0              ..         166         ..76
Industry                         1.0          1.8       5         7           5.0              ..        229         ..105
Service                          1.8          3.9      10        15           6.7              ..        474         ..222
Total                           18-.9       =2. 2      0 T       00 2h9                     -I=         =2                                  -4.9
not applicable         - nil or negligible
not available         --less than half the
smallest unit shown
Notes: Figures are on fiscal year basis (july 1-june 30). Oats prior to 1972/73 pertain to eartwhile East Pakistan.
1/ These are original Plan targets.



Al.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
F   uflo  1 NS  ol,%   1P 
;   $ q  ' |  |   X>  r | 
j ~~ ~~~ b   | N  |g 
s-n w t1 s nat ::1:A



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of March 31, 1976
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                         Exchange Adjustment
Number    Year                 Purpose                         Amount    Undisbursed
339       1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)       25.0         12.3
340        1972    Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                     13.0          8.4
341        1972    Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970                                     14.0          5.5
343        1972    Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)               7.3          1.7
345        1972    Reconstruction Imports                        50.0         0
353       1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)                  3.0          0.4
367       1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                   7.0          1.9
368        1973    Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)                  13,2          1.8
S-14       1973    Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credit Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                            3.15         0
381       1973     Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                         19.7          0.8
407        1973    Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)                21.0          9.5
408        1973    Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                    25.0         16.4
409        1973    Technical Assistance                           4.0          3.0
410        1973    Cereal Seeds                                   7.5          6.7
424        1973    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation          8.7          6.6
458        1974    Imports Program                               50.0          0
487        1974    Second Telecommunications                     20.0         19.1
515        1974    Third Imports Program                         75.0         11.8
527        1975    Ashuganj Fertilizer                           33.0         31.1
529        1975    Consolidation Credit                          31.0          0
533        1975    Population                                    15.0         15.0



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of March 31, 1976
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number    Year                 Purpose                       Amount     Undisbursed
542       1975    Barisal Irrigation                            27.0        27.0
591       1975    Fourth Imports Program                       100.0        70.6
605       1976    Karnafuli Irrigation                          22.0        19.2
621 /a    1976    Agricultural and Rural TRaining               12.0        12.0
622       1976    Second Technical Assistance                    7.5         7.5
SUBTOTAL                             614.05      288.30
Principal Repayment                                   0.20
Credits held by Association                         613.85
B. IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087      1975    Consolidation Loan                           54.9          0
TOTAL                                668.75      288.30
/a   Credit signed March 25, 1976, not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1,
Cr. No. 339     Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Implementation of the original project, financed under Credit No.
228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced prior to the suspension of disbursements.
Progress on the implementation of the Inland Water Subproject under this
Credit has been slow. Only 78% of the funds have so far been disbursed,
compared with an estimate of 100% by June 30, 1974 at the time of appraisal.
Repair and construction of terminals have been delayed because of lack of
materials and slow land acquisition; but by September 1975 all contracts on
civil works were awarded, except one minor contract which was withdrawn, and
all works are now expected to be completed by late 1976. A contract for
the construction of five service-support vessels amounting to US$3.5 million
was awarded in December 1974, and all have been received. Contracts have been
signed for all equipment component of the telecommunications system. Earthwork
has been completed for about 50% of primary roads, and 70 cyclone shelters are
under construction or complete. Activation of the cyclone warning system is
expected soon. Progress was slow initially due in part to administrative
delays and the severe shortages of construction materials in Bangladesh.
Construction materials are now available, progress has improved somewhat.
Project completion is expected to be about two years behind the schedule
anticipated at appraisal. In June 1974, the Government submitted to the
Association a proposal for reducing the scope of the project in order to cope
with the sharp increase in construction costs since the Project was appraised.
The proposal involved reductions in the feeder roads to be financed by the
Credit (financing for these roads has been obtained from the World Food
Program), reductions in the fisheries subproject, and minor reductions in
other project items. Given the very early stage of procurement under the
project, it was decided not to formally amend the project at that stage,
and it was agreed that the Government's proposals for reducing the project
provided a reasonable basis for proceeding for the time being. A revised
proposal from the Government based upon revised cost estimates, concerning
the amendments required in the project description and allocation of the
amounts of the credit to each subproject has been received and is under
review.
1/ These noted are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is far behind schedule and continues to be plagued with
problems. Major flooding, work stoppages caused by 100% increase in con-
struction labor costs, shortages of cement, fuel, and operable construction
equipment, ineffective management, inadequate provision of local funds and
general inflation are factors which have delayed project construction. There
is some improvement in construction recently. Outstanding contractor claims
have recently been resolved. Manufacture of the electrical and mechanical
equipment for the regulators and pumping plant has been completed, and
delivery is being made to the sites. Delays in finalizing the low-lift
pump specifications by WDB retarded procurement. Tenders have now been
issued. Continuing inflation and other adverse factors are expected to
increase the Project costs substantially over the appraisal estimate.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 13, 1973; Closing Date: December 31
1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received in
1971, no contracts were awarded before Bangladesh independence. The present
Credit is again in conjunction with a Credit from Sweden and a grant from
Canada. Construction on this project began during January 1974. In April
1974, IDA approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and
engines. Due to initial delays, present implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Drilling of the tubewells has progressed satisfactorily
in the past construction season. Much greater efforts are required in the
design and construction of the water distribution systems to make maximum
use of the tubewells. The project agricultural development plan, crop trials
and development of demonstration farms are also behind schedule. A program
to assist in these areas as part of an ongoing UNDP project is under considera-
tion.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project:   US$7.3 Million Credit of November
15, 1972: Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1969, and goods and services valued at about US$2.2 million were received
in Dacca prior to suspension of disbursements. Three out of the four micro-
wave systems in the Project are under installation and are scheduled to be
commissioned by March 1976, and about one year behind schedule. The fourth
system is a replacement of a coaxial cable system in the original project.
This change was agreed to by IDA and was caused by price increases demanded
by the original contractor which made the choice of a microwave system more
economical. The bid invitation for this system has been included with the
bids that have already been invited for other microwave systems under
Credit 487-BD. Even so, the system is scheduled to be commissioned in
late 1977 or early 1978. The Closing Date for this Credit has been extended
from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978.



ANNIEX II
Page 5 of 11
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973; Effective Date: May 14, 1973:
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The Project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of
1970. The Credit has financed notional repayment of amounts previously dis-
bursed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$187,000) and payment of outstanding
amounts for consulting services performed under Credit No. 192-PAK
(US$12,000). Disbursements for new activities up to January 31, 1976
amounted to approximately US$2.4 million. However, outstanding orders
which would commit the remaining available funds were not expected to be
finalized before original closing date. IDA therefore agreed to extend
the closing date by nine months to allow for disbursements under outstand-
ing letters of credit. A UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project has made
some limited progress toward the reorganization of BSIC.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Prolect; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK under
which US$3.3 million was disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate,
but will improve now that several civil works contracts are under way. Phys-
ical progress had been curtailed by laclc of cement, slow delivery of pipe,
and slow preparation of designs and contract documents. While the immediate
requirements for pipe and cement are on hand, several supply and construc-
tion contracts are yet to be tendered. WASA has been requested to hasten
the preparation of contract documents and the tendering for this work. Man-
agement, labor and union problems are now being better addressed following
the appointment of the new Chairman. While collection performance has im-
proved, financial operations and financial management remain weak. The Gov-
ernment has increased the water rates by 5n percent effective July 1, 1975.
However, unless the performance in billing and collection improves and leak-
age is reduced, further rate increases would be necessary to meet the finan-
cial covenants of the Credit Agreement. rhe Association has agreed to extend
the Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that time a decision will
be made, based upon the progress over the year in meeting the financial cov-
enants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date for the additional
1 to 1-1/2 years required to complete the project.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate but will improve
now that several civil works contracts are under way and tubewell materials
and equipment have been delivered. Right-of-way acquisition and contractor
performance continue as major problems. Management and labor problems con-
tinue, and financial operations and the financial condition of the WASA



NNEX II
?age 6 of 11
remains weak. The Government has increased the water rates by 50 percent,
effective July 1, 1975. However, unless performance in billing and collec-
tion improves and leakage is reduced, further increases would be necessary
to meet the financial covenants of the Credit Agreement. The Association
has agreed to extend the Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that
time a decision will be made, based upon the progress over the year in meet-
ing the financial covenants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date
for the additional 1 to 1-1/2 years needed to complete the project.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The project is also financed by a credit from the Kingdom of
Sweden of 25.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by
US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit
from the Kingdom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time
of Bangladesh's independence and 95% of the present IDA and Swedish credits
were used for repaying the previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25
million from IDA and about US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being
used to pay outstanding bills for work completed prior to the war, comple-
tion of some supporting facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement
of spares and equipment damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for
a second grain storage project. The designs for the jetty modifications have
been approved and we are awaiting receipt of proposed arrangements for con-
struction. The feasibility study for a second grain storage project was
completed in October 1975. Supervision missions have reported serious deterio-
ration in the silos mechanical equipment due to inadequate maintenance. The
management and staffing of the Directorate of the Silos is inadequate. Delays
in ordering spare parts (for which funds are available under the Credit)
increase the risk of breakdown. The Government has agreed interalia (i) to
employ consultants to improve foodgrain storage management, (ii) to release
local funds required for ancillary civil works for the project, (iii) to fill
all managerial, technical, and administrative vacancies by June 30, 1976 and
(iv) to finalize the contract award for jetty construction by June 30, 1976.
Based upon these assurances the Association agreed that the Closing Date for
this Credit which had originally been December 31, 1974 be extended for a
second time from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1976. The Government was
informed that any further extensions of the Closing Date required to complete
the project would be considered only if the Government has met its commitments
concerning steps to be taken to improve silo maintenance and operations.
Since January 1976 significant progress has been made in constructing
ancillary civil works, staUfing the project agency, putting one silo back
into operation, issuing invitations for firms to submit proposals for con-
sulting services, and offering a tender for the Chittagong silo jetty.



ANNEX II
Page I of 11
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project was originally financed by two IDA Credits 49-PAK and
98-PAK. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million
had been disbursed out of the US$17.5 million aggregate total of the two
former credits. The Credit 407-BD added US$3.5 million to the total of the
original Credits, in order to help the Government meet part of the increases
in total project cost. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of
the project was delayed initially due to difficulties in reaching agreement
with the consultant architects on a revised contract. Construction has also
been delayed due to shortage of building material, delays in the preparation
of equipment lists, and furniture designs. The recent devaluation of the
Taka has considerably reduced the cost overruns. Without including price
and physical contingencies, the cost of the project is now estimated at 58%
over the appraisal estimates in Taka terms, but only 10% when expressed in
US dollar equivalent. The Government has submitted to IDA proposals for
modification of the project to meet the cost overrun. These proposals are
currently under review. Implementation is about 24 months behind the
appraisal schedule. Progress on the technical education portion of the
project is about 12 months behind the appraisal schedule. The graduates are
facing severe problems of unemployment, and the curriculum needs revision to
make it more relevant to job requirements. The Government will be making
recommendations on the development plan of the Agricultural University shortly.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By
December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed, out of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit
adds US$2.5 million to the original credit amount, in order to help the
Government meet part of the increase in total project cost as a result of
currency realignments. Four construction contracts were signed in September
1973 for the Sitalakhya Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong
road worth about US$9.2 million. A fifth contract with consultants for
construction supervision was signed in Felruary 1974 but they were in the
field earlier. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficien-
cies in some contractors performance have delayed certain elements of the
project. Construction of the 1300-foot bridge over the Sitalakhya River
previously on schedule is now likely to be completed two years behind
schedule, in mid-1978 due to technical difficulties compounded by poor
contractor performance. However, the twenty-mile Feni bypass road construc-
tion project is well on the way to completion and plans for paving the road
are now under preparation. The estimated cost of civil works has increased
by about 60%, in line with worldwide trends. However, the total overall
project cost increase is considerably less, being about 25%. Disbursements,
which in the past have been slow, show signs of improvement.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
After a slow start, the Government has recently begun to take
advantage of the funds available under this credit for preinvestment plan-
ning, feasibility studies and technical assistance for agencies involved in
project planning and implementation. Contracts have been signed with con-
sultants for seven projects with an allocation from this Credit of about $1.3
million. These studies have played a key role in the preparation of the
Ashuganj Fertilizer Project and three other projects which are under con-
sideration for FY76 and FY77. Another six subprojects involving $2.3 mil-
lion of credit funds have been recently approved and arrangements for selec-
tion of consultants are underway. Credit funds are expected to be fully
committed by June 30, 1976, but some of the studies financed will take up
to two years to complete. The Closing Date for this Credit has been extended
from December 31, 1975 to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about 20 months behind appraisal schedule. Follow-
ing a year of virtual stagnation, the Seed Certification Agency has been
established, seed legislation has been drafted and procurement of equipment
and construction of buildings has started. However, serious staffing, pro-
curement and financial problems remain. The Government has been trying to
obtain additional bilateral financing to help meet the cost overrun. However,
the Government has now agreed to proceed with the full project, and to meet
the full cost overrun if other financing does not become available. Mean-
while, recruitment of key personnel has been extremely slow due to the
lengthy procedures required by the Government; appointments are required in
particular for the head of the Seed Certification Agency and for the general
manager (field) of Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
A full-time official in charge of coordination in the Ministry of Agriculture
has just been designated. Procurement of farm machinery has been held up
because of the bidders' failure to comply with tender specifications and by
the Government's unsuccessful efforts thereafter to arrange for bilateral
financing.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Amending Agreement of October 17, 1975 increased the amount
of the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million to finance the new oil
transfer system at Chittagong. The implementation of the original project



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
has been slow. Only 54% of funds have been disbursed, compared with an
estimate of 100% by June 30, 1975 at the time of appraisal. Delays were
due to: (i) the initial lack of familiarity of the agencies with IDA
procedures; (ii) the difficult international situation in 1974; and (iii)
slow preparation of required documentation for procurement by various
operating agencies. Currently, 93% of funds allocated for procurement of
spare parts and equipment in the original credit have been committed, and
orders are expected to be completed by mid 1976. Regarding the repair of
the Chittagong off-shore oil terminal, detailed investigations indicated that
the damage was more severe than previously believed. Consultants were
appointed late in 1973 to study alternative technical solutions. An
Amending Agreement modifying the project description in line with the con-
sultants' recommendations, and providing a supplementary credit of US$4.6
million, was approved by the Executive Directors on September 16, 1975 and
signed on October 17, 1975. The project director and project officers were
appointed by January 1976 but there were delays in approval of the project
documents by the National Economic Council, agreement on onlending and pro-
ject documents by the National Economic Council, agreement on onlending
and project implementing arrangements between the Government and project
agencies, and appointment of consultants, which were conditions of effect-
iveness of the Amending Agreement. The Amending Agreement became effective
on March 19, 1976. The consultants are now at work. Based on their recom-
mendations, contracts for procurement of used tankers would be awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained for suitable vessels from international
brokers.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective July 23, 1974. Procurement work is well
in hand with the major orders expected to be placed by March 1976. Local
telephone expansion has lagged about a year behind schedule due to slower
than expected deliveries from the local factory (hampered by labor unrest).
However, the factory production is now picking up and the shortfall in
project targets is expected to be made up by 1977. According to present
cost estimates, foreign costs are likely to be within the original estimates.
The local costs will increase from Tk 470 million to Tk 680 million due to
higher labor and construction costs and the imposition of a 20% tax on all
imported goods. Under the Credit Agreement, BTT is to establish a modern
accounting system and is to be transformed into a Board with adequate auton-
omy. Accounting consultants have been appointed. The Board was legally
established before the June 30, 1975 deadline, but the ordinance was revoked
almost immediately thereafter. A new ordinance establishing a Telecommunica-
tion Board was recently promulgated. We are waiting further information on
the regulations under which the new Board will operate.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cr. No. 515    Third Imports Program; US$75 Million Credit of October 9,
1974; Effective Date: October 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Provision was made to reimburse the Government for up to US$10 mil-
lion for eligible imports paid for after July 1, 1974, but prior to the date
of the credit. Disbursements amounted to US$63.2 million as of March 31,
1976, and in addition letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$6.9
million. The Credit approved on October 9, 1974 was for US$50 million, but
after the Fourth IDA Replenishment Agreement became effective, an amendment
increasing the credit amount was approved on February 27, 1975. The Amend-
ing Agreement was signed on March 10, 1975 and became effective on April 7,
1975. The Government has allocated the full amount of the Credit among the
various eligible industries, and import orders are being processed, and the
credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 527     Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31_1982
Project is being cofinanced by Asian Development Bank, KfW, and
the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of $109
million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation work is
proceeding on schedule, but, overall, the project is about six months behind
schedule due primarily to delays in awarding the General Engineering and
Management Assistance Contracts. These contracts were signed in late
November/early December and the firms are expected to commence work in
Bangladesh early in 1976. Commencement of commercial production is now
expected by February 1979.
Cr. No. 533     Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25_1975;
Closing_ate_: December 31, 1982
Project is being confinanced by six co-lenders providing a total of
about $25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstanding
the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made substan-
tial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its staff is being placed in position.
The Population Program Officers, who are responsible for the population
programs of five non-health ministries, have been trained abroad and have
initiated the schemes of their respective ministries. A contract with
architectural consultants for the Building, Planning and Design Unit of the
Ministry of Health has been signed. The Government is proceeding with the
selection of required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project.
However, because of institutional problems, the implementation of a few project
components is some months behind schedule. In particular, the Government has
still to formally appoint a number of key personnel.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project consultants are mobilizing staff. Procurement of local
construction materials and construction of office and storage accommodation
in Barisal is proceeding.
Cr. No. 591     Fourth Imports Program; US$100 million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 605     Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$ 22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 621     Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 million
of March 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit not yet effective.
Cr. No. 622     Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:             US$16 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard.
Purpose:            To help the government carry out a rural development
project in seven thanas of the Bogra and Mymensingh
Districts. The project consists of a rural works
program (rural roads, drains, rural markets, fish pounds),
minor irrigation (low-lift pumps, shallow tubewells,
hand pumps), thana facilities (office and living quarters
of thana officers, cooperative godowns), and strengthen-
ing of rural institutions and services (Comilla-type
cooperatives, as well as extension animal health
services, fisheries and credit facilities).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Costs:
/n
Items                                    Local     Foreign    Total-/
---   (US$ million)-----
Rural Works                              3.42        0.51      3.93
Minor Irrigation                          3.01       3.37      6.38
Thana Facilities                          0.59       0.14      0.73
IRDP/TCCA-KSS Program                    0.26        0.11      0.36
Agricultural Extension                   0.08        0.05      0.13
Livestock                                0.36        0.16      0.52
Fisheries                                0.26        0.06      0.32
Technical Assistance                     0.04        0.09      0.13
Monitoring & Evaluation                   0.10       0.01      0.11
Rural Credit                             2.58        1.23      3.82
of which
Short-term credit             (2.20)      (1.08)    (3.28)
Medium-term credit /b         (0.38)      (0.15)    (0.54)
Base Cost                                10.70       5.71     16.42
Physical Contingencies                   0.85        0.16       1.01
Price Contingencies                       5.46       1.77      7.23
Total Project Cost                       17.01 /c    7.65     24.66
Financing Plan:
Government of Bangladesh                 8.66          -       8.66
IDA                                      8.35        7.65     16.00
Total Project Cost                       17.01       7.65     24.66
/a   Figures in US Dollars derived from the corresponding figures in Takas.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
/b   Cost of shallow tubewells and hand pumps (Base cost:    US$4.80 million)
to be financed under the medium-term credit is included in minor
irrigation.
/c   Includes about US$1.62 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement:        With the exclusion of the earth works part of the rural
works and thana facilities programs, civil works, amounting
to US$4.7 million (net of contingencies), would be carried
out on the basis of local competitive bidding under Govern-
ment procedures satisfactory to IDA. The earth works for
the rural works and thana facilities programs would be
carried out on a force account basis. Vehicles (estimated
to cost US$0.2 million, net of contingencies) would also be
procured on the basis of local competitive bidding under
Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Equipment
and supplies (estimated to cost about US$4.6
million, net of contingencies) would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, domestic
manufacturers will be given a preference of 15 percent
or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is
lower. Procurement of off-the-shelf imported items
costing less than US$10,000 each would be purchased
through normal Government procurement procedures.
Such purchases would, however, be limited to US$0.2
million in total. Goods financed with short-term
credit would be procured through commercial channels.
Technical
Assistance:       A.   Consultants would be retained for (i) the
implementation of the project's rural works
and thana facilities programs and (ii) training
of TCCA-KSS staff in rural credit operations.
B.   Short-term services of consultants employed
under other projects supported by multilateral
and bilateral sources are included in the pro-
ject.
C.   Special training (both in Bangladesh and abroad)
of selected Government officers involved in the
implementation of the project is also part of the
project.
Estimated
Disbursements:    ----------------(US$ million)----------------------
FY1977   FY1978   FY1979   FY1980    FY1981  FY1982
3.5      4.0       3.5     3,5       1.3     0.2
Rate of Return:     Economic Rate of Return:   40%
Appraisal
Report:           Bangladesh-Appraisal of a Rural Development Project
Report No. 877a-BD, dated April 28, 1976.
Irrigation and Area Development Division,
South Asia Projects Department



