CIRCULATING COPY                    (   I
Report No. 837a-BD                                     m  BE REURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Bangladesh: Appraisal of a                                               FILE COPY
Rural Development Project
RETURN TO 
April 28, 1976                                                     RETURN   TO
Irrigation and Area Development Division
South Asia Projects Department                                           WITHIN
ONE W EK-
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bark authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 30 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and conse-
quently the Taka, US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below
has been used throughout this report, except where stated to the con-
trary.
US$1                 =    Tk 13.0
Tk 1                 =    US$0.077
Tk 1 million         =    US$77.000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                =    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 bigha                    -    0.33 ac.
1 mile (mi)                =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)    =    640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)                =    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)               =    82.3 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)         =    26.8 md
1 cubic foot per
second (cusec)       =    0.0283 cu meters per second



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ATI       -   Agricultural Training Institute
ACPP      -   Accelerated Cereal Production Program
BADC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BJSB      -   Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (Bangladesh Jatlya Samabaya Bank)
BKB       -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Bank (Bangladesh Krishi Bank)
BRRI      -   Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CCB       -   Central Cooperative Bank
CP        -    FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
CPEC      -    Central Project Executive Cmittee
CPCC      -    Central Project Coordination Committee
DPEC      -    District Project Executive Committee
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
HYV       -    High Yield Variety
IGU/RD    -    Interdepartmental Government Unit for Rural Development
IRDP      -    Integrated Rural Development Program
IRRI      -    International Rice Research Institute (Philippines)
KSS       -   Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
MSL       -   Mean Sea Level
NEC       -    National Economic Council
0 & M     -    Operation and Maintenance
PEP       -    Project Evaluation Proforma
ROR       -    Rate of Return
RWP       -    Rural Works Program
SIDA      -    Swedish Aid (Swedish International Development Agency)
TCCA      -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP       -    Thana Irrigation Program
TPEC      -    Thana Project Executive Committee
TTDC      -    Thana Training and Development Center
UMPCS     -    Union Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
AI/TCCA   -   Assistant Inspector of TCCA
BADC/TIO  -    Thana Irrigation Officer of BADC
DAO       -    District Agricultural Officer
DFO       -   District Fishery Officer
DLO       -    District Livestock Officer
IRDP/DPO  -   District Project Officer of IRDP
IRDP/DTPO -    Deputy Thana Project Officer of IRDP
IRDP/TPO  -    Thana Project Officer of IRDP
TAO       -    Thana Agricultural Officer
TCO       -    Thana Cooperative Officer
TEO       -    Thana Extension Officer
TFO       -    Thana Fishery Officer
TLA       -    Thana Livestock Assistant
TLO       -    Thana Livestock Officer
UAA       -    Union Agricultural Assistant
VA/TCCA   -    Village Accountant of TCCA
VAS       -    Veterinarian Assistant Surgeon
VEA       -    Village Extension Agent
VFA       -    Veterinarian Field Assistant
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientU only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwise be discloed without World lank authorizAtion.






GLOSSARY
Aman           -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December (B. aman is broadcast, T. aman
is transplanted)
Aus            -    Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is
transplanted)
Bils           -    Depressions
Boro           -    Rice planted in winter and harvested during April to June
Char           -    Low-lying sandy land
Comilla
Cooperatives -    A system of two-tier cooperatives (at village and thana
levels) developed at the Bangladesh Academy for Rural
Development (Comilla) in the 1960s. The system emphasized
increasing the productivity of the small farmers through
training and by increasing their access to farm inputs
such as irrigation, credit and fertilizers.
District       -    Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are 19 Districts
in the country.
Katcha         -    Temporary (dirt) road
Khals          -    Natural channels
Kharif         -    Summer season
Mouja          -    Originally a cadastral map (now a map in which relative
locations can be found)
Paddy          -    Unhulled rice
Pucca           -    Permanent (paved) road
Rabi           -    Dry season
Taccavi        -    A relief loan to victims of natural catastrophies
Thana          -    Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are
413 thanas in the country.
Union          -    A unit of local self government.  There are about ten
unions in each thana
Ward           -    A subdivision of a union
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................  .                       i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                     1
II.    BACKGROUND  ................. ..... *.              ....... ...                  1
General ...                    ....................* .................   1
Agriculture  ...........   to....... ..... ... ...................       2
Rural Development Agencies and Programs                   ........       3
Project Formulation  ............................                        4
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ....................................                           4
General  ....       ....................................                 4
Climate  ..      .......................................                 5
Topography             .........................                         5
Soils .....................                                              5
Water Resources  ............ ............ ........                      6
Agricultural Production             ........................             6
Transportation          ..................... ............               7
Storage, Marketing and Processing Facilities  ...                        7
Population,  Farm Size and Land Tenure  ..........                       8
IV. THE PROJECT.9
I.   TEPOET.........................................9
General             ..........................                           9
Project Works  ....           ..............................            10
Cost Estimates  .......           ..........................            14
Financing  ................ .....................                       15
Procurement   ......................... .      .      ..........        16
Implementation Schedule  ......              ..................         17
Disbursements          ................. .................              17
Accounts and Audit  ................  .............                     18
Environmental Impact  .............. .............                      18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bangladesh in November/December 1974 comprising Messrs. H.T. Chang, P.C.
Garg, T.M. Kulatilaka (IDA), R.J. Shukle and W. Maddock (Consultants). A
follow-up mission took place in February/March 1975 and included Messrs.
H.T. Chang, T.M. Kulatilaka, and R.J. Shukle and Henri Vieilhescaze (Con-
sultants).



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGENT ..............................   18
General .............................                 18
Project Executive Comm:Lttees      .................  18
Central Project Coordiniation Committee    ........   19
Agency Responsibilitieti ..     .....................  19
Additional Staff ...................... .........     21
Operation and Maintenance ................... . .     22
Charges .........  .........................          22
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMS .....        23
Marketing and Processirng .... . ...............      24
Prices        ........................................  24
Farm Income        ...................................  24
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...  25
General ........................................      25
Production     .....................................  25
Social Infra-Structure ........................ .. .  26
Employment Opportunities ......   .................    26
Income Distribution  .....................    26
Economic Rate of Return .     .......................  27
Project Replicability   *         ..........................    28
VIII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS. .......           29
ANNEXES
1.  Physical Environment
2.   Land Use and Agricultural Production
3.   Rural Works Program
4.   Minor Irrigation
5.   Thana Facilities
6.   Rural Credit
7.  Traditional Cooperatives & TCCAs
8.  Agricultural Extension
9.   Livestock Improvement
10.   Pond Fisheries
11. Project Monitoring & Evaluat:Lon
12.   Project Organization
13.   Cost Estimates, Proposed Credit Allocation, Schedule of Expenditures
and Disbursements, and VehicLes and Equipment Lists
14.   Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
15.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
16.   Farm Labor Analysis



-3-
17.   Economic Analysis
18.   Training
19.   Technical Assistance
MAPS
11599     -    Project Location (Bogra and Mymensingh Thanas)
1600     -    Bogra Thanas
11601     -    Mymensingh Thanas (Trisal and Gaffargaon)
11615     -    Mymensingh Thanas (Muktagacha)






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh has requested
IDA assistance to carry out a Rural Development Project in seven thanas of
the Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. The project consists of a rural works
program (rural roads, drains, rural markets, fish ponds), minor irrigation
(low-lift pumps, shallow tubewells, hand pumps) and thana facilities (office
and living quarters of thana officers, cooperative godowns). The project
also would provide for strengthening rural institutions and services (Comilla-
type cooperatives, as well as extension, animal health services, fisheries
and credit facilities).
ii.       The Government rural development objectives are to achieve food
self-sufficiency and create employment for the rural poor. Its strategy
uses the thanas as the focal point of development activities and emphasizes
labor-intensive, production oriented investments in minor irrigation and
rural infrastructure, improvements in agricultural supporting services and
setting-up of Comilla type cooperatives (now called TCCA-KSSs) for promoting
farmers' participation in development activities.
iii.      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first rural develop-
ment project in Bangladesh. It is designed to strengthen and improve existing
rural institutions; to rectify domination of farm inputs and credit by the
more prosperous farmers; to promote more rapid expansion of high yielding
rice varieties of rainfed aus and transplanted aman, to increase the irrigated
boro area, and to create employment opportunities by reactivating the Rural
Works Program.
iv.       Total project cost is estimated at US$24.7 million equivalent of
which US$7.7 million, or about 31Z, would be in foreign exchange.  The pro-
posed IDA credit of US$16 million would finance the full foreign exchange
costs and some local currency requirements, or about 69% of the total proj-
ect cost net of taxes and duties (US$23.1 million). Equipment and office
supplies, estimated to cost US$4.6 million (net of contingencies) would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group guidelines. Civil works amounting to US$4.7 million (net of
contingencies) would be unsuitable for international competitive bidding
and would be carried out on the basis of local competitive bidding under
Government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA except for the earth works
which would be by force account. Rural credit (US$8.6 million) would be
administered by the Sonali Bank. Two revolving funds -- one for rural credit
and one for all other components -- would be established to ensure prompt
receipt of the appropriated funds by the various participating agencies.
v.        Local consultants would assist in the implementation of the rural
works and thana facilities programs. Short-term foreign consultants would
train TCCA/KSS staff in rural credit operations. Experts from several



- ii -
international/bilateral projects, currently operating in Bangladesh, would
provide additional technical assistance. Fellowships would be provided for
short-term training abroad of key Government staff.
vi.       Project implementation would require five years.  It will call for
effective coordination between a number of Government departments and agen-
cies.  To achieve this, project Executive Committees would be established
at Central, District and Thana levels, composed of officers from partici-
pating agencies. The Executive Committees would be chaired by the Director
General of the Integrated Rural Development Program at the Central level,
the Deputy Commissioner at the District, and the Circle Officer (Development)
at the Thana level. Except for comm>n items such as vehicles and office
equipment, each participating agency would do its own procurement. The
Central Executive Committee would collate and certify applications for re-
imbursement from IDA. A central Project Coordination Committee under the
co-chairmanship of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, would attend to policy mat-
ters and would ensure timely approprLation of Government funds.
vii.      At full development by 1985, annual rice production from the
seven thanas as a result of the project is expected to reach 429,000 tons
compared to the current 247,000 tons and a projected 354,000 tons under
"without project" conditions. The project related increase of 75,000 tons
would represent an annual net foreigna exchange savings of about US$15.0
million.
viii.     The project would directly benefit about 150,000 farm families,
representing about 900,000 people or about half of the total population in
the project area. It is expected that most of the would-be beneficiaries are
small farmers with incomes below the subsistence level. During implementation,
the project would create the equivalent of about 12,000 man-years of employ-
ment for the landless people. At fuLl development, the project would also
increase farm labor requirements by .about 11 million man-days over the
current levels. Indirectly, the project would benefit a larger number of
people through improvements in rural roads, markets, animal health, pond
fishery and drains. Average annual per capita incomes of the project area
rural population would increase from about US$70 at present (compared to the
national average of US$100) to US$90 (compared to the projected national
average of US$110 in 1985. Based on increased paddy production alone, the
economic rate of return of the proje,:t is estimated to be over 40%. The
sensitivity analysis tests a number of adverse assumptions, and indicates
that the risks of the rates of retura falling below 30% are small.
ix.       The project would pioneer l replicable pattern of priority rural
development activities. It would involve an investment of about US$100
(excluding short-term credit and price contingencies) per rural family
spread over a five year period. Extension of the project to the estimated
10 million rural families in Bangladesh would represent a cost of about



- iii -
US$1 billion -- a substantial sum, but which would be within the means of
the country -- provided rural development receives the priority it deserves
in GOB's development efforts.
x.        The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$16 million
on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the People's Republic of
Bangladesh.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) has
requested IDA assistance for US$16 million to finance a rural development
project in seven thanas in the Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. The project
seeks to evolve a model of rural development for Bangladesh, emphasizing:
(a) initiating a program of low cost, short gestation, production
oriented investments aimed at increasing agricultural pro-
duction;
(b) building and strengthening rural institutions to improve
agricultural supporting services and to ensure an equitable
supply of scarce agricultural inputs to the small farmers; and
(c) creating employment for rural landless people.
1.02      The project was designed and would be carried out in coordination
with the IDA-financed Agricultural and Rural Training project (Credit No.
621-BD). The components in the social sector which are not directly pro-
duction oriented, e.g. education, housing, and health are not included. The
successful implementation of the proposed project should, however, establish
a sound basis for such social infrastructure investments. Rural industries
have also been left out from this project, but they could be incorporated in
future investments in the project area.
1.03      The project is in line with the strategy set forth in the Bank
Group Land and Water Resources Sector Study (Report No. PS-13 dated December
1972). It was identified by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) and pre-
pared by an Interdepartmental Government Unit for Rural Development (IGU/RD),
supported by several CP missions. This appraisal report is based on the
findings of a mission comprising: Messrs. H.T. Chang; P.C. Garg; T.M. Kulatilaka
(IDA), and R.J. Shukle and W.J. Maddock (Consultants) who visited Bangladesh in
November/December 1974. A follow-up mission comprising Messrs. H.T. Chang,
T.M. Kulatilaka (IDA), and R.J. Shukle and Henri Vieilhescaze (Consultants)
visited Bangladesh again in February/March 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Bangladesh, with a gross area of about 55,000 sq mi and an estimated
population of about 77 million, is among the most densely populated countries
in the world. Due to this as well as meager natural resources, poor physical



-2-
infrastructure and frequent natural calamities, much of the population lives
at or below absolute poverty levels. The current annual per capita income
of about US$100 (in 1975 prices) is among the lowest in the world.
2.02      The Government's First Five Year Plan (1973/74 - 1977/78), published
in October 1973, envisaged an ambitious goal of 8.8% per annum average growth
(over the 1972/73 level).  Taking into account the deteriorating terms of
trade since then and given the current situation, a growth of 3% per annum,
barely enough to keep pace with the population growth, would be a difficult task.
Agriculture
2.03      Bangladesh is predominantly agricultural.  The agriculture sector
accounts for as much as 55% of GNP, 75% of all employment and over 80Z of
all exports. It has, however, been unable either to adequately feed the
country's rapidly increasing populatLon or to provide gainful employment
to its largely unskilled and illiterate labor force.
2.04      Practically all 22.5 millian ac of cultivable land are already
under cultivation. The total cropped area in 1973/74 was about 30.5 mil-
lion ac, giving a cropping intensity of some 136%.  Of the cropped area,
rice accounts for 24.4 million ac; j7Lte 2.0 million ac and other crops 4.1
million ac.  Rice production in the 1960s increased at an annual average
rate of 2%, but lagged behind the population growth of 2.8% per year.  The
present level of annual food grain imports is about 2.5 million tons, or
about 20% of total consumption. The food imports have caused a heavy
strain on the foreign exchange reserves and have severely limited imports
of other essential commodities.
2.05      Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by the
following:
(a) risk of floods - over 2.5 raillion ac are flooded up to
15 ft annually and cultivation cannot begin until after
the flood subsides in Novemgber. On 5.5 million ac,
annually flooded from 3-15 ft, only one crop per year
of low-yielding long stalked or floating rice is possible;
(b) lack of irrigation facilities - only 2.5 million ac are
irrigated during the November-March dry season;
(c) erratic weather conditions - cold spells in November-December
can seriously reduce the aman yield, while erratic monsoons
often cause droughts; and
(d) deficient transportation - transportation for moving farm
inputs and produce is inadequate and expensive.
2.06      Perhaps even more restrictive are the sociological and institutional
constraints. Some 30% of the village dwellers are landless. Among farmers
who own land, about 50% own 2.5 ac or less. Generally, small farmers in



Bangladesh are hard working and receptive to proven improved farming prac-
tices. But, their efforts have not been supplemented by an adequate and
timely supply of farm inputs, credit, and technical services. Existing
rural institutions, mostly staffed by poorly motivated and trained personnel,
and often dominated by larger farmers, have generally failed to fulfill these
key functions.
Rural Development Agencies and Programs
2.07      A number of Government ministries, institutions, departments and
autonomous agencies are responsible for providing supporting services to
rural areas. The agricultural extension service shortcomings were assessed
in connection with the Agricultural and Rural Training Project (Credit No.
621-BD, Report No. 680b-BD); fisheries and livestock services have lacked
active field programs. Distribution of improved seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides have favored the larger farmers. Impressive early gains under
the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP) have not been sustained due to poor
utilization of pumps and tubewells resulting in reduced area irrigated per
pump. The Rural Works Program (RWP), which constructed many rural roads in
the 1960s, has now lost its vitality due to poor project planning and im-
plementation constraints.
2.08      The traditional rural cooperatives in Bangladesh are now largely
defunct. The Bangladesh Cooperative Bank (BJSB) had 68% of its loans in arrears
in 1974.  Many of the larger farmers and Management Committee members of the
cooperatives are themselves defaulters. The new cooperative system initiated
in Comilla District in 1959 (para 4.08) introduced a sound approach as well
as adequate management skills for cooperative activity. After 1970, the
Government extended the two-tier Comilla cooperative system (Thana Central
Cooperative Associations -- TCCAs -- and Village Cooperative Societies -- KSSs),
to 154 thanas. But the overly rapid expansion and the generally depressed con-
ditions in recent years overtaxed the system. By mid-1972, the TCCA's also
had 41% of their loans overdue. In response, the Government changed its bank
for financing short-term credit for TCCAs from the Bangladesh Cooperative
Bank (BJSB) to the Sonali Bank, the largest nationalized commercial bank in
Bangladesh. Following this, the recovery of credit by TCCAs significantly
improved. The Government in its First Five Year Plan (1973-78) has placed
the emphasis of rural development on the strengthening of the TCCA-KSS Co-
operative System. Despite its shortcomings, the system is generally accepted
as a rural organization that, given suitable assistance and guidance, can be
made a viable system through which agricultural input, credit and services
can reach small farmers.
2.09      The problems of various existing rural programs are due to four
main causes:
(a) poor information on which to base equitable inputs
and credit distribution;
(b) lack of clearly defined working procedures for implementing
the various programs;



(c)  frequent sidestepping of approved procedures at
District and thana levels because of political
pressures; and
(d)  ineffective supporting seIvices due to insuffi-
ciently motivated, trainec:, organized and equipped
field staff.
2.10      As a result, the Government's development resources have gone
largely to the more prosperous farmers. These literate farmers largely
form the Cooperatives Management Conmittees, Ward Committees and Union
Councils membership. They are thus in a unique position to submit re-
quests for inputs and credit in the name of a cooperative, a village, a
ward or a union and to exert pressure on different levels of Government
officials to direct such supplies in their favor.
Project Formulation
2.11      The project has been formulated to remove or minimize the con-
straints mentioned above. Improved landownership registers and maps would
be prepared to promote equitable allocation of farm inputs. Inter-agency
coordination would be improved by establishing clear work procedures and
by delineating the areas of responsilbility for the various participating
agencies. The supporting services would be strengthened by staff training,
by increasing staff mobility and by Lmproving the work environment for the
field staff. Attempts would also be made to shield the field staff from
local political pressures by dealing with those pressures at the higher
administrative levels. The joining of TCCAs by small farmers would be made
attractive, but strict credit discipline would be enforced. Specific pro-
ject components are described in detail in Chapter IV and the Annexes.
2.12      The project covers only a :Limited area - its main objective is
to serve as a model for revitalizing rural development programs. Replica-
tion of this project is expected to follow soon through projects financed
by the Government from its own resources and with external assistance.
III. THE PRLOJECT AREA
General
3.01      Bangladesh has 19 Districts, 413 thanas and about 4,500 unions.
The project would cover seven thanas: four (Kotwali, Sherpur, Gabtali, and
Sariakandi) in Bogra District and three (Muktagacha, Trisal, and Gaffar-
gaon) in Mymensingh District (Map 11599). The four Bogra thanas are about
90 mi northwest of Dacca, and the three Mymensingh thanas are about 55 mi
north of Dacca. The seven thanas consist of 90 unions with a total gross



- 5 -
area of about 612,000 ac. The estimated 1974 population for the seven thanas
was about 1.70 million; giving a population density of about 1,700 persons/
sq     mi compared to about 1,400 persons/sq mi nationally.  The project
thanas have land and water features representative of the country as a whole.
Climate
3.02      The project area has a warm monsoon climate with three main seasons:
the wet monsoon season, June - October; the dry season, November - February,
and the pre-monsoon season, March - May. Even during the wet season, rain-
fall is erratic.
3.03      The mean annual rainfall is about 68 inches for the Bogra thanas
and about 88 inches for the Mymensingh thanas; 80% falls during the monsoon.
Temperatures are in the mean monthly range of 70-85°F. The daily minimum
temperature may drop to below 60°F in late November and the daily maximum
may rise to 95°F in April and May. Relative humidity is generally high
(Annex 1).
Topography
3.04      The four Bogra thanas are bounded on the east by the Jamuna reach
of the Brahmaputra River. The Bengali River and its tributary the Karatoa
River intersect the area (Map 11599).  West of the Karatoa River, the land
rises to an elevated terrace of Barind Tract soils. Land to the east is
mostly level with old river meanders, silty ridges and numerous perennially
flooded depressions. The land slopes generally to the southwest between 60
and 40 ft above mean sea level (MSL).
3.05      The three Mymensingh thanas are situated between the Banar River
and the Old Brahmaputra River course (Map 11599), and are traversed by the
Shirkali-Muhuri and Sutia rivers. The lands are generally level but con-
tain numerous depressions, ridges and old meanders. Elevation varies from
45 ft to 40 ft above MSL in Muktagacha thana and from 35 ft to 20 ft (MSL)
in Gaffargaon and Trisal thanas.   The southwestern part of Muktagatcha
and the southern third of Gaffargaon form a slightly elevated area - Madhupur
Tract - intersected by creeks draining to the Banar River.
3.06      The seven project thanas are presently drained only by natural
watercourses, which have been extensively eroded, silted and obstructed.
Intense monsoon rains cause ponding 6 ft or deeper over about 10% of the
area, 3-6 ft deep over about 12%, 1-3 ft 41% and 0-1 ft over 37% (Annex 1).
Soils
3.07      Except for the Barind Tract in Bogra thanas and the Madhupur
Tract in Mymensingh thanas, the soils are relatively recent deltaic
alluvia. Because of the numerous streams flowing through the delta,
soils are deep, of complex clay, and have silt and sand stratifications.



-6-
The Barind and Madhupur tracts are relatively old alluvia of red clay.
The project area has moderate-to-good agricultural land capable of sus-
taining the whole range of crops growon in Bangladesh. The present land-
use pattern is largely determined by land elevation and soil moisture
retention characteristics (Annex 1).
Water Resources
3.08      The surface water resources available for dry season pump irriga-
tion in the project are limited. In the four Bogra thanas, the use of water
from the big Jamuna River is presently restricted by the Brahmaputra flood
embankment. The Bengali River's smaLl dry season flow must be largely reserved
for maintaining dry season water transport. The Karatoa River is non-peren-
nial.  In the three Mymensingh thanas, the Old Brahmaputra River course is
virtually dry in the winter. The lower reaches of the Kaoraid and Banar
river systems are subject to a small fresh water tidal inflow during the
dry season. Annual inundation fills the bils and natural drains and pro-
vides a small amount of stored water for dry season use.
3.09      Recent experience in the Bogra thanas indicates that the limit for
low-lift pump use is now being reached. In the Mymensingh thanas, a small
increase in number of pumps utilizing water from existing depressions would
be possible.
3.10      Although substantial groundwater resources for shallow and deep
tubewells exist throughout the projezt area, only limited tubewell exploita-
tion has been undertaken (Annex 1).
Agricultural Production
3.11      The present cropped area in the seven thanas is about 745,000 ac
which, on a net cultivable area of 457,000 ac, gives an overall cropping
intensity of about 160%, as compared with the national average of 136%.
The cropping intensity varies from 139% in Sherpur thana to 176% in
Muktagacha thana.
3.12      Paddy accounts for about 83% of the cropped area.  There are four
seasonal paddy crops: aus, broadcast aman (B. aman), transplanted aman (T.
aman), and boro. The seasonality and relative risks of failures of these
four crops are discussed in Annex 2. Double paddy cropping is practiced at
present on some land. Aus is grown on 195,000 ac, broadcast aman on 34,000
ac, transplanted aman on 352,000 ac and boro on 39,000 ac. Local variety
paddy predominates, with only 14% of high yielding varieties (HYV). The
local varieties yield only an average of (tons/ac): aus and B. aman- 0.5;
T. aman - 0.6, and boro - 0.7. The '4YV aus, T. aman and boro paddy yield
about 0.8, 0.9 and 1.2 tons per ac, respectively (Annex 2).



- 7 -
3.13      Jute with an average yield of about 0.5 t/ac accounts for 72,000
ac (10% of the cropped area). About 53,000 ac of dry season pulses, oil-
seeds, chillies, potatoes and other vegetables are grown utilizing residual
soil moisture and minor supplemental irrigation.
3.14      Agricultural production in the area in 1974 was estimated at
about 380,000 tons of paddy and 35,000 tons of Jute. Production data of
minor crops, such as pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and potatoes are incom-
plete.
3.15      Farmers have accepted the use of chemical fertilizers for HYV
varieties. Fertilizers, however, have largely gone to the larger farmers,
particularly when they were in short supply (i.e. 1974/75 boro crop and
1975 aman crop) which made rationing necessary. Most small farmers who
could not get their names on the sanctioned lists failed to receive fertilizers
at the low official price. Fertilizers are no longer rationed at present.
Farm work is carried out by an estimated 265,000 draft animals and by manual
labor. Animal health is poor and severely restricts farm draft power.
Diseases cause an annual death rate of 8% and keep about 20% of the animals
unfit for work. About 70% are infested with parasites (para 4.08 (c)).
3.16      A large number of ponds in the project thanas can produce fish
but most Government and communal ponds are unattended, dilapidated and non-
productive. Privately owned ponds produce an average of about 250 lb of
fish per ac of fish pond per year.
Transportation
3.17      The three Mymensingh thanas are connected to Dacca by a paved road
and a railroad. The four Bogra thanas are also connected to Dacca by a paved
road, but ferry crossings at several points cause long delays. A railroad
line passes through Bogra, Kotwali and Gabtali thanas but it is not connected
to Dacca. There is also no direct road or rail link between the two project
Districts, nor is there an air link. Thana headquarters are connected to
District headquarters by poorly maintained paved roads. A network of earth
roads link the rural hinterland to the markets and other transportation
arteries. Due to frequent floods and lack of maintenance, these roads are
in poor condition. In total, there are about 140 mi of paved roads and
about 1,000 mi of dirt roads in the project area. The Brahmaputra River and
other rivers are used throughout the year for boat transport of cargo and
passengers. Natural khals (channels) provide access to some villages by
small boats.
Storage, Marketing and Processing Facilities
3.18      Farm produce in the project thanas is largely for subsistence.
Less than 25% of the total paddy crop and a somewhat higher percentage of
vegetables, fruits and p ises are marketed. Jute is the only crop grown
primarily for the market. Farmers take their produce by carry-pole, oxcart



- 8 -
and boat to the village markets, where it is bought by small traders and
then sold to successively large brokers before reaching the wholesale deal-
ers in the town market. The rural markets congregate in open air. Frequent
monsoon rains disrupt the markets and often force small farmers to sell at
unfavorable prices. Small farmers usually sell soon after harvest. Tradi-
tionally, the lowest paddy price is received during November-January for the
main aman crop.
3.19      Farmers usually store paddy in containers of bamboo strips and
clay, placed inside their houses. The containers are only satisfactory if
paddy is well dried. Many of the private dealers have small godowns for
the storage of paddy and rice. Substantial storage losses, particularly
of the monsoon harvested aus and borD paddy are suspected. Rice for home
consumption is processed by hand pounding and by rice huskers operated by
village entrepreneurs. Most marketed paddy is milled in some 40 commercial
rice mills. There are also 12 privately operated oilseed mills, 18 jute-
balers and cold storage facilities for potatoes in the Bogra thanas.
3.20      Prior to 1974, the Government did not intervene in the market.
Jute purchases by Government-owned mLlls have been at the secondary market
level. However, after the 1974 floods when smuggling and hoarding raised
the paddy price to Tk 200/md (US$650/ton at the then prevailing exchange
rate), GOB imposed compulsory paddy procurement at Tk 74/md. This policy
of procurement was suspended in 1975.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.21      The 1974 census estimated t:he project area population at about
1.70 million of which about 0.25 mil ion are primarily non-agricultural.
A socio-economic survey conducted by IGU/RD during project preparation
indicated an average of 5.8 members lper rural household. On this basis,
it is estimated that there are about 250,000 agriculture-dependent house-
holds in the project thanas. The rural population lives in some 1,400
villages varying in population size f-rom about 500 to 2,500.
3.22      The average project area farm size is about 1.9 ac (from 1.0 ac
in Trisal to about 2.5 ac in Sherpur). Most farm holdings in the area are
heavily fragmented with plot sizes averaging about 0.3 ac. The IGU/RD
surveys showed:



- 9 -
%    Average   Z     Avg.No. % Members   %    Avg.Amt. of
Farm Size          %      Area  Family  Litera- Live-   of Co-op.   Area Inst. Credit
(Land Owned)(ac)  Holdings Owned  Size   cy Rate stock        soc.      Irri.(Taka/Family)
0 -  0.25        30        1      4.6    12    0.4        5          5.6     5
0.25 -  1.00         20       7      5.4    19    1.4        10         5.9    20
1.00 -  2.50        25       22      5.9    26    2.3       15          7.1    55
2.50 -  5.00         15      25      7.3    33    3.4        15         7.9   160
5.00 - 10.00          8      25      8.6    42    4.7       25          8.1   200
10.00 +              2       20     10.0    52    6.9       45          8.9   460
All Sizes           100     100      5.8    23    1.7        -          7.7    60
3.23      Some 30% of the families are essentially landless and another 20%
own one acre or less. About 45% of the total cultivated land is owned by 10%
of the farm families with holdings larger than 5 ac. About 80% of the culti-
vated land is owner-operated. The remaining 20% is leased by small farmers
from absentee landlords or larger farmers on a share cropping basis. About
45% of the rural families are owner-operators, 25% owner-cum-share croppers,
5% landless share croppers and 25% landless rural workers. Share cropping
is usually based on a 50-50 sharing of the crop with cash inputs shared on
a variable basis between the landowner and the share cropper. There are no
laws in Bangladesh to protect the tenure of the share croppers.
3.24      On the average, small farmers have greater illiteracy rates,
smaller membership rates in cooperative groups, fewer livestock and lower
access to irrigation water and to institutional credit. These factors
combine to constrain small farmers' productivity and depress their income.
The advantage of the larger size of holdings is magnified by the privileged
position of the larger farmers in terms of access to credit and farm inputs.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project would strengthen a number of production oriented on-
going rural programs in the project thanas. To ensure that benefits reach
the smaller farmers, physical inputs and rural credit provided under the proj-
ect would be channeled through the Comilla type of cooperatives (TCCA-KSSs).
A major effort would be made to improve the operation and management of
these cooperatives. Technical services to the cooperative members would
be strengthened. The project would comprise rural works; minor irrigation
facilities; thana facilities; and rural credit. The project would also aim
at strengthening of rural institutions and services and would include tech-
nical assistance, and monitoring and evaluation. A brief description of
project works is given below.



- 10 -
Project Works
4.02      Rural Works (Annex 3) would rehabilitate 6 mi of paved roads
and construct 9 mi of new roads to connect Gabtali and Sariakandi thanas
to the Bogra District headquarters; improve 300 mi of earth dirt roads
(Maps 1600, 11601, 11615); rehabilitate 500 ac of abandoned fish ponds;
construct 40 paved rural markets; and improve 60 mi of drainage channels.
These works would generate about four million man-days of employment over
a five year period. Assurances have been obtained from GOB to follow the
procedures and timetables detailed in Annex 3, paras 17 and 19.
4.03      Minor irrigation (Annex 4) would replace about 805 existing oversized
two cusec low-lift pumps with about 1,400 one cusec pumps over three years;
provide about 2,500 new 1/2 cusec si]allow tubewells and about 5,000 hand
pumps. Low-lift pumps and shallow tubewell equipment would be distributed by
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) to TCCA-KSS
members. Through better pump allocation procedures, the irrigation efficiency
of the low-lift pumps is expected to increase from 19 ac per cusec at present to
25 ac per cusec. The shallow tubewells would irrigate 15 ac per well. These
powered pumps and wells are expected to increase the irrigated rice area from
39,000 ac at present to about 97,000 ac. The hand pumps would each serve
about 0.3 to 1 ac. To help enforce the discipline proposed in this project
and to enable BADC to concentrate on technical services, assurances have been
obtained from GOB that in the seven thanas during project implementation, BADC
would not extend credit to the farmtrs in the project area for the purchase of
shallow tubewells. The Government has indicated that it will impose the same
restriction on BKB In the project area, primarily in order to help impgove
cooperative credit discipline. Assurances have also been obtained from GOB
for following the procedures and timetables detailed in Annex 4, paras 20-26
and for providing an adequate supply of fuel, oil and spares for pumps and
wells in the project thanas.
4.04      Thana Facilities (Annex 5) would complete the construction of four
Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDC) and four houses for the Thana
Circle Officers-Development (para. 5.02); construct 11 residential buildings
for thana officers, build four new fertilizer warehouses and seven new gen-
eral stores at the TCCA headquarters. Assurances have been obtained from
GOB for implementing the procedures and timetables detailed in Annex 5,
paras 11 to 15.
4.05      Rural Credit (Annex 6).  The project would provide the estimated
net incremental short-term credit requirements of about Tk 42 million and
would finance equipment worth about Tk 70 million (net of price contingencies)
through medium-term credit. The short-term credit would be for financing the
cost of cash inputs (mainly fertilizers and pesticides) used in crop produc-
tion. Medium-term credit would finance the purchase of shallow tubewells,
hand pumps, and simple processing equipment such as paddy driers and rice
husking machines. The credit would be channeled to the TCCA-KSS members
through the Sonali Bank, the largest nationalized Commercial Bank in the
country.



- 11 -
4.06      Short-term loans would be made for a period of six months (with
the exception of loans for sugarcane which would be for a period of 14 months).
Users of the medium-term loan would put up 10% of the total cost as downpayment
and repay the rest in up to five annual installments. Interest rate charges
for short- and medium-term loans at the farmers' level would be 17.5% and
13%, respectively. A part of the interest charges would be retained by the
Bangladesh Bank as a contribution to a credit Guarantee Fund and by TCCA-KSSs
as a provision for bad debts.
4.07      An inventory of outstanding institutional debts by farmers would be
made under the joint supervision of the Registrar of Cooperatives and the
Director General of the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP). To
help ensure credit discipline, Guidelines would be prepared and agreed to
with IDA, before credit effectiveness, for repayment or rescheduling of the
outstanding debts. To be eligible to join TCCA-KSSs, farmers would have to
settle (or reschedule) their past debts in a manner consistent with the
Guidelines. Debt inventory would be carried out in the first year of the
project for members of all cooperatives (UMPCS, TIP-KSS and TCCA-KSS) in the
project thanas. Since the TIP-KSS pump groups are to be reorganized into
TCCA-KSS pump groups, their members' debt would be repaid or rescheduled and
agreements for repayment signed with their debtors before their acceptance
to the TCCA-KSS membership. Those who fail to comply would forfeit their
right to belong to any pump group. The UMPCS in the project thanas would be
similarly reorganized into TCCA-KSSs. Farmers not belonging to any cooperative
and without outstanding cooperative debts would be recruited by TCCA-KSSs
outright. Loan processing, supervision and bookkeeping procedures of TCCA-KSSs
would be improved to minimize willful defaulting. Assurances have been obtained
from GOB to follow procedures detailed in Annex 6, paras 15 to 40.
4.08      Strengthening of Rural Institutions and Services would include
providing office, field, and laboratory equipment and vehicles for field
officers; improving working procedures; conducting short training courses
for departmental officers at the District, thana and union levels, and
for managers, accountants, model farmers and inspectors at the TCCA-KSS
level. The specific improvements planned for the various services are
summarized below:
(a) TCCA-KSS (Annex 7). The main purpose would be to strengthen
TCCA-KSS operation and to promote equitable input and credit
distribution through: revision of membership registration to
include assets (land and draft animals) and liabilities (out-
standing debts of members); improved screening of input and
rural credit application; better financial and accounting
procedures to make all applications based on verifiable data;
preparation of KSS land registers; coordination of extension,
livestock and fishery services; staff training, and expansion
of KSS membership throughout the area. Provision of low-lift
pumps, shallow tubewells, hand pumps, processing machines,



- 12 -
and fish ponds under the project exclusively to TCCA-KSS
members would facilitate expansion of TCCA-membership
coverage. The TCCA-KSS will receive scheduled visits by
extension livestock and ;-fishery officers and mass vaccination
and deworming of draft animals and poultry. The above
measures would enable matll farmers to know their rights
so that larger farmers can no longer monopolize goods,
services and credit. The GOB agreement to implement the
IRDP/TCCA/KSS work program as detailed in Annex 7, paras 17 to
34, and Exhibit 2 has been obtained.
(b) Agricultural Extension (Annex 8). The main tasks would be
to increase the effectiveness of the TCCA-KSS model farmer
training.  The training urould emphasize field practice in-
stead of classroom teaching. Extension officers would visit
TCCA-KSS villages on scheduled dates. The technical objectives
within ten years would stress improvement of basic cultural
practices in addition to use of inputs, to introduce the KSS
plan of land-use, and to extend HYV on 75% of land identified
as suitable for HYV T. anan and 50% for HYV aus. Special atten-
tion will also be paid to improvement of jute and vegetables.
Assurances have been obtained from GOB to intensify the agricul-
tural extension program as detailed in Annex 8, Exhibit 1.
(c) Livestock Improvement (Annex 9). The primary objective would
be to reduce prevailing high mortality and disability bf
draft animals by controlling major diseases and parasites.
Demonstrations of improved forage and fodder crops would also
be carried out. Assurances have been obtained frou GOB to
strengthen the livestock and veterinarian services as detailed
in Annex 9, paras 9 to 18.
(d) Pond Fisheries (Annex 10). The primary objectives would be
to bring into production the delerict ponds and to provide
an additional source of iacome for landless people in the vil-
lages. Some 500 ac of putlicly-owned fish ponds would be
selected by Thana Fishery Officers (TFO) and reclaimed by the
Rural Works Program (RWP) (Annex 3, para 16). Landless people
would be organized into TCCA Fishery Cooperatives, to manage
the reclaimed ponds. District Fishery Officers (DFO) would
conduct demonstration ponds, advise Cooperatives on pond
management and supply fislh fries. Assurances have been ob-
tained from GOB to increasie pond fish production as detailed
in Annex 10, paras 5 to 10.
(e) Training (Annex 18). The in-service training program essential
for strengthening rural institutions and services would be an
extension of the IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project
(Credit No. 621-BD). The trainees would include the District



- 13 -
and thana IRDP, extension, livestock and fishery officers,
and Union Agricultural Assistants. These officers, in turn,
would train the TCCA-KSS managers, accountants, inspectors
and model farmers. New officers joining the project would
also be trained. Training costs are included under different
categories.
4.09      Technical Assistance (Annex 19).  The project would employ con-
sultants for assisting the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives in implementing the rural works and thana facility programs,
as well as short-term consultants for providing training to TCCA/KSS staff
on rural credit operations and subsequent supervision. For other project
components, GOB has given assurances that it will make arrangements, as and
when necessary, with the following international and bilateral agencies for
their experts in Bangladesh to provide technical assistance to this project:
Agricultural Extension         --  UNDP/FAO Extension Project, UNDP/FAO
Senior Land-Use Advisor and IRRI
experts at BRRI
Livestock                     ---  German Livestock Team
Minor Irrigation               --  UNDP/ILO project for BADC
Rural Works Program            --  USAID/CARE
The project costs include a component for these expected additional expendi-
tures to be incurred for these services as well as for training GOB officers
overseas. The Central Project Executive Committee (para 5.03) would collate
requests of participating agencies for specific technical assistance.
4.10      Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 11).  Project implementation
would involve a large number of agencies, and would require adherence to
strict schedules and working procedures. Also, because of its complexity
it is possible that some project components might not proceed as planned
and might need revision. A close supervision and monitoring would, accord-
ingly, be of crucial importance for coordinating the efforts of various
agencies and for spotting the problem areas at an early date. The monitoring
system for the project would be built into the regular progress reports by
the thana and District officers of the various agencies. Project Executive
Committees at the various levels (para 5.02) would compile and review the
reports and recommend appropriate actions. To avoid burdening the field
staff unnecessarily, the monitoring would be concentrated on data of key
importance to project progress. Also, the reporting format would be designed
so that the field staff are not asked to report on items which they cannot
measure/estimate with reasonable accuracy.
4.11      Due to the importance of this project to rural development in
Bangladesh, the impact of the various project components would also re-
quire an in-depth evaluation. Particular emphasis would be given on



- 14 -
assessing the impact of the project on small farmers and on rural land-
less. Evaluation would be conducted twice -- at the mid-point and at
the end of project implementation. IJpdated socio-economic data from the
1974 survey by IGU/RD, supplemented as necessary, would be the benchmark.
The evaluation would be conducted by an independent organization acceptable
to IDA. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that within six months of
credit effectiveness GOB would submit: to IDA, for concurrence, a detailed
plan for the evaluation.
4.12      The project would also require heavier than normal supervision
by IDA. Implementation schedules for key project activities, likely to
require close supervision during implementation, are shown in Annex 11,
Exhibit 1.
Cost Estimates
4.13      Total project costs are estimated at US$24.7 million equivalent,
including US$1.6 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at US$7.7 million or 31% of the total. Estimates are
based on preliminary designs, with unit prices at July 1975 levels. An
amount of 10% has been added to these for engineering and administrative
costs for rural works, minor irrigation and thana facilities. A 20%
physical contingency is allowed for the rural works and 10% for all
other categories, except for low-lift pumps, shallow tubewells and hand
pumps, for which the numbers are fixed and unit prices are firm. Pro-
jected cost increases due to inflation have been calculated assuming the
following inflation rates:
Year
1975    1976i   1977    1978    1979    1980
Rate of Inflation (%)
Local Costs
(net of taxes
& duties)             25      20       17      15       13      12
Foreign Costs and
taxes
& duties              14      12       10      10        9       9
The resulting estimated price contingencies amount to US$7.23 million, or
about 29% of the total project cost. Below is a summary of the estimated
project costs; the details of which are shown in Annex 13:



- 15 -
% of
Total
Item               Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total/    Cost
---(Tk million)----    ---(US$ million)---
Rural Works              44.47   6.60  51.07      3.42   0.51   3.93        16
Minor Irrigation         39.11  43.82  82.93      3.01   3.37   6.38        26
Thana Facilities          7.70   1.76   9.46      0.59   0.14   0.73        3
IRDP/TCCA/KSS Program    3.32   1.38   4.70       0.26   0.11   0.36         1
Agricultural Extension   1.08   0.61   1.69       0.08   0.05   0.13         1
Livestock                 4.65   2.03   6.68      0.36   0.16   0.51        2
Fisheries                 3.42   0.73   4.15      0.26   0.06   0.32         1
Technical Assistance      0.54   1.20   1.74      0.04   0.09   0.13         1
Monitoring & Evaluation  1.25   0.15   1.40       0.10   0.01   0.11         -
Rural Credit             33.60  16.00  49.60      2.58   1.23   3.82        15
of which
Short-term credit  (28.60)(14.00)(42.60)   (2.20) (1.08) (3.28)    (13)
Medium-term
credit /b            (5.00) (2.00) (7.00)   (0.38) (0.15) (0.54)       (2)
Base Cost               139.14  74.28 213.42    10.70   5.71  16.42         67
Physical Contingencies  11.07   2.11  13.18       0.85   0.16   1.01         4
Price Contingencies      71.01  23.00  94.01      5.46   1.77   7.23        29
Total Project Cost      221.22/c99.39 320.61    17.01/C 7.65  24.66        100
(say US$24.7 million)
/a   Figures in US Dollars derived from the corresponding figures in Takas.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.
/b   Cost of shallow tubewells and hand pumps (Base cost:  Tk 62.37 million
or US$4.80 million) to be financed under the medium-term credit is
included in minor irrigation.
/c   Includes about Tk 21.0 million (US$1.62 million) in taxes and duties.
Financing
4.14      The proposed IDA credit of US$16 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost and about half of local currency costs or about 69% of
the total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The Government is respons-
ible for financing the costs not covered by IDA credit. Funds equivalent to
US$1.6 million would come from the Sonali Bank which in addition to its
present portfolio, would provide half of the incremental short-term credit
needs of the project area farmers. Users of medium-term credit would put up
US$0.8 million as down payment and would provide another US$2.3 million
as installment payments during the project implementation period. The
GOB would finance the remaining project costs of US$4.0 million through



- 16 -
annual budget appropriations . In view of the low foreign exchange reserves
of Bangladesh, the difficulties in financing local currency costs from bud-
getary resources, and the high priority nature of this project, the above
financing plan is considered appropriate.
4.15      A consolidated Project Evaluation Proforma (PEP) 1/ has been approved
by GOB for the project as a whole, with programs and budgets for different
agencies listed under separate headtiags. According to the project plan and
PEP, funds for defraying the project costs would be provided by GOB to
different agencies, as additional appropriation to their respective budgets.
4.16      Assurances have been obtained from GOB that the Government would
establish two revolving funds -- one for the rural credit component and one
for all other components -- and would replenish these funds at the beginning
of each month to maintain balances adequate to cover the estimated requirements
for the following three months. A condition of effectiveness would be that
GOB has made initial contributions of Ti 4.0 million each to the two funds
(in the case of the rural credit fund, Tk 2.0 million each to short- and
medium-term sub-accounts, respectively).
Procurement
4.17      Except for comon items such as vehicles and office equipment,
each agency would be responsible for its own procurement under the project
and would submit all documents to the Central Project Executive Committee
(para 4.21). The Comittee would be responsible for procurement of common
items, for maintaining records of all equipment and services procured under
the project, and for collating applications for reimbursement from IDA.
Equipment and supplies estimated to cost about US$4.4 million (net of con-
tingencies) would be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA Guidelines. A preference limited to 15X of the cif price
of imported goods or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.  Procurement of off-the-
shelf imported items costing less than US$10,000 each would be purchased
through normal Government procurement: procedures, which are satisfactory to
IDA. Such purchases would, however, be limited to US$200,000 in total.
Goods financed with short-term credit. would be procured through com ercial
chamels.
4.18      Vehicles estimated to cost US$200,000 would be procured through
local competitive bidding under Government procedures satisfactory to IDA,
since the number of vehicles involved (Annex 13, Table 2) is small and
therefore it would be difficult to attract foreign bidders for these con-
tracts.
1/   The PEP is a project report prepared for the Planning Commission.
Approval of the PEP by an interministerial National Economic Council
(NEC) is required before local funds for the project can be released.



- 17 -
4.19      Because most of the civil works amounting to US$4.7 million (net
of contingencies) would be simple, individually very small, labor-intensive,
scattered over a wide area, restricted to seasonal construction, and could
not be grouped into large contracts, they are unsuitable for international
competitive bidding. With the exception of the earth works, they would be
carried out on the basis of local competitive bidding under Government pro-
cedures satisfactory to IDA. The earth works of RWP and thana facilities,
would be carried out on a force account basis, as they are customarily done
under the supervision of the Union Committee for Rural Works Program.
Implementation Schedule
4.20      Project implementation would take five (six fiscal) years.  All oper-
ational equipment would be procured in the first year. The construction of
project buildings would be completed in two years; the construction of paved
roads and replacement of low-lift pumps in three years. Other project works
would be spread over five years in line with the growth of TCCA-KSSs (Annex
11, Exhibit 1).
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements from the credit account would be made for (a) 70% of
the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory or 70% of other local expenditures for vehicles and
equipment (Annex 13, Table 2); (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of
local expenditure for consulting services, technical assistance and project
evaluation; and (d) 50% of local expenditures for incremental short-term
rural credit requirements. 1/ Disbursements against (a) and (b) and individual
local expenditure costing more than US$1,000 equivalent would be fully
documented. Disbursements against (d) and individual local expenditures
costing less than US$1,000 under (c) would be made against certificate of
expenditure the documentation for which would not be submitted but would be
available for review during the course of project supervision. It is ex-
pected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1981 (assuming
credit becomes effective before July 1, 1976), approximately six months after
the end of a five year implementation period. An estimated schedule of ex-
penditures of the project, a semi-annual disbursement schedule and the pro-
posed allocation of the proceeds of the credit are shown in Annex 13. The
Central Project Executive Committee (para 5.03) would be responsible for
collating all project accounts of all participating agencies and for preparing
and sending certified applications for reimbursement from IDA.
1/   Incremental requirements refer to increment of lending at any time over
that of the highest lending volume previously. For Year One, it would
be the increment over the 1975 T. aman loans made by the Sonali Bank
in the project thanas (Annex 6, para 24).



- 1B -
Accounts and Audit
4.22      All agencies participating in project implementation are Government
bodies subject to normal Government control and auditing procedures. Assur-
ances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a) All participating agencieni would maintain separate
accounts for the project a1t thana, District and
Central levels and would *,end copies to the
respective Project Execut.ive Committees.
(b) Auditors acceptable to IDiA would audit these
accounts annually and the audited accounts,
together with the auditor's comments, would
be sent to IDA within six months of the close
of each fiscal year.
(c) Auditing of the rural cre<lit accounts would continue
until all loans provided to farmers during the project
implementation period are repaid.
Environmental Impact
4.23      The project would enhance the environment by improving land drain-
age, rehabilitating stagnant fish ponds, providing water supplies to rural
markets and road access for rural health services. The extension service
would teach farmers the safe use of pesticides.
V. ORGANIZAI'ION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      The project, aimed at institution-building, would utilize the
existing GOB organizations at all levels. It would focus on creating a
replicable pattern of interagency coordination at the field level by es-
tablishing clear work procedures and by delineating the area of responsi-
bility for the various participating agencies. Also, by providing improved
accommodations (office and residential), equipment and vehicles and job-
related training, the project would enhance staff motivation as well as
effectiveness. The work procedures and agency responsibilities are given
in Annexes 3 through 10. Detailed project organization charts are given
in Annex 12.
Project Executive Committees (Annex 12)
5.02      The Project Executive Committees have already been established.
There are seven thana committees, two District committees and a Central
committee. Circle Officers (Development) serve as the thana committee



- 19 -
chairmen and Deputy Commissioners, as chairmen of the District committees.
The Director General of IRDP serves as the chairman of the Central Project
Executive Committee. The IRDP officers serve as executive secretaries of
the committees at all three levels. All participating agencies are re-
presented on the three levels of committees, thus maintaining their re-
spective chains of command.
5.03      The Central Project Executive Committee would be responsible for
overall project execution and coordination, and for reporting progress to
and applying for reimbursement from IDA. The Committee would review the
annual work programs of the various participating agencies. It would also
manage the two revolving funds to be established for the project. The IRDP
Director for Extension and Training would serve as the secretary of the
committee.
Central Project Coordination Committee
5.04      A Central Project Coordination Committee has been formed under the
co-chairmanship of the Secretaries of Agriculture/Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives. Committee members include: Chief, Rural
Institution Division, Planning Commission; Joint Secretary of Ministry of
Forestry, Fishery and Livestock; Chairman of BADC; Director, Agricultural
Credit Department of the Bangladesh. Bank, and Director General of IRDP who
would also serve as the Committee secretary. The Committee would determine
policy issues and approve detailed work procedures submitted by the Central
Project Executive Committee. Approved procedures would be issued as official
orders by ministries concerned. The Committee would see to it that Govern-
ment project funds will be allocated to the implementing agencies according
to tue PEP, and that major coordination problems are resolved. Also, it would
correspond with IDA on policy matters related to the project. Assurance
has been obtained that GOB would make lands available whenever such lands
are needed for implementing the project.
Agency Responsibilities
5.05      The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Coopera-
tives has four agencies participating in the project areas:
(a)  IRDP - The IRDP is responsible for organizing and supervising
the operation and management of TCCA-KSS in the country.
It would be responsible for improvement of TCCA-RSS
operation as stipulated in Annex 7. In addition, it
would be responsible for the day-to-day coordination
of project progress at all levels (Annex 7).
(b)  Rural Works Program - A Joint Secretary of the Ministry,
with an engineering staff, is in charge of the Rural Works
Program. The District Engineers (RWP) under the supervision
of Assistant Director Rural Development would prepare designs



- 20 -
and estimates, issue tenders, select bids and supervise
the construction of the project pucca (paved) roads as well
as make payments to conl:ractors. The Thana Circle
Officer (Development) assisted by thana overseers/
supervisors would execut1e the pucca work involved in the
construction and rehabilitation of dirt roads and
rural markets, while the Union Committees for RWP
would hire landless people to do earth work (Annex 3).
(c) Department of Cooperatives - The Department would be
responsible for making inventory of outstanding debts
by members of traditional cooperatives, rescheduling
and causing such debts to be collected (Annex 6) and
for cooperating with IRDP in reorganizing the existing
non-TCCA low-lift pump and shallow tubewell groups and
UMPCS into TCCS-KSSs (Annex 7). It would also register
all new cooperatives, including TCCA-KSSs.
(d) Local Government Department - Supervised by the Local
Government Department, the Deputy Commissioners of the
two Districts, and Thana Circle Officers (Development)
would serve as Chairmen of the District and Thana Project
Executive Committees (Annex 12).
5.06      The Ministry of Agriculture has two agencies participating in
the project area:
(a) BADC - would be in charge of procurement of low-lift pumps
and shallow tubevell equipment. The BADC Thana Irrigation
officers would be responsible for selecting sites, installation,
supplying oil and fuel, .nd training operators.  The BADC
thana workshop would be :responsible for maintenance of pumps
and equipment (Annex 4). Fertilizer for TCCA-KSSs would
also be allocated through BADC (Annex 7).
(b) Agriculture Department (Extension and Management) - would be
responsible for revitalizing the model farmer training and
for implementing the intensified extension program designed
for KSS-wide adoption (Annex 8).
5.07      The Ministry of Forestry., Fishery and Livestock has two agencies
participating in the project area.
(a) The Livestock Department - would supply the vaccines and
serum, veterinarians, ancl implement vaccination, deworming
and forage/fodder demonst:ration programs (Annex 9).
(b) The Fisheries Department - would implement the fish pond
component of the project (Annex 10).



- 21 -
5.08      The Sonali Bank would be responsible for extending both the short-
term and medium-term credit to TCCA-KSS members (Annex 6). The Bangladesh
Bank would supervise the project-related activities of the Sonali Bank.
Additional Staff
5.09      The following additional staff would be deployed by GOB in the
project. Unless already covered by other GOB projects, 1/ their salaries,
training costs, per diem and travel expenses would be included in the PEP.
(a) IRDP -- One Deputy Thana Project Officer and one Thana
Training Officer would be assigned to each project thana,
and sufficient supporting staff would be provided at IRDP
headquarters to assist the Director of Extension and
Training in performing his duty as the secretary of the
Central Project Executive Committee.
(b) Extension Officers -- One Thana Extension Officer would
be assigned to each project thana and at least 180 Village
Extension Agents to the 90 project unions.
(c) Livestock Officers -- Vaccinators would be gradually
increased to a total of 70 vaccinators for the seven
thanas by Year Five.
(d) Fishery Officers -- One additional thana fishery officer
and two field men would be added to each of the seven
thanas.
(e) TCCA -- As new KSSs are organized, the number of TCCA In-
spectors, Assistant Inspectors (AI) and Village Accountants
(VA) would be increased according to the existing TCCA regu-
lations which provide for the hiring of one VA for every six
KSSs; one AI for every 12 KSSs, and one Inspector for every
five AI. It is projected that the VA would be increased
from 104 at present to 167 by Year Five; AI from 52 to 83,
and Inspectors from 10 to 17. The salaries and other ex-
penses for the employment of these officers are expected to
be met increasingly from the TCCAs' increased incomes from
the rural credit and other service commissions during the
first two years, and fully beginning the third year of the
project (Annex 7).
5.10      Assurances have been obtained that the Government would assign
adequate numbers of additional staff to the project thanas and at IRDP head-
quarters as proposed in para 5.09. Assurances have also been obtained
that the VE&s to be assigned to the project area would be solely engaged
1/   Such as TEOs and VEAs under (b).



- 22 -
in agricultural extension activities. The issuance of the detailed
implementation procedures as official orders by the concerned ministries
(para 5.04) would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Operation and Maintenance
5.11      Operation and Maintenance (O & M) cost for equipment and vehicles
for the various participating agencies would be provided by the project
during the five year implementation period. After project implementation,
GOB would provide adequate 0 & M costs through its regular budgetary appro-
priations to the concerned agencies. The 0 & M cost of low-lift pumps,
shallow tubewells, processing machines, fish ponds, and rural markets
would be borne by the users. The maintenance cost of thana facilities,
roads, and drains would be borne by GOB.
Charges
5.12      The BADC-owned low-lift pumps are rented to user groups at a
country-wide rental of Tk 600 per 2 cusec pump per year (dry season use
only) and Tk 350 per year per 1 cusec pump. In addition, the pump group
pays for diesel oil, spares and the pump driver. These charges cover
only about 50% of the overall cost of pump irrigation. They do repre-
sent, however, a substantial improvement over the previous years when
BADC used to pay for the spares and the driver as well. The GOB's first
Five Year Plan aims at eliminating all subsidies to irrigation by the
end of the plan period. The project would adopt the national rates.
Shallow tubewells and hand pumps to be provided under the project would
be sold to the users at full cost.
5.13      Currently, vaccination of animals and poultry is provided free of
cost. Partially, this policy reflects the ineffectiveness of the current
programs. To promote a rapid acceptance of the mass vaccination and de-
wormiag programs proposed under the project, the existing policy would have
to be followed until the project has produced a visible impact at the village
level. Assurances have been obtained that within three years of the credit
effectiveness, GOB would review the situation and propose a fee collection
plan from the users to recover at least the 0 & M costs of the equipment and
vehicles in use for the livestock disease control program.
5.14      Assurances have also been obtained that within one year of the
credit effectiveness GOB would present to IDA, for concurrence, a proposal
for the management of the rural marksets along with a schedule of fees/rents
to be collected from the users.



- 23 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
6.01      Improved extension and land-use planning services, better farmer
organization, more equitable input and rural credit distribution, improved
drainage and increase in irrigated area would lead to a higher cropping
intensity (rising from about 160% to 1742), accelerated transformation into
HYV's, and increased yields. It is estimated that at full development in
Year Ten, HYV's would extend to about 75% of the potential areas 1/ suitable
for HYV T. aman cultivation under rainfed conditions and to 502 for HYV
aus.
6.02      Paddy would continue to be the dominant crop; the most significant
developments would be the accelerated replacement of traditional rice varie-
ties by HYV's and improvements in yields as indicated below:
Future with Project    Future without Project
Crop Variety           Present                (Year Ten)                 (Year Ten)
Area Cropped-a Yield/b  Area Cropped/a Yield-b  Area Cropped/a Yield/b
(2)       (t/ac)         (%)       (tlac)         (Z)        (t/ac)
Aus (HYV)             12         0.8           50          1.0           37         0.9
Transplanted
Aman (HYV)           13         0.9           46          1.2           38         1.1
Boro (HYV)            53          1.2          74          1.7           62         1.5
Total Paddy
(HYV)               14                       47
/a   HYV area as Z of aus, T. aman and boro total areas.
/b   For HYV's.
Project area paddy production would increase from about 380,000 tons at
present to about 660,000 tons at full development in Year Ten; in the
absence of the project, however, production is estimated to rise to about
545,000 tons (Annex 2).
6.03      Jute yields would increase slightly, but the area planted is
expected to remain static. Rabi production of potatoes, vegetables and
oil seeds would increase substantially, but are not accounted for in the
project analysis due to unpredictable variations in annual planted acreage.
1/   Based on estimates of H. Brammer, "The Potential for Rainfed HYV Rice
Cultivation in Bangladesh" Credit No. 409-BD, 1974.



- 24 -
Marketing and Processing
6.04      The project thanas presently have a food grain deficit of about
10-20% of the total demand. The 280,000 ton increase in paddy production
would turn this deficit into a marginal surplus by 1985, taking into account
the projected population increases. With the prospect of continuing food
shortages for Bangladesh, marketing of any disposable surplus would pose
no problem.
6.05      The fairly active private grain dealers are expected to provide
the additional paddy storage and milling required by the project. The
credit schemes for small paddy driers and husking machines under the proj-
ect would further help to meet demand for additional processing facilities
in the villages.
Prices
6.06      Prices for rice, jute and farm inputs used in this report are
derived from the Bank's projected 1985 world market prices expressed in
1975 constant prices. Production of crops other than rice and jute is
relatively small and most of the output is consumed locally.  Projected
prices for these products are based on the historical ratios between their
prices and the rice price. These ratios have been fairly constant during
the last decade.
6.07      Based on a projected world market price of US$325 per ton fob
Bangkok for high grade rice (5% broken), the price for low to medium
quality rice (25%-35% broken) cif Chittagong is estimated at US$255 per
ton. After allowance for transport and handling, the equivalent farm
gate price is Tk 85 per maund (82.5 lb) of aman paddy, which is the
preferred crop. Boro and aus are priced somewhat lower. The estimated
farm gate price for jute (Tk 115 per maund) is based on a projected world
market price of US$405 per ton.
6.08      For economic analysis, the official exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 13
has been adjusted to a shadow exchange rate of US$1 - Tk 16 to reflect the
foreign exchange scarcity. The assumptions behind the shadow exchange rate
and all projected prices used in the financial and economic analysis are
discussed in Annex 14.
Farm Income
6.09      Present and projected farm budgets have been analyzed on the basis
of three representative farm sizes: 1.5 ac, 4.0 ac and 8.0 ac (Annex 15).
Although some off farm earning opportunities exist, only the value of crop
production has been included as income in the analysis. Because GOB intends
to eliminate subsidies for agricultural inputs, the analysis assumes that no
subsidies exist in the future. The znnual net incomes from farming, including
the imputed value of produce consumed on the farm (in 1975 prices), for the
three representative farm types are:



- 25 -
Present     Future with Project       Increase in
Farm Size        (Tk)             (Tk)                Percent
1.5         2,450               4,300                75
4.0         6,270               9,800                56
8.0        10,200              15,500                52
In the derivation of these farm incomes, cash payments for hired labor and
inputs, including the operating and capital recovery costs of low-lift pump/
shallow tubewells has been charged as production costs.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      Bangladesh presently imports about 20% of its food grain demand
and this severely strains its already precarious balance of payments situa-
tion. A direct project benefit from the increased rice production would
consequently be the foreign exchange savings. The project would also in-
crease the draft animal power supply and production of fish which forms 80%
of protein supply in the Bengali diet. The cultivators in the project area
would benefit from increased farm incomes. The landless laborers and the
underemployed marginal farmers would benefit from increased employment
opportunities, from intensified agricultural and fishery activities, rural
works programs, and secondary services such as transportation, marketing
and processing. The rural population in the area would also benefit from
improvements in social infrastructure such as village markets and roads.
7.02      Perhaps even more important is the role of this project as a
prototype for strengthening and revitalizing the country's rural institu-
tions which are vital to improving the conditions of rural Bengalis. A
special feature of the project is that it explicitly aims at reducing the
domination of the rural institutions by "large" farmers, thus making the
institutions responsive to the needs of the small farmers (para 4.08).
Production
7.03      At full development, the project related increased production of
75,000 tons of rice (115,000 tons of paddy, para 6.02) would represent an
annual gross foreign exchange savings of about US$19.0 million. Allowing
for increased foreign exchange costs of fuel, fertilizer, pesticides and
spares and replacements for pumps and tubewells, the net annual foreign
exchange savings due to the project would be about US$15.0 million.
7.04      The project would also have a beneficial effect on the production
of jute and minor crops such as pulses, vegetables, potatoes and oilseeds,
etc. Rehabilitation of the 500 ac of fish ponds and strengthening of the



- 26
fisheries programs in the seven thanaEs would substantially increase the annual
catch. The provision of vaccination services for the draft cattle would
reduce the mortality rate and increase draft power availability. However,
since the project primarily concentrates on rice production, the benefits
for minor crops, fisheries and livestc,ck, were not quantified.
Social Infra-Structure
7.05      The construction and rehabilitation of roads and village markets
would indirectly help in increasing farm production and directly in easing
transporation and marketing pproblems.
Employment Opportunities
7.06      The shift from local varieties to HYV's and the more intensive
land use, would create, at full development, additional annual farm labor
requirements of about 11.2 million man-days or about 25Z over the current
level (Annex 16). However, over the same period, the population and the
labor supply is also likely to increase in about the same proportion and,
accordingly, there is unlikely to be any significant improvement in the
unemployment and underemployment situation currently prevailing in the
project area. Without the project, however, the situation is likely to
get even worse. This merely highlights the population pressure on the
cultivated land in the country and the difficulties in creating new employ-
ment in Bangladesh agriculture.
7.07      The prospects for non-farm employment are considered to be more
hopeful. It is likely that the increased agricultural production, through
backward and forward linkages, would create substantially increased employ-
ment in activities such as marketing, transportation, processing, handicrafts
and other services. During the project implementation there would also be
employment equivalent to about 12,000 man-years created by the RWP.
Income Distribution
7.08      Farms in the project area are somewhat smaller than in most other
parts of Bangladesh and the cultivation practices in the area are somewhat
less developed. Consequently, it is estimated that the present per capita
income in the project area is only about US$70 1/, compared to the national
average of about US$100. Rough calculations indicate that per capita income
of US$75 is about the minimum income necessary to supply the basic require-
ment for subsistence in Bangladesh conditions. It is estimated that only
families owning 2.5 ac or more, constituting some 25% of all households,
have per capita incomes over the "poverty line". Thus, most of the potential
project beneficiaries are poor in the absolute sense.
1/   This estimate is based on a "normal" world market price of US$325
(1975 dollars) per ton fob Bangkok for 5% broken rice.



- 27 -
7.09      With project, it is estimated that the per capita income would
increase to about US$90 at full development in 1985. Assuming, optimis-
tically, that the national average increases about 1% per annum over that
period, the project would still considerably improve the relative income
of the project area farmers - the average per capita income would increase
from about 70% to about 82Z of the national average.
7.10      Currently, in the project thanas, as in the rest of the country, the
allocation of most agricultural inputs such as pumps, wells, credit, fertil-
izer, insecticides, and fuel are dominated by politically influential "large"
farmers. Small farmers, on the other hand, cannot get production requirements
and often have to buy fertilizers on the black market at inflated prices.
This reduces their net returns as well as their incentive to use such inputs.
By ensuring access to these inputs on an equal basis to all farmers, the pro-
ject would act to arrest the gradually worsening situation of the small farmers
in the project thanas.
7.11      The landless and the small farmers would also be indirectly
benefited from increased food grain availability. Generally, these groups
have to purchase a substantial part of their food grain consumption in the
market and are the worst affected by food grain scarcity. Increased local
supplies would mean a downward pressure on the local rice price and hence
an increase in their "real" incomes.
7.12      The increased employment by about 25% in agriculture, and perhaps
substantially higher in non-farm activites, would help the landless labor-
ers to improve their situation somewhat. Because of the rapidly increasing
population, without the project, they would be hard pressed to retain the
status quo".
Economic Rate of Return
7.13      Based on the following assumptions, the project's economic rate of
return is estimated to be over 40% (Annex 17):
(a)  A five-year project implementation and a thirty
year project life;
(b)  full agricultural development five years after
project completion;
(c)  projected 1985 world market prices in terms of
1975 dollars for crops, fuel, fertilizers and
pesticides;
(d)  allowance for the shortage of foreign exchange by
using a shadow rate of US$1 = Tk 16;



- 28 -
(e) all farm labor valued at about 45% of the peak
market wage (see Annex 16) and construction labor
at the market wage;
(f) only the increase in paddy production due to the
project is included in the benefits; benefits
from increased production oE jute, rabi crops,
fisheries and improved livestock are not included
in the analysis; and
(g) inclusion of all project coits except price con-
tingencies, taxes and dutie;4 and short-term agri-
cultural credit; the capita:L cost of low-lift
pumps which are merely a replacement for the
existing pumps is also excluided from the "economic"
cost.
7.14      The project involves a variety of inputs and outputs whose rela-
tionships are defined, at best, vaguely.  Also, many of them are difficult
to "price" appropriately. Accordingly, the margin of error in the ROR esti-
mate is likely to be quite substantial. Tests made to determine the sensi-
tivity of the ROR estimate to various alternative assumptions about costs
and benefits indicate that returns remain high under a variety of adverse
assumptions, e.g. even if the foreign exchange were to be valued at the
official exchange rate (US$1.00 - Tk 13.00) or all the farm labor were to
be priced at the peak market wage rate (Tk 15/man-day), the rate of return
would remain over 40%. Similarly, even if the net benefits were 25% smaller,
or the investment costs 25% higher, or the build-up of project benefits con-
siderably slower, the rate of return would still exceed 40%. Finally, in
the rather unlikely event that the last three conditions occur simultaneously
i.e. the benefits are 25% lower, the costs 25% higher and the build-up of
benefits slower, the rate of return would be about 30%.
7.15      By conventional standards, the returns estimated for this project
are rather high. However, this should not be surprising for, in contrast
to the conventional capital intensive projects, the primary emphasis in
this project is to achieve increased production by promoting a markedly
better technology (rainfed HYV cultivation) through marginal (capital)
investments in institutional improvement. It should be noted though that
the preparation and implementation of projects such as this imposes heavy
demand on trained manpower -- a resource which currently in many developing
countries is perhaps even more scarce than capital.
Project Replicability
7.16      An important issue in projects such as this is the financial,
administrative and technical feasibility of replicating the project in
other areas.  The model developed in this project would be eminently suitable
for most of the country. Financially, the project represents an investment



- 29 -
of about US$100 1/ per rural family spread over a five year period. Exter-
sion of the project to the estimated 10 million rural families in Bangladesh
would represent a cost of about US$1 billion -- a rather substantial sum,
but well within the means of the country, particularly in view of the ex-
pressed interest of other donors in this area. Administratively, the
project is designed to make the maximum use of the institutions and organi-
zations already in existence in the rural areas. A deliberate effort is
made to strengthen and improve the existing institutions rather than to
bypass them by creating new boards or project authorities. It is hoped
that the improved working procedures evolved in this project would be
transferable, quickly and directly, to other areas in the country. The
on-the-job training programs emphasized in great detail in this project
are likely to produce a fairly large cadre of middle-level field staff, 2/
well versed in the planning and implementation of such projects. Finally,
the project is essentially based on the promotion of HYV cultivation under
rainfed conditions and of better utilization of surface and groundwater
through minor irrigation schemes. Both of these have a large potential
in most parts of Bangladesh making the project experience applicable on
a country-wide basis.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement on the following points has been obtained from GOB:
(a) Rural Works Program (para 4.02), Minor Irrigation Program
(para 4.03), Thana Facilities Program (para 4.04), Rural
Credit Program (paras 4.05 to 4.07), TCCA-KSS Co-operative
Program (para 4.08 (a)), Agricultural Extension Service
(para 4.08 (b)), Livestock Program (para 4.08 (c)) and the
Fisheries Program (para 4.08 (d)) would be carried out
according to the agreed implementation procedures. In
implementing these components, GOB would employ foreign
consultants for rural credit, local consultants for the
rural works program, and as and when needed, seek technical
assistance from the experts stationed in Bangladesh under
projects being financed from other external assistance
(para 4.09).
(b) During project implementation, BADC and BKB would not sell
on credit any shallow tubewells in the seven project
thanas (para 4.03).
1/   Excluding short-term credit and price contingencies.
2/   In addition to existing staff, the project calls for 35 new thana level
officers, 180 VEAs, 70 vaccinators, 20 skilled workers and 28 unskilled
workers for seven thanas, costing about TK 1.2 million or US$0.1 million
in salary per year. Applying this rate to 413 thanas of the whole
country would cost a total of TK 71 million, or US$5.5 million per year.



- 3O -
(c) The Government would provide adequate supplies of fuel,
oil and spares for pumps a2nd wells in the project thanas
(para 4.03).
(d) Within six months of the credit effectiveness, the
Government would submit tc' IDA, for concurrence, a
detailed plan for project evaluation (para 4.11).
(e) The Government would estatlish two revolving funds -- one
for the rural credit component and one for all other com-
ponents -- and would replenish these funds at the beginning
of each month to maintain balances adequate to cover the
estimated requirements for the following three months
(para 4.16).
(f) All participating agencies would maintain separate
accounts for the project at the thana, District and
Central levels and would send copies to the respective
Project Executive Committees. Auditors satisfactory to
IDA would audit these accounts annually and the audited
accounts, together with the auditor's comments, would be
sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. Auditing of the rural credit accounts would continue
until all loans provided tD farmers under the project are
repaid (para 4.22).
(g) The Government would make lands available whenever such
lands are needed for implemnenting the project (para 5.04);
(h) The Government would maintain the project organization
which has been agreed with IDA and would assign an
adequate number of additionaal staff to the project
thanas and at IRDP headqua-rters (para 5.10).
(i) The VEAs to be assigned to the project area would be
solely engaged in agricultural extension activities
(para 5.10).
(j) Within three years of the credit effectiveness, GOB
would review the issue of charging the users for the
services of the Livestock D)epartment and would propose
to IDA a fee collection plan to recover at least the
0 & M costs of the equipment and vehicles in use for
the livestock disease control program (para 5.13).
(k) Within one year of the creclit effectiveness, GOB would
present to IDA, for concurrence, a proposal for the
management of the rural markets constructed under the
project along with a schedule of fees/rents to be col-
lected from the users (parai 5.14).



- 31 -
8.02      GOB has met the following conditions for presenting this
project to the Executive Directors:
(a) Approval of legal documents as negotiated by Government.
(b) Approval of PEP by the Government (para 4.15).
(c) Establishment of a Central Project Coordination
Committee and Central, District and Thana
Project Executive Committees (paras 5.02 and 5.04).
(d) Receipt by IDA of an outline of the guidelines referred to
in para 8.03 (a).
8.03      Conditions for credit effectivess would include:
(a) Guidelines for total or partial repayment of the
outstanding debts, acceptable to IDA, had been
received from the Government (para 4.07).
(b) The establishment of the two revolving funds and their
initial funding by the Government in the amount of
Tk 4 million each (para 4.16).
(c) Issuance of official orders by ministries concerned
to participating agencies at Central, District and
thana levels giving the detailed working procedures
as agreed upon between GOB and IDA (para 5.10).
8.04      With the above agreements,the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$16 million equivalent on standard IDA terms. The
Borrower would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
April 28, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Physical Environment
Location
1.        The four Bogra thanas (Kotwali, Sherpur, Gabtali and Sariakandi)
are about 90 air miles northwest of Dacca, while the three Mymensingh thanas
(Muktagacha, Trisal and Gaffargaon) are about 55 mi north of that city (Map
11599).
Climate
2.        Although Bangladesh lies 20.5° N (the project area, about 24° N)
of the equator and a larger part lies in the temperate zone, the Himalaya
range shields it from cold northern wind and bottles up the monsoon winds
blowing inward from the tropical.Bay of Bengal. Moreover, 90% of its land
lies below 150 ft above sea level.  Bangladesh, therefore, has a warm sub-
tropical monsoon climate rather than a temperate climate. Essential
climatic data of the two Districts are given in Tables 1 and 2.
3.        The project thanas have three main seasons:  the wet season, June
to October, during which occurs aboult 80% of the total annual rainfall; the
dry season, November to February, with very little rainfall and the lowest
temperatures and humidity, and the premonsoon season, March to May, with
the highest temperatures and evaporation, and occasional thunder showers
which provide about 15% of the annu;l rainfall. Even during the wet season
the rainfall is erratic.
4.        The mean annual rainfall '-L about 68 inches for the Bogra thanas
and about 88 inches for the Mymensingh thanas. The temperatures are gen-
erally warm with a mean monthly range of 70-85°F. The daily minimum tem-
perature, however, may drop to 60°F towards later November during cold
spells. Relative humidity is generally high.
Topography
5.        The four Bogra thanas cover about 375,000 ac and are situated in
one contiguous block to the immediate west of the large Jamuna River (the
upper reach of the Brahmaputra), but- they are shielded from the river by
the Brahmaputra embankment. The land slopes generally toward the southwest,
with elevations varying frog 60 ft Jbove mean sea level (MSL) to about 40 ft.
Two medium-large rivers flowing north-south, intersect the area (see Map
11599). The Bengali in Sherpur thana is seasonal with negligible flows
in the dry season.
-32-



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The area is divided into two distinct topographic units.  In the
area west of the Karatoa River (the western part of Kotwali and Sherpur
thanas), the land rises to an elevated terrace, known as the Barind Tract.
About two-thirds of Barind Tract lands are level and one-third, where it
joins the plains to the east, is broadly dissected. The tract is typical
of a large formation of the northwest region of Bangladesh. The land east
of the Karatoa River is level, in a broad sense, but contains old meanders
and numerous sand ridges and depressions (bils), formed by the Teesta,
Jamuna, Karatoa and Bengali river flood actions. The Brahmaputra east
embankment protects the area from flooding by the river, but the area is
regularly inundated during the monsoon season by rainfall and runoff of
the catchment of the tributaries flowing through the area. Periodically,
overflow of the Teesta River descending from the north contributes to the
inundation. Lands east of the Brahmaputra embankment in Sariakandi thana
comprise an extensive area of low lying sandy land (chars) in the main flood
plain.
7.        The three thanas in Mymensingh comprise about 238,000 ac and are
located southwest of the Old Brahmaputra River. The lands lie mostly on
the Old Bralimaputra flood plain where the main channel was until 1787. The
relief comprises the broad silty ridges and basins of a meandering plain.
The southwestern part of Muktagacha and the southern third of Gaffargaon are
on the remains of the Madhupur Tract, an older, slightly elevated and more
dissected area.  M4uktagacha thana is situated between the Banar and the Old
Brahmaputra rivers to the west of the city of Mymensingh (Map 11599). The
nonperennial Shirkali (called the Mluhuri in its lower reaches) flows through
the area between the two perennial rivers. The land is mostly level. Eleva-
tion varies from 45 ft to 40 ft MSL. Fairly numerous bils (low-lying basins
about 8 ft lower than surrounding ground) provide for some micro-relief.
Trisal and Gaffargaon thanas form a contiguous block located south and east
of Mymensingh City, and lie between the Old Brahmaputra and the Muhuri-Banar
River system. These two thanas are separated from the Muktagacha thana by
the Mymensingh Kotwali thana (Map 11599).  The nonperennial Sutia River
crosses Trisal and joins the Banar at the southwest corner of the thana.
Trisal thana is generally flat and gently slopes to the south between eleva-
tions of 35 ft and 20 ft MSL.  Bils and old meanders provide micro-relief.
The main river channels are cut deep into the surrounding plain. At lower
water levels, the Old l3rahmaputra water surface is about 35 ft below the
adjacent land. The northern part of Gaffargaon is similar to Trisal.
Farther south and on the Mladhupur Tract, the topography of the thana be-
comes increasingly broken and complex and is deeply intersected by creeks
that drain into the Banar River.
Soils
8.        The Teesta, Jamuna and Karatoa flood plain of the Bogra thanas
have sandy to silty ridges, broad level silty to clayey depressions, and
sandy char land along the Jamuna River. The Barind Tract has slowly per-
meable soils overlying little-weathered red Madhupur clay. Because of the
elevation, the tract is generally flood free.
-33-



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        The Old Brahmaputra flood plain of the Mymensingh thanas has
broad silty ridges and meandering clayey basins, but there are narrow
strips of sandy to very sandy land in Trisal thana next to the Old
Brahmaputra River. The Madhupur Tract of Gaffargaon and Muktagacha thanas
consists mainly of Madhupur clay which gives rise to both loamy and clay
soils, and a red, mottled, pervious clay substratum. It is generally well
drained on higher ridges but poorly drained on lower terraces.
10.       There are no problem scoils in the project area.  All of the soils,
except the very sandy char land, can grow the cereals and other crops
normally grown in Bangladesh. TLe Barind and Madhupur tracts are also
suitable for growing fruit and other trees. The land use pattern of the
flood plains is primarily determined by the normal state of annual flooding
and the water retention ability cf the soils (Annex 2). The raised home-
stead land is used for growing trees and kharif vegetables.
Natural Drainage
11.       Monsoon rains of great intensity cause ponding over large areas
of the project; the water is removed through the area in natural drains
as the main river levels fall. The project areas are reasonably favorably
situated (elevations 60-40 ft MSL) so the natural drains are effective.
Removal of obstructions in the drains and enlargement would increase the
effectiveness of the natural drai:is. An indication of the extent and depth
of flooding in the thanas is illu3trated by the following:
Depth of Flooding
0-1 Ft      1-3 Ft    3-6 Ft    6 Ft   Total
( 000 Ac) ---- __
Bogra Rotwali              45.2       30.1       14.0      11.1    100.4
Snerpur                    11.0       15.4       15.5     31.6      73.5
Gabtali                    32.8      51.7          -        -       84.5
Sariakandi                  4.4      101.0         -         -     105.4
MIuktagacha                44.3        9.5        6.1      4.0      63.9
Trisal                     29.3       11.3       13.2        -      53.8
Gaffargaon                 43.2       12.2       16.8       7.4     79.6
TOTAL               210.2      231.2       65.6      54.1    561.1
37        41         12        10       100.0
Frequency and duration of inundation is the main constraint on the extent
and intensity of land use for cultivated agriculture.
Water Resources
12.       Ihe surface water resources available for dry season pump irri-
gation in the project thanas are much less than the number of rivers may
suggest.  In the four Bogra thanas the use of water from the Jamuna River
-34-



ANNEX 1
Page 4
is precluded by the Brahmaputra flood embankment (except for the river side
low land in Sariakandi). An unspecified portion of the average 150 cusec
flow of the Bengali River must be reserved for maintaining dry season water
transport. The Karatoa River is non-perennial. In the three Mymensingh
thanas, the Old Brahmaputra is nearly dry in the winter. The lower reaches
of the Kaoraid and Banar rivers and their tributaries are subject to a small
(three inches to six inches) fresh water tidal range during the dry season.
Annual inundation fills the bils and natural drains and provides stored
water for dry season use, estimated at 56,000 ac ft in the four Bogra thanas
and 15,000 ac ft in the three Mymensingh thanas.
13.       Data relating the surface water supply available for dry season
pumping is not sufficient for accurate estimations. The best practical
guide is the fielding of existing pumps. In the Bogra thanas, recent
experience indicates that the limits for low-lift pump use are being neared.
In the Mymensingh thanas, water of existing bils may offer a limited in-
crease in number of pumps.
14.       Groundwater resources are substantial in all seven thanas.  Some
shallow and deep tubewell experience exists in most of the thanas. Good
water-bearing materials are located at depths varying from 30 to 120 ft.
Water depths vary between 12 ft to 20 ft below the ground surface. Annual
recharge is estimated at 20 inches. Water tables near the rivers are ob-
served to rise and fall with the rivers, indicating satisfactory lateral
permeability. The potential exists for the installation of many thousand
wells in the project area and for the wells to overtake the low-lift pumps
as the primary source of irrigation water supply. There should be no
problem in siting the proposed 2,500 wells based on the general location
of the land relative to rivers and land gradient, guided by the performance
of existing wells, and some trial and error.
April 1976
-35-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Climatic Data--Bogra District
Annual
Item                   Total     J       F        M       A       M4       J       J       A        S       0        N       D
Rainfall (inches) I/
mean monthly         68.01     0.52    0.44    0.96    2.20    7.14    12.88   13.54   13.47   9.68    6.77    0.36    0.07
50% probable                   0.25    0.16    0.46    1.66    6.4)4   11.07   13.09   12.16   8.71    4.91    0.91         -
80% probable                    -       -        -      0.49    3.00      7.12    9.08    8.57   5.44    2.40       -
Temperature (OF)
mean monthly                  65      69       78      85      85        84      8)4      R'!    8)      8?       73 78
Iiiax. daily                  77      b2       91      98      94        90      89       89     89      89       83      79
min. daily                    54       56      74      72       76       78      79       79     79      7L       63      56
Relative Hlumiidity (%)
maximum                       95      92       91      90       95       96      96       96     97      94       95      95
minimum                       61      43       33      33      50        75      75       81     81      74       67      67
Evaporation (inches)
monthly              46.42     2.58    3.33    5.81    6.48    5.33       3.78    3.65    3.32   3.96    3.23    2.66    2.32
Wind velocity (mph)
max. daily                     2.42    2.76    3.34    3.57    4.37       4.04    4.04    3.68   3.80    2.92    2.42    2.65
min. daily                     1.61    1.27    2.28    2.57    2.57       2.76    2.76    2.65   1.61    1.61    0.92    0.95
Sunshine (hours)
per day                        8.3      8.6     8.5     8.5      7.6      6.1     5.3      5.6    5.7      7.7     9.0      8.7
1/  Period of record 1939-69



BAKNCLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPfENT I PROJECT
Climatic Data--MNmensingh District
Annual
Iten                   Total    J        F        M       A        M       J        J        A        S       0        N       D
Rainfall (inches) 1/
mean monthly         83.87    0.52    0.75    1.68    5.92    10.12   17.59   14.64   15.50   10.31   6.08    0.70    0.07
50% probable           -        -      0.18    1.23    3.52    10.93   17.24   14.04   14.67   11.50   2.50    0.03            -
80% probable           -        _       -       0.27    1.75      6.89   12.00   10.00    9.80    7.25   5.65         -        _
Temperature (OF)
max. daily                    77.8    81.7    89.6    92.8       90.3    83.2    88.4    88.4    88.7   87.3    83.6    79.3
min. daily                    56.8    56.8    64.7    71.6       76.3    76.9    78.3    78.1    77.3   74.1    64.7    56.4
Relative Humidity (%)
3 a.m.                        84      76       71      75        81       87      87       88       85     82       80      83
noon                          62      55       50      57        54       83      82       82       82     79       72      68
Evaporation (inches)
monthly              46.97    2.84    3.00    4.75    5.65        5.21    4.09    4.18    3.37    3.99   h.0l    3.36    2.52
Wind Velocity (knots)
daily                          1.2     1.5      2.1     2.8       3.2      2.7     2.7      2.5      2.0    1.0      1.2     1.0
Sunshine (hours)
per day                        8.7     8.9      8.6      8.9      8.6      4.8     5.6      5.5      5.7    7.6      9.3      8.9
1/  Period of record 1939-69                                                                                                   |'|
N) ).J



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Land Use and Agricultural Production
Land Types and Present Cropping Pattern
1.        The present cropping pattern in the project thanas, as in most
parts of Bangladesh, is determined mainly by land elevation, soil permea-
bility and the location of the land in relation to rivers and depressions.
These factors together determine the normal status of flooding on the land
during the monsoon season. The relation between land, and the flood and
cropping pattern may be generally described as follows (see Table 1):
(a) Flood-free high land, soil sandy, water unpoundable
--broadcast aus (B. aus) or millet in spring, fallow
or kharif vegetables during monsoon, rabi pulses/
oilseeds or fallow during the winter dry season.
(b) Flood free high land, soil silty or silty clayey, water
poundable by bunding--on flood plains, the pattern is B.
aus or jute in spring, fallow during monsoon, rabi during
winter, and on the Barind Tract in Bogra District, aus
or fallow in spring, transplanted aman (follow the fal-
lowed land) during monsoon, and fallow in winter, or
the land is used for orchards or trees.
(c) Medium land with reliable shallow flooding up to 3 ft--
aus or jute in spring, transplanted aman (T. aman) during
monsoon, rabi or fallow during winter.
(d) Medium low land with deep flooding from 3-6 ft--Mixed
aus and broadcast aman (B. aman) in spring (harvest
aus in July/August and B. aman in November) rabi or
fallow in winter.
(e) Low-lying plains with 6 ft flooding or deeper--Inside
the embankment, deepwater aman or boro, outside of
embankments (char land)--aus in spring, fallow during
monsoon, rabi or fallow in winter dry season, or grass-
land or winter grazing, or idle throughout the year.
Rice Growing Seasons
2.        Aus is a rainfed crop sown in March-April on land of all eleva-
tions, and harvested in July-August before deep flood arrives. Broadcast
aman (B. aman) is sown at the same time as aus on low land either singly
or in a mixture with aus or jute, and harvested in November. Transplanted
-38-



ANNEX 2
Page 2
aman (T. aman) is transplanted in July-August on medium high or medium
land which is shallowly flooded, and harrentle  tn Ne-vember-T)ecembrr.  Boro
is transplanted in January-February on low land where irrigation is avail-
able and harvested from May to mid July.
Natural Constraints
3.        Aus, aman and boro have different constraints.  Aus has the big-
gest risks. Unreliable spring rain causes drought hazard at sowing time
and the early growing period (March/April). Floods in July may damage
the maturing aus grown on medium land and severely damage those grown on
low flood plains outside of embankments or char land. The monsoon poses
problems for sun drying aus paddy.
4.        Cold spells in late November may bring temperature to 60°F
or less, damaging flowering plants of late T. aman, and severely reducing
the yield. Depth of water on land at transplanting time and later in the
season determines whether dwarf HYV T. aman can be grown.
5.        Boro rice has the least natural constraints as long as irrigation
is available. Water depth in some despressions at transplanting time (De-
cember) may preclude the use of HYV. Rain may also interfere in the sun
drying of late boros.
6.        No problem soils exist in the project thanas.  Bangladesh farmers
generally weed rice fields quite clean by manual methods. They have their
normal share of disease and insect problems 1/ and practice minimal control
methods. On-farm paddy storage in tall bamboo/clay bins is satisfactory
provided the paddy is properly dried. However, since aus and late boro
have drying problems, the loss during storage from weevils and beetles
is considerable. Seed storage needs improvement, especially for boro and
aus seeds which must be stored through the monsoon period.
Present Production
7.        Of a total gross land area of 612,500 ac, 76% (467,000 ac) are culti-
vated in the seven thanas. The prospect of further expansion of cultivated
land is limited. The present total cropped area is 745,000 ac, giving a
160% cropping intensity. Further increase in cropping intensity has only
a moderate scope.
1/   The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) tests new selections or
varieties against the following:
Diseases  --  Bacterial leaf and sheath blight, bacterial leaf streak
tungro virus, bakane, foot rot, seedling blight, rice
blast, leaf scald and sheath rot.
Insects   --  Stem borer, leaf roller, gallmidge.                   -39-



ANNEX 2
Page 3
I        II         III        IV          V          VI
Total   Cropping  Total Rice
Gross  Cultivated  Cropped   Inten-    Cropped    V as %
Area      Area       Area       sity       Area       of III
1,000 ac  1,000 ac  1,000 ac               1,000 ac
Bogra
Kotwali    100.5        75.0        117.5      157       102.5         87
Sherpur      73.5       59.0         82.0      139        77.0         94
Gabtali      84.5       73.5        116.0      158        76.0         66
Sariakandi 116.0       61.5          90.5      147       72.5          80
Sub-total  374.5      269.0        '406.0      151      328.0          81
Mymensingh
Muktagacha  77.5        64.0         12.5      176        99.5         88
Gaffargaon  98.5        80.0         32.0      165       107.0         81
Trisal       62.0      54.0          94.5      175        85.5         90
Sub-total  238.0       198.0        :139.0     171       292.0         86
TOTAL 7
Thanas      612.5     467.0         745.0      160       620.0         83
8.        The 620,000 ac of rice produces only 378,100 m tons of paddy,
averaging only 0.61 m tons per ac (Table 2).  In both Bogra and Mymensingh
Districts, T. aman is the largest rice crop, and aus, the second largest.
The B. aman and boro are both minor, as shown below:
Area of Seasonal Crops as %   HYV Area as % of Total Seasonal
of Total Rice Cropped Area            Rice Cropped Areas
Crop            Total  4 Bogra  3 Mymensingh  Total  4 Bogra  31 Mymensingh
Thanas       Thanas             Thanas        Thanas
Aus             31         23         4')        12         1          19
B. aman          5          7          X          0         0           0
T. aman         57         64         49         13         6          23
Boro             6          6          ;7        53        53          52
Total          100        100        10')        14         7          23
9.        The Mymensingh thanas have a larger proportion of aus than the
Bogra thanas, due to the earlier arrival of spring rain in Mymensingh and
a generally higher rainfall during February through May (Annex 1, Tables
1 and 2).  Only 14% of the total rice area in the seven thanas is under HYV
(7% in Bogra thanas and 23% in MymenEingh thanas).  The Mymensingh thanas
have a higher percentage of HYV aus E'nd T. aman due to a close communication
between Mymensingh and Comilla and CIittagong Districts where HYVs made an
early start.                                                                   40



ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.       The present average yield of the different seasonal rice crops
are as follows:
4 Bogra Thanas        3 Mymensingh Thanas             Total
Crop                     Weighted                Weighted                 Weighted
Local   HYV   Average  Local   HYV   Average  Local   HYV   Average
---------------- mt/ac -    --                             --------
Aus       0.48   0.80    0.48    0.48   0.75    0.53    0.48   0.75    0.51
B. aman   0.45    -       0.45    0.45    -       0.45    0.45    -        0.45
T. aman   0.60   0.93    0.62    0.60   0.93    0.68    0.60   0.93    0.64
Boro      0.67   1.21    0.96    0.68   1.13    0.91    0.68   1.17    0.93
Weighted
Average  0.56   1.03    0.60    0.55   0.90    0.63    0.55   0.94    0.61
Comparing with the corresponding local varieties, the yield of HYV aus and
T. aman are about 55% higher and of HYV boro, 70% higher.
11.       Before fertilizer rationing was imposed (1974/75 boro crop), the
use of fertilizers by farmers in the project thanas averaged as follows:
B. aus   Aus    B. aman  T. aman  T. aman  Boro  Boro  Jute
Local    HYV      Local    Local      HYV    Local HYV
Urea
md/ac    -         0.5      -         0.2     1.0       0.3   0.1   0.7
lb N/ac  -        19.0      -         8.0    38.0      11.0  38.0  27.0
TSP
md/ac    -         0.3      -         0.1     0.6       0.2   0.3   0.5
lb P205/           1
ac      -        11.0      -         4.0    23.0       8.0  11.0  19.0
M/P
md/ac    -         0.1      -          -      0.1        -    0.1    -
lb K2O/
ac      -         5.0      -          -      4.0        -    4.0    -
Source:  The CP Mission Report, based on the 1974 Social-Economic Survey.
Information on pest control is lacking. Indications are local aus and B.
aman are not sprayed at all, but some spraying is done for HYV, and local
T. aman and boro crops. One maund (82.5 lb) per ac of seeds is used for
broadcast rice crops and 0.4 maund if transplanted (Table 3).
12.       Field work is done almost exclusively by hand labor and draft
animals with local implements. The per acre labor used is estimated as
follows:
-41-



ANNEX 2
Page 5
B. aus   Aus    B. aman  T. aman  T. aman  Boro  Boro  Jute
Local    HYV      Local   Local      HYV    Local  HYV
Man-day/
ac         45      52        40      70       76        73   82    84
Animal-day/
ac         15      17        15      17       17        17   17    16
Project Approach
13.       The project approach to increasing food production in the project
thanas will include:
(a)  Accelerating the replacement of local rainfed aus
and T. aman by HYV.
(b)  Providing minor irrigation facilities for expanding
boro rice and vegetable areas during the rabi sea-
son.
14.       The Government has already an on-going Accelerated Rice Production
Program (ARPP) based on extension of rainfed aus and T. aman, and UNDP has
provided a senior land use advisor to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in
this endeavor. The land area potentially suitable for planting HYV in the
seven project thanas has been estimated to be 218,000 ac for aus and 221,500
ac for T. aman. Thana breakdowns are given in Table 4.
15.       To be conservative, the project aims at reaching only 50% and
75% of the potential areas of HYV aus and HYV T. aman respectively by the
tenth year of project implementation.
16.       The project will take the following specific steps to ensure that
the target will be reached:
(a)  The project will receive the HYV technology package to
be put through the national extension program under the
IDA Agricultural and Rural Training project and the UNDP/
FAO Extension project, but the technology is expected to
be adopted in the project thanas at a faster pace through
improved coordination between the extension and IRDP/TCCA
officers.
(b) In addition, the following practices will be introduced
for KSS-wide adoption:
-42-



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(i) Selection of land suitable for planting T. aus
and T. aman. Criteria will be developed under
the project with the help of the KSS membership
register and KSS land maps (Annex 7, para 18).
(ii) Good nursery management and proper ways of handling
seedling. The purpose is to obtain uniform and
vigorous seedlings with intact roots to effect
quick revival of seedlings after transplanting
and rapid early growth of the young plants. Rapid
root penetration into greater depth will help aus
to withstand possible drought. Rapid growth of
young plants will help HYV T. aman to beat the
rising flood. Overall, it will enable rice plants
to have a higher percentage of effective tillers,
lower percentage of unripened grains at harvest,
and therefore a higher yield (Table 5).
(iii) As a part of good nursery management, seed dis-
infection and nursery pest control which costs only
a little will be initially introduced to ensure
only healthy seedlings are transplanted into main
fields. Main field pest control will be promoted
after small farmers are accustomed to chemicals
and applicators.
(iv) KSSs will be given initial small lots of high
quality HYV seeds and organize their own multipli-
cation, so that all KSS land suitable for HYV will
be fully planted quickly.
(v) Selection of varieties and planting dates. Initially,
taller but earlier aus HYV varieties will be promoted,
particularly those with vigorous seedling growth.
The T. aman varieties planting dates will be recom-
mended on a basis of completing flowering before
mid-November to avoid damage by cold spells.
(vi) The IRRI-designed one or two ton paddy driers will
be promoted in project thanas with the support of
medium-term rural credit to be provided under the
project.
(vii) The project will ensure that TCCA-KSS members will
receive their supply of fertilizers at official -
prices (they are not buying at these prices at present
due to the faulty distribution system). TCCA-KSS
members are expected to use adequate amounts of
fertilizers earlier than farmers not under the
project's intensified extension program.
-43-



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(viii)  Experts of the UNDP Extension Project and
the IRRI Team at BRRE will provide technical
assistance to the above work items.
(ix)  The TCCA-KSS members will have access to short-
term and medium-term rural credit (Annex 6).
17.       In view of the extension of HYV T. aman and aus varieties since
1970, it is projected that even without the project there would be a sig-
nificant increase in production. However, with the project, HYV area and
average yields (Table 5) are expected to increase at a faster pace (Table 6).
At full development, the annual padcy production is projected to reach 660,000
tons, as compared to the present production of 380,000 tons and a projected
production of 545,000 tons under "without project" conditions. At 65% con-
version rate, the annual rice production at full development would be about
430,000 tons compared to the current: production of 245,000 tons and a "with-
out project" estimated production of 355,000 tons. The project related in-
creased production would be about 75,000 tons of rice annually. Detailed
projections for each thana are giverL in Table 7 of this Annex.
April 1976
-44-



ANNEX 2
Table I
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Present Adaptation of Cropping Pattorn to Land and Soil
Soil        State of Flood                  Present Cropping Pattern
Land Type    Land Elevation       Permeability During Monsoon Season         Spring       Sumner & Fall      Winter
1       High                       Migh             Free             Aus or Millet Fallow or Kharif  Aabi or Fallow
Fallow         vegretables     Rabi or Fallow
2       High (flood plain)         Low              Free             Aus or Jute          Fallow            Rabi
3       High (Barind tract)        Low          Water poundable      Fallow or Aus        T. aman         Fallow
by bunding
4       Medium                     High         Water poundable      Aus or Jute          T. asan      Rabi or Fallow
by bunding
5       Medium                     Low          Very shallowly       Aus or Jute          T. aman      Rabi or Fallow
flooded
6       Medium                     Low          Flooded up to        Aus or Jute          T. aman      Rabi or Fallow
3 ft.
7       Medium                     Low          With flood           Aus              Tall T. ?asa         Fallow
hazard
8       Low                    High or Low      Deep, but not        Mixed Aus            B. masn         Fallow
hazardous           & B. aman           (continue)
Jute                Fallow           Fallow
9       Low                    High or Low      Deep and             B. aman              B. man
hazardous                               (continue)        Fallow
Fallow               Fallow          Boro
10       Low, Char land         High or Low      Flood hazard         Fallow               Fallow           Fallow
Aus, or millet    Fallow or
or B. aman         B. aman (Cont.) Rabi or Fallow
11       Low, Char land         High or Low      Flood hazard         Fallow               Fallow           Fallow
B. aman            B. aman (Cont.)   Fallow
12       Low, Flood plain       High or Low      Flood hazard         Aus or Jute
ridges outside of                                         or Millet            Fallow        Rabi or Fallow
embankment
13       Low, Flood plain       High or Low      Flood hazard         Mixed Aus &          B. aman          Fallow
depressions out-                                          B. aman             (continue)
side of embankment                                        Jute                 Fallow           Fallow
Source: CP Preparation Mission Report, compiled from data extracted from (1) East Pakistan Soil Survey Reports,
Bogra District and (2) Report on the Potential for Rainfed HYV Rice Cultivation in Bangladesh, by
H. Brammer, 1974.
-45-



BANGLADESH                                         ANNEX 2
Table 2
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
PRESENT RICE PRODUCTION IN PROJECT AREA
4 Bogra Thanas                 3 Mymensingh Thanas                      Total
Local      HYV      Total        Local       HYV      Total        Local       HYV      Total
Aus       1,000 ac                 76.0       1.0       77.0         96.0      22.0      118.0        172.0      23.0     195.0
1,000 mt                36.5       0.8       37.3         46.1      16.5       62.6         82.6      17.3       99.9
mt/ac                     0.48     0.8        0.48         0.48      0.75       0.53         0.48      0.75       0.51
B. Aman   1,000 ac                 23.0         -       23.0         11.0          -      11.0         34.0          -     34.0
1,000 .t                104                  1n.4          5.0          -       5.0         15.4          -     15.4
mt/ac                     0.45        -       0.45         0.45         _       0.45         0.45         -       0.45
T. Aman   1,000 ac                197.0      13.0      210.0        109.0      33.0     142.0        306.0      46.0      352.0
1,000 mt               118.2      12.1      130.3         65.4      30.7       96.1        183.6     42.8      226.4
mt/ac                     0.60      0.93      0.62         0.60      0.93       0.68         0.60      0.93       0.64
Boro      1,000 ac                  8.5       9.5       18.0         10.0      11.0       21.0         18.5      20.5      39.0
1,000 mt                 5.7      11.5       17.2          6.8      12.4       19.2         12.5     23.9       36.4
mt/ac                     0.67      1.21      0.96         0.68      1.13       0.91         0.68      1.17       0.93
Total      1,000 ac               304.5      23.5      328.0        226.0      66.0     292.0         530.5     89.5      620.0
1,000 mt               170.8      24.4      195.2        123.3      59.6     182.9         294.1     84.0      378.1
mt/ac                     0.56      1.03      0.60         0.55      0.90       0.63         0.55      0.94       0.61
v 0%m



BANGLADESll
RURAL DF.VELOPMENT I PROJECT
CROP INPUT REQUIREMENTS
B. Aus                  Aus (H'YV)           B. Aman               T. Aman (Local)          T. Asman (HYV)           Boro (Local)          Boro jHYV)                 Jute
i_     W        P            W                    _              P     W      W          p            W         P      w      W         p     W      W        p      W     W
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46% N)          (mds/ac)               0.1   0.1   0.2        0.5   1.4   1.5          0     0      0          0.2   0.3   0.4         1.0   1.5   1.6         0.3   0.4   0.5        1.0   1.5   1.7       0.7   0.8   0.8
TSP (467. P205)       (mds/ac)               0      0     0.1       0.3   0.6   0.8         0      0      0          0.1   0.2   0.3         0.6   0.9   1.0        0.2   0.3   0.4         0.3   0.5   0.8       0.5   0.6   0.6
M P (60% K)           (mds/ac)               0      0     0         0.1   0.1   0.3          0     0      0          0     0.1   0.1         0.1   0.3   0.4        0      0.1   0.2        0.1   0.3   0.5       0      0      0
Diazinon              (mds/ac)               0      0     0         0.01  0.01  0.01        0      0      0          0.005 0.005 0.005       0.01  0.01  0.01       0.005 0.005 0.005    0.01  0.01  0.01    0           0     0
Sumithion             (ads/ac)               0      0     0         0.005 0.01  0.01        0      0      0          0.005 0.005 0.005       0.01  0.01  0.01       0.005 0.005 0.005    0.01  0.01  0.01    0           0     0
LABOR
Preparation           (m-d/ac)              17    17    17         18    20    22          15    15    15           20    22    22          22    22    22         22    22    22          22    22    22        15    16    16
Planting and
Nursing             (m-d/ac)               2      2     2         2      2     2          2      2      2        18    18    18           18    18    18         18    18    18          18    18    18         1      1     1
Crop Management       (m-d/ac)               6      6     6        10    11    12            3     3      3         10    11    12          11    12    13         10    11    12          12    15    16        18    20    20
Harvesting and
Threshing           (m-d/ac)              20    20    20         22    25    28          20    20    20          22    25    26           25    27    28         23    25    27          30    31    32        50    50    50
Subtotal       (m-d/ac)              45    45    45         52    58    64           40    40    40          70    76    78          76    79    81          73    76    79         82    86    88        84    87    87
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power          (a-d/ac)              15    15    15         17    17    17          15    15    15           17    17    17          17    17    17         17    17    17          17    17    17        16    16    16
Seed                  (mds/ac)               1      1     1         1      1      1          1     1      1          0.4   0.4   0.4         0.4   0.4   0.3         0.4   0.4   0,3        0.4   0.4   0.3       0.1   0.1   0.1
Miscellaneous          (Tk/ac)              10    10    10         10    20    40           10    10    10          10    15    15          30    30    40          10    10    10         30    40    50        10    10    10
P = present, W = future without project, W - future with project



ANNEX
Table h
EANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
ESTIMATED POTENTIAL AREAS SJITABLE FOR HYV RICE IN THE PROJECT THANAS
2/           2/
1/               1/ Area Avail.  Area Avail.
Gross Area   Cultivated Area  for HYV Aus  for HYV Aman
1000 Ac        1000 Ac.       1000 Ac       1000 Ac
Kotwali                    100.5            75.0           40.5         42.0
Sherpur                     73.5           59.0            22.5         32.0
Gabtali                     84.5            73.5           25.5         14.5
Sariakandi                 116.0            61.5           25.5         13.0
Sub-total                  374.5          269.0           114.0        101.5
(4 Bogra Thanas)
Muktagacha                  77.5            64.o           34.0          39.0
Gaffargaon                  98.5            80.0           42.5         50.0
Trisal                      62.0            54.0           27.5         31.0
Sub-total                  238.0           198.0          104.0        120.0
(3 Mymensingh Thanas)
Total (seven Thanas)       612.5           467.0          218.0        221.5
Sources: 1/ Thana Reports.
2/ The Potential for Rainfed HYV Rice Cultivation in Bangladesh,
H. Brammer, FAO/IBRD Soils Consultant (Credit 409 BD), 1974.
-48-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
PRESENT AND FUTURE YIELDS
1/                                1/
Present                       Future without Project                Future with Project
Crop                  Md/ac      T/ac                  Md/ac            T/ac                  Md/ac           T/ac
Local Aus                   13        o.48                   14             0.52                   14            0.52
HYV Aus                     20        0.75                   24              0.90                   27           1.01
B. Aman                     12        0.45                   12              o.45                   12           o.45
T. Aman                     16        o.60                   20             0.75                   22            0.82
(Local)
T. Aman                     25        0.93                   30              1.12                   32           1.19
(HYV)
L. Boro                     18        o.68                   19             0.71                   20            0.75
HYV Boro                    35        1.17                   40              1.49                   45           1.68
Jute                        13        0.48                   14              0.52                   114          0.52
J 1/ 10th Year of the Project



BANGLADESH
RURAl, DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Projected Expansion of HYV Rice      ANNEX 2
Table 6
10th Year After Project Tnitiation
Crops         Present           Without Project       With Project
Local  HYV  TotEl   Local  HYV  Total   Local  HYV  Total
Area (1,000 ac)
1/
Aus             172    23   195      138    82   220       93   106   199
B. Aman          34      -    34       34     -    34       34     -    34
.                                ~~~~~~~~~~2/
T. Aman         306    46   352      218   134   352      190   162   352
Boro             19    20    39       23    38    61       26    71    97
Total rice      521    89   620      413   254   667      343   339   682
Jute                          72                   72                   72
Rabi crops                    53                   57                   57
Total crop                   745                  796                  811
Cropping inten-
sity (%)                     160                  170                  174
Production 3/
(1,000 MT)
Aus               83    17   100       72    74   146      48   107   155
B. Aman          15      -    15      15      -    15      15      -    15
T. Aman         184    43   227      164   150   314      156   193   349
Boro             12    24    36       16    53    69       19   120   139
Total rice      294    84   378      267   277   544      238   420   658
Jute                          35                   37                   37
1/ 49% of Brammer's potential (ses Table 3 of this Annex).
2/ 73% of Brammer's potential (sea Table 3 of this Annex).
3/ Yield projections are given in Table 4 of this Annex.



TIbl, 7
Page I t 2 p"gs
haL  ME9AN1 I 118110
nMhf AM POS CWMN  mA                 n s S mcnml 1/
AUS (A)                                                                  AIM  (PMDDY)
Area 2/                Prodution 3/                            ze                                   Product.on
Local   8W       Total  Local   85    Total   Bradcat   T3a. lY4    Taa. W                  Mu         Broadt   Jre. LatC          Trio  YV      Total
Kotwali      p          21.0    -        21.0   10.1     -      10.1      6.0           70.0            2.0        78.0         2.7          42.0           1.9         46.6
PW        18.0   12.0    30.0   9.4    10.8   20.2          6,0           52.0           20.0        78.0         2.7          39.0          22.4         64.1
NV        10.0   11.0      25.0   5.2    15.2   20.4        6.0           47.0           25.0        78.0         2.7          38.5          29.8         71.0
Sherp-r      P          21.0    -       21.0  10.1      -       10.1      7.0           40.0            4.0        31.0         3.2          24.0           3.7         30.9
NW        18.0    7.0    25.0   9.4         6.3   15.7      7.0           28.0           16.0        51.0         3.2          21.0          17.9         42.1
-    W         11.5   10.0      21.5   6.0    10.1   16.1        7.0           24.0           20.0        51.0         3.2          19.7          23.8         46.7
Gabtoli       P          9.0    1.0    10.0   4.3        0.8    5.1       2.0           35.0            4.0        61.0         0.9          33.0           3.7         37.6
FW        14.0    8.0    22.0   7.3        7.2   14.5       2.0           49.0           10.0        61.0         0.9          36.8          11.2        48.9
FW         6.5   11.0      17.5   3.4    11.1    14.5       2.0           47.0           12.0        61.0         0.9          38.5          14.3         33.7
Sariakandi   P          25.0    -       25.0  12.0      -       12.0      8.0           32.0            3.0        43.0         3.6          19.2           2.8         25.6
FW        18.0    7.0    25.0   9.4        6.3   15.7       8.0           27.0            8.0        43.0         3.6          20.3           9.0         32.9
NW        12.0   10.0      22.0   6.2    10.1   16.3        8.0           25.0           10.0        43.0         3.6          20.5          11.9         36.0
Sub-total    P          76.0     1.0    77.0  36.5        0.8   37.3    23.0           197.0           13.0       233.0        10.4         118.2          12.1        140.7
(4 Bogro      Nw        68.0   34.0   102.0  35.5    30.6   66.1    23.0                156.0           54.0       233.0        10.4         117.1          60.5        188.0
-Thonos)
Na. F     40.0   46.0      86.0  20.8    46.5   67.3    23.0             143.0           67.0       233.0        10.4         117.2          79.8        207.4
l4ktorcho    P          40.0    2.0    42.0  19.2         1.5   20.7       3.0          40.0           10.0        53.0         1.4          24.0           9.3         34.7
N         30_0    12.0    42.0  15.6    10.8   26.4         3.0           25.0           25.0        53.0         1.4          18.8          28.0         48.2
Nw        25.0   15.0      40.0  13.0    15.2   28.2        3.0           20.0           30.0        53.0         1.4          16.4          35.7         53.5
Gafforg.o.    P        30.0   10.0    40.0  14.4         7.5   21.9       5.0           35.0           15.0        55.0         2.2          21.0          14.0         37.2
-n        20.0   20.0    40.0  10.4    18.0   28.4           5.0          15.0           35.0        55.0         2.2          11.3          39.2         52.7
NW        13.5   25.0    38.5   7.0    25.3   32.3          5.0           10.0           40.0        55.0         2.2           8.2          47.6         58.0
Trisal        P         26.0   10.0    36.0  12.5         7.5   20.0       3.0          34.0            0.0        45.0         1.4          20.4           7.4         29.2
Nw        20.0   16.0    36,0  10.4    14.4   24.8          3.0           22.0           20,0        45.0         1.4          16.5          22.4         40.3
N         14.0   20.0    34.0   7.3    20.2   27.5           3.0          17.0           25.0        45.0         1.4          13.9          29.8         45.1
Sub-total     P         96.0   22.0   118.0  46.1    16.5   62.6    11.0               109.0           33.0       153.0         5.0          65.4          30.7        101.1
(3 Myn,ensiogh PU      70.0   48.0   118.0  36.4    43.2   79.6    11.0                 62.0           80.0       153.0         5.0          46.6          89.6        141.2
Thonao)
T . f     52.5   60.0   112.5  27.3    60.7   88.0    11.0                47.0           95.0       153.0         5.0          38.5         113.1        156.6
Total         P        172.0   23.0   195.0  82.6    17.3   99.9    34.0               306.0           46.0       386.0        15.4         183.6          42,8        241.8
(Seono Thaoao)F       138.0   82.0   220.0  71.9    73.8  145.7    34.0                210.0          134.0       386.0        15.4         163.7         150.1        329.2
N         92.5  106.0   198.5  48.1   107.2   155.3    34.0              190.0          162.0       386.0        15.4         155.7         192.9        364.0
V/  Notation,                                                                                                                                                                      a|  
P_    Pte.ent 
FW   FPutore vithout Proijet
F    Puturo with Project
2/  Area in 1,000 acres                                                                                                                                                            0
3/  Produotion in 1000 Mletric Tone



.UU
sLaAL.             I                                                                         Pag ep   2 of 2 p4e
7CS AM         C PZ=8UDi.l
Ae- a                o-tion                   Total  ftddy                      se.                     R*bi   Crope           Total Cropped           Cropping
__   _ t  '   T7h"¶    Local  HYV1  Total             Ar      9Wod nto              Area   Ptodoct'on           ATr"   Prod.               Ares                 Intenoitv %
Kobtali           P      1.0      2.5    3.5    0.7      3.3   4.0             102 5    60.7                  3.0      1.4                 12.0                      117.5                   157
FW     2.0      5.0    7.0    1.4      7.5   8.9             115 0    93.2                 3.0       1.6                12.0                       130.0                   173
0W    i.5    11.5   14.0    1.9    19.3  21.2                117 0   112.6                 3.0       1.6                12.0                       132.0                   176
sherpur           p       2.5     2.5    5.0    1.7       3.3   5.0             77 0    46.0                  2.0      1.0                  3.0                       82.0                   139
FW     3,5      5.0    8.5    2.5      7.5  10.0             84 5    67.8                  2.0       1.0                 6.0                        92.5                   157
P9     3.5      9.0   12.5    2.6    15.1  17.7              85 3    80.5                  2.0       1.0                 6.0                        93.0                   158
Cabtali           P       3.0     2.0    5.0    2.0       1.6   3.6             76.0    46.3                 25.0     12.0                 15.0                      11.0                   158
PW     3.0      3.5    6.5    2.1      5.2   7.3             89.3   70.3                  25.0      13.0                15.0                       129.5                   176
FW     4.0    11.5   15.5    3.0    19.3  22.3               94 )   90.5                  25.0      13.0                15.0                       134.0                   182
SOriokondi        P      2.0      2.5    4.5    1.3      3.3   4.6              72.5    42.2                 12.0      5.8                  6.0                       90.5                   147
9W     2.5     4.0    6.5    1.8       6.0   7.8             74.5    56.4                 12.0       6.2                 6.0                        92.5                   150
95W    3.5    10.0   13.5    2.6    16.8  19.4               78.5    71.7                 12.0       6.2                 6.0                        96.5                   157
sub-totol         P      8.5      9.5   18.0    5.7    11.5  17.2              3289.0   195.2               42.0      20.2                 36.0                      406.0                   151
4 l   11.5    17.5   28.5    7,8    26.2  34.0              363..;   288,1                42.0      21.8                39.0                       445.5                   165
NW    i3.5    42.0   55.5   10.l    7D.5  80.6              374,-9  355.3                 42.0      21.8                39.0                       455.5                   169
Muktlgocha        p      2.5      2.0    4.5    1.7       1.6   3.3             99.:    58.7                 10.0      4.8                  3.0                       112.5                  176
9W     3.0      5.0    8.0    2.1      7.5   9.6            103.:    84.2                 10.0       5.2                 4.0                       117.0                   183
pN     3.0      8.5   11.5    2.3    14.3  16.6             104.      98.3                10.0       5.2                 4.0                       118.5                   185
0.ffarg.on        P      5.0      7.0   12.0    3.4      9.2  12.6             107.     71.7                 15.0      7.2                 10.0                       132.0                  165
9W     6.0    11.0   17.0    4.0    16.4  20.4               112.    101.5                 15.0      7.8                 10.0                      137.0                   171
05     6.0    14.5   20.5    4.5    24.4  28.9               114..   119.2                15.0       7.0                 10.0                      139.0                   174
Tri-ol            P       2.5     2.0    4.5    1.7       1.6   3.3             85.;    52.5                  5.0      2.4                  4.0                        94.5                  175
FI     3.0      4.0    7.0    2.1      3.2   5.3             00.,    70.4                   5.0      2.6                  4.0                       97.0                   180
9W     3.0      6.5    9.5    2.3    12.9  13.2               880.    85.8                  5.0      2.6                  4.0                        97.5                  181
Sob-tab!l         P     10.0    11.0   21.0    6.8    12.4  19.2               292.1   182.9                 30.0      14.4                17.0                       339.0                  171
(3 My-eni.gh
Th3 tmnala) h        12.0    20.0   32.0    8.2    27.1  35.3               303.1   256.1                 30.0     15.6                 18.0                       351.0                  177
IPt    12.0    29.5   41.5    9.1    49.6  58.7              307.1   303.3                 30.0     15.6                 18.0                      355.0                   179
Taotl             P      10.5    20.5   39.0   12.5    23.9  36.4              620.1   378.1                 72.0      34.6                53.0                       745.0                   160
(Sevren Thanris)
FN    23.0    37.5   60.5   16.0    53.3  69.3               666.2   544.2                72.0      37.4                 57.0                      795.5                   170
P7    25.5    71.5   97.0   19.2   12D.1 139.3               681.2   658.6                 72.0     37.4                 57.2                      810.5                   174
-52- T



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Rural Works Program
Background
1.        The Rural Works Program (RWP) began in Bangladesh in 1962 with
US PL-480 assistance. The program had provided some 170 million man-
days of employment to landless people between 1962-68. Work was concen-
trated on road construction, minor irrigation and drainage earth moving
works. Most of the farm-to-market roads in the project areas were con-
structed under RWP with labor intensive methods during that period.
2.        During that period, rural works projects were proposed through
local initiative at the union level and formulated into thana plans. Each
thana had prepared a thana plan book which contained maps showing works to
be done. These maps still exist in the thana offices. Many proposed works
in the seven project thanas remain to be done.
3.        Since 1970, funding to RWP has been negligible although RWP is
still considered an important item of GOB's rural development program.
Progress in formerly proposed works has been severely impaired due to the
War of Independence in 1971 and periodic flooding. Particularly affected
by lack of maintenance in that time were the roads (mainly dirt roads).
Top priority before new works are begun is that existing roads be
repaired.
4.        Official procedures for RWP (i.e. Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives--Memo No. E/1/1S-3/74/602(90), dated
August 6, 1974), were adequate for their purposes. But these announced
procedures have not been followed, resulting in the stagnation of RWP in
recent years. The failures are specifically attributable to the following
reasons:
(a) Selection of work sites is based on local political
pressures rather than actual needs.
(b) Delays in processing union proposals causes late
approval and fund appropriation.
(c) When funds reach the thana/union shortly before
the end of dry season; the works either are
not started at all, or are done hurriedly re-
sulting in poor quality.
-53-



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) Escalation of prices occurring between time of planning
and receipt of the funds makes it impossible to complete
all the proposed works. As a result, work is often
not started since time does not permit request for change
of plans and budget. Also, officers in charge frequently
do not want to offend any pressure group by eliminating
some work items included in the original plan.
(e) Reduced results have led to successive budget reductions
during the years 1972 to 1974.
Project Approach
5.        The project approach is to improve the selection of look sites and
then to enforce strictly GOB's own official procedure for RWP.
6.        Detailed timetables for preparing designs and estimates, float-
ing tenders, selecting bids, appropriating funds, recruiting landless
laborers, beginning and completing construction, and inspections were agreed
upon. Officers responsible for doing each phase of the work are specified,
and timetables are provided (paras 17 and 18).
7.        Local consulting firms w:Lll be employed to assist the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives in overseeing project
implementation. The IDA staff res:Ldent in Bangladesh would be available for
consultation with the Ministry and the local consultants.
Project Works
8.        Pucca (paved) Roads - A 15-mile long District council road from
Bogra through Gabtali and Sariakandi to the Brahmaputra embankment will be
upgraded by the project (see map 1600). About 5.5 mi of the road are brick
soled and in poor repair. The remaining 9.5 mi are dirt (katcha). Under
the project, the brick surface in t:he first 5.5 mi (Bogra to Gabtali) will
be rehabilitated and surfaced with bituminous carpet (2-1/2 to 3 inches mat
of broken brick chips and bituminous asphalt).  The 9.5 mi from Gabtali to
the Brahmaputra embankment will be formed to grade and paved with brick
(8 inches herringbone in two layers of brick) surface 12 ft wide with 5 ft
shoulders on each side and a 2:1 slope.  The road surface will be built at
1.5 ft above high flood water level. The 15 minor bridges will each be
equivalent to a 10 ft span for the paved road section, with brick abutments
and a reinforced concrete deck. One or a combination of several units will
be adequate for any crossing except: the Bengali River which is about 600 ft
wide at the Sariakandi crossing where the existing ferries will still have
to be used.
9.        Katcha (Dirt) Roads - The project would improve 300 mi of union
roads, covering about 50% of all existing roads in the seven thanas. The
roads selected for improvement are shown in maps 1600, 11601 and 11615. In
-54-



ANNEX 3
Page 3
general, the criteria for selection of the road to be improved favored roads
connecting the larger and most populated villages and roads that provided
access to the paved District roads and roads providing travel between thanas.
10.       Improvements will provide for a standard 16 ft road surface of
compacted earth. The road will be 1.5 ft above the high water level. The
road rehabilitation program will bring the chosen existing roads to de-
sirable standards. A lack of cross drainage has led farmers to cut the
roads and this contributed to the disrepair of katcha roads. The project
will provide two culverts per mile of road or a total 600 culverts, which
appears sufficient to adequately correct the cross drainage problems.
11.       The distribution of katcha roads in the seven thanas is approxi-
mately as follows:
Thana                Miles           Thanas       Miles
Bogra Kotwali               45            Muktagacha      40
Sherpur                     30            Trisal          45
Gabtali                     55            Gaffargaon      75
Sariakandi                  10            Total          300
12.       Rural Markets - Bi-weekly rural markets congregate in the open
air in or near towns. Frequent rains during the monsoon disrupt the markets
and damage the quality of the produce. This forces farmers to sell at low
prices. Some forty covered rural markets will be built in seven thanas with
five each in Sherpur and Trisal and six each in the other five thanas. The
exact location of the markets will be decided by the Thana Project Executive
Committees in consultation with IDA.
13.       The 40 markets will each have 5,000 sq ft of paved ground and a
corrugated galvanized sheet iron roof. The pavement will consist of a
bricksoling surfaced with 1-1/2 inches of cement mortar screed. Surround-
ing the paved area will be 10,000 sq ft of graded area and 2,000 linear ft
of drains. A 1-1/2 cusec tubewell (with pucca surrounding pad) will be
provided adjacent to the paved shelter areas to furnish drinking water
and washdown water for the vegetable and fish sections of the market.
14.       Drainage Channels - Natural drains provide for surface drainage
in the project area. The existing drains, however, have become obstructed
by man-made small dikes, bank cave-ins, silting, debris, etc, resulting in
ineffective surface water removal. The standing flood is ponded over adja-
cent areas for a longer period. It erodes roads, delays harvest of aman
crops and planting of rabi crops. Improvement of these drains will increase
their water removal capacity during the monsoon season, and water storing
capacity for dry season uses for irrigation.
-55-



ANNEX 3
Page 4
15.       The drain improvement work involves excavation which is highly
labor intensive.  .ie wou& must Je done during the dry months which fits
in with the farm labor slack season. The drains identified by the CP
mission for imprcvement  mder thga project are shown in maps 1600, 11601
and 11615. These natural channels, however, vary in cross-section and the
need of repair from section to section. About 54 mi of drains in five of
the seven thanas will be improved:
Items                     Improved Drain
(miles)
Gabtali                         6.0
Sariakandi                      5.0
Muktagacha                     23.5
Trisal                          5.5
Gaffargaon                     24.0
Total                    54.0
The work will involve an estimated 45 million cu ft of excavation. The
exact work sites and volume of earth moving will be determined by surveys
done by the District and thana engineers before bidding (para 18).
16.       Fish Ponds - The present status and plan for fish production
in the ponds are discussed in Annex 10. The RWP concerns only the physical
rehabilitation work of about 500 ac of fish ponds in the seven thanas, to
make fish culture possible.  Tentatively, 100 ac each will be rehabilitated
in Kotwali, Sherpur and Sariakandi thanas and 50 ac each in the other four
thanas. The work will consist of dewatering, dredging and deepening, bottom
improvement, repairing the embankment, proper sloping and removal of hyacinth
and other water plants. The rehabilitation will be started after the thana
fishery officers have surveyed and selected the ponds, and IRDP has organized
landless people in surrounding villages into TCCA fishery cooperatives to
manage the reclaimed ponds.
Implementation Procedures
17.       Construction of the pucaa road from Bogra to the Jamuna embankment
will be accomplished under the direction of the Bogra District Engineer:
-56-



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Annual Target
Work Procedures                               Date
(a)  The District Engineer (Works Prograa) will          June 1
prepare designs and estimates for tendering
construction of the project pucca road in
sections that would be completed within the
limited annual construction season utilizing
labor intensive construction methods.
(b)  The District Engineer will float tenders early    June 15
enough to allow selection of the contractor and
award of contract in time to permit the contrac-
tor use of a full construction season (annual
dry season).
(c)  The District Project Executive Committee will       August 15
proceed with the prompt selection of the succes-
sful bid and the award of the construction con-
tract which will contait penalty provisions for
incompletion and delay.
(d)  The Ministry would appropriate funds to the         October 1
Chairman of the District Executive Committee.
(e)  Prompt initiation of construction by the con-       October 1
tractor under supervision of the District
Engineer.
(f)  Prompt periodic payment of contractor for work    Cbntinuous
completed.
(g)  Completion of construction by the contractor.       April 30
(h)  Inspection and acceptance of the construction       May 15
by the District Engineer.
18.       All katcha works (katcha road, fish pond and drain improvements)
and small pucca works involved (i.e. culvert and rural markets) would be
executed through the existing Union Committees for Rural Works Program,
whereby the Union Committees would organize landless laborers to do earth
moving constructions, while the Circle Officer (Development) would be re-
sponsible for inviting and awarding tenders for construction by contractors
of small pucca works involved. The following procedures and timetable would
be followed:
-57-



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Aanual Target
Date
(a)  The Thana Overseer/Supervisor vill prepare            July 15
design, cost estimates, work procedures and
labor requirements of the project katcha
works--each segment t:o permit completion of
segment within one construction season with
labor-intensive methods, and with quantitative
breakdowns by Unions., For pucca works involved,
he will prepare designs and estimates for
tendering in the same manner.
(b)  The Circle Officer (Development) will invite         August 1
tenders for pucca works involved.
(c)  Prompt selection of the successful bid for pucca  September 1
works by the Thana Project Executive Committee.
(d)  The Circle Officer (Development) will award the   September 10
construction contracts of pucca works containing
penalty provisions for incompletion delays. He
will also issue work design, procedures, coat
and labor requirement estimates of katcha works
to Union Committees concerned.
(e)  Each Union Committee will recruit and organize    October 1
landless laborers from villages near work sites
into work groups for katcha constructions that
fall within the Union boundary, and fully
explain to group leaders works to be done,
specification and designs, target dates of begin-
ning and completion, and wage standards and
payment schedules.
(f)  The Ministry would reLease funds to the Thana       October 10
Project Executive Committee.
(g)  The Circle Officer (Development) will accord-    October 15
ingly issue a work order to the selected
contractors for pucca works.
(h)  Prompt initiation of construction both by the        November 1
Union Committees and contactors.
(i)  The Thana Overseer/Supervisors will supervise        Continuous
the construction and synchronize the progress
of the katcha and pucca works to meet con-
struction specificaticons, schedule and completion
date.
-58-



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Annual Twrget
Date
(j)  Prompt periodic advances by the Thana Office to
Union Committees for paying laborers, and direct
periodic payments to contractors for work
completed.                                            Continuous
(k)  Completion of all construction                        April 30
(1) Inspection of the construction by Thana Overseer/
Supervisor and acceptance of construction by the
Circle Officer (Development).                         May 15
Hiring of Local Consulting Firms
19.       In view of the Ministry's small engineering staff, local consult-
ing firms of repute (one for Bogra and one for Mymensingh) would be hired
to assist the Ministry in:
(a) reviewing design and cost estimates for tendering;
(b) reviewing the tender documents;
(c) reviewing the bid selection by the District and thauas;
(d) inspecting field work at appropriate times;
(e) spot-checking quality of the work after its acceptance
by District and thanas; and
(f) submitting a report after the end of the season, on the
work performance and recommending improvements for next
season s program.
The firms would do the work (a) through (e) above in the field according to
time tables given above. Firms would be responsible to the Joint Secretary
of the Ministry in charge of the Rural Works Program, and the IDA staff
resident in Bangladesh would be available for consultation with the Ministry
and the firms, and be kept informed of the work progress at all times. The
cost of hiring the firms would be charged against the 10% engineering and
administrative cost of Rural Works Program and thana facilities.
-59-



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Construction Schedule
20.       Construction schedule of the various rural work items are given
below:
Fiscal Year
Items          Total    75/76    76/77    77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81
----------------(Percent of Total)----------------
Pucca roads    15 mi       -       40        40        20        -
Katcha roads  300 mi       -       30        30       30        10
Markets        40 no       -        30       30       30        10
Fish ponds    500 ac       -        -        50       50         -
Drains         54 mi       -       25        25       25        25
Cost Estimates
21.       See Table 1.
April 1976
-60-



ANNEX 3
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOFffENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Rural Works
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Item                                   Local      Foreign   Duties        Total
(i)   Pucca Roads
(a)  5.5 mi (Bogra - Gabtali)                  1.35      0.35       0.09         1.79
at Tk 325,oo0 mi 1/
(b ) 9.5 mi (Gabtali  - Brahmaputra            5.o6      1.66        -           6.72
Embankment) at Tk 708,000/mi 2/
(c)  15 minor bridges at Tk 75,000/bridge   0.75         0.30       0.08         1.13
Sub-total - Pucca  Roads                       7.16       2.31      0.17         9.64
(ii)  Katcha Roads           3/
300 mi at Tk 59,000/mi                        15.30       1.80      o.60        17.70
(iii) Rural Markets                    4/
TO markets at Tk 183,000/market                4.30       2.49      0-53         7.32
(iv)  Fish Ponds
00 ac  at Tk 9,500/ac                          4.75        -          -           4.75
(v)   Drainage Channels
54 mi at Tk 130,000/mi                         7.02                               7.02
(vi)  Sub-total Rural Works (i) - (v)              (38.53)    (6.60)    (1-30)        (46.43)
(vii) Engineering & Administration-/
(10% of  vi)                                 4.64                              4 _  4.64
(viii) Base Cost Estimate (vi + (vii)                43.17       6.60       1.30        51.07
(ix)  Physical Contingencies (2C0  of viii)          8.62       1.32       0.26        10.20
(x)   Price Contingencies                           32.16       2.57       0.51        35.24
(xi)  Total Cost Rural Works (viii + ix + x)        83.95      10.49       2.07        96.51
1/ Bituminous carpeting at Tk 222,000/mi; Earthwork 860,000 cu ft/mi at
Tk 0.12/ cu ft or Tk 103,000/mi.
2/ Brick herringbone, standard 12 ft surface boxcut and sand insulated at
Tk 583,000/mi; Earthwork 1,040,000 cu ft/Ai at Tk 0.212/cu ft or Tk 125,000/mi.
3/ Eprthwork for grading and forming at Tk 29,000/mi; Two culverts/ni at
Tk 15,000/culvert.
4/ 5,000 sq ft paring at Tk 13/sq ft or Tk 65,000/market; 6,500 sq ft GI sheets at
Tk 6.3/sq ft or Tk 41,000/market; W4oodfraine at Tk 18,000/market; 2,000 ft of drainage
at Tk 15/ft or Tk 30,000/market; One and one-half cusec tubewell with pucca surrounding
pad at Tk 23,000/market; and 10,000 sq ft grading at Tk 0.6/sq ft or Tk 6,000/market.
5/ Also includes funds for supervision by the local consultants.               -61-



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
Background
1.        The Thana Irrigation Program (TIP) began in 1967 as part of the
expanded Rural Works Program. Primarily, the program was initiated to in-
crease irrigation through the use of low-lift pumps by cooperative irriga-
tion pump groups. Procedures and regulations governing the functions, or-
ganization and cooperatives of the pump cooperatives are presented in "The
Manual on Thana Irrigation Programme," June 1968. 1/ The pump group coopera-
tives are landowners organized to irrigate 50-70 ac of land using low-lift
pumps obtained on an annual rental basis from the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC). Since 1966, some 40,000 low-lift pumps
have been fielded by BADC in the country resulting in the irrigation of
an estimated 1 million ac of dry season rice (boro).
2.        The BADC is in the process of installing several thousand deep
tubewells (2 cusec capacity) in favorable pumping zones. These tubewells
are made available on an annual rental basis to cooperative groups that
irrigate 100 ac. The agency is initiating a similar program of instal-
ling shallow tubewells. Shallow tubewells with 1/2 cusec pumping
capacity can serve small pump groups irrigating from 10-15 ac.
Present Status in Project Thanas
3.        Low-lift pumps - The distribution of pump groups in the seven
thanas, according to IRDP and the Registrar of Cooperatives, are as
follows:
1/   "The Manual on Thana Irrigation Programme," (Basic Democracies & Local
Government Department, the former Government of East Pakistan, June 21,
1968).
-62-



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Thana                TCCA-KSS       Non TCCA-KSS         Total
Pump Groups     Pump Groups
Kotwali                    2              50               52
Sherpur                    8              65               73
Gabtali                   34             105              139
Sariakandi                54              55              109
Sub-total, Bogra          98             275              373
Muktagacha                15              33               48
Trisal                    17              48               65
Gaffargaon                55             226              281
Sub-total                 87             307              394
Total, 7 thanas          185             582              767
However, according to BADC, the number of pumps fielded for the 1974/75
boro crop has increased by 38 to a total of 805 pumps in the seven project
thanas, of which 680 are 2 cusecs and 125, are one-cusec. The 805 pumps
have a total capacity of 1,485 cusecs and irrigate about 29,000 ac, aver-
aging 19.5 ac per cusec.
4.        Low-lift pumps are located along natural drains and around the
bils and depressions that retain water for long periods during the dry
season. The pumps generally lift water approximately 15 ft except in
Muktagacha and Gaffargaon thanas along the Old Brahmaputra River where
pumps located on the river bank lift water 30 ft from the river.
5.        Since the beginning of the BADC low-lift pump rental program, the
number of acres served per cusec has consistently dropped from 38.5 ac in
1962/63 to 19.4 ac in 1971/72 as the number of pumps increased from 2,024
and 24,254 during the same period. This is due to many reasons -- two have
been the unwillingness of pump groups to include other farmers' land and
the pressure they put on thana and District authorities to forego official
criteria for approving the allocation of pumps.
6.        The Manual on TIP provided instructions on criteria for screen-
ing pump group applications; for approving allocation of pumps according
to a set of criteria including availability of and accessibility to
water sources; topography of the command area; pattern of water dis-
tribution, and seepage factors, etc. The current standing procedures
require each group's applicant to provide a map of the land to be irri-
gated, a list of farmers belonging to the group and the land they each
own in the pump command area.
-63-



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        Applications are submitted to a Thana Approving Authority.  The
Authority is assisted by a Thana Irrigation Team which is supposed to in-
spect the sites of each application. The Authority rates the applications
according to a set of criteria and then submits, to the District Approving
Authority, a list of applicants with the highest ratings to receive pumps
at 10% more than the number of pumps allocated to the thana. The District
Approving Authority reviews the Thana Authority's report and makes final
allocation to each thana. The composition of the team and authorities, and
BADC guidelines for screening the applications are given in Exhibit 1 of this
Annex.
8.        The official procedures do contain adequate provisions for keeping
up the efficient use of pumps and giving equitable opportunity for large and
small farmers' land to be irrigated, However, by and large the official cri-
teria are being ignored. Also, the official criteria have been amended by a
number of administrative orders which introduced much flexibility and, at
times, contradictions. The requirecL command area of a 2 cusec pump began at
60-70 ac, but has been reduced at various times until the actually irrigated
area presently averages less than 40 ac.
9.        At the root of such irregularities is the pressure put by local
influential people on the thana, District and Central level officers to
bend criteria so that pumps will be allocated to farmer groups which they
support. The latter are dominated by larger farmers who tend to limit the
number of farmers belonging to the group and hence the area irrigated.
Submitting to such pressure by thana and District officers is one of the
causes of the successive reduction of area irrigated per pump or per cusec
as reported by BADC.
10.       At the time of appraisal, almost all the pumps were in thana
workshops. Only in Gaffargaon thana were the pumps actually being issued
to the pump groups for the coming boro season. There are many makes of
pumps and engines from many different countries. All of the engines and
pumps were relatively old, the newest appeared to be three or four years
old. A limited number of new pumps were expected to be available for the
coming boro season. Almost all of thie pumps that were returned to the
thana workshop for repair were in a condition to be returned to the field.
Less than 2% of the pumps were not ready for service because of lack of
spare parts. The BADC provides mechanics at the thana workshop and they
do the first level of maintenance. 'tepairs that cannot be done by the
mechanic in the thana workshop is sent to the zonal workshops of BADC where
spare parts, shop equipment and repa:Lr staff are available for major over-
hauls and reconditioning of the pumpn; and engines.
11.       The BADC maintains diesel :uel and lubrication stores at the
thana level workshops. The pump groups pay for diesel fuel, lubricants,
spare parts, field maintenance and ovrerhauling service for the pumps pro-
vided by BADC.
-64-



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       The BADC, each year before the boro season, announces the availa-
bility of low-lift pumps and stipulates the conditions for rental. For the
1974-75 season, a rental of Tk 600 annually for a 2 cusec power pump must
be paid before delivery of the pump. The pump group also pays a Tk 300
security deposit before delivery of the pump. The deposit is refunded at
the end of the season. The price of spares necessary for repair may be
deducted from the security deposit. The group appoints a driver trained
by and satisfactory to BADC. The driver's salary is the responsibility of
the pump group. Although not stated in regulations, in practice the pumps
furnished by BADC this season normally will be "earmarked" for the same
group in following years.
13.       Discussions of pump performance with farmers in the pump groups
indicated several problem areas. Some pump breakdowns have occurred; in
general, repairs have been made before damage to the irrigated crop has
occurred. The delay in repair invariably occurred because sufficient spare
parts were not available at the thana workshop and sometimes not even at the
zonal workshop. The principal uncertainty during the past irrigation sea-
son was the frequent shortage of diesel fuel. The pump groups interviewed
generally hold the view that early in the season, operation was usually
plagued with minor malfunctioning of the pumps and that as the irrigation
season goes on, a continuous supply of diesel fuel becomes increasingly
more difficult.
14.       Shallow tubewells - In February 1975, BADC initiated a scheme to
sell shallow tubewells to farmers or cooperative groups. Under the scheme,
the buyers pay BADC a 10% downpayment and the balance of the cost of the
well in three equal annual installments. The BADC announces standard
cost of the wells, which varies with size of wells (3 inches and 4 inches)
and depth (80 ft - 150 ft). The highest cost is 1.56 times that of the
lowest cost as estimated by BADC In January, 1975. The main problem with
the scbeme is that BADC's involvement in credit operations would place an
additional burden on the already heavy workload of its field staff, dis-
tracting them from their primary responsibility of providing technical
services. Another problem would be that the beneficiaries of the scheme
are likely to be large farmers only.
15.       Hand pumps - The hand pumps for irrigating crops became popular in
the project thanas only in the last few years. The same hand pump installed
for drinking water tubewells with UNICEF assistance is fitted to a 1-1/2 inch
diameter shallow well and pumped manually to provide irrigation water to
about one-third of an acre. The equipment and material include a standard
No. 6 cast iron hand pump, 1-1/2 inch diameter galvanized iron pipes in 20 ft
sections, a six ft long 1-1/2 inch diameter brass well strainer and sand
pack around the strainer. All these are readily available in thana head-
quarters town shops.
16.       The well depth varies from about 25 to 50 ft.  Farmers can install
the well equipment by themselves by sludger method in one hour, and can move
them from one parcel to another. By rotating among parcels, some farmers
-65-



ANNEX 4
Page 5
irrigate rice up to even 1 ac.  A French volunteer team (Brother of All Men
International-lAM) is currently promoting (among other improvemnts) vith
promising results the use of hand-pumps for irrigating vegetables and other
crops in one union of the Sariakanti thana.
Project Works
17.       The proposed project wilL provide for replacement of 805 existing
low-lift pumps (mostly 2 cusec) with 1,400 new 1 cusec pumps, develop 2,500
shallow tubewells, and 5,000 hand pumps.
18.       Low-lift pumps - The existing pumps are mostly 2 cusec powered
with 16-19 h.p. diesel engines. About 10% of the pumps are 1 cusec powered
with 10 hp diesel engines. The BAIC has favored purchase of the 2 cusec
pumps and has not purchased 1 cusec pumps since 1970. For pumping service
from the mainstreams, e.g. Old Brabmaputra in Gaffargaon and Muktagacha
thanas where the lift can reach 30 ft, the large 16-19 hp engines of the
existing fielded pump are reasonable. However, most of the low-lift pumps
in the project thanas lift the water about 15 ft, for which the existing
engines are excessively large. In all cases, only a fraction of the pump
capacity is needed to irrigate the lands tied to the pump.
19.       The CP mission has suggested replacement of most existing pumps
with a 1-1/2 cusec pump powered with a 5.5 hp diesel engine. A pump-engine
set of this general size with a 5-7 hp engine could be assembled within a
total weight limit of 220 lbs. The unit would be highly mobile and could
be used between several small groups where the lands are not contiguous or
cannot be served from one source location. The appraisal mission favored
the suggestion of the CP mission and following discussions with BADC obtained
an agreement to replace all existing low-lift pumps with 1,400 one cusec
pumps powered with 5 hp diesel engines. The total number of cusecs will be
reduced from 1,485 to 1,400 but irrigated area per cusec is expected to in-
crease from 19.5 ac to 26 ac, and the total area from 29,009 ac to 36,000 ac.
20.       The BADC will, as it does for the national program, procure and,
field the pumps, supply fuel and oil, provide, repair and overhaul services
and train pump operators. The collection of pump rental and other charges
under the project will be consistent with BADC's on-going national program.
The BADC will not distribute during the project period new low-lift pumps in
the project thanas other than those supplied by the project, nor would it
redistribute old pumps displaced by the new pumps in the project thanas. It
will assure the supply of adequate amounts of fuel, oil and spare parts to
the pumps in the project thanas during the pump season.
21.       The system of application and approval of allocating the low-lift
pumps under the project will be as follows:
(a) All new 1 cusec pumps supplied by the project and
old 2 cusec pumps before they are replaced by the
new pumps will be distributed only to TCCA-KSS
-66-



ANNEX 4
Page 6
pump groups. The BADC will not distribute any
other pumps in the seven project thanas to non-TCCA
farmers. All existing non-TCCA pump groups will
be reorganized into TCCA-KSS pump groups under the
supervision of Thana Cooperative and IRDP officers.
Details about this reorganization are given in paras
16 and 18 of Annex 6.
(b) The TCCA-KSS pump group will prepare an irrigation plan
consistent with the KSS production plan and complete a
power pumps application consistent with an adopted proforma
which would include the following: a map of the land
parcels to be irrigated by the pump; a name list of farmers
belonging to the group and the land within the command
area owned by each; total area actually irrigated last
year; boro season and area proposed to be irrigated this
season, total HYV area planted last year boro season and
total HYV area proposed to be planted this year, and
record of repayment of the cooperative rural credit of
the previous year by each member of the group.
(c) The TCCA will assemble the proposed power pump applications
and irrigation plans and the IRDP Project Officer (TPO)
will assure that the information furnished by each of the
KSS pump groups is complete and verifiable.
(d) The power pump applications and irrigation plans will be
transmitted by the TCCA to the Thana Irrigation Team. The
Team will consist of the following members: Thana
Irrigation Officer (Convener); IRDP Project Officer; Thana
Agricultural Officer, and Sectional Officer of BADC, and
a representative of the Water Development Board, if avail-
able. The Team will prepare, annually, a thana map showing
available water resources in the thana for the fielding of
power pumps. Upon receiving pump applications from the
TCCA, it will eliminate all applicant groups whose record
of repayment of cooperative rural credit of last year was
less than 75%. It will then order priority of the application
groups by the following system:
(i) assign one point for each acre actually irrigated
by the pump;
(ii) assign one and a half points for each farmer served by
the pump;
(iii) assign one point for each acre planted to HYV;
-67-



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(iv) assign one to ten poLints for 1 cusec pumps and 1
to 15 points for 2 cusec pumps representing poor
to excellent timely payment of rural credit;
(v) assign one to five points for 1 cusec pumps and one
to ten points for 2 cusec pumps representing poor
to excellent upkeep of pumps during the preceding
season; and
(vi) establish priority of each pump group by the total
of points accumulated by the sum of (i) through (v).
(e)  The Thana Irrigation Team would submit the priority list and
other accompanying documents to the Thana Approving Authority
chaired by the Circle Officer (Development), for transmit-
tal to the District Approving Authority. The Thana Approving
Authority would consist of the same membership as the Thana
Irrigation Team, but the Circle Officer (Development) *ill
serve as convener and the Thana Irrigation Officer, BADC, as
the secretary.
(f) The District Approving Aut:hority would consist of:
Deputy Commissioner/Additional
Deputy Commissioner (Develop-
ment)                              -    Chairman
Executive Engineer,                  -    Member Secretary
BADC
Assistant Director,                  -    Member
Rural Development
District Project Director,           -    Member
IRDP
District Agricultural                -    Member
Officer
The District Approving Authority will examine the schemes
submitted to them for final approval. In doing so, the
following factors should be given high priority;
(i) technical feasibility of projects and water resources;
(ii) appropriate co-ordination among the projects submitted
by different thanas to avoid scarcity of water du& to
concentration of too nany low-lift pumps in one area;
and
-68-



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(iii) per cusec coverage of the low-lift pumps during the
last year in different thanas and the proposed ex-
pansion program during the current season. The
efficiency of irrigation during the last season and
availability of future surface water should be the
guiding factors in considering any request for an
additional number of low-lift pumps.
22.       Shallow tubewells - The BADC will procure, move and store the equip-
ment; site and install the wells; supply fuel, oil, spare parts; offer repair
and overhaul services, and train well operators. The BADC and BKB will not
provide credit to farmers in the project area for procurement of shallow
tubewells.
23.       The following procedures will be adopted:
(a) The BADC Thana Irrigation Officer, under the supervision of
the BADC Executive Engineer (Shallow Tubewells), will identify
favorable groundwater pumping areas in each of the seven
thanas and make this information available to the TCCA.
(b) Following review of the irrigation scheme and
the proposed pump site the BADC Executive Engineer
or his authorized representative will advise
TCCA of the estimated cost of the completed
tubewell and the payments required.
(c) The TCCA will promote, encourage and assist
the formation of shallow tubewell pump groups
by KSSs with a command area of at least 15 ac
per tubewell in the favorable groundwater
pumping areas. The KSS pump group will prepare
and submit to TCCA a map showing land parcels to be
irrigated by the well, and an application including
a name list of member farmers whose land parcels
are involved, area of land farmed by each, area of
different crops to be planted, the total land area
to be irrigated, and the repayment record of previous
cooperative rural credit. The following priority
rating system would be adopted:
(i)  assign two points to each crop acre irrigated by
the well;
(ii) assign three points to each farm household served
by the well; and
(iii) assign two points to each acre of priority crops
to be planted: HYV rice; vegetables; forage, or
fodder crops.
-69-



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(d) The IRDP/TPO and the TCCA will assist the pump
groups of the KSS in the preparation of application
for shallow tubewells to be submitted to BADC,
and for medium-term credit to be submitted to
the Sonali Bank.
(e) Upon payment of the requ.ired 10% down payment
by the KSS, the BADC Executive Engineer will
issue a work order to a contractor (previously
selected contractor for the area) to drill the
well, install the screer, casing, pump set and
fitting, and develop and test the well.
(f) Upon completion of the well installation and
acceptance by the KSS ccncerned, TCCA/KSS will
fully reimburse BADC the balance of the cost
of the well with medium-term credit money
provided by the project through the Sonali
Bank. The detailed financing procedures are
described in para 33(e) of Annex 6.
(g)  During the well development and testing period
and the first several days of actual irrigation
operations, BADC will provide, on the job train-
ing to a selected member of the farmer pump group
to operate and provide the required daily main-
tenance and service of the pump and engine.
(h) At the end of the irrigation season, the pump
will be returned to the shallow tubewell work-
shop for annual inspecti.on, repair and over-
haul.
(i)  Following the first operating season and during
the time the shallow tubewell pump sets are in
the workshops for annual. service and repair,
the BADC will carry out a training program for
minor repairs which all project pump operators
will attend.
24.       The cost of project shallow tubewells will be repaid by the pump
groups to the Sonali Bank in five equal annual installments. The cost of
fuel, lubricants, service, repair and spare parts will be paid by the pump
groups to BADC.
25.       Hand pumps--The project will provide 5,000 hand pumps to individual
small farmers owning up to 0.75 ac: and who are members of TCCA-KSS. Farmers
with smallest holdings will be given priority. Farmers will pay a 10% down
payment and the balance of the cosit of the well equipment will be covered by
the medium-term credit provided by the project through the Sonali Bank.
Farmers will repay the credit in tip to five annual installments.           _70_



ANNEX 4
Page 10
26.       The TCCA would buy the pumps for KSS member applicants through
local bidding and dealers would be paid directly by TCCA. Details of the
credit terms and arrangements are given in para 33(c) of Annex 6. Farmers
growing vegetables and forage/fodder crops will be given priority.
27.       Area irrigable by the 5,000 hand pumps would vary from a minimum of
about 1,700 ac (one third of an ac per pump) to 5,000 ac (one ac per pump).
The benefited area is small, but the project would demonstrate feasibility
of providing medium-term credit to small farmers for purchasing production
equipment for increasing production of high value crops.
-71-



ANNEX 4
Page ll
29.       Implementation Schedule
Fiscal Year
Total   75/76  76/77  77/78    78/79   79/80  80/81
Item             Number  6 months                              6 months
Low-lift pumps       1,400      -     350    700       350       -       -
Shallow tubewells   2,500      -      400    600       600     600      300
Hand pumps           5,000     -      500    800    1,000   1,200   1,500
30.       Unit Costs
Cost (Tk)
Taxes
Item               Local        Foreign     & Duties        Total
(i) 1-Cusec Low-lift Pumps
(a) Engine                     -           6,850        1,025          7,875
(b) Pump                     2,100           550           80          2,730
(c) Pipes & Fittings         1,500           450           75          2,025
(d) Transport & Handling       300           -            -              300
(e) Sales Tax                  -             -            420            420
Total Cost/Pump             3,900         7,850        1,600         13,350
(ii) 1/2-Cusec Shallow Tubewell
(a) 4" G.I. Pipe               -           1,780          270          2,050
(b) Screens                    -           3,350          500          3,850
(c) Engine                     -           6,850        1,025          7,875
(d) Pump                     2,400           550           80          3,030
(e) Fittings                   600           200           50            850
(f) Transport & Handling       500           -            -              500
(g) Installation               800           -            -              800
(h) Sales Tax                  -             -            725            725
Total Cost/Well             4,300        12,730        2,650         19,680
(iii) 1-1/2" Dia. Hand Pumps       1,200           200          100         1,500
31.       Total Costs - Minor Irrigation - see Table 1.
April 1976
-72-



ANNEX 4
Exhibit 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
(The Following is the Original Text of a
GOB Circular)
Govt. of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Ministry of Agriculture
CIRCULAR
The Government has decided to field 40,000 low-lift pumps during
1974-75. The following procedures are laid down for the initiation and
approval of schemes:
1.        Thana Irrigation Team
Thana Irrigation Team will be composed of the following:-
1.   Thana Irrigation officer                  -    Convenor
2.   Sectional officer, Water Dev. Board       -    Member
3.   Thana Agriculture officer                 -    Member
4.  T.C.O.                                     -    Member
Functions
a.   It will act as Technical sub-committee of the Thana Approving
Authority in which capacity it will carry out feasibility study
for irrigation schemes based on availability of surface and
ground water, scrutinize the schemes submitted by the Union
Krishi Uhnayan Committee (Union Agricultural Development Com-
mittee - UKUCs) and advise the TAA for according approval to
the power pump schemes. Thana Irrigation Team will be responsible
for collection of all schemes from UKUC.
b.   The Team will prepare a Thana Map showing availability of water
resources in the Thana for fielding of power pump which should
be updated each year.
2.        Thana Approving Authority
The Thana Approving Authority will be composed of the following:
-73-



ANNEX 4
Exhibit 1
Page 2
1.   Circle officer (Dev)                      -    Convenor
2.   Thana Agriculture officer                 -    Member
3.   Project officer, IRDP                     -    Member (In IRDP thanas)
4.   Thana Animal Husbandry officer
5.   Thana Irrigation officer, BADC
6.   Thana Co-operative officer
Functions:
To scrutinise the schemes received from the Thana Irrigation
Team, the following guidelines should be followed:
a.   Map of the Project including the names of the farmers.
b.   The commanded area should be minimum 50 acres for a a 2 cusec low-
lift pump in case of old schemes and 40 acres in case of new
schemes.
C.   At least 60% of the Co-operative loans of the provisions years
should be repaid.
d.   Pump should be voluntarily returned in time for repair to the
nearest BADC store by the group.
Revised terms and conditions on the rental of low-lift pump will
be communicated soon.
After due scrutiny, Thara Approving Authority will approve power
pump schemes in order of priority, with additional 10% over national
allocation made by the District Approving Authority. Their approval of
individual schemes will be subject to final approval by the District
Authority.
District Approving Authority
In each District, there will be a District Approving Authority
consisting of the following:-
1.   Deputy Commissioner/A.D.C.                           Chairman
2.   Dist. Agriculture officer                            Member
3.   Asst. Director, Rural Dev.                            o
4.   Executive Engineer/Asst. Engineer/BADC               Member-Secretary
5.   Assistant Registrar-Co-operative Societies          Member
6.   Assistant Director, Rural Dev.                      Member
7.   District Project Director, IRDP                      Member
All M.Ps should be invited in the meeting of the District
Approving Authority Committee meeting, and their views should be duly
reflected in the final programming.
-74-



ANNEX 4
Exhibit 1
Page 3
Functions:
On receipt of District wise allotment of power pumps, the Dist.
Approving Authority will make thana wise sub-allocation and communicate
the same to the C.O.(Dev), Thana Agriculture officer and Thana Irrigation
officer simultaneously for proceeding with selection of site and collection
of applications for irrigation on power pumps.
The District Approving Authority will examine the schemes sub-
mitted to them for final approval. In doing so, the following factors
should be given high priority:-
a.   Technical feasibility of projects and water resources.
b.   Appropriate co-ordination among the projects submitted by dif-
ferent Thanas should be properly ensured to avoid scarcity of
water due to concentration of too many low-lift pumps in one
area.
c.   Per cusec coverage of the low-lift pumps during the last
year in different Thanas and proposed expansion programme
during the current season. The efficiency of irrigation during
last season and availability of future surface water should be
the guiding factors in considering any request for additional
number of low-lift pumps.
d.   Special attention should be paid to the need for bringing add-
itional areas under cultivation in pump groups which had low
coverage i.e. below 20 acres per cusec during the last season.
e.   Low-lift pump which put in specially bad performance from
efficiency point of view should be excluded from this year's
list. It is suggested that any 2 cusec pump which has covered
25 acres or lesser areas should be omitted from next year's
programme.
f.   Pumps group which did not return low-lift pumps voluntarily for
repairing in time and also defaulted in the repayment of co-
operative loan should be excluded from the list of this year's
programme.
g.   District Approving Authority will make final allocation of pumps
among the Thana after considering the schemes in accordance
with the criteria mentioned above.
The District-wise allocation of low-lift pumps has been made
taking the availability of surface water into consideration and last three
year's performance of the low-lift pumps. The Government reserve the right
of increasing or decreasing allocation to some districts if either pro-
arammes are not finalised within due dates on adequate number of suitable
schemes are not available. The district wise allocation of low-lift
pumps is enclosed together with a time schedule for programme.
Sd/- A.M. Anisuzzaman
Secretary,             -75-
No. XII/MC-189/74/188                     Dated 6.7.74



ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVEiJOPMENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Minor  Irrigation
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Item                               Local      F         Duties       Total
(i)   Low-lift Pumps
T1 0 -cusec pumps                             5.46     10.99       2.24        18.69
at Tk 13,350/pump
(ii)  Shallow Tubewells
2,500 ½ cusec  tubewells at                  10.75     31.83       6.62       49.20
Tk 19,675/tubewell
(iii) Hand Pumps
5,0D0 hand pumps at Tk 1,500/pump             6.oo      1.00       0.50        7.50
(iv)  Sub-total Minor Irrigation                  (22.21)   (43.82)    (9.36)       (75-39)
(v)   Engineering & Administration
(10% of iv)                                  7.54        -          -          7.54
*vi)  Base Cost Estimate                           29.75     43.82       9.36       82.93
1/
(vii) Price Contingencies                          22.6o     18.16       3.58       44.__4
(viii) Total Cost Minor Irrigation
(vi r vii)                                  52.35      61.98     13.24       127.57
1/ No physical contingenices are provtded as the quantities are
fixed and the unit cost estimates are firm.
-76-



ANNEX 4
Table 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
1/ 2/
Estimated Irrigated Area in the Proiect Thanas
Country
Low-lift Pump             Shallow Tubewell       Deep Tubewell   Methods         Total
No.     Cusec    Area             No.    Area          No.    Area       Area         Area
(1000 ac)             (1,000 ac)           (1,000 ac) (1000 ac)  (1,000 ac)
Kotwali             P                     80       145       2.5            55      0.5           -        -        1.0          4.0
FV                    80        145      3.0           100       1.0         50      3.0        1.0           8.0
FW                   120        120      3.0           650      8.0          50      3.0        1.0         15.0
Sherpur            P                    110        210       4.0          100       1.0           -        -        1.0          6.0
FW                  110        210       4.5           100       1.0         70      4.0        1.0         10.5
FW                  180         180      4.5          400       5.0          70      4.0        1.0         14.5
Gabtali            P                    110        195       3.5            20         -          8      0.5        1.0          5.0
Fg                   110        200      4.0            50      0.5          30      2.0        1.0           7.5
FW                  220         220      5.5           650      8.0          30      2.0        1.0         16.5
Sariakandi         P                    115        210       4.0            10         -          -        -        1.5          5.5
FP                  115         220      4.5            50      0.5          20      1.0        1.5           7.5
FW                  230         230      6.0           500       6.0         20      1.0        1.5         14.5
Sub-total          p                    415        760      14.0          200       1.5           8      0.5        4.5         20-5
(4 Bogra Thanas)  FW                    415        775      16.0          300       3.0        170      10.0        4.5         33.5
FW                  750        750      19.0        2,200      27.0         170     10.0        4.5          60.5
Muktagacha          P                     70        120      2.5             -         -         35      2.0        1.0           5.5
Fg                    70        120      2.5             -         -         80      5.0         1.0          8.5
FW                  140         140      3.5           200      2.5          80      5.0        1.0         12.0
Gaffargaon         P                    250        470      10.0             -         -         20      1.0        2.0         13.0
FW                  250        470      10.0             -         -         90      5.5        2.0         17.5
FW                  420        420      11.0           200      2.5          90      5.5        2.0          21.0
Trisal             P                     70        135       2.5             -         -         15      1.0        1.0          4.5
FW                    70        135      2.5             -         -         65      3.5         1.0         7.0
FW                    90         90      2.5           200       2.5         65      3.5         1.0          9.5
Sub-total          P                    390        725      I5.0             -         -        70       4.0        4.0         23.0
(3 Mymensingh      FN                   390        725      15.0            -         -        235      14.0        4.0         33.0
Thanas)         FW                   650        650      17.0          600       7.5        235      14.0        4.0         42.5
Total              P                    805      1,485      29.0           200      1.5          78      4.5        8.5         43.5
EC                   805     1,500      31.0           300       3.0        405     24.0         8.5         66.5
FW                1,400      1,400      36.0        2,800      34.5         405     24.0         8.5        103.0
1/  Notation:   P  Present
FW Future without Project
FW Future with Project
2/ Present figures estimated from those reported by thana administrations. The future "without project" figures reflect
the likely increase due to ongoing IDA Deep Tubewell project as well as some increase in Shallow Tubewells. Thana-wise
"with" project figures for number of low-lift pumpsand shallow tubewells are provisional and are subject to revision on
the basis of field experience.
-77 -



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Thana Facilities
Background
1.        Thana facilities include office buildings and living quarters
for thana level officers, godowns, workshops and veterinarian dispen-
saries, belonging to various Govermnent agencies or TCCAs. This Annex
deals with these facilities, except the equipment for the veterinarian
dispensaries, which are discussed iia Annex 9.
2.        Modeled after the Comilla approach, Bangladesh has built Thana
Training and Development Centers (TCDC) in a large number of thanas. The
TTDC has a double story buildiug for offices of the Circle Officer (Development),
all line department officers assigned to the thana, the thana overseers/
supervisors (engineering staff for RWP) as well as a meeting and training
hall. Placing officers of all disciplines in one headquarters building and
using them as trainers of TCCA-KSS todel farmers is an innovative feature
of Bangladesh administration. Similar centers are being built in Sri Lanka
(Agricultural Productivity Centers) and Pakistan (Markhaz).
3.        Near by the TTDC, twinplex two-story buildings have been built
and provide living quarters for the line department officers. The office
and dormitory buildings of TTDC in the seven thanas were in various stages
of construction in 1970 when construction was interrupted by civil dis-
turbances. Many buildings have been in use but have been left partly finished
(para 7). The lack of family living quarters has been a hardship to recently
appointed line department officers. Most of the supporting staff such as
Village Extension Officers, vaccinators, and the TCCA inspectors and village
accountants are recruited locally; they usually live with their families.
4.        The Union Agricultural Assistant (UAA) is the front line exten-
sion officer. He is the only civil servant at the union level, but is not
provided with an office or living quarters. Some of them get free room
and board in larger farmers' homes. This subjects them to undue influence.
5.        The BADC owns a fertilizer godown of 400 ton capacity each in
Sherpur, Sariakandi and Muktagacha thanas, but not in the other four
project thanas. The TCCAs have no storage facilities. This has restric-
ted TCCAs from providing marketing services to its members.
6.        The BADC has a workshop and fuel and oil storages in each of
the seven project thanas for serviciag low-lift pumps and tubewells. The
workshops are generally short of working tools.                              -78-



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Project Works
7.        TTDC Buildings -- The project will bring the construction of the
following buildings to completion:
Thana                                Item
Bogra Kotwali             TTDC                       30% incomplete
Circle officer quarters  25%       '
Twin quarter               50%
Twin quarter              100%
Sherpur                   Twin quarter               75%
Twin quarter              90%
Gabtali                   TTDC                       20%
C.0. quarters               6%
2 Twin quarter            25%
Sariakandi                TTDC                       30%
C.0. quarters               5%
2 Twin quarters          100%
Muktagacha                Twin quarters              20%
Gaffargaon                TTDC                       75%
C.0. quarters             98%
Twin quarters             95%
Twin quarters              50%
8.        TCCA storages -- The project will construct four fertilizer
godowns, for TCCA, one each at Bogra Kotwali, Gabtali, Trisal and Gaffargaon
thanas, and seven general godowns one for each of the seven thanas. The
fertilizer godown can be used for storing BADC fertilizers for the thana.
The TCCA will serve as store-keeper for BADC and manage all the fertilizer
stores in the seven thanas. It will directly distribute fertilizers to
KSS members, but serve as BADC's agent for fertilizers intended for farmers
who are not KSS members. The BADC will pay TCCA a commission according
to standard rates on a per maund basis. The general godown will be used by
TCCA as transit storage and distribution depot for various items such as
seeds, pesticides, hand pumps, spares and farm produce.
9.        The fertilizer godown will have a 400 ton capacity, and a 3,200
sq ft floor space. The general godown will have a 200 ton capacity
and 1,600 sq ft floor space. They both include storage areas and separate
small living quarters for a store keeper and darwan (watchman). The
The buildings will all have 11 inch brick walls and a plastered and re-
inforced concrete floor and roof. The units would be standard and familiar
-79-



ANNEX 5
Page 3
to local construction contractors. Such structures are chosen for their
durability, low maintenance, protection against pilferage and fire hazards,
and preservation quality for holdirLg stored items.
10.       BADC Thana Workshops -- In the seven thanas, the project would
provide these workshops with additional tools and facilities.
Implementation Procedures
11.       The Circle Officer (Development), assisted by Thana Overseers/
Supervisors, will use the existing standard design and specifications for
TTDC buildings. After surveying the unfinished parts of each building, he
will prepare construction plans for bringing them to completion. For TCCA
godowns, he will use the standard design and specification of the existing
BADC godowns with adjustment to dimensions. He will prepare bids and float
tenders for the construction of the Thana buildings. For preparing bids
and float tenders for TCCA godowns, he will consult IRDP/TPO.
12.       The Thana Project Executile Committee will select the successful
bid.  The Circle Officer (Developmenit) will award the contracts.
13.       The Circle Officer (Development) and Thana Overseers/Supervisors
will supervise the construction.
14.       The Circle Officer (Development) will make payments to contractors
and inspect the completed construction for official acceptance. The detailed
steps and time table would be the same as those for RWP as described in
Annex 3, para 18.
15.       The local consulting firms to be hired for the Rural Works Program
component would also assist in executing this component (Annex 3, para 19).
16.       Implementation Schedule
Item                                   Fiscal Year
75/76   76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81
------------ (Percent of total)-------------
TTDC Complexes              5        80      15       -        -       -
Fertilizer Godowns          5        95       -       -        -       -
General Godowns             5        95       -       -        -       -
Workshop Equipment           -      10)       -       -        -       -
-80-



ANNEX 5
Page 4
17.       Unit Costs
(Thousand Taka)
Taxes &
Local  Foreign  Duties   Total
(i) TTDC Complexes
(a)  TTDC buildings including
meeting halls                    430       80      20       530
(b)  Circle Officer Quarters          128       24       8       160
(c)  Twin Quarter                     210       40      10       260
(ii) Fertilizer Godown (400 tons)
(a)  Storage Area 3,200 sq ft
at Tk 125/sq ft                  240      120      40       400
(b) Off ice-cum-residence for
storekeeper 800 sq ft at
Tak 150/sq ft                     95       20       5       120
6c)  Darwan Quarter 300 sq ft
at Tk 140/sq ft                   34        6       2        42
(d)  Bookkeeping Clerk Quarters
500 sq ft at Tk 150/sq ft         60      12        3        75
(e)  Site                              50       -        -        50
Sub-Total Fertilizer Godown           479      158       50      687
(iii) General Godown (200 tons)
(a)  Storage Area 1,600 sq ft
at Tk 125/sq ft                  120       60      20       200
(b)  Office-cum-residence for
storekeeper 800 sq ft
at Tk 150/sq ft                   95       20       5       120
(c)  Darwan Quarters 300 sq ft
at Tk 140/sq ft                   34        6       2        42
(d)  Site                              30       -        -        30
Sub-Total General Godown              279       86       27      392
(iv)  Equipment for Thana Workshops
Lump Sum/Thana                          4       13        8       25
18.       Cost Estimate  -  See Table 1.
-81-



ANNEX 5
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVEI01M4T I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Thana Facilities
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Item                                Local     For2gM   Duties        Total
1/
(i)   TTDC  plexes
(a) TTDC buildings -
1.55 nos. at Tk 530,000 each             0.67       0.12      0.03         0.82
(b) Circle Officer quarters -
1.34 nos. at Tk 160,000 each             0.17       0.03      0.01        0.21
(c) Twin quarters -
7.3 nos. at Tk 260,000 each              1.53       0.29      o.o8         1.90
Sub-total TTDC Complexes                      2.37      0.44      0.12         2.93
(ii)  400 ton Fertilizer Godowns -
4 nos at Tk 687,000 each                      1.92      o.63      0.20         2.75
(iii) 200 ton General Godowns -
7 nos. at Tk 392 each                         1.95      o.60      0.19         2.74
(iv)  Equipment for 7 Thana Workshops
Tk 25,000 per workshop                       0.03       0.09      o.o6         0.18
(v)   Sub-total (i - iv)                           (6.27)    (1.76)    (0-57)       (8.60)
(vi)  Engineering & Administration
(10% of v)                                   0.86        -                     0.86
(vii) Base Cost Estimate   (v + vi)                 7.13      1.76      0.57         9.46
(viii)Physical Contingencies                        0.71      0.18      o.o6         0.95
(10% of vii)
(ix)  Price contingencies                           2.68      0.39     _0.13       _3.20
(x)   Total Cost (vii + viii + ix)                 10.52      2.33      0.76        13.61
1/ Number of units to be constructed is based upon the percentage                 -82-
incomplete in individual thanas.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Rural Credit
A. Background
Introduction
1.        The project will supply rural credit only to TCCA-KSS members.
The project credit, both short- and medium-term, will be supplied through
the Sonali Bank. The procedures for loan application, approval, bookkeeping
and supervision will be tightened, with a primary objective to break the
habitual willful defaulting by the farmer borrowers.
Selection of Sonali Bank as the Project Rural Credit Lending Institution
2.        The status of the rural credit system and institutions in
Bangladesh were studied by the Bank Agricultural Credit Review Mission
in 1973. A follow-up mission in August/September, 1974 discussed with
the Government the review mission report (No. 461-BD, July 1, 1974). The
report pointed out the basic organizational and financial weaknesses of
the main rural credit institutions: the Bangladesh Cooperative Bank
(Bangladesh Jatiaya Samabaya Bank or BJSB) for short-term credit, and
Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) for medium- and long-term credits, and recom-
mended improvement measures to be taken. It saw the over-riding issue as
being the need to resolve delinquent debts of the Government and coopera-
tive credit institutions, which, in amount and number, have become almost
impossible to manage. On June 30, 1973 loans in arrears as a percentage
of the amount of the loan portfolio were 47X for BKB and 71% for BJSB.
3.        The follow-up mission concluded that until the Government takes
decisive action toward rectifying the credit institutions and the tradi-
tional cooperative system, there seems to be little that the Bank/IDA can
do to assist BKB and BJSB. The mission, however, recommended the follow-
ing interim measures:
(a) Improve the field operation of the rural
credit system, utilizing commercial banks
as channels, to be tried out under the
IDA Rural Development project.
(b) Continue the dialogue with the Govern-
ment and to leave open the offer to
consider helping to finance the tech-
nical assistance they may desire.
-83-



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The above views of the credit review mission report guide the
approach by .ii-h  .          component of this project is designed, and
is the basic reason why the project chooses the Sonali Bank, the largest
commercial bank (now nationalized) for channeling both the medium- and
short-term credit to be provided under the project. In view of BJSB's
problems, the Government, since 1973, has asked the Sonali Bank to pro-
v±de sho-t-term credit to TCCA-KSS members, thus replacing BJSB in this
function.
5.        Besides the problem of krrears, BKB lends medium- and long-
term loans primarily to individual farmers. For many years, over 60%
of BKB's meditum-term credit was fyr purchase of work animals, which
was difficult to verify. During tppraisal, the Government agreed to
have the Sonali Bank handle both :he short- and medium-term loans
provided under the project.
6.        The Sonali Bank current .y has ten regional offices each cover-
ing 1 to 3 Districts and controll:.ng 20 to 45 local branches. The re-
gional offices and branches are at equately staffed with personnel
trained and experienced in the cotmercial banking business. In the
seven project thanas, the Somiali las five branches, one each in
Kotwali, Sherpur, Sariakandi and (affargaon. Muktagacha thana is
being served by a branch office ir the neighboring Mymensingh thana
and Trisal, by the Gaffargaon brarch. In either case, the distance
is within 12 tailes. Fach br8nch cffice is staffed by a minimum of
five:  one manager, _e ;'ashier, cne accountant, two clerks assisting
the cashier and accountants.
7.        Recently? university graduates in agriculture or economics
were assigned to regional offices as inspectors, with the special duty
to deal with agricultural credit c3eration. They have been trained in
the Dacca head office on banking, Presently, one inspector supervises
not more than ten TCCAs. The Bank plans to recruit more inspectors
when necessary.
8.        Since the Sonali began i:s rural credit operations in 1973 with
IRDP/TCCA, the first loan for the 1973 T. aman crop has been 100% recovered
in the seven project thanas. The -ecovery of 1973 T. boro ranged from 100%
in Gabtali, about 95% in Sherpur aid Gaffargaon, 70% in Sariakandi and
Muktagacha, and 537 in Trisal.  Tho recovery of 1974 T. aman, harvested in
December, 1974 was in progress at :he time of appraisal. The above record
was not ideal, but was far better :han the country as a whole. The Sonali
Bank has conducted a survey of problems involved and is making plans to
improve the performance in thanas of low recovery. The use of the Sonali
Bank in the project, however, is n t meant as a precedent which would lead
to Sonali Bank replacing BJSB and IKB as the major rural credit institutions.
Instead, it is meant to use a bank without the burden of long years of over-
due credit to demonstrate a rural (redit field level operation system which
-84-



ANNEX 6
Page 3
integrates closely with other rural development activities. If the system
proves to be successful, and when basic improvements of BJSB and BKB are
carried out, there should be no reason why the same system could not be
carried out through them.
Limiting Recipients of Project Rural Credit to TCCA-KSS Members
9.        The traditional cooperatives are members of the Central Coopera-
tive Banks (CCB) 1/, which, in turn, are members of BJSB. Generally, these
cooperatives are characterized by domination of large farmers and unsatis-
factory management and supervision. To provide loans to unorganized small
farmers directly by the banks would be difficult to supervise even at a
very high administrative cost. It tends to lead to loans going mainly
to large farmers. To channel project rural credit through the Sonali
Bank and the TCCA/KSS cooperative system is in line with the recommenda-
tion of the credit review follov-up mission (para 3(c)) and believed to
be the only way that, with improved procedures and supervision, a healthy
new tradition of rural credit operation at the field level could be estab-
lished for channeling credit to small farmers. If successfully demon-
strated, the system may hopefully be extended to other parts of the
country.
10.       The TCCA-KSS is supervised by the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) which is a department under the Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives. The IRDP is better staffed, quantita-
tively and qualitatively, at the Central, District and thana levels than
the Cooperatives Department which supervises the traditional cooperative
system (Annex 7).
11.       The project will direct the supply of all inputs (low-lift
pumps, shallow tubewells, hand pumps, processing equipment, and re-
claimed public fish ponds) as well as rural credit only to TCCA-KSS
members, and will also greatly strengthen extension (crop and fishery)
and veterinarian services to TCCA-KSS members. Joining TCCA-KSSs will
become very attractive to medium and small farmers.
12.       Therefore, although there were only 626 KSSs in the seven thanas
at the end of 1974, with a total membership of 18,414, representing only
47% of the villages and about 13% of the total "prospective membership"
(para 26, Annex 7 gives a definition) of about 150,000 farm families, it
is projected that 74% of the villages and the prospective membership will
be covered by the fifth year and 100% by the tenth year (Annex 7, Exhibit
3). The project rural credit will reach an increasing proportion of farm-
ers in the project thanas.
1/   There are 62 CCBs in Bangladesh, one for each sub-division.
-85-



ANNEX 6
Page 4
13.       The strategy of the project is therefore on one hand to make
joining TCCA-KSS very attractive to small farmers and on the other hand
to tighten up discipline in distribution of inputs and credit among the
TCCA-KSS members. The IRDP/TCCA/Sonali Bank team-up appears to be the
only channel where such approach could be successfully applied under the
present circumstances.
B. Project :Emplementation
Introduction
14.       The implementation of the rural credit component of the project
will be discussed in the following sequence:
(a)  Settling of outstanding debts of cooperative
members.
(b)  Short- and medium-term credit purposes and
requirements.
(c) Terms and conditions of credit.
(d) Lending procedures.
(e) Guarantee provisions.
(f)  Provisions for natural calamities.
(g)  Improvement of loan records and
documents.
Settling of Outstanding Debts
15.       The project will require, according to guidelines to be prepared
by the Government in agreement with IDA, either full repayment or signing
agreement to reschedule the payment: of outstanding loans as conditions for
eligibility to TCCA-KSS membership and, for existing TCCA-KSS members, for
eligibility to further credit. An inventory of overdues would be made at
the level of primary societies (Union Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society (UMPCS),
TIP-KSS and TCCA-KSS). A recovery campaign would be launched in each of the
seven thanas by the CCB and TCCA staff.
16.       The GOB has already issued a Decree to the effect that all out-
standing overdue Government loans, including cooperative credit must be
repaid, and the concerned institutlons were to report on outstanding overdues.
The debt inventory work in the project thanas would therefore be carried out
-86-



ANNEX 6
Page 5
for members of all cooperatives (UMPCS, TIP-KSS and TCCA-KSS) in the first
year of project implementation. Also in the first year the TIP-KSSs in the
project thanas would be reorganized into TCCA-KSS pump or shallow tubevell
groups according to procedures to be announced by the Ministry. Their
members will have to repay their outstanding debts or sign agreement with
their debtors (CCB or Sonali Bank) for rescheduling the debt repayments,
before they can be admitted to the TCCA-KSS membership. Those who fail to
comply would forfeit their rights to belonging to any pump/well groups in
these thanas.
17.       The same procedures would be applied to members of UMPCS which
are also to be reorganized into TCCA-KSS. Farmers presently not belonging
to any cooperatives and have no outstanding cooperative debts would be
recruited to join TCCA-KSSs. The processing of these farmers would con-
tinue wherever there are applicants.
18.       Rescheduling overdue balances would be done by CCB Thana Coopera-
tive Officers and IRDP/TPO for the borrowers from the traditional primary
societies, and by Sonali Bank and IRDP/TPO for TCCA-KSS members. Re-
scheduling will be done according to the following simplified terms:
Cultivated     Rescheduling
Overdue balance                land area       terms
Less than Tk 300          Less than 1 ac            4 years
1 - 3 ac            3 years
More than 3 ac            2 year
Tk 300-500                Less than 2 ac            4 years
2 - 4 ac            3 years
More than 4 ac            2 years
Over Tk 500               Less than 3 ac             4 years
3 - 5 ac            3 years
More than 5 ac            2 years
19.       Rescheduling would apply to overdues in both principal and interest.
Failure to repay the yearly installments when due, would cause the cancellation
of the rescheduling agreement and privilege to further loans. Legal action
will be taken against defaulters according to Government orders.
-87-



ANNEX 6
Page 6
20.       Agreement has been obtained that as a condition for credit
effectiveness GOB would finalize the guidelines for repayment of outstanding
Institutional debts by farmers, in agreement with IDA.
Short-Term Credit Purposes and Requirements
21.       The short-term credit wiLl cover the cost of cash inputs (mainly
seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and hiring of draft animals) for aus (local
and HYV), T. aman (local and HYV) and boro (local and HYV). For pump/well
groups, it may include fuel, oil and maintenance costs. Cash input require-
ments for other high value crops, i.e. vegetables/jute, sugarcane and fish
culture will also be covered. But B. aman will not be provided with credit
because farmers are not using input:s on it due to high risk and low yields
involved. Nor will labor cost for any crop be covered since small farmers
primarily use family labor.
22.       The credits will be made for a period of six months, except for
sugarcane subject to a maximum extension of two months, when necessary, to
allow waiting for better crop price!s. The per acre credit amounts for
various crops shall be updated, as necessary, to take into account any
changes in the crop inputs prices. However, the credit amount would not
exceed 30% of the gross production value as estimated from the average
crop yield in the thana during the preceding year (as reported by TAO) and
the prevailing market price for the crop.
23.       Currently, the transplanted aman paddy (local and HYV) is by
far the most important crop in the project thanas - accounting for 47%
of the total cropped area compared to about 3% for HYV aus and about
5% for boro (local and HYV). Even though at full development there
would be substantial increase in the acreage under HYV aus and boro,
the basic pattern would still prevail. (The respective percentages
at full development would be 43%, 13% and 12%.) In view of this,
the highest credit demand in any year would be during the aman sea-
son. Accordingly, it is assumed that the short-term credit require-
ments in any year are the same as the credit requirement for the aman
crop in that year i.e. the credit needs for boro, aus and other crops
can be adequately satisfied by recirculating the collections from the
aman crop. Some further assumptions used in estimating the credit
requirements are as follows:
(a)  The change in the acreage of aman crop from present
to that at full development would follow a straight
line pattern;
(b)  area of the aman crop grown  by TCCA-KSS members would
be in proportion to their percentage in the land owning
agricultural households in the project thana;
-88-



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(c) only 70% of the KSS members would borrow during any crop
season, and
(d) 100% recovery of the loans due. Any short falls to be
covered from the Guarantee Fund in the Bangladesh Bank
or from Sonali Bank's own resources.
24.       With the above assumptions, the short-term credit requirements are
projected to increase from a current estimated level of about Tk 3.60 mil-
lion to about Tk 46.20 million in five years. The IDA and Sonali Bank
would each contribute 50% of the incremental lending over the current level
of Tk 3.60 million. The year-wise financing plan for the short-term credit
would approximately be as follows:
Fiscal Year
75/76   76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81
------- Tk million -------
Total requirement         3.60    14.30   20.70   28.20   36.40   46.20
Incremental requirement   -       10.70    6.40    7.50    8.20    9.80
Financing
- By collection          -       3.60   14.30   20.70   28.20   36.40
- By IDA, yearly         -       5.35    3.20    3.75    4.10    4.90
cumulative            -       5.35    8.55   12.30   16.40   21.30
- By Sonali, yearly   3.60       5.35    3.20    3.75    4.10    4.90
cumulative          3.60      8.95   12.15   15.90   20.00   24.90
Medium-Term Credit Purposes and Requirements
25.       Primarily, the medium-term credit would be provided for financing
the procurement of shallow tubewells and hand pumps by the TCCA-KSSs or
their members. The costs of these two items included under the minor irri-
gation component of this project are estimated at about Tk 100 million (in-
cluding price contingencies of about Tk 37 million). The project would also
provide fishing nets, gears and for Tk 7 million to TCCA-KSSs for starting
small industries for processing farm produce (e.g. rice husking and rice
drying). At the time of their establishment, most TCCAs in the project
thanas received about Tk 200,000 each from the IRDP for starting small
processing ventures. However, due to the unfamiliarity of the IRDPs field
staff in planning, appraising and implementing viable small projects of
this nature most of those funds are lying unused with the TCCAs. As part
of the project, staff from BRRI and IRDP headquarters, with assistance from
an IRRI farm machinery expert, would provide technical assistance and train-
ing to the IRDP and Sonali Bank field staff in these areas. In case the
-89-



ANNEX 6
Page 8
TCCAs/KSSs in the project thanas are unable to find viable small projects,
the funds allocated for these purposes would be used to finance additional
shallow tubewells and hand pumps. The purchase of draft animals and carts
currently financed by BKB would not be included in the medium-credit
provided under this project. The shallow tubewells would be procured,
sited, installed and serviced by BADC. The other items would be procured
by TCCA-KSSs directly from local markets.
26.       The Sonali Bank would administer the medium-term credit for the
project. The borrowers would pay' 10% of the total cost as down payment,
and Sonali Bank would provide the rest as medium-term credit. To finance
the credit requirement, IDA would disburse against the procurement of
equipment and material by BADC, estimated to equal about 54% of the total
cost; the borrowers' installment repayments during the five year project
implementation period would total about 28% of the total cost; and GOB's
contribution to the revolving funid during the same period would total
about 8% of the total cost. The projected yearly medium-term credit
requirements for the seven thanasu, and the financing plan, are shown in
Table 2. The maturity of the loans would depend upon the repayment capa-
bilities of the borrowers, but would not exceed five years. The projected
yearly medium-term credit requirements for the seven thanas, and the fi-
nancing plan, are shown in Table 2.
Terms and Conditions of Credit
27.       Loan eligibility.  The project would require the applicants to:
--   settle their outstanding debts according to
conditions stated in paras 15 to 19,
-- nhave a farm plan indicating loan repayment
ability, and
--   subscribe to cooperative shares, and thrift
savings as required by TCCA regulations.
28.       Loan Security.  Although the most reliable security stems from a
careful evaluation of the borrower's honesty, farming expertise and annual
credit repayment capacity, short-term loans would be secured by a mortgage
covering the standing crop for which the loan is made. For medium-term loans,
the Sonali Bank will take a lien on all machines or equipment for which the
loan is made.
29.       Loan Repayment.  Short-term loans would mature two months
after harvest time of crop. The credits will be made for a period
of six months for all crops except sugarcane (which would be for 14 months),
subject to a maximum extension of two months, when deemed necessary by
IRDP/Sonali Bank, to allow waitin,g for better crop prices. Medium-term
credit would be repaid, within five years with two payments in each, two-
thirds to be repaid before Septem'ber 31 and one-third before March 31.
-90-



ANNEX 6
Page 9
30.       Loan Interest.  A 17.5% interest per annum (maximum allowed
currently by Government) at the farmer's level would be charged for the
short-term credits. This rate would be divided among various agencies as
follows:
Interest                  Spread
%              Utilization
Government to Bangladesh Bank        0.75         0.75    Service charge paid
to IDA
Bangladesh Bank to Sonali Bank          4         3.25    Contribution to
guarantee fund   3.25%
Sonali Bank to TCCA                   7.5         3.50    Administrative cost
for loan to TCCA 2.50%
for managing re-
volving account 1%
TCCA to KSS                          12.5            5    Administrative cost
and service charge
KSS to Borrowing members             17.5            5    Administrative cost 1%
Collection Commis-
sion               1.5%
Provision for bad
debts              2.5%
A 13% interest per annum at the farmer's level would be charged for the medium-
term credit. This rate would be divided among various agencies as follows:
Interest                  Spread
Z           X       Utilization
Government to Bangladesh Bank         0.75        0.75    Service charge paid
to IDA
Bangladesh Bank to Sonali Bank        2.00        1.25    Contribution to
Guarantee fund    1.25Z
Sonali Bank to TCCA                   5.50        3.50    Administrative cost
for loan to TCCA 2.5%
for managing revolving
account 1%
TCCA to KSS                           8.50        3.00    Administrative cost
and service charge
KSS to Borrowing Members             13.00        4.50    Administrative cost  1X
Collection Commis-
sion               1.5%
Provision for bad
debts    -91-       2.0%



ANNEX 6
Page 10
31.       Loan application under the project would be prepared with new forms
containing particulars on the borrowers' assets and liabilities. Such infor-
mation would be made available by the completion of TCCA-KSS members' records
on: land registry; share capitaL; thrift savings, and outstanding debts.
The supporting farm plan would include information on expected production
(Annex 7).
32.       Loan Documents would include:
(a)  a loan agreement stipu:Lating the terms and conditions of the
loan:
(i) the date of issue:
(ii) the amount lent;
(iii)  the due date of the schedule of repayment in principal
and interest;
(iv) the crop proceeds from which repayment would have to
be made;
(v)  the use of funds borrowed and the securities guaran-
teeing the loan repayment in principal;
(vi) interest and accessories.
This loan agreement would be made in triplicate. The
original would be kept by KSS, one copy would be handed
over to the KSS's borrowing member, and the second copy
to TCCA at the time KSS applies for a credit.
(b)  a promissory note signed by a KSS borrowing member by
which he binds himself to repay the loan amount at the
specified maturity date. This would be used in case
Sonali Bank would have 1:o rediscount credits to the
Bangladesh Bank, and
(c) a mortgage deed coverinlg the standing crops on the
land cultivated by the borrower.
Lending Procedures
33.       Loan Disbursements by Sonali Bank.  Loans would be disbursed in
kind through TCCA delivery orders handed over to suppliers except for the
hiring of draft animals in which case the KSSs will be responsible for
screening loan applications. The suppliers may be private input and
machinery dealers, BADC, TCCA or M[inistry of Agriculture.
-92-



ANNEX 6
Page 11
(a) For fertilizers and pesticides to be supplied by BADC
and the Ministry of Agriculture stores, the order would
state terms of delivery and the total quantity to be
delivered to the KSS. The total would be based on
the KSS seasonal production plan and the sanctioned
input quantities for each individual KSS member.
Upon delivery of the inputs by the supplier (or the
KSS goes to godown and takes bulk delivery) the KSS
manager or his authorized representative would sign
the delivery order in triplicates, one copy would be
kept by the KSS, another copy would go to the Sonali
Bank and the original would be kept by the supplier.
The KSS would distribute the inputs to members
according to the amount sanctioned, and each recipient
would sign on his slot on a KSS receipt form. Copies
of the form would be filed with TCCA and the Sonali
Bank and the original would be kept by the KSS.
(b) For pump/tubewell fuel and oil - If such supplies
are to be covered by the short-term credit, the
authorized representative of the TCCA would sign a
supply contract with BADC for its KSS for the entire
pumping season. The BADC would be obliged by the
contact to supply when needed, and would be paid by
TCCA against delivery orders signed by the authorized
representative of the KSS pump or well groups. Rural
credit will not finance stocking of fuel/oil by KSSs.
(c) For hand pumps - IRDP/TCCA would call local tender for
supplying the pumps to KSS members. Each KSS would send
representatives to a dealer, inspect the pump
equipment, take bulk delivery of all pumps for the KSS,
and sign the TCCA delivery order. A copy of the signed
order would be presented by the dealer to the TCCA
for payment. Upon receiving the pump equipment, each
borrowing member would sign on his slot on a KSS
receipt form. Copies of this form would be filed
with TCCA and the Sonali Bank.
(d) For small paddy husking machine and driers - IRDP/TCCA would
call local tender for supplying and installation of such
machines at the borrowing KSS. The TCCA delivery orders
would specify all particulars including terms of delivery
and/or completion of works. Dealers/contractors would be
paid directly by TCCA upon submission of related invoices
and signed acceptance of the goods and/or works by KSS.
(e) For shallow tubewells - In order to give a complete picture,
the disbursement procedures are explained in the following
three steps:
-93-



ANNEX 6
Page 12
(i) Costs of wells - BADC would provide TCCA an estimated
cost (when procurem,ent costs of well equipment are
known) for the latter to assist KSS to organize well
groups and process medium-term credit applications
to the Sonali Bank. After the well is installed,
tested and accepted by KSS, it would send to TCCA a
final cost statement of the wells. Both the estimates
and the final statement would be itemized A to F as
follows:
(A) foreign expenditures of directly imported
items (Expressed in Tk);
(B) Ex-factory local expenditures of the locally
manufactured items;
(C) Other local expenditures for equipment;
(D) Taxes and duties;
(E) Drilling and installation;
(F) Inland transportation, handling and other costs; and
(G) Total cost of a well (A through F).
(ii) Payment of the Cost to BADC
(H) Reimbursement on a 100% basis of improved
items (A above) and ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured item (B above) -- IDA
would reimburse against proper documents as
soon as the procurement was effected by BADC.
Reimbursement on a 70% basis for other local
expenditures for equipment (C above).
(I)  KSS well groups would pay BADC, through TCCA,
a downpayment equalling 10Z of the total cost
(G above) before BADC starts drilling.
(J)  Sonali Bank would make a final payment to BADC
for the balance after the well is installed,
tested and accepted. At this point, BADC would
be fully paid for the tubewell installed.
(iii) Medium-Term Credit -or KSS Well Groups
(K) The loan agreement signed by each KSS well
group with the Sonali Bank would cover 90%
of the total cost of the well (G minus I).
-94-



ANNEX 6
Page 13
34.       Reimbursements to Sonali Bank.  A revolving rural credit account
will be opened in the Sonali Bank in the name of the Rural Development
Project (Rural Credit Fund).   The account vill be subdivided into two sub-
accounts for short- and medium-term credits, respectively. The GOB will
provide the initial funding of Tk 2 million each to the two sub-accounts.
From these sub-accounts, the Sonali Bank will draw funds required by
seasonal loans and medium-term loans made to KSS's borrowing members through
TCCA. All repayments by the borrowers to the Sonali Bank would be passed
on to the respective revolving funds for subsequent use. Additional reple-
nishments to the short-term sub-account would come from IDA reimbursements
against seasonal lending, Government and Sonali Bank contributions and to
the medium-term sub-account from GOB contribution as well as from Sonali
Bank collectionss. Funds accumulated in these sub-accounts at the end of
the project implementation would be used as revolving resources for further
lending operations in the project thanas.
Guarantee Fund
35.       Pursuant to Articles 60 and 61 of the Bangladesh Bank Amendment Act
1974, a Rural Credit Fund and an Agricultural Credit Stabilization Fund have
been established by GOB. The principle of a system of guarantee has been
laid down. The implementation of the guarantee was started by the Govern-
ment subscription and Bangladesh Bank net profit appropriation (the two
funds totaled Tk 27.5 million as of June 30, 1974), but the operating rules
and procedures governing the guarantee system have yet to be worked out and
enforced. At present, these funds are being operated in an ad-hoc manner.
In actual fact, they have been used mainly for a refinancing or conversion
loan to BJSB, rather than to guarantee casual losses. Sonali Bank, however,
has been guaranteed up to 30% of the amount lent.
36.       While the overall improvement of the operation of guarantee fund
must be tackled at the national level, two measures will be taken to safe-
guard the rural credit component of this project:
(a) The Sonali Bank will continue to receive a guarantee up
to 30% of the amount it lends under the project.
(b)  For medium-term credit, the 1.25% of the interest allocated
will be set aside and deposited to the Bangladesh Bank as
contribution to the Guarantee Fund. For short-term credit,
3.25% will be allocated to the Bangladesh Bank as a
contribution to the Guarantee Fund.
37.       By strictly enforcing the loan eligibility, the above provisions
would provide sufficient guarantee to rural credit extended under this
project under normal conditions.
-95-



ANNEX 6
Page 14
Provisions for Natural Calamities
38.       Bangladesh farms are subject to flood hazards.  In the past those
with crops destroyed by the flood could not repay the loan on the due date.
For many years, the Government has provided taccavi loans to calamity
victims. The current procedure is for the Union Council to draw up a
list of farmers' names and their crop area damaged.  The taccavi loan is
then disbursed by the Ministry of Agriculture according to the lists. For
the lack of means to verify whose crop is actually damaged, the loans go
mostly to larger farmers who are able to get their names on the Union
Council list. These loans are seldom repaid. The calamities also give
farmers excuses to default on their regular rural credit borrowed from
BJSB and other banks, even if their crops were not damaged.
39.       Under the project, the TCCA-KSS land register and maps will make
field checking of the area of calamity struck TCCA-KSS land possible. For
those whose crops are actually destroyed, the repayment of their rural credit
will not be written off, but rescheduled.
Improvement of Loan Records and Documents
40.       Improvements to be made are given in Exhibit 2 of this Annex.
April 1976
-96-



ANNEX 6
Exhibit 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Proposed Procedure of Recovery of Overdue
Cooperative Credit in Project Thanas
1.        The overdues recovery would imply 4 stages:
A.   Inventory of overdues.
B.   Staff personal contracts with defaulters.
C.   Rescheduling overdue balances.
D.   Legal action against chronic defaulters.
2.        While Stage 1 would be in process, Stage 2 would be actively
engaged.  Stage 3 would be carried out as soon as Stage 1 is achieved and
Stage 4 would be the ultimate sanction in case of failure of Stages 2
and/or 3.
A. Inventory of Overdues
3.        Inventory of overdues would be made at the level of primary
cooperative societies (KSS or UMPCs). In absence of due datebook, data
would be extracted from the loan ledger in which borrowing member's
accounts are kept, usually showing:
-    type of loan (T. boro, aus/B. aman, T. aman ...),
-    borrowing members' name and address,
-    year during which the loan has been issued,
-    the amount of loan disbursed (debit entry),
-    the date the loan has to be repaid,
-    the date and amounts of partial or total repayments
(credit entries) of principal and interest,
-    the outstanding balance of principal and interest.
-97-



ANNEX 6
Exhibit 1
Page 2
4.        Some primary cooperative societies, whose loan ledger does not
mention any due date, would have to get this essential data from the
corresponding production plan, from the loan agreement, or in some cases
from the loan notice.
5.        For each type of loan the overdues inventory would be made as
shown on the attached model 1, where overdue balances, in principal, are
classified due-date wise. Such statement would give for each type of loan
the detail and the total of overdues in principal and interest and the
overdues in principal classified by age.
6.        After completing the same statement for each type of loan, these
would be consolidated so as to give for each borrowing member the total of
overdues and age of these overdues. If, however, the principle that de-
faulters are not eligible for a new loan, has always been strictly complied
with, the overdue balance would comne from only one loan and consolidation
of borrowing member's overdues wouLd not be necessary.
7.        At the CCB/TCCA level, thae consolidated statement of overdues re-
ceived from primary cooperative societies would be checked with the Primary
Cooperative Society overdues shown by their own loan ledger and then aggre-
gated, P. Coop. Soc. wise, in a total CCB/TCCA overdue statment (see Model 2),
themselves consolidated at Dacca Head Office level.
8.        The overdues inventory at primary Cooperative Society level would
give, for each defaulter, informatLon on the rate of repayment within the
due date and the annual repayment effort made by the defaulter the ensuing
years.
B. Staff Personal Contacts with Defaulters
9.        Without waiting for the completion of Stage 1 a recovery campaign
would be launched in each CCB or TCCA lending area. One of the most frequent
causes of loan delinquency is the absence of personal contacts between bor-
rowers and the lender staff all along the credit life, and the lack of credit
education in the rural community. A borrower must know that he is under the
permanent supervision of CCB or TCCA staff and that these staff are well
aware of his farming capacity and -repayment ability. He must then be con-
vinced that if he can repay he must repay. If he does not, he must receive
a second notice.
10.       The CCB or TCCA management and staff, from the Chairman to the
Junior Clerk must actively be engaged in the loan recovery campaign. At the
primary Coop. society level everyone in the managing committee, the manager,
the accountant, the supervisors must visit defaulters if they do not attend
the weekly meeting. They have to ,onvince them that they have to repay their
overdues principal and interest. They have to repeat these visits increasing
-98-



ANNEX 6
Exhibit 1
Page 3
the pressure for repayment and finally making them clearly understand that
drastic action would follow soon if they persist in delaying repayment.
Such personal pressure would be preceded by clear reminders which would
be delivered by messenger or through members attending the weekly meeting.
These reminders would be repeated twice at 15 days interval with stronger
terms and if necessary the latest would fix a deadline within which P. Coop.
Soc. representative would visit the defaulter and attempt to recover the
overdues. Such insistence would lead some defaulters to repay their arrears
and some others to negotiate easy term repayments. The latter would be
eligible for loan rescheduling. As to those who would show no willingness
to honor their debts, legal action should be taken immediately.
C. Rescheduling Overdue Balances
11.       Rescheduling overdue balances would be the responsibility of CCB
or TCCA depending on who had financed the initial loan. The CCB would
establish a rescheduling committee of three members consisting of the Chair-
man, the executive officer and the deputy executive officer and in the case
of TCCA, the manager, accountant and the IRDP/TPO. The Chairman and the
manager of the Primary Coop. Society or KSS involved in the rescheduling
would be a consultative members of this Committee.
12.       The period over which the overdue balances should be rescheduled
would be determined by the defaulter's annual capacity of repayment. Until
borrower's files contain proper and reliable data on annual farming plan,
farming cost, crops yield and crop sales proceeds, the defaulter's capacity
of repayment will be difficult to estimate and the rescheduling period would
have to be fixed arbitrarily, taking into account however, the amount to
be rescheduled and the defaulter's cultivable acreage. The following period
could be fixed:
Overdue Balance                Cultivate Acreage          Rescheduling Terms
less than 300 Takas            less than 1 ac                    4 years
1 to 3 ac                        3 years
more than 3 ac                    2 years
300 to 500 Takas               less than 2 ac                    4 years
2 to 4 ac                        3 years
more than 4 ac                    2 years
over 500 Takas                 less than 3 ac                    4 years
3 to 5 ac                        3 years
more than 5 ac                    2 years
-99-



ANNEX 6
Exhibit I
Page 4
13.       Rescheduling would apply to overdues in both principal and in-
terest. The present rate of interest would be applied to the rescheduling
operation. The rescheduling agreeTment would clearly stipulate and the de-
faulter should clearly understand that failing to repay the yearly install-
ments when due, despite a reminder sent 30 days before the due date, would
cause the cancellation of the rescheduling agreement and would, without warn-
ing, give rise to legal action for the recovery of the whole amount still due
in principle plus interest including a penalty of 10% per annum calculated
on the outstanding balance with effect from the last repayment date.
D. L,egal Action
14.       Proceedings for overdues recovery would be engaged against
defaulters who despite reminders and BJSB/CCB/TCCA/Sonali Bank staff personal
pressure did not show any willingness to repay their debts.
15.       Such proceedings would be. the responsibility of a legal action
department which would be established at BJSB and IRDP, Dacca head office
each headed by experienced lawyers and staffed with young and dynamic clerks.
16.       This department would keep records so as to follow up the progress
of the proceedings and to keep them going at a fast pace, up to the final
conclusion.
17.       Monthly reports to BJSB and IRDP/Sonali Bank management would show
the status of legal actions in progress and their expected final results.
-100-



BANGLADESH                                                          ANNEX 6
Exhibit 1
TCCA/CCB           w                                            RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT                                                  Page 5 of 6 pages
UMPCS/KSS          WA
(MODEL 1)
U)MPCS/KSS Borrowing Members' Overdues Balance as at 28-2-1975 Classified According to the Year                  AUS/B. AMAN CROP LOAN
During which the Loan Fell Due for Repayment                                          Overdue Inventory
as at 28-2-1975
(Figures in Taka)
Serial   Borrowing   Year   Amount  Loan   Amount        Amount             Balance
No.    Member's    Loan   Dis-    Due    Collected  Collected             Overdue
Name and    was    bursed  Date   within        from Due       as at 28-2-75                            Balance Overdue in Principal Since Year
Address    Issued                   Due Date   Date to         in          in                                              i                                      T  -
_         i Pr~incia   28-2-75    Principal  Interest                                                                 eF)t9k6i    S           4    9t>4  ~5    9s t 9   s<
Principal  Principal                           I.~              ~       ~       I     V      N    N                      
I          A        1968      500  30-9-68    200          150        150         20                                                      150
2          B        1971      800  30-9-71    500          200         100        15                                                                      100
3          C        1960      300  30-10-60     50         100         150        25       150
4          D        1967      700  30-9-67    300          200         200        30                                               200
5          E        1960      600  30-9-60    500           50          50         5        50
6          F        1970      800  30-9-70    500          200         100        12                                                                100
7          C        1972      500  30-9-72    300          150          50         5                                                                            50
8          H        1971      400  30-9-71    100          100        200         13                                                                      200
9          I        1965      300  30-9-65    200           50          50         7                                     50
10          J        1960      400  30-9-60      50         100        250         18       250
5,300            2,700      1,300       1,300        150       450                           50        200   150        100  300   50
NOTE: Same statements have to be made
for T, Amen and Boro loans.
Then they will be consolidated
in a general statement at the
Primary Cooperative Society level.



BANGLADESH                                                               ANNEX 6
Exhibit 1
CCB/TCCA                                                           RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT                                                       Page 6 of 6 pages
(MODEL 2)
Consolidated Overdues Balance as at 28-2-1975
Classified According to the Year the Initial Loans Fell Due for Repayment
(Figures in Taka)
Serial  Borrowing    AAmount    Amount Collected                      Overdue
No.   Primary          of        Within      From                   Balance                             Classification of Overdues Balance in Principal
Cooperative    Loan      Due Date  Due Date  Total        as at 28-2-75                       Accordin4 to the Year the Loan Fell Due for Repamment
Society      Disbursed       in         to                in          in        te       Nr 9Ub    |         9  |               I 9  |   91°  1             1
KSS/INMPCS      ___       Pjcol2--5                    Principal  Interest  1,a                                     ",%1        1           ,(
1        WA           5,300       2,700    1,300       4,000   1,300         150       450      50              200      150             100    300        50
2        WB          10,000       5,900    1,200       7,100   2,900         420       900    150      350               400             250    350       400
3        WC           8,600       4,200    1,200       5,400   3,200         610     1,500             150      300              200             250              800
23,900      12,800    3,700    16,500   7,400        1,180     2,850    200      500      500      550    200      350    900       450     800
NOTE:  These statements would be
consolidated at the
Dacca Head Office level.
'-
l



Elbibit I
RURL DRVEfLPhlDT I PCTKG
Sunestetd IMErov_at at Loa Rcords and Decuants
Preent OtYRelestlee                                                                                    IRsomeded Oremisettee
1.   Lea ApPlicotion ad Production Plan                                                            1.    Lo.  Awliostioe ad Ptoduction Pla
A doc,vsnt called "Productlon PFle" is coeostly used Os lao npplicetion                            Thi doo,aet shoold be cpleted with tnf atin o   pplicat' se ted
It is mrely a statement of opplicats shoing for sach on ths celticated                           prodeetion ad euppcted by a la applicatio  filled  p by tho  opplinat
arsa, ths cost of ipote reqoircd, his cooperotivo espita1 heres, his                             with the help of the KSS  -gaser or  croutt and gicng. Is aiplified
savings, his debts, the moot ef lose applied for, the dale the lea is                              ay, date o- his nest, ad liabilities.
due to bh repaid and the olgoture of applicant.
11.   Promissory 0010t                                                                            II.   Po.is-orv motes
A.  Fore             - tbey are "on demd" ad re not  hoeing   y due dete.                          A.  All prastesery sotes asst meeti-e toh  dots at  thicb thsy have to be rpaid.
B.   Claseificotiee  -  they are tiled it the borrower's file ad oselsas for                      B.  Pro-di ry atces  st be kept in e safe plote  od clasified by type of ieee
portfolio  aelyoit.                                                                               (abortemdie  tas-) at-oding to the treble criteria
(a) doe dote;
(b) type of crop;
(c)  yecr during vhich the lo   wee dibereed.
Thi- cl.ifitation stables the ucSg_nt to control at ny timo the lea
portfolio states ad to separete iwadi.tely ovedoes (by ege ad totai)
fre- I ons not yet den (by stority ddet ad totel).  Folly epaid coot    c
vithdr=vn  nd  fter st-ed "PAID' givn bank to the bhrrosors .on.ered.
111   Maturity date booke                                                                         III   Metority date books
Altheohi thie tocutoet it bhsically ledieponoablo fee  -acgesot                                   Motunity deto books -sot be opened for shoot-ters nd mdi-ters Io-a.
itformtie  sd Ieee portfolio  ealyeti, ocither TCCA nor KSS have
otority dote booa.                                                                           A,   Rent-tere le        T   simplet  yst_ is the gest_ of laes. leaf.  Thss.
lans leva are osuelly kept all togsthr is a folder but to scoid p.ssibls
loss of loons levans it is safer to hec  a bosk hhos pgS  ore prietad
ccording to em  petters  ad seriel   bred. At sy tise the totel of each
looa   leaf or peso belns gices the  etsl of portfolio eaily clssified is
evsedue loan  by age eed at yet due loan  by date thy are sepactd to bh
.epsid.
t.   Nedis-ee loses.  The *yt_ whose           I  d  cbathtic    -rding procedur
gices the   ososnt ol1  required statistical inforstin on e-diae-tsos Iens
Portfolio, together with lose poettien at . Sia n dot. A saturity does book
bset hepelmd for acch fiot.l yeen sod, if nnscbry  suhdividsd as raqeired by
fie  Sry of loon  (tIbawclld, heed P-s, elltcsti-e thisery) or origin of
fiseto  r-ono-  (10A needle, or  tibso rasaur-e),
C.   Cgortl. At eny ties thb bhlec shown by estority dots book, ast tally with,
(W)  the portfolio imnntory as regards th due data, the
utetanding eceeut  the tategory of loan n    te.;
(b)  the Iose e     tosot if adaqatsly sobdicidd.
IV.  L.-n .     .ts                                                                               TV.I.   Lose Acounts
A.  Loa ledgor.  One nocouct in epen.d for each borrtn'r  Loan dioburoeteu                        A.   Loan ledar.   Th. prossnt systs of lea ledger in  -cptbl  proided that
sod lean repoy.eet or. shb-e by dhbit-credit soveets in prinoipl ad
iotnoest.  Although a ool'an exi.to for f nantioning the den dote, this                                (a)  the duo dots is   tiosed;
lefofn=tien io frcqu.etly oorlooked.  Sootises  thero is one loan lodger                                (b)  the sobdiniaion by type of crop loan is stndeodised (onledgser
for ouc h typo of crop loan  (A.o, Aoo, noro),ootian  the san  lodgrr it                                     for nab typo of erop or o.o ledgor sebdicidod ic Aes,Asa,oed
-ubdividd Io as any portiotn  os typos  of crp loan, sd soetie th                                           lore  rop h   -din  as tho borrower's nobr is large or s l).
difter_ot types of crop leanre mined in tho ese  hor-rewer  aeout.
Per cantro asobs, the proc..dare of miing oil twos. of orop lea in the borrosor's
B. Lon portfolio aueete.  Th.e loan portfolio  ccouet ie the TCCA or RSS'                              act-uet  ould h-n to bh bs do..d. Pr sore t    ncisnt esoipelotin  nod bOa
Senerrl lcdgct dose eot difftrentiote the typo of Ios  so  ell .I  the                            lceo.ifiction, replaing the Idser systa by idiciduol borrower's cord systa
loso pos.itio  in ronpoct of the duo deo,                                                          should be con.id r.d.
B.   Loa portfolio aconta.  The chart of  ctount has to he rebvised 5  as to eobdi'ide
the ge&erol "lane" aroant is "shoot ten loan" priosipol  ccount ad "wadios-t-em
loan" prie.ipel acouet ,d a.ch one of these ie sub co-tets "torreot" "wovrdee"
ad "ander legal  ction".  A farther sobdivisia in analytic  ncosott  mald gin
clos.ifiestion of loas an-erdiog to the yea o-rigi of the lea (197i, 1976, 1977),
the cotegery of ereps    o-te)  the dose date (ehort-aod osdio-se).  Deeper
subdivision  -ould require the v  of a  con-ting s-chi.e  which TCCA ad KSS ceooot
afford,  Slch subdiviion, hover, cId be worked eet at DACCA lovl.
-103-



ANNEX 6
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Projected Short-ternm Credit Requirements
Fiscal Year
Item                         75/762/  76/77    77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81
(i)  Acreage under      Local      306       294       282      270       259       248
T.aman in 7 thanas
(thousand acres)  HYV          46        58       70        82        93      104
(ii) KSS households as
a fraction of all
agricultural
households 2/                0.12      0.42      0.50     0.58      0.66      0.74
(iii) Acreage T.aman
cultivated by      Local       37       123       141      157       171       183
KSS households
(thousand acres)  HYV           6        24       35        48        61       77
i x ii
(iv) Acreage  T.aman   Local        26        81        99      110       120       128
requirement credit
(thousand acres)  HYV           4        17       24        34        43       54
70% of iii
(v)  Estimated credit  Local        LOO      115       130      145       160       175
requirement Tk per
acre 3/           HYV          ?5o      290      325       360       400      440
(vi) Project area       Local     2.60      9.32    12.87    15.95    19.20    22.40
credit require-
ments (Tk mil-    HYV        1.00      4.93      7.80    12.24    17.20    23.76
lion) iv x v                     4/    -- 
Total     3.60    14.25    20.67    28.19    36.40    46.16
(vii) Increase in
credit require-
ment over the                   -     10.65      6.42     7.52      8.21      9.76
previous year
(Tk million):  (say)         (-)    (10.70)   (6.40)   (7.50)   (8.20)   (9.80)
(viii) Total increase in  credit requirements over five years = Tk  42.60 million
I/ Refers to'75 aman
2/ Annex 7, exhibit 4
3/ Assumes that GOB would revise the fertilizer and pesticide prices upwards to take
into account the recent devaluation. Also assumes that GOB would periodically
revise the input prices in line with the trend in world market prices. (Deval. Nay 197M)
4/ This figure is close to the Sonali Bank's current lending volume in the seven
thanas and is treated as a base figure for estimating additional credit requirements.
5/ Assumes 100% recovery of previous year's loans. Any shortfall would be covered from
the Guarantee Fund in the Banglaiesh Bank or from Sonali Bank's own resources.-104-



ANNEX 6
Table 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOP1ENT I PROJECT
ProJected Medium-Term Credit Requirements and Financing
Fiscal Year
Total      75/76      76/77       77/7B      78/79       79/80      80/81
---------------------------- Tk million -------------------------------
Credit requirement for:
(a) Shallow
tubewells  /        85.00        -        10.80      19.20       20.50      22.20       12.30
(b) Hand pumps v        15.00        -         1.00       2.00        2.90       3.90        5.20
(c) Processing
machinery,/          7.00        -          -         1.00        2.00       2.00        2.00
fishery net & gears
Total          107.00       -         11.80      22.20       25.40      28.10       19.50
Financing
- down payment by
borrowers (10% cost)  10.70        -         1.20       2.20        2.50       2.80        2.00
- Collection from
previous loans  /4/  30.00         -          -         1.60        5.00       9.30       14.10
- by IDA  / yearly      58.30        -         7.20      12.10       1h.00      16.00        9.00
cummulative             -          7.20      19.30       33.30      49.30      58.30
- by GOB yearly          8.00        -         3.40       6.30        3.90         -        (5.60)
cummulative                 -         3-40       9.70       13.60      13.60        8.00
1/  See Annex a Table 1 and Annex 13 Table 1 for details.
LI Includes an estimated Tk 2.0 million in indirect foreign exchange.
_3/ Assuming that in any year 75% of the loans due or overdue would be recovered.
W Projected repayment of loan principal would continue as follows and conclude
in 1997/88 (in Tk million):
1981/82        17.9                         1985/86        1.3
1982/83        17.4                         1986/87        0.3
1983/84        14.9                         1987/88        0.1
1984i85         5.2
As disbursements against the procurement of shallow tubewells by BADC.
-105-



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BiNGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Traditional Cooperatives & TCCAs
Introduction
1.        There are two types of' agricultural cooperatives in Bangladesh--
the traditional cooperatives anc. the Comilla type of new cooperatives, now
called Thana Central Cooperative Associations (TCCA). The traditional
cooperatives are supervised by the Department of Cooperatives headed by the
Registrar of Cooperative Societies. The TCCAs are supervised by a relatively
new agency, the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) headed by a
Director General. Both agencies are under the Ministry of Local Government
Rural Development and Cooperatives. The project has chosen TCCA rather
than the traditional cooperatives as the rural cooperative system for
channeling farm inputs, rural credit and technical agricultural services,
because the TCCA, though having shortcomings of its own, is much more
viable and better staffed than the traditional cooperatives. This is con-
sistent with the Government's Rural Development Strategy as outlined in
Bangladesh's first Five-Year Plan promulgated in 1973.
Traditional Cooperatives
2.        The traditional cooperatives which have never been successful
started as early as 1904 in the Indian subcontinent, mainly as village
agricultural credit societies. rhe partition of the subcontinent in 1948
caused collapse of cooperative banks, particularly in Punjab and Bengal
where mass relocation of population occurred. This was followed by mass
liquidation of village credit societies in Bengal.
3.        Under Pakistan, the defunct credit societies were reorganized into
Union Multi-purpose Cooperative Societies (UMCPS), one per union in principle.
Today, there are about 4,200 UMC7?S in 4,500 unions of Bangladesh, with a
total membership of about 1.3 miLlion.  Although UMPCSs are supposed to
serve the unions, their membershLp is often confined to a few villages around
those of the chairmen and secretaries. Their functions are hardly multi-
purpose, but still confined to providing credit and they have poor recovery
records. Defaulters are mostly Larger farmers (Annex 6).
4.        Since introduction of 'Low-lift pumps in 1968/69, an increasing num-
ber of pump irrigation societies (TIP-KSS) were established. Today, there
are about 25,000 TIP-KSS 1/ affi:Liated to the traditional cooperative system.
1/   There are about 15,000 other pump societies belonging to TCCAs.    -106-



ANNEX 7
Page 2
The membership overlaps a great deal with UMPCS. Both are members of the
Central Cooperative Banks (CCB). There are 62 CCBs, one in each of the
62 subdivisions. Both UMPCS and TIP-KSS are mainly controlled by larger
farmers in the community. At the thana level, there is a Thana Cooperative
Officer whose responsibility it is to supervise the traditional cooperatives.
There has been minimal supervision of cooperatives by the Thana Cooperative
Officersand the Central Cooperative Banks. The numbers of UMPCS and TIP-KSS
in the seven thanas are shown in Exhibit 1 of this Annex.
5.        Acting as the financial arm of the Cooperative Department at the
apex is the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank (BJSB), the former East Pakistan
Provincial Cooperative Bank. The BJSB finances three main systems of
traditional cooperatives of which the CCB/UMPCS/TIP-KSS system mentioned
above is the largest. The other two are the Central Sugarcane Societies
with some 500 primary societies and about 63,000 members, and the Fishermen
Cooperatives, with some 2,000 primary societies and about 250,000 members.
6.        Management of BJSB consists of a Management Committee, members
of which are partly Government officials and partly elected by the share-
holders. Until recently, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, who is
the Chief Executive Officer of the Department of Cooperatives, served as
Chairman of the Committee. The Chairman, now elected, is assisted by an
officer deputied by the Bangladesh Bank and some 40 staff members, most of
whom have only limited experience in Banking. The BJSB has no branches,
but channels funds directly to Central Cooperative Banks (CCB). The BJSB
is therefore not a bank in a real sense, but rather a quasi-Government
committee that makes proposals to and receives funds from the Government
for financing rural credit through the above-mentioned three channels.
It possesses little means of effectively supervising the credit operations
by its member banks. As of March 31, 1974, total outstanding loans disbursed
by BJSB were about Tk 400 million, of which Tk 257 million were overdue. 1/
7.        The traditional cooperative system is thus intertwined with the
cooperative banking system. Both being ineffective, one cannot be cured
without simultaneously curing the other. Strengthening of either will
entail major reorganization with national ramifications which cannot be
accomplished within a short period of time. Discussions have been going on
for some time within the Government on what to do with both systems, but no
decisions have been reached. The only way that the Rural Development
Project could proceed in the project thanas is therefore to channel its
activities through the more viable parallel cooperative system, the
TCCAs.
1/   Agricultural Credit Performance (1974-75), by Agricultural Credit
Department, Bangladesh Bank, June, 1974.
-107-



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Thana Central Cooperative Associations (TCCAs)
8.        The TCCA cooperaLive system is based on the model developed at
the Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development in Comilla. The Government
adopted a national rural development plan in 1970, which provided for the
adoption of the Comilla model throughout the country in a phased manner.
It also created a central agency, the Integrated Rural Development Program
(IRDP) in the same year to supervLse its implementation.  Some one hundred-fifty
(150) TCCAs were in existence as of November, 1974 and IRDP has been given
a goal to establish 250 by June, :1976.
9.        The TCCA adopts a two-tt.er system.  The TCCA headquarters is
located at the thana headquarters. in the same compound as the Thana Train-
ing and Development Center (TTDC) where the Circle Officers (chief civil
servants at the thana level, one for development and one for revenue) and
all other line department officers are located.  It forms primary societies
(KSS) 1/ at the village level. Whlile there is only one TCCA in each thana,
the number of KSS under the TCCA varies with the number of villages in the
thana.
10.       Both TCCA and its KSS ate managed by an elected Management Committee.
Each KSS elects a chairman, an accountant and a model farmer. The following
are unique features of the Comilla model of cooperatives.
(a) The chairman, accountant and model farmer of each KSS attend
weekly training courses at TTDC; chairman and accountants are
trained by the IRDP Thana project officer and model farmers
by the Thana Agricultural Officer, Livestock Officer, and BADC
officers (Annex 18). While in TTDC for training, they also
attend to matters concerning supplies and credit for KSS members.
(b) Weekly member meetings are held, where the chairman, accountant
and model farmer would explain to members what they learned at
the TTDC; KSS farm plans would be discussed; a one-taka contri-
bution to share capital by each member (Tk 52 per year) and
thrift saving deposits would be collected. Accumulation of
share capital and savings accounts provide some measure of
guarantee to rural credit borrowed by KSS members from banks.
(c) TCCA hires field inspect:rs and accountants who visit KSS
regularly. The standard pattern is to have an assistant
inspector per 12 KSS, a village accountant per six KSS,
one inspector for each five assistant inspectors and one
1/   The TCCA-KSS (Village Coopera-ive Society of TCCA, the Comilla type
of cooperative) is not to be confursed with TIP-KSS (para 4) which
are pump groups belonging to t:he traditional cooperative system.
-108-



ANNEX 7
Page 4
chief inspector. The frequent contact with KSS by
inspectors and village accountants was one contributing
factor to a good rural credit repayment record in the
prime years of the Comilla experience.
(d) TCCA transmits requests for inputs and rural credit from
KSS to agencies concerned and channels the same to farmers.
11.       The IRDP has three officers at the thana level:  A Project Officer
(college graduate); a Deputy Project Officer, and an Accountant. The Pro-
ject Officer serves as the secretary of the TCCA Management Committee.
Between thana and headquarters, IRDP posts Regional and District Project
Officers. The TCCA system is therefore much better structured, staffed
and supervised than the traditional cooperatives. The number of TCCA-KSS
in the seven project thanas are given in Exhibit 1.
12.       Until 1973, TCCAs have been receiving short-term credit from BJSB
or CCBs. Beginning with the T. aman crop season of 1973, the Sonali Bank
(the largest commercial bank in Bangladesh, now nationalized) took over the
short-term financing of the TCCAs. Since then, TCCA has become completely
independent from the traditional cooperative system, except that the regis-
tration of new TCCA-KSS is still the responsibility of the Thana Cooperative
Officer.
Shortcoming of TCCAs
13.       Although the TCCA system is a much healthier institution than the
traditional cooperatives, it is structurally deteriorating. Unless the
deterioration is arrested, it may slip into the rut of the traditional
cooperatives:
(a) While receiving rural credit from BJSB and CCBs, many TCCA-KSS
members also began to default on repayment. Since the Sonali
Bank took over the short-term credit financing, the repayment
record since then has been much improved (Annex 6). The
pressure on TCCAs to follow the bad examples of the traditional
cooperatives which got away with repeated defaulting is great,
and must be resisted by all means.
(b) The Management Committees of TCCAs and KSSs are also
dominated by larger farmers, and there has been criticism
of their manipulating the fertilizer distribution. It is
only because of the stronger supervision of IRDP officers
that their manipulation has not become as blatant as those
of the traditional cooperatives. The IRDP officers'
interference, however, has created friction in some TCCAs
between the general manager and the officers.
-109-



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(c) Because new extension material has not been supplied to
TAOs since liberation, and because of the general depres-
sion, the attendance of model farmer training has fallen,
even after the sessions were reduced from weekly to
bi-weekly. The attendance of weekly KSS member meetings
and weekly payment of KSS share capital have also become
lax. The farms of some model farmers in the seven project
thanas are no better than their neighbors.
(d) The TCCAs are supposed to pay the inspectors and village
accountants out of their own resources as soon as they
are financially able to do so. Thus far, these officers
in the seven project thanas are still being paid out of
an IRDP subsidy fund, because of TCCA's lack of income.
(e) The TCCA-KSS membership register provides no information
on members assets (such as land and livestock), nor
liabilities. The KSS farm plan, on which rural credit
application is based, has to depend on information
provided by applicants themselves, casual-checking among
farmers at the weekly meetings, and the knowledge of
the inspectors.
(f) The activities of TCCA-KSS in the seven project thanas,
which are generally only one to three years old, are
mainly confined to low-lift pump societies.  Their
membership covers less than 10% of the total farm
families and of the cultivated land area and 13% of
the prospective membership.
(g) The TCCA-KSSs so far have demonstrated little ability in
cooperative processing and marketing activities.
14.       The TCCA, therefore, is a cooperative system with a healthy concept,
well suited to the social structure of rural Bangladesh and with a record of
success during the Comilla days, but it is now at a crossroads of either
going downhill to join the traditional cooperatives, or being revived to
become a truly viable rural institution of Bangladesh. Since the traditional
cooperatives are in a much worse condition, there is little choice but to
help make TCCA a success. To expand and strengthen TCCA is the chosen strategy
of the Government for rural development. But increasing its number too rapid-
ly in too many thanas may produce negative results by stretching the available
manpower of IRDP too thinly. The actual need is to reestablish improved pro-
cedures for all TCCA-KSS activities, reestablish discipline, to revive and
sustain the training program, and to make TCCA-KSS financially viable.
-110-



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Project Approach
15.       Basically, the project will first reinstitute in the seven thanas
the proven practices adopted in the Comilla system in the prime years as
outlined in para 10 above. It will then bring further improvement to the
Comilla system. All inputs (low-lift pumps, shallow tubewells, hand pumps,
simple processing equipment) and rural credit provided by the project will
be distributed exclusively to TCCA-KSS members. All existing TIP-KSS pump
groups would be reorganized into TCCA-KSS by due processes. All technical
supporting services (extension, veterinarian, fishery) to TCCA-KSS will be
greatly strengthened. Rehabilitated publicly-owned fish ponds will be granted
to TCCA fishery Cooperatives composed of landless people in TCCA-KSS villages.
The TCCA-KSS members will be assured to receive fertilizer at official prices.
The above benefits are designed to make joining TCCA-KSS highly attractive
to small farmers. Rapid increase of coverage of agricultural households by
TCCA is projected.
16.       On the other hand, discipline in TCCA-KSS operation and management
will be significantly tightened, particularly with regard to the repayment
of rural credit. Specific actions designed to rectify the present short-
comings of TCCA are given in the following paragraphs.
A.  To Revitalize Training Sessions of KSS Managers, Accountants, and Model
Farmers
17.       The IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project includes building
inter alia, four Zonal Cooperative Institutions. Swedish Aid is expected to
provide experts to assist IRDP in training its officers. New extension
material will be prepared and TAOs/UAAs retrained under this project in
coordination with the Agricultural and Rural Training project and UNDP/FAO
Extension project (Annex 10). The German Livestock Team is expected to
assist the Livestock Department in training Thana Livestock Officers and
Assistants in the seven thanas. The Fishery Department experts of the
North Bengal Water Development Project would assist the Thana Fishery Officers
in conducting demonstrations of pond management. While bilateral and inter-
national experts will upgrade the officers, the latter will help to revitalize
the weekly training sessions of the TCCA-KSS managers, accountants and model
farmers under this project. The training sessions will be synchronized with
crop seasons, so that the topics will dwell on works to be done by KSS members
in the following week or following month. A list of training topics is given
in Exhibit 1 of Annex 18.
B. To Improve the Information Base of KSS Membership
18.       The IRDP will undertake a basic improvement of the KSS membership
register to provide information on KSS members' assets (land and livestock
and liabilities:
-111-



ANNEX 7
Page 7
(a)  Local land surveyors (Amins) 1/ will be employed under
the project if necessary to assist TCCA-KSS managers to
prepare a register of land parcels owned by each KSS
member and an accompanying village mouja map 2/ showing
members' land parcels. The KSS manager and model farmer
will, through weekly memlber meetings and interviews, label
each members' land parcels by suitability for Aus, T. aman,
boro, jute and other crops by registering their present use.
(b)  From (a), lists will be prepared to indicate KSS
member-owned land suitabLe for aus, T. aman,
and boro, jute and other crops.
(c)  The improved information will be used for:
(i)  preparation of seasonal production plan,
checking applications for seeds, fertilizers,
low-lift pumps, shaLlow tubewells, and rural
credit by members;
(ii) planning of extension activities;
(iii) facilitating field verification of area of HYV
planted, irrigated by pumps and wells, reported
damage by flood, etc.; and
(iv) formulating sound KSS development plan including
production, processing marketable volume and
employment of landless villagers.
(d)  The work will be started by IRDP by trial operation in
a few KSSs. Procedures will be established, training will
take place, and then full operation will begin.
1/   Amins are local land surveyors, a profession created during the days of
Indian Survey which produced the "mouja maps" and cadastral records in
the early 1900s, and since handed down in the families. They are availa-
ble in all rural areas. Today, they are hired by rural and urban people
in land transactions. They can survey, prepare maps and set land title
registration record straight with the Thana Revenue Office.
2/   Mouja maps are old cadastral maps prepared by the Surveyor General's
Department of India in pre-independence days. They have a scale of
16 inches to one mile, and show boundaries of each land parcel at the
time of the survey. Although the original parcels have been sub-
divided, the mouja maps are still the basis of the land registry
records which are kept in the Thana Revenue Offices.
-112-



ANNEX 7
Page 8
19.       Each KSS will also prepare a register of the draft animals owned
by its members and keep the register current. The register will be used for
arranging mass vaccination and deworming of animals by the Thana Vaccinators
(Annex 9).
20.       The project will also carry out an inventory of outstanding debts
of TCCA-KSS, and require rescheduling of repayment of outstanding loans
before they are eligible to further loans, and the same for TIP-KSS and
UMPCS members before they are eligible to TCCA-KSS membership.
C. To Assure Small Farmers Receiving Fair Share of Inputs and Credit
21.       Based on the improved information concerning each members' assets
and liabilities, KSS will prepare seasonal production plans (aus, T. aman,
boro, jute and other crops), members' application for fertilizers, pesticides,
and short-term credit (when applicable). Individual member's application data
would be verifiable in the office (against registry) and in the field (against
maps).
22.       The KSS fertilizer application will be channeled through TCCA/IRDP
to BADC for allocation of fertilizers. The KSS will take bulk delivery of
fertilizers and distribute to member farmers according to the KSS production
plan for that season. Cost of fertilizers covered by the rural credit (from
the Sonali Bank) for each KSS will be paid directly by TCCA to BADC (Exhibit
2). The TCCA-KSS would take delivery from BADC or thana godowns, instead of
buying from appointed dealers.
23.       Procedures for application of low-lift pumps and shallow tubewells
from BADC are described in Annex 4, those for application of medium-term
credit (shallow tubewells, hand pumps, paddy husking machines and small
paddy driers), in Annex 6.
24.       Applications based on improved KSS member registers will be pre-
pared in weekly member meetings, instead of being prepared by the Manage-
ment Committee. Each small farmer will be made full aware of his share
of inputs and credit and that he must plant according to area and variety
as he stated in the KSS production plan and fertilizer/rural credit
applications.
25.       The KSS weekly member meetings will be made important working
sessions with all members, large and small farmers, fully participating in
economic and financial activities of their cooperatives. The IRDP Thana
Officers, Thana Extension Officers, TCCA Inspectors and Village Accountants
who visit KSS on scheduled days will check and make sure that important
messages have reached small farmers, and that they understand their rights
and responsibilities.
-113-



ANNEX 7
Page 9
D. Expansion of TCCA-KSS Membership2
26.       The TCCA-KSS membership is expected to increase yearly until a 100%
coverage of the "prospective households" (150,000 in seven thanas) is reached
ten years after commencing project implementation. The "'prospective house-
holds" equal to 55% of the total 1974 households of the seven thanas and 83%
of the farming households are illustrated below:
(a)  Total Rural Households in Seven Thanas               275,000 1
(b)  Trade, processing services (9% of (a)) 2/             24,750
(c)  Landless, non-share-cropper (25% of (a)) 2/           68,750
(d)  Farming Households                                   181,500
(e)  Landless, share-cropper (5% of (d)) 2/                 9,075
(f)  Uneligible to join (credit defaulting)
(10% of (d)) 3/                                     18,150
(g)  Unwilling to join (2% of (d)) 3/                       3,630
(h)  Total Prospective TCCA-KSS Households                150,000 (rounded)
27.       In the first year of the project, IRDP/TCCA together with the
cooperative office will concentrate efforts in reorganizing the non-TCCA-
TIP/KSS into TCCA-KSS pump groups. Beginning the second project year,
IRDP/TCCA will extend the organization of new KSSs into rainfed aus and
T. aman areas, reorganize UMPCSs into TCCA-KSSs and recruit new members
into the existing KSS. The projected rate of increase of KSS and membership
are given in Exhibit 3 of this Annex.
28.       After the Thana Fishery Officers have surveyed and located the
public fish ponds in the seven thanas on the mouja maps, IRDP/TCCA will
organize the landless households in the nearby villages into TCCA Fishery
cooperatives (Annex 10), involving approximately 5,000 families for managing
500 ac of fish ponds as a source of supplementary income.
E.  To Strengthen Technical SupportLng Services to TCCA-KSS Members
29.       Specific steps for streng:hening the extension service to TCCA-KSS
members in the seven thanas are presented in Annex 8, those for livestock
services, in Annex 9, and those for Fishery Services, in Annex 10.
1/   1974 Census, preliminary, unpublished.
2/   IGU/RD Social Economic Survey of Project Thanas, 1974.
3/   IRDP and Mission estimate.                                      -114-



ANNEX 7
Page 10
30.       Special attention will be given by IRDP to facilitate the accep-
tance of the technical departments' advice by TCCA-KSS members. Under the
project, the thana IRDP/TCCA officers would:
(a) cooperate with technical officers in formulating the
weekly training sessions for KSS managers, accountants,
and model farmers, but leave the technical advice
entirely to the technical officers;
(b) ensure full attendance of the training sessions;
(c) arrange with the technical officers for the latter's
scheduled visits to KSSs, and notify the KSS of the same,
so that not only large farmers, but also small farmers
would be on hand to take advantage of the officers' visits; and
(d) follow-up technical officers' advice in KSS members' weekly
meeting for wide acceptance and provide feedback to technical
officers;
F. To Increase IRDP/TCCA Staff in the Seven Thanas
31.       In view of the greatly increased work load and the projected in-
crease in number of KSSs and membership (Exhibit 3), one new Deputy Thana
Project Officer and a full-time Thana Training Officer will be added to
the existing three-man staff (para 11) of each thana.
32.       The total number of inspectors, assistant inspectors and village
accountants in seven TCCAs will increase as follows:
-115-



ANNEX 7
Page 11
Year
Projected       1     2      3     4      5      6     7      8     9      10
No. of KSS    701   779   850   923   995  1,067 1,136 1,215 1,274 1,343
No. of Chief
InspectcOrs   14    14    14    14    14       14    14    14    14    14
No. of In-
spectors      12    13    13    14    17       19    20    21    23    23
No. of Asst.
Inspectors   58    65    71    77    83        89    94   100   106   112
No. of Vil-
lage Acet.  118   130   142   154   167    178   191   202   213   225
Total No.
TCCA Staff  202   227   240   259!  281    300   319   337   356   374
C.   To Improve the Financial Position of TCCA-KSS
33.       The above projection is based on the standing ratios between
number of officers and number of KSS established by the TCCA. It is expected
that under the project, the increased cost of these TCCA officers will be
paid by the TCCAs. At the end of the first and second years, IRDP would
review the financial position of the TCCAs, to determine what proportions
of the salary, training cost, trave:l and operation and maintenance of vehicles
can be met by TCCA's income from hanldling the rural credit, fertilizers and
performing other services. The IRDP would grant funds to the TCCAs only
in amounts necessary to meet deficii:s. It is expected that the TCCAs will
be financially self-sufficient by the third year of project implementation.
34.       The KSS will use the income from increased rural credit commission
strictly for administration, collection commission and, provision for bad
debt as specified in Annex 6, para. 30.
35.       The IRDP/Cooperative Department will audit the TCCA-KSS
accounts according to standard procedures.
-116-



ANNEX 7
Page 12
H.   Implementation Schedule
36.       Item                                      Fiscal Year
75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81
-----------(Percent of Total)-----------
Procurement of Office
Equipment                           100
Procurement of Vehicles
and Spares
(a) Jeeps and Motorcycles           100                    -
(b) Bicycles                         50     -       -       50     -       -
Preparation of KSS Land
Register and Land Maps               30      15     15      15      15     10
Printing TCCA-KSS
Account Books                        10      15     20      20      25     10
Printing Work Manuals                   20     -       50     10      10     10
Staff Training                         15      15      20     20      20     10
-117-



ANNEX 7
Page 13
I.   Unit Costs
37-                                                  Cost (Tk)
Item                      Local   Foreign   Taxes & Duties   Total
Office Equipment
Typewriter (English)                 100    3,300          4,600         8,000
Typewriter (Bengali)                 100    4,000             800        4,900
Hand Calculator                      100    3,500           4,900         8,500
Mimeographing Machine                100    4,000          5,600         9,700
File Cabinet                       1,000      -               200         1,200
Vehicles
Jeeps                              2,000   72,000        101,000       175,000
100 c.c. Motorcycles                 700    7,000          9,800        17,500
Bicycles                             100    1,200           -             1,300
Annual O&M of Office
Equipment and Vehicles
Jeep (8,000 mi/year)               2,500    8,800          16,100       27,400
Motorcycle (6,000 mi/year)           500    1,100          2,100         3,700
Bicycle                               50       100           -              150
Office Equipment                              15% of Capital Costs
Others
Preparation of Land
Register and Maps/KSS              200        20             30          250
Printing of KSS Account
Books/KSS/Year                      60        20             20           100
J.   Cost Estimates:  See Table 1.
April 1976
-118-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Number & Membership of Traditional Cooperatives and TCCA-KSS in 7 Thanas
TCCA-KSS                                Traditional Cooperatives
Deep Tube-       Non-
Name of Thana               Pump KSS    well KSS    Irrigatior)/KSS    UMPCS                     Non TCCA-KSS                      Total
Pump-KSS    Deep Tube-        Non-             PuMp
well KSS    Irrigation/KSS        Groups
No. Members  No. Members  No. Members  No. Members  No. Members  No. Members  No. Members
Kotwali, Bogra              2      78    -         -   72   2,407   19   5,200   50   7,850    3         150   57   4,200           52
Sherpur, Bogra              8     314    -        -   78   2,966    8   2,695   65   7,220    -            -    9      210          73
Gabtali, Bogra             34   1,292    -         -   76   2,789   14   5,350  105  14,540    -           -   27      670         139
Sariakandi, Bogra          54   1,620    -        -   72   1,908   11   4,350   55   5,890    -            -   15      450         109
1/
Muktagacha, Myn.           15     255   20      407   14       274   10   3,944   33   1,130    1        137   20      871          48
1/
Trisal, Myn.               17     407   13      414   41      935    9   2,870   48   1,856    8         422   73   2,426           65
1/
Gaffargaon, Myn.           55   1,055   19      512   36       781   15   9,466  226   5,560   10        582   74   4,321          281
Total 7 Thanas            185   5,021   52   1,333  389  12,060   86  33,875  582  44,046   22   1,291  275  13,148                767
1/ Mymensingh
Prepared by: IRDP and Cooperative Department, March 1975
'0                                                                                                                                      §
vD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r e-|



ANNEX 7
Exhibit 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Fertilizer Allocation for TCCA - KSS
Members in Project Thanas
To help strengthen TCCA as a basic farmers' organization of
Bangladesh, a system for allocation of fertilizers to TCCA-KSS members will
be adopted in the project thanas, as follows:
(a)  For each crop season (aus, T. aman, boro), each TCCA-KSS
will prepare a farm plan, based on the improved KSS
membership land register and KSS land maps to be intro-
duced by IRDP. The seasonal farm plan will list area of
rice (separately for HYV and local varieties) and other
crops to be grown by each member, and the KSS total. The
farm plan will be prepared during the weekly member-meetings
of KSS well in advance oi the planting time of that season.
(b)  In the same member meetings, KSS members will be told of the
allocations of urea: TSP and MP per ac of HYV rice, local
variety rice, and other crops, and the official prices per
maund (or seer) of different fertilizer. Members will be
informed about the quantity of fertilizers each is entitled
to receive.
(c) Rural credit application will be processed during the same
meetings; a subtotal will be made in the plan for credit
covering the cost of fertilizers.
(d)  Based on the farm plan, three sets of totals will be
obtained by each KSS:
(i) total areas of HYV rice, local variety rice
and other crops to be grown by KSS members
during that season;
(ii) total quantity of fertilizers requested by
the KSS; and
(iii)  total rural credit requirement of the KSS for that
season, with a sub-total for fertilizer credit.
-120-



ANNEX 7
Exhibit 2
Page 2
(e) The KSS chairman will submit the farm plan with the above
totals to TCCA for transmittal to the Thana Project Executive
Committee. On behalf of the Committee, the Thana Inspector,
BADC, the TEO/TAO and IRDP Thana Project Officer will
verify the soundness of the farm plan with regard to the
crop acreages reported. This can be done quickly by
checking against the KSS land - register (a copy of which
will be in the IRDP Thana Project Officer's file) to see
if the total rice area is in line with the land registers
figures for that season (HYV area planted will be verified
during the crop growing season. The IRDP/TPO will complete
thana totals, and submit them to the Thana Inspector, BADC,
with copies to the Sonali Bank branch office.
(f) When fertilizers arrive at the thana godown (BADC or TCCA),
each TCCA-KSS will take bulk delivery from the godown for
all members and distribute to members according to the
original farm plan. Rural credit for fertilizers for each
KSS will be issued by the Sonali Bank by a check in favor
of BADC, and this check will be transmitted by Sonali Bank
to Thana Inspector, BADC upon receipt of the fertilizers
by the KSS.
(g) As to the areas planted to HYV rice, in the first place,
the KSS (assisted by IRDP Officers) will consult the
TEO/TAO in formulating its HYV extension target for each
season. Secondly, TEO/TAO/UAAs will verify the area
planted by spot - check in the field when they make
scheduled visits to the KSSs (see Annex 8). Since the
growing season in the main field is at least three
months, the spot check can be made on any day during
this period. The work will be made easy by the use of
the KSS land maps.
-121-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMEIT I PROJECT
Projection of Number of TCCA-KSS and Membership
Total                       Projected Coverage of TCCA-KSS in 7 Thanas
in 7       Feb 1/
Thanas     1975       1970   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Village                    1,343       626        701    779    850    923    995  1,067  1,130  1,215  1,274  1,343
(%)                     (100)       (47)       (52)   (58)   (63)   (69)   (74)   (79)   (84)   (90)   (95)  (100)
Prospective TCCA-KSS                                 2/
Membership (1,000)         150      18.4       62.4   75.0   87.0   99.0  110.0  118.5  126.0  135.0  142.5  150.0
(%)                     (100)       (12)      (42)   (50)   (58)   (66)   (74)   (79)   (84)   (90)   (95)  (100)
Average Number
Members per
KSS                                   °9         89     96    102    107    110    111    111    111    111    112
1/ Actual - IRDP
2/  582 'TIP-KSS with 44,046 members (Exhibit 1) will be reorganized into TCCA-KSS, assuming 10% non-eligible.
l-.



ANNEX 7
Tabl. 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVE-LOPMET I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - IRDP/TCCA Component
Cost (Tk Million)
Taxes &
Item                               Local     Forein   Duties        Total
(i)  Office Equipmenti                              0.02      0.16      0.18         0.36
2/
(ii) Vehicles for staff                            0.07       0.90      0.43         1.40
(iii) 0 & M of Office Equipment and
vehic)s during the project life               0.20       0.20      0.27         0.67
(iv) Staff Training                                0.89        -         -           0.89
4/
(v)  Cost of Additional Staff                      0.40        -         -           0.40
(vi) Per diem for IRDP staff during field
work                                           0.23       -          -          0.23
(vii)Preparation of Land Register and Maps
for KSS 5/                                    0.20       0.02      0.03         o.25
(viii)Printing Costs 50 0.30                                   0.10      0.10         0.50
(ix) Base Cost Estimate IRDP/TCCA
Comr,onent (i - viii)                          2.31      1.38      1.01         4.70
(x)  Physical Contingencies                         0.23      0.14      0.10         0.47
(10% of ix)
(xi) Price Contingencies                            1.53      0.32      0.23         2.08
Total Cost IRDP/TCCA                           4.07      1.84      1.34         7.25
Component (ix + x + xi)
1/ One each per thana and District offices: Typewriter (English), Typewriter (BengaVj,
Mimeographing Machine;One each per District office and two each per thana office:
Hand calculators, File cabinets.
2/ 2 Jeeps:One each for District Project Directors
23 Motorcycles:One each for Deputy District Project Directors, Thana Project
Officers and Deputy Thana Project Officers
500 Bicycles   : One each for TCCA Chief Inspectors, Inspectors, Assistant
Inspectors and Village Accountants. Provision is made for
replacement after 3 years.
3/ Includes the oost of additional training requirements only.
4/ An (additional) Deputy Project Officer and a Training Officer for each thana.
Assumed average salary Tk 500/month.
oAsrking an average of 1,000 KSSs by Year Five.  Printing of the Oroject
*Tork manual by the Central Project axecutive Committee and of TCCA-KSS
account/record books by IRDP.                                          -123-



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Agriculi:ural Extension
Present Deficiencies
1.        There are too few extension officers in Bangladesh and they are
insufficiently trained. Also, they have not been supplied with comprehensive
and up-to-date extension material, and they are immobile for lack of vehicles.
In the seven project thanas, there are seven Thana Agricultural Officers (TAOs),
one for each thana, 90 Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs), one for each
union, 470,000 ac of cultivated land and about 250,000 agricultural families,
averaging about 5,200 ac or 2,800 rural families per UAA. The UAAs are the
only officers at the union level. Since they are asked to do many non-agri-
cultural odd jobs and paper work they have little time to do field extension
work.
2.        Most UAAs have neither living quarters or offices; some get room
and board free in larger farmers' houses, and thus are influenced in allo-
cation of pumps, fertilizers, etc.
3.        Since 1970, little new extension information has reached Thana
Agricultural Officers (TAO) and UAAs. They are still using old material
for weekly training of model farmers. This has caused the attendance of
model farmers to decline significantly even though the sessions have been
reduced from weekly to bi-weekly.
4.        The TAOs and UAAs have the responsibility of:  reporting crop
statistics; HYV acreages vs extension targets; flood damaged areas; help-
ing the union council in drawing up lists of fertilizer recipients based
on HYV area planted as well as recipients of taccavi loans based on damaged
cropped area, and checking pump irrigated area in boro season for the Thana
Irrigation Committee, etc. But t-hey are not provided with vehicles, and
don't really have usable data for verifying such acreages.
5.        A combination of the above factors contributes to the ineffective-
ness of the extension service. Particularly detrimental has been the frequent
involvement of the extension staff in food procurement activities which has
prevented them from gaining the trust and confJdence or the farmers. The
TAOs/UAAs are not to be blamed. They are the victims of he!nF overloaded
with important responsibilities without being given means to do their
jobs.
-124-



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Project Approach
6.        In the seven project thanas, the number of extension staff will
be increased; vehicles would be provided to make the staff mobile and the
extension staff would be asked to concentrate on extension activities.
The UAAs will have living and office quarters; training and extension
material will be made current, and the officers will be retrained. They
will make scheduled visits to TCCA-KSS model farmers. Their field work will
be facilitated by an improved TCCA-KSS membership register and KSS land maps
to be prepared by IRDP/TCCA. Specific steps are presented in Exhibit 1 to
this Annex entitled "Establishment of Intensified Extension Service in Seven
Rural Development Project Thanas". The contents of the Exhibit have been
agreed upon by the Government.
7.        Two aspects'regarding the training of model farmers by TEO/TAO are
steps forward from the Comilla tradition:
(a) The renting of a training farm close to each TTDC and
introduction of field practices by model farmers in the
bi-weekly training session, in addition to the tradi-
tional classroom lecture and passing out of lesson sheets
(Exhibit 1, para 6).
(b) The introduction of scheduled visits to KSSs by the
extension officers, and bringing members other than
the model farmer to meet the officer at the model
farmers' farm on the "visit day", to make sure that
the model farmer has practiced what he has learned in
the training sessions, and that the knowledge is spread
to other KSS members during the weekly member meetings
(Exhibit 1, paras 3-5).
8.        The "Special Extension Items Adaptable to KSS-wide Adoption"
(Exhibit 1, paras 7 and 8) are introduced to:
(a)  enable the KSS farms to start the planting of both HYV
and local varieties with uniform and strong seedlings
that would revive and grow rapidly after transplanting,
minimize the effect of drought or submergence by rising
flood, achieve uniform heading, a higher response to
fertilizers and a higher yield;
(b)  minimize the risk of crop failures by proper selection
of land for planting HYV; and
(c)  expand HYV rapidly by multiplying their own seeds under
a KSS plan, before the national seed program becomes
widely effective.
-125-



ANNEX 8
Page 3
9.        The TEO/TAO will be upgraded by training on HYV rice technology
and special items for KSS adoption at BRRI, and UAA/VEA at Agricultural
Training Institutes (Exhibit 1, para 11) under the national program assisted
by the IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project and the UNDP Extension
Project. At the end of each training session, the Department of Agriculture
(Management and Extension) and IRDP would give the trainees a one day
briefing on the following:
(a)  how to conduct the new model farmer training;
(b) use of the TCCA-KSS land register and land maps
for verification of HYV, irrigated and flood dam-
aged areas; and
(c) scheduled visits by extension officers to TCCA-KSS.
10.       An indicative number of extension officers in the seven thanas
to be trained each year would be as follows:
FY Year
(6 months) 2   3   4   5   6 (6 months)
District Agricultural Officer (DAO)             2   2   2   2   2
Thana Extension Officer (TEO)                   7   7   7   7   7
Thana Agriculture Officer (TAO)                 7   7   7   7   7
Union Agricultural Assistants (UAA)             90  90  90  90  90
Village Extension Assistant (VEA)               -   45  90 135 180
Total Extension Officers                       106 151 196 241 286
IRDP Deputy District Project
Officers (IRDP/DDPO)                           2   2   2   2   2
IRDP Deputy Thana Project
Officers (IRDP/DTPO)                           7   7   7   7   7
Total Trainees                                 115 160 205 250 295
-126-



ANNEX 8
Page 4
11.       The KSS land register and land maps will enable the extension
officers to verify the areas of HYV planted, irrigated by pump/well dam-
aged by flood or drought. These data have been the basis for application
and granting of fertilizers, pumps/wells, rural credit and taccavi loans.
Wild claims of areas and officers' lack of means to verify them contribute
to the manipulation of inputs and credit by larger farmers. Under the pro-
ject, these data will be made verifiable for the TCCA-KSS land register. By
phased increase of KSS and membership coverage in the thanas, such data will
be built up at an even pace, with data of a larger and larger percentage of
farmers becoming verifiable. This will be a basic improvement, not only
for TCCA-KSS, but for the execution of the over-all Rural Development Proj-
ect.
12.       While the above program centers on rice, the rural infrastructure
built into this project would serve other crops as well. The extension
material prepared by the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme of the Ministry
of Agriculture would be used for training model farmers on jute cultivation
in the Bogra Thanas (Mymensingh is not covered by the Scheme). Varieties,
fertilizer application and pest control measures recommended by the Scheme
would be followed. Utilizing TCCA-KSS weekly meetings and the KSS land
register and land maps, the project would pay special attention to trans-
mitting the following recommendations of the Scheme to jute growing KSS
members:
(a) selection of land for capsularies and olitorius
varieties,
(b) proper time of sowing; and
(c) line sowing and proper spacing between plants.
Officers of the Jute Extension Scheme would be invited to be the trainers
of the model farmers.
13.       Extension of vegetable growing would be conducted in conjunction
with the supply of hand pumps among the TCCA-KSS members.
Cost Estimates
14.       Motorcycles for TAOs and bicycles and living quarters for UAAs
have been provided under the IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project, and
extension equipment has been provided by the UNDP Extension Project. The
Rural Development I Project would provide motorcycles to the seven TEOs and
bicycles to 180 VEAs who will be newly assigned to the seven thanas.
The cost estimates for the agricultural extension component totals
Tk 2.82 million (Table 1).
-127-



ANNEX 8
Page 5
15.       Cost of additional staff is not a factor, because the recruitment
and deployment of TEOs and VEAs were Ministry of Agriculture's own plan
already approved by GOB. The project would simply receive priority assign-
ment of these officers from the general pool of the Ministry of Agriculture.
April 1976
-128-



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Establishment of Intensified Extension Service
The Department of Agriculture (Extension and Management) of the
Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible for implementing this project
component, in close cooperation with IRDP. As a part of Ministry of
Agriculture's effort to upgrade and intensify the agricultural extension
service to farmers, a field level working scheme will be adopted in the
seven project thanas. The scheme will fully utilize the TCCA-KSS infra-
structure for furthering the effectiveness of extension to small farmers.
Essential steps of the scheme are given below:
Increase of Numbers of Extension Officers at the Thana and Union Levels
1.        Realizing the present serious understaffing of field level exten-
sion officers, the Ministry of Agriculture has begun a sustained program
for training and employing increasing numbers of officers at the thana
and union levels. The plan is to create two new levels of officers: TEO
and VEA. The TEO would be better qualified than the existing TAO's and
VEA would supervise several villages. Thus far, 56 TEO's have been re-
cruited; and 226 VEA's are being trained (2-year course). Refresher courses
for TAO's and UAA's at ATI's and for ATI instructors at BERI are being con-
ducted.
2.        In these seven thanas, TEO's will be designated as soon as the
project starts to be implemented. The 90 unions in the seven thanas are
expected to be given prlority consideration for assigning Village Exten-
sion Agents (VIA's). The precise number to be assigned each year will be
worked out between the Department of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
and IRDP, based on the rate of organizing new KSS's by TCCA's in these seven
thanas. The VEAs employed in the project area shall be assigned only such
duties as are directly related to agricultural extension work.
Establishing "Scheduled Visit System" by TEO/TAO/UAA/VEA to TCCA-KSS's
3.        In these seven thanas, the extension officers will be provided
with vehicles by the IDA Rural Training Project and this project. The
TEO/TAO's in each thana will discuss with IRDP-TPO's and decide on a time
schedule for visiting KSS's on appointed dates. The TEO/TAO/UAA (and later
on, VEA's) will divide among themselves the work load of such scheduled visits.
129



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 2
The KSS's will know on which day the officers will come. The visiting
extension officer will check whether the model farmers have adopted the
cultural practices taught at the training sessions. Other members will be
informed of the coming of the extension officer, and encouraged to join
the model farmer on his field. T'hey may bring any questions about the crop
in season to ask the officer. If the officer cannot answer on the spot,
he will find the answers and give them in the next training session of the
model farmers.
4.        On the "visit day", the TCCA inspector or assistant inspector
should also be present, so that he could assist the Chairman, the General
Manager and model farmer of the KS>S to further discuss the introduced
practices (in KSS weekly meetings) for wide adoption by members. On the
same "visits", the extension officer would also spot check the area planted
to HYV and other crops, pump irrigation area, etc. according to the KSS
farm plan and KSS land maps.
5.        During the first year of the project in the seven thanas, TEO/TAO
will participate in the scheduled visits to the existing TCCA-KSS, including
those reorganized from the existing non-TCCA TIP-KSS's. As new KSS's are
organized in the rainfed area of the thanas, the TEO/TAO will concentrate
on the new KSS's, while UAAs/VEAs will continue with the existing ones.
When even more KSS's are organized and improved practices have been estab-
lished as routine in the old KSS's, the TCCA inspectors and assistant
inspectors will carry on the routine follow-ups, but the UAA/VEA's will
visit KSS at least twice in a season. The IRDP-TPO and DTPO will make
their own scheduled visits to each KSS.
Field Practices for Model Farmer Training
6.        Under the project, a 1 ac training farm will be rented near the
TTDC in each of the seven thanas. The UNDP Extension Project Rice Produc-
tion Specialist will assist in planning of the curriculum and training
material for the bi-weekly training sessions for the model farmers which
will be syncronized with the crop season. The sessions will consist of
a short classroom explanation of the topic of the day by TEO or TAO, fol-
lowed by an action demonstration in the field by the farmer owner of the
rented farm (who had practiced prior to the session under the supervision
of the TEO/TAO), and followed, in turn, by model farmer trainees practicing
in the field. They don't need all to get into the field, but as many as
feasible will, and all of them would have seen how the work is to be done.
During the intervening two week period, the owner would manage the farm.
The HYV seeds, fertilizers, pesticides will be included as a part of the
rental. The owner will also retairn the entire harvested crop. The TAO/TEO
will supervise the owner farmer managing the training farm.
-130-



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 3
Special Extension Items Adaptable to KSS-wide Adaption
7.        From the "Extension Package" information to be supplied by Depart-
ment of Extension through the normal channel, the following items will be
given additional emphasis for TCCA-KSS adoption:
A.   Preparation of good nurseries for T. aus, T. aman
and boro, proper way of handling seedlings and
proper depth of transplanting.
B.   As a part of good nursery management, nursery pest
control will be practiced.
C. How to keep farmers own seeds pure and viable, mul-
tiply their own seeds.
D.   Selection of land for T. aus HYV and T. aman HYV.
E.   Organized main field pest control.
8.        Similarly, from the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme's extension
package, selection of land for varieties, time of sowing, line sowing and
proper spacing would be introduced for KSS-wide adoption. Special emphasis
to these topics will be given in model farmer training and officer's "field
visits". The IRDP-TPO, DTPO and inspectors should also keep themselves
informed on these topics so they could assist the KSS manager and model
farmers in organizing KSS-wide adoption.
Coordination of International Assistance Projects in Fields of
Agricultural Extension, Information and Training
9.        Currently, several international/bilateral agencies are planning
projects in Bangladesh to assist the country in improving its agricultural
extension and training programs. Some of the lmportant projects are: UNDP
project for "strengthening the Agricultural Extension Service"; project from
the Government of Japan for the Central Extension Resources Institute; Ford
Foundation/IRRI project ar BRRI; UNDP/FAO Project on Land Use Advice to the
Ministry of Agriculture and the IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project.
These projects will work with the various agencies of the Ministry of Agri-
culture such as BRRI, Department of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
Agricultural Information Service, Central Extension Resources Institute,
ATI's Bangladesh Soil Survey Service and the Accelerated Cereal Production
Program (ACPP). The National Committee on Rural Training, under the Ministry
of Planning will coordinate the work of these agencies and programs.
-131-



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 4
Support of the Ministry Agencies and International Projects
to IDA Rural Development Projects
10.       It is understood that the Project will not employ expatriate
extension consultants of its own, but will depend on the Ministry agencies
and the international or bilateral agencies to provide technical assistance
to the extension component of the project. The Ministry will assure that
all ministry agencies and other international/bilateral projects concerned
would render support to the project and cater to special needs of the
project. Agreements were reached between the Ministry and the international
projects concerned, for their expeets to provide technical assistance
to the project.
11.       Specific areas of assistance to the RD projects by these agencies
and international projects are given below:
A.   Before the international projects become fully operative:
(1) Retraining on rice production of DAOs of Bogra and
Mymensingh Districts, TEOs and TAOs of the seven
thanas, IRDP-TPO andl DTPOs who have agricultural
background -- A threte week to four training course
would be provided at: BRRI with assistance from Ford
Foundation/IRRI experts. Special items listed under
paragraph 6 will be included.
(2) Training of UAAs, VEAs and TCCA inspectors (about
100 people) on special extension items listed under
paragraph 7 and other essential topics--ten day
training sessions will be conducted in groups accord-
ing to accommodation available. Those in the four
Bogra thanas will be trained in ATI Sherpur; those
in the three Mymensingh thanas, at Mymensingh
University (to be arranged). The DAOs (see last
paragraph) TEOs and TAOs who received training
at BRRI will be the trainers. The UNDP Extension
specialists would help the Agricultural Information
Service in preparing the training material. They
would also help the DEOs/TEOs in preparing curri-
culum, and in coducttng courses.
(3)  Preparing new training material and curriculum
including field pracitices for training of model
farmers at TTDCs of the seven thanas. The train-
ing material should be a simpler version of those
prepared for (2) above. The curriculum will be
prepared for bi-weekLy one-day sessions synchronized
-132-



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 5
with the crop calendar. For continuity, the UNDP/FAO
Extension specialists will again be requested to
help DEOs/TEOs prepare the training material and
assist the TEOs/TAOs in organizing the training
curriculum. The TEOs/TAOs will be trainers.
Complete sets of model farmer training material
will be made available to each UAA, VEA as well as
TCCA officers, so they can follow up on model
farmers' actual practices on their farms during
scheduled visits to KSS's.
(4) The Soil Survey Institute will place an adequate
number of HYV mini-kit plots in the seven thanas
beginning in 1976 (aus or T. aman) to help deter-
mine performance of and farmers' reaction to dif-
ferent HYV varieties and response to fertilizers.
If possible (but not necessary) these plots will
be placed on farms operated by TCCA-KSS model
farmers. The UNDP Senior Land Use Adviser, the
Rice Production Specialist of the UNDP Extension
Team, and BRRI/IRRI Specialists will be consulted
by the project on choice of HYV varieties on
different types of land in these seven thanas.
(5) The project includes the pilot use of simple
machinery by KSS's for servicing their members,
including paddy husking machine and small paddy
driers.
B.   Once the UNDP/FAO Extension Project, the Japanese
Central Extension Resources Institute project and the
IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project become
fully operational:
(1) The new extension material prepared, facilities
made available to DEO's, TEO's/TAO's, UAA's and
VEA's, and training course to be conducted for
these officers which will be planned as national
programs, will cover the project thanas on a
priority basis. The BRRI, Agricultural Information
Service, Department of Agriculture (Extension and
Management) and its ATI's, the Central Extension
Resources Institute and Soil Survey Institute will
continue to cater to the special needs of the
project regarding preparation of training and
extension material and conducting training courses.
Annual plans for meeting such special needs will be
presented to the Ministry of Agriculture by the RD
-133-



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 6
Central Project Executive Committee for discussion,
agreement and actlon by Ministry agencies.
(2)  UNDP/FAO Extensiont Project, UNDP Senior Land Use Adviser,
Ford Foundation/ITRI Team, and the Japanese Team for
the Central Extension Resources Institute are expected
to continue to provide technical assistance to the
project, in form of consultation in Dacca and field
visits to the seven thanas. Requests for such assistance
will be made through the Executive Secretary of the RD
Project Central Executive Committee well in advance.
Requests will state the need of assistance in specific
terms.
(3)  A series of short training courses for the proper use
and care of the simple machinery mentioned above will
be conducted for selected members of KSS's (an esti-
mated 40 people) where the machinery will be purchased
under the project. Another series of training courses
will be conducted for the mechanics (an estimated 20
people) for local private machine shops to be contracted
by TCCA's for servicing these machines. Technical
assistance to the RD project for planning and conducting
such training courses and preparation of training material
will be provided by BRRI/IRRI or the Japanese Team/ATI.
The Ministry of Agriculture will coordinate with the
Project Central Executive Committee, BRRI/IRRI and the
Japanese team on t'his matter.
12.       Cost sharing:
A.   All training and extension material, extension facilities,
training courses and expatriate expert services which the
officers in seven thanas receive as a normal part of the
national program will not be charged to the project.
B.   Cost for meeting specia:L needs of the project:
(1)  Preparation of tralning and extension material
including production of audio-visual extension
material will be borne by the national programs.
(2)  The project will pay for the printing cost of
training and extension material prepared at its
request, per diem for trainers and trainees who
conduct or attend special training courses for
the project at places away from their working        -134-



ANNEX 8
Exhibit 1
Page 7
stations (model farmer training is expected to be
covered by the TCCA themselves); and machineries for
which training is requested (except BRRI which already
has most of the machinery).
(3) The project will provide per diem according to UNDP
domestic rate for expatriate experts of other
international and bilateral projects mentioned
above for trips to the seven RD project thanas at
the request of the project.
13.       Feedback:
The project, through a monitoring system to be established, will
provide feedback to the Ministry of Agriculture and all international and
bilateral projects regarding farmers' response to the abovementioned
activities.
-135-



ANNEX 8
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELO0IENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Agricultural Extension
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Item                               Local     Foreign   Duties       Total
ti)   Vehicles for Staff                              o.        0.48       0.07        0.59
2/
(ii)  0 & M of Vehicles                              0.06      0.13      0.07         0.26
during the project life
(iii) Staff Training                                 0.10       -         -           0.10
(iv)  Per diem for extension staff during
field work                                    o.67        -         -           0.67
3/
(v)   Rental of Training Farms                       0.07                  -          0.07
(vi)  Base Cost Estimates Agricultural
Extension                                      o.94     o0.61      0.14         1.69
(vii) Physical Contingencies (10% of vi)             0.09      0.06      0.02         0.17
(viii) Price Contingencies                            0.74      0.18      0.04         1.10
Total Cost Agri. Extension
(vi + vii + viii)                             1.77       0.85      0.20         2.82
1/ 7 Motorcycles: One each for Thana Extension Officer
360 Bicycles   : One each for Village Extension Assistant.Provision is
made for replacement after 3 years.
2/ Unit costs as in Annex 7 Table 1.
3/ At Tk 2,000/year/Thana.
-136-



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Livestock Improvement
Background
1.        The Department of Livestock reported 266,000 heads of draft
animals and 350,000 chickens in the seven thanas:
Thana                    Draft Animal              Chickens
head                    number
Bogra District
Kotwali                           46,360                  62,600
Sherpur                           22,120                 31,400
Gabtali                           47,440                 53,000
Sariakandi                        30,080                 60,800
Sub-total                        146,000                207,800
Mymensingh District
Muktagacha                        37,800                  43,400
Gaffargaon                        51,120                 58,200
Trisal                            30,560                  36,600
Sub-total                        119,480                 138,200
TOTAL                                 265,480                 346,000
2.        The above data on draft animals include adult males and females
at about 4:1 ratio, and average about one head per two cropped ac, or one
pair per four cropped ac. Data on calves is not available. The number of
chickens seems extremely low, averaging only two birds per land-owning
farm household. There is no way at present for the thana livestock
officers to obtain reliable statistics. More reliable information is
necessary for effective project implementation (para 12).
3.        The major cattle diseases in Bangladesh are hemorrhagic septi-
caemia, anthrax, black quarter, foot and mouth disease, liver fluke and
tuberculosis. The annual mortality rate due to all diseases is estimated
at about 8%. This would mean an annual death of about 21,000 head of
draft animals in the seven thanas. The foot and mouth disease does not
necessarily kill the infected animal, but puts about 20% of the animals
-137-



ANNEX 9
Page 2
out of work. In the seven thanas, this would amount to an annual work loss
of work of 53,000 head. The animals are further weakened by internal para-
sites which infest most of the herd.
4.        The major poultry diseases are new castle disease, fowl pox, fowl
cholera, coccidiosis, helminthiasis and deficiency diseases. The annual
mortality rate is not known, but it is believed to be very high. All chickens
are back yard scavangers fed on fallen grain, house scraps and other
natural food. Since the project area is deficient in human food, modern
poultry production based on grain feeding is unlikely in the near future.
5.        The seven thanas have at present 30 livestock officers with the
following titles:
Thana      Veterinarian  Veterinarian  Thana
Livestock  Assistani:       Field        Livestock  Insemi-
Thana       Officer    Surgeon         Assistant    Assistants  nator    Total
(TLO)       (VAS)          (VFA)           (TLA)
Bogra District
Kotwali         1            -             -               -         -          2
Sherpur         1            1             2               1         -          5
Cabtali         1            1             2               1         -          5
Sariakandi     1             1             2               1         -          5
Mymensingh
District
I4uktagacha     1            1             2               1         -          5
Gaffargaon      1            1             2               1          1         6
Trisal          1            1             1               -         -          2
Total      7             6            11               5         1         30
They obtain vaccine, serum and drugs from the Biological Product Laboratories
at Dacca and Comilla by submitting requisitions through the District Livestock
Officer. Tile supplies are taken by the DLO by rail, road or air, stored in
the District Officers' Office, anc distributed to thanas for use from time
to time. The thanas' veterinarian dispensaries do not have adequate
facilities for storing the supplies. Nor do the thana officers have
vehicles.
6.        Due to the shortage of supplies, the difficulty in moving supplies
and in visiting villages by the officers, the Department of Livestock reported
only about 10,000 head of cattle and 14,000 poultry birds as being vaccinated
in 1974 in the seven thanas. Vaccination is a free service in Bangladesh.
A Bogra District Artificial Insemination Center was established in 1974 and
a limited insemination has been administered in nearby thanas.
-138-



ANNEX 9
Page 3
7.        Draft animal feeds consist mainly of rice, straw, pulse crop
residues, sugarcane leaves, and grass along roadside and canal bunds
and on secondary growth in the paddy field after harvest. Feed becomes
low in the dry season and extremely low toward its end (April). The
animals are weakest when they are needed for preparing land for sowing
aus, broadcast aman and jute. Only small areas of fodder crops are grown.
A limited supply of fodder crops, rice bran, wheat bran, and oil cakes
are reserved for small commercial dairy herds and farmers' milk cattle.
No research or extension work on fodder or forage crops has been done
until recently. The Savar Farm (near Dacca) of the Livestock Department,
with assistance from a German livestock team, selected improved varieties
and initiated a field demonstration project in 1974.
Project Works
8.        As a part of an integrated rural development approach, the live-
stock component of this project would put major emphasis on lowering the
mortality and parasite infestation of the draft animals and chickens. This
would benefit small farmers by reducing the loss of animals and poultry.
The project would also popularize forage/fodder crops in the seven thanas.
9.        Equipment and Supplies:  The project would provide equipment
to the thana veterinarian dispensaries for safekeeping vaccine, serum,
drugs in thanas. Two motorcylces cabs would be provided for moving supplies
from the District stores to thana dispensaries. Motorcyles would be provided
to thana officers and bicycles to vaccinators. Vaccines, serum and drugs
would be supplied by the Livestock Department. Equipment and supplies are
listed in Table 1.
10.       Increase of Vaccinators:   A total of 70 vaccinators (average ten
per thana) would be recuited by the Livestock Department and deployed in the
project area over a five year period, at the rate of 14 vaccinators a year.
The new recruits plus the existing 12 VFAs and TLAs (para 5) would make
roughly one vaccinator per union. One additional TLA with a background in
agronomy would be assigned to each of the seven thanas for conducting field
demonstration of forage and fodder crops. The VAS would manage the refurnished
thana dispensary and daily dispatching of vaccinators. The TLO would administer
the thana program and training of vaccinators, model farmers and RSS vaccinators
(para 11).
11.       Scheduled Visits to TCCA-KSS by Livestock Officers:  The TLO,
IRDP/TPO and TCCA Manager would jointly decide time schedules and routes for
the vaccinators to visit each TCCA-KSS in the thana. On the scheduled day,
the KSS manager and model farmer would ask all farmers to keep their draft
animals in the village compound and chickens in coops, so that the vaccinator
could finish his work quickly and move on to the next village.
-139-



ANNEX 9
Page 4
12.       TCCA-KSS Membership Livestock Registration:  With assistance from
IRDP thana officers, TCCA-KSS would compile a livestock register, which
would record heads of adult and young draft animals owned by its members.
The register would be kept up-to-date by members reporting changes in the
weekly member meetings. Numbers vaccinated would also be recorded. Chickens
would not be registered, but the number to be vaccinated would be discussed
in the weekly member meeting prior to the "visit date" of the vaccinator.
The vaccination request would be sent to the Thana Livestock Officer when
the KSS officers go to TTDC for their weekly training sessions.
13.       Training of KSS Vaccinato_rs: As the number and membership of KSS
expands, the LFAs would have to vaccinate increasing numbers of animals each
year. A training program for KSS vaccinators would be launched to train
young KSS members to become vaccinators. The LFAs would bring sterilized
field equipment and supplies to the village on the "visit day" and move on
to other villages. The KSS vaccinator would vaccinate animals and poultry
for KSS members. This would enable the LFAs recruited during the five year
project implementation period to cope with the increasing numbers of animals
in years beyond that period.
14.       Projection of Vaccination Coverage:  About 55,000 head of draft
animals and 76,000 birds would be vaccinated in the first year of the project,
increasing to about 150,000 and 200,000 respectively by the fifth year. If
the KSS vaccinator training program is successful, the project is expected to
fully cover the draft animals and chickens belonging to KSS members in all
villages.
15.       Demonstration of Forage and Fodder Crops:  Based on experimental
results obtained at the Savar Farm, 12-24 demonstration fields would be set
up in each of the seven thanas. Each field would consist of three to five
plots: one or two for permanent fodder cropping (Napier and /or para
grasses), two to three for short season forage crops (sorghum, maize,
oats, Berseem clover, and sun flower). Each plot would be of 0.01 ac. The
combination of crops to be grown in each demonstration field would be deter-
mined by the land type and the present cropping pattern. Fodder crop plots
would be placed only on land where permanent cropping is feasible. Forage
crops would be tried out (a) in rab: season following mixed aus and deep-
water aman, (b) following aus/jute and transplanted aman and (c) in kharif
season following aus on the Barind Tract. The forage demonstration would
be conducted under both rainfed and irrigated conditions. It is expected
that the land to be irrigated by the 2,500 shallow tubewells and 5,000 hand
pumps to be provided by the project would foster diversification of rabi
crops, and improve the possibility of introducing some forage crops into the
crop rotation system. Successful demonstration and subsequent extension
would help to lessen the serious feed shortage during the dry season.
16.       The forage/fodder crop denonstration work would be conducted by
the Livestock Department so that it could be closely linked to the research
work being done at the Savar Farm and to the Department's own demonstration
-140-



ANNEX 9
Page 5
program in other thanas. When successful demonstration leads into extension
and seed multiplication, joint planning between the Department of Livestock,
Department of Agriculture (Extension and Management) and IRDP would be
necessary.
17.       Technical Assistance:  The German Livestock Team assisting the
Savar Farm is expected to provide technical assistance to the livestock
improvement component of the project.
18.       Plan for Collection of Fees:  Operation and maintenance costs of
laboratory and field equipment and vehicles would be provided during the
five year project implementation period. The Livestock Department and IRDP
would jointly launch a campaign 4mong TCCA-KSS members for collecting fees
for vaccination, after the program has produced a clear impact in the KSS
villages. The GOB would submit to IDA in the third year of the project a
plan for collecting such fees. The fees collected should be sufficient
for covering the operation, maintenance and replacement of the laboratory
and field equipment and vehicles provided by the project.
Cost Estimates
19.       See Table 1.
April 1976
-141-



ANNEX 9
Tabl1e 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEV!LOR4MET I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Livestock Component
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Item                                  Local      Foreign   Duties      Total
(i)   Equipment for 7 Thana Veterinary
Dispens.ariesl/                               0.02      0.34      0.32         0.68
(ii)   Field Equipment & Supplies                    0.02      0.20      0.13         0.35
(iii)   Vehicles and Spares                           0.03      0.37      0.27         o.67
(iv)   0 & M of Equipment and  Vehicles              0.12      0.66      0.70         1.48
(v)   Chemicals and Medicines for
Treatment                                     0.95      o.46      0.23         1.64
(vi)   Staff Training                                0.11       -         -           0.11
(vii)   Cost of Additional Staff                      1.43       -         -.3
(viii)   Per diem for Field Staff                      0.32                 -           0.32
(ix)   Base Cost Estimates ( i - viii)               3.00      2.03      1.65         6.68
(x)   Physical Contingencies (10% of ix)            0.30      0.20      0.17         o.67
(xi)  Price Contingencies                            2.42      0.58       0.47        3.47
Total Cost - Livestock Component              5.72      2.81      2.29        10.82
(ix + x + xi)
1/ One each per dispensary: Kerosene refrigerator, miscroscope, hand
centrifuge, autoclave,laboratory ba:Lance, ventilator, laboratory petro
burner, treatment set, postmortem Set and some misc. laboratory equipment.
2/ Ten sets per thana:  Vaccination k.ts, and portable sterilizer.
-142-



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Pond Fisheries
Background
1.        Some 80% of the protein diet in Bangladesh is supplied by fish,
and more than 90% of the fish catch is from inland fisheries. The inland
fishery resources include rivers, canals, streams, larger or smaller de-
pressions connected with rivers (haors, baors, bil and ox-bow lakes), closed
water bodies (ponds and tanks) and innundated paddy fields. Some 120 species
of freshwater fish and 18 species of prawn have been recorded in the country.
Catching fish is as much a rural scene in Bangladesh as is cultivating rice.
The propagation and production of inland fish, however, remained almost en-
tirely in natural conditions. Fishery extension is practically non-existent.
It has been difficult for Thana Fishery Officers to obtain reliable statistics
on inland fishery production and marketing.
2.        Three types of fish pond ownership have been mentioned:  public
ponds, private ponds and group-owned ponds. No data, however, is available
for ready identification of such ownership. It is generally known that
ponds owned by private larger farmers produce an average of about 260 lb
of fish per ac per year. Carp is the most popular species grown. The
group owned ponds may have as many as 30 to 40 owners, as a result of in-
herited subdivisions. Both the group and publicly owned ponds are mostly
unattended, dilapidated and non-productive. The almost total lack of
information has made fishery development planning difficult. The lack of
access road to the widely scattered small inland water bodies, also restricts
the development of commercial fishery. An inland fishery project based on
improved ox-bow lakes is being prepared by IDA. The initial study was made
in 1973.
3.        Each of the seven thanas has one Thana Fishery Officer (TFO) and
a Thana Reclamation of Derelict Tanks Committee headed by Circle Office
(Development). The TFOs are high school graduates with one year training
in the Fresh Water Fisheries Research Station at Chandpur, Comilla District.
They are supposed to conduct demonstration ponds and keep fish seed ponds
for supplying fish fingerlings to needy farmers. Restricted by lack of
funds and transportation facilities, as well as means to identify fish ponds
by their ownership, little evidence of their work could be seen in the field.
Extension material on inland fishery has not been made available to them.
Fishery improvement is a neglected service compared to rice or jute extension,
or even veterinarian services.
-143-



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Project Works
4.        The project would concenTtrate on demonstrating the potential of
improved pond fish culture for increasing the fish supply to local villages
and ri:ral markets, and for providing an additional source of income to land-
less people.
5.        Survey, Demonstration Pcnds, and Fish Seed Ponds:  In view of the
total lack of information, the TFCs would start work by surveying the fish
ponds in the seven thanas under the supervision of the Thana Reclamation of
Derelict Tanks Committee and identifying on the mouja maps the public-owned
and group-owned ponds. They will receive intensive training on the use of
maps and the survey methods from civil engineers and Fishery Department
experts of the Development Project of Fish Culture in Public Ponds in the
Northern Districts who have conducted similar surveys in Pabna and other
Districts. The survey would record the location, ownership, dimension,
time and depth of maximum and minimum water, bottom condition, water inlet
and outlet, natural water vegetation and invertebrate animals, specific needs
of rehabilitation, present fish production, disposal of the fish catch, and
present uses of pond other than in fish culture.
6.        In order to develop pond management methods commensurate to local
farmers' capabilities, three trial-cum-demonstration ponds of about one
ac each would be established in each of the seven thanas, using three levels
(high, medium and low) of inputs respectively. Initially, the low input
level would be recommended for adoption by project-selected ponds, initially.
The medium and high level ponds would demonstrate potentials. Inputs would
include locally produced dry cow-dung, mustard oil cake and locally available
chemical fertilizers and lime. Carp fries would be stocked at an appropriate
rate. Public ponds would be used for this trial/demonstration. The ponds
would be rehabilitated under the Rural Works Program before the trial/demonstration
work began.  Cost of pond operation, fish harvest and price of the catch would
be recorded. Because the Thana Fishery Officers would be busy with the pond
survey, and since they are not adeqjuately trained for conducting trials, the
supervision and record keeping of the trial/demonstration ponds would be
handled by the District Fishery Ofiicers (DFO). Pond keepers (Field men)
would be hired to attend to day to day management chores under the supervision
of the DFOs.   The DFOs would be trained and assisted by the Fishery Department
experts of the Northern Districts.
7.        It is expected that both the survey and trial/demonstrations
would be completed by the second year of the project. A total of 500 ac of
public ponds would have been selected in the seven thanas, and located on
the mouja maps by the TFOs. Practical training and extension material
would have been prepared by the Fishery Department based on the two year
trial/demonstration results. Begirning the second year, each thana would
also establish fish seed ponds of appropriate size (to be decided during
the second year) for multiplying fish fingerlings for distribution to
TCCA-KSS Fish Cooperatives (para 8) in the third year and thereafter. The
-144-



ANNEX 10
Page 3
seed ponds would be managed by the same field man who attends to the trial/
demonstration ponds. The thana fish seed ponds are not intended for supply-
ing the entire fish fries need of the thanas. Farmers would be assisted by
TCCA to obtain fingerlings from local commercial ponds.
8.        Organization of TCCA-KSS Fishery Cooperatives:  Based on TFO's
survey result and mouja maps, IRDP thana officers would assist TCCA to
organize the landless people living in surrounding villages into Fishery
Cooperatives. These Cooperatives would become primary societies of TCCA.
The the Government grant the TCCA Fishery Cooperatives the right to use the
ponds and harvest the fish. Such ponds would be reclaimed and rehabilitated
by RWP over a three to four year period. The cost of rehabilitation would
be absorbed by the RWP budget. Each Fishery Cooperatives would elect a pond
keeper from among their family members. The TFOs would be trained by the
District Fishery Officers on pond management. They would, in turn, train
the KSS pond keepers, make scheduled visits to each project pond, arrange
for supply of fish fries when needed, and assist the fishery Cooperatives
in preparing pond management plans. Based on the management plan, IRDP/TCCA
officers would assist the Cooperatives in the preparation of short-and medium-
term credit application from the Sonali Bank, procurement of inputs, and
marketing surplus fish in rural markets which the project RWP would build.
9.        Supply of Equipment:  The project would provide necessary equip-
ment supplies, and vehicles to the fishery officers. Each of the two
DFOs and the Northern Districts project expert would be provided with a four
wheel drive vehicle, each TFO, a motorcycle, and each Field man, a bicycle.
Equipment and vehicles to be provided by the project and the project opera-
tion costs are listed in Table 1 of this Annex.
10.       Additional Staff:  One additional TFO would be assigned to each
thana; 14 Field men would be recruited to assist the DFOs and TFOs, two in
each thana.
Cost Estimates
11.       See Table 1.
April 1976
-145-



ANNEX 10
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Fishery Component
Cost (Ti million)
Taxes &
item                                    Local     Foreign   Duties       Total
(i)   Equipment for surveying the fish
ponds 1/                                       0.03       0.08      0.06         0.17
2/
(ii)  Vehicles for Staff                             0.01       0.30      0.37         o.68
(iii) 0 & M of vehicles                              0.06       0.18      0.31         0.55
(iv)  Operating cost of trial/demonstiation
ponds                                          0.88       0.17      0.06         1.11
(v)   Operating cost of  fish seed pords             o.34        -         _           0.34
(vi)  Staff Training                                 0.09        -         -           0.09
3/
(vii) Cost of additional staff                       1.11        -         -           1.11
(viii)Per diem for field staff                       0.10        -         -           0.10
(ix)  Base Cost Estimate ( i - viii)                 2.62       0.73      0.80         4.15
(x)   Physical Contingencies                         0.26       0.07      0.08         0.41
(xi)  Price Contingencies                            1.87       0.20      0.22         2.29
(xii) Total Cost - Fisheries Component
(ix + x + xi)                                  4.75      1.00       1.10         6.85
1/ 2 per Thana: Measuring tapes and sounding rods; Also includes water and soil
analysis equipment and chemicalsfor Mymensingh University, cost of Mouja maps for
villages in 7 thanas and some miscellaneous items.
2/ 3 four-wheel drive vehicles: One ea,ch for District Fisheries Officer and one for
Fishery experts of the North Bengal Water Development Project.
7 Motorcycles: One each for Thana Fisheries Officer
28 Bicycles:    One each for the fieldmen.  Provision for replacement after 3 years.
3/ Per thana: One Thana Fisheries Officer, 2 Fieldmen and four Guards;
Also three drivers and 3 motor cleaners for  the jeeps.                   -146-



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
General
1.        The proposed project represents a pioneering effort in developing
a prototype for strengthening the rural sector in Bangladesh. It is a
rather complex project involving multi-agency co-operation and requiring
strict adherance to timetables and working procedures. Because of these,
it is crucial that the project implementation be closely monitored and that
the impact of the project on production and income distribution be
thoroughly evaluated.
Project Monitoring
2.        Background.  In proportion to the work accomplished, the thana
officers are already doing a great deal of reporting. Each participating
agency has its reporting forms which the thana officers are required to fill
in and submit through District officers to the headquarters in Dacca. Some
of the reported items are actually beyond thana officers' means to assess
accurately. The present system has a low efficiency. On one hand, the
thana officers have to spend a considerable time in preparing reports
containing non-verifiable figures. On the other hand, the reports have
become so voluminous in Dacca that the headquaters does not always have
time to extract and summarize them for current use. It is not infrequent
that when some data are urgently needed, the Central agencies have again
to send urgent orders to thanas to get them, while actually the needed
information has already been reported, but has been buried along with less
relevant items in the routine reports. This has resulted in unreliable
statistics and errors in planning action programs.
3.        The UNDP Extension Project has already started discussions with
the Ministry of Agriculture in redesigning the reporting forms for exten-
sion activities.
4.        Project Approach.  This project, unlike Agricultural and Rural
Training and the UNDP/FAO Extension projects which are of national scope,
operates in only seven thanas. It is therefore not in a position to propose
revamping national reporting systems for all project components. Moreover,
this project deals mostly with the TCCA-KSS members. Thana officers of the
participating agencies will still need to report on the thanas as a whole,
even though the reported data are far from accurate.
-147-



ANNEX 11
Page 2
5.        It is deemed unwise for the project to burden the thana officers
with a new time-consuming reportirg system in addition to the existing one.
Instead, the concept is that if records and books are kept accurately and up-
to-date in the KSS and TCCA, Government officers concerned need only to
monitor key elements of the various project components. Under the circum-
stances, the project would build a sound statistical base within the TCCA-KSS,
hoping that the accuracy of the thana statistics would improve steadily as
more and more farmers joined the ICCA-KSS (Annex 7).
6.        Nor is it deemed wise to have a full time independent group
doing the project monitoring. To assemble a group with competence in
all project components would be difficult. The project will need the
most competent workers to do the actual work. Monitoring by people not
conversant with the project subject matter would be counter productive
or cause confusion.
7.        The project therefore would build the monitoring system into
the regular progress reports by the thana and District officers, which
would culminate into quarterly and annual reports to IDA. The
most critical elements to be monitared would be (a) whether GOB has
appropriated project funds to the various agencies in the amounts according
to the approved PEP and in time according to project needs, and (b) whether
the various project works are exec:ited by thanas and Districts according to
procedures and criteria proposed in the project. If the project committees
can keep track of these two items, the project would be well on its way.
Item (a) would need to be monitored mainly at the Central level, while (b)
would be monitored mainly at the tlhana and District levels.
8.        Key items indicating progress, such as number of new TCCA-KSS
organized, increase of TCCA-KSS membership, rural works and thana facilities
completed, number of old low-lift pumps replaced, shallow tubewells in-
stalled, average number of members per pump group, average area irrigated
per cusec, acreages and yields of vrarious crops, livestock vaccinated,
fish produced, rural credit disbursed and repayments collected, etc.
would be monitored. A final list of items to be monitored for each project
component would be prepared by the Central Project Executive Committee
as a part of the IDA project reporting requirement within six months of
the credit effectiveness. The formats would be simplified as to require
only the monthly targets and achievements to be presented, and to reduce
the time spent on report preparatic,n to a minimum.
9.        Project procurement, expenditures and disbursements would normally
be included in the quarterly project progress report to IDA, and the auditor's
annual report.
10.       According to the reporting forms, each Thana Project Executive
Committee member would prepare a monthly report to be submitted simultaneous-
ly to his District officer and the Thana Committee Chairman. In the monthly
-148-



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Committee meeting, he would discuss the progress made on the items handled
by him, problems encountered, and assistance needed from other thana
officers or TCCA. The meetings will keep the Committee Chairman and alL
members informed of the progress of all project components in the thana.
The committee secretary would prepare a consolidated monthly progress
report for the thana, where accomplishment would be compared against
targets. A copy of this report would be forwarded to the District Project
Executive Committee.
11.       When a District committee member receives the monthly report
directly from his thana officers, he would independently exercise his
supervisory responsibility. If he notices problems, he would make a round
of visits to the thanas for clarifying or resolving problems encountered
by the thana officers. Based on the thana reports and his own activities,
he would compile a monthly District progress report of the items handled
by his agency according to the given format. He would outline problems
encountered and how problems are being resolved. He would submit copies of
the report simultaneously to the District committee chairman and his
headquarters in Dacca. The monthly District committee meeting would be
conducted in the same manner as the thana committee meetings mentioned above.
12.       The process would be repeated by the Central Project Committee
and its members. The committee secretary would prepare the quarterly
and annual reports to be submitted to IDA. The above procedure would help
to develop a team-spirit among the thana and District officers, while
leaving the departmental loyalties and authorities intact.
13.       The effectiveness of the proposed monitoring system would depend
largely on the leadership of the Thana Magistrate in the thanas and the
District Governors in the two Districts, and the Director General IRDP in
Dacca. The IRDP officers as secretaries of all three levels of Executive
Committees must provide the day to day liaison among officers of different
agencies.
Project Evaluation
14.       While project monitoring would follow the implementation of the
project by different agencies, the evaluation would assess the impact of
the various project components on the rural population, and the effective-
ness of the adopted working procedures in enabling small farmers to receive
a fair share of farm inputs, rural credit and agricultural services. The
evaluation would provide a unique opportunity for formulating and testing a
variety of hypotheses about the dynamics of change in rural Bangladesh and
would provide guidelines for modifying and strengthening the approach adopted
in this project.
15.       Evaluation would be carried out twice, first at mid-term and
second towards the end of the five year project implementation period.
The 1974 socio-economic survey of the project thanas conducted by IGU/RD
-149-



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4
with CP assistance would provide the benchmarks for the proposed evaluations.
A supplementary benchmark survey would be conducted to remove the deficien-
cies of the 1974 survey and to provide a reliable basis for later evaluation.
To separate the project related changes from other changes, several control
areas would be identified outside the project thanas. The evaluation would
be conducted by an independent organization acceptable to IDA. A detailed
plan for the evaluation would be drawn up and submitted to IDA for concur-
rence, within six months of the credit effectiveness.
Cost Estimates
16.       See Table 1.
April 1976
-150-



BANGLADESH                                                                                  ANNEX 22
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT                                                                           Exhibit 1
Implementation Schedule                                                                         Page 1 of 3
CALENDAR YEAR          1975              1976               1977               1978               1979               1980
QUARTERS  1| 2nd 3|d |4th  1st 2nd  3rd  4't  IR  2nd  3Id  4th  1nn  2nd  31d | 4th  in  2,d  3rd  41th 1i  2nd |3d  4nn
MAIN ACTIVITIES                          RESPONSIBILITY
GENERAL
0 PREPARATION OF A CONSOLIDATED             PARTICIPATING AGENCIES
PEP                                       COORDINATED BY DIRECTOR
IRDP
) APPROVAL OF PEP BY THE GOVERNMENT         NEC
) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROJECT                  PRESIDENT'S SECRETARIAT
COMMITTEES
v) ISSUANCE OF OFFICIAL ORDERS               CONCERNED MINISTRIES
GIVING DETAILED WORKING PRO-
CEDURES
xl ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TWVO                 MINISTRY OF FINANCE
REVOLVING FUNDS AND THEIR
INITIAL FUNDING
vl PREPARATION OF REPORTING                  PARTICIPATING AGENCIES                                     mm
FORMATS FOR THE PROJECT STAFF             COORDINATED BY DIRECTOR
AT VARIOUS LEVELS                         IROP
v,,1 PREPARATION OF PLANS FOR                 CPEC
PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELEC-
TION OF EXECUTING AGENCY
Il PROJECT EVALUATION                         EXECUTING AGENCY SELECTED
BY CPEC
,x. INVENTORY AND RESCHEDULING               REGISTRAR OF CO-OPS AND                                      lmI mm        I
OF OLD DEBTS                              DIRECTOR GENERAL IROP
xl AGREEMENT FOR TECHNICAL                   CPEC
ASSISTANCE WITH OTHER AGENCIES
xl HIRING OF LOCAL CONSULTANTS               CPEC
FOR RURAL WORKS AND THANA
FACILITIES
xxl STUDY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF               CPEC
RURAL MARKETS AND SCHEDULE
OF RENTS TO BE COLLECTED FROM
USERS
x-l0 STUDY FOR FEE COLLECTION PLAN            CPEC                                                                                            al                                                   '
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES
Wofld Ea,,k-15956



AMNEX 11
Exhibit I
SANGLADESH                                                      Page 2 of 3 Pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PRDJECT
lapl_ntation Schedule
Calendar Year
Main Activities                        Responsibility                               7- 76 .. . -7  . 7-. 7                                 9 -- -9-   _  80----
II  Rural Works Proarvs
i) Pueca Roads (15 mi)
Pla.ning,Design aad Tendering     District Engineers                         _
Construction                                                                                                     80 N  _ _e_   . _  _  100
ii)  Katcha Roads (300 mi)
Planning,Design and Tendering     Circle Officers (Dev.)
Construction                              If
30              60               90
iii) Rural Markets (40 nes)
Site selection                    TPEC's
Planning, Design & Tendering      Circle Officers (Dev.)                          _
Construction                                                                                     30               60              90               10
iv) Drainage Channels (55 mi)
Site selection                    District Engineers                          _
Planning, Design 6 Tendering       Circle Officers (Dev.)                                                                        --
Construction
v)  Fish Ponds (500 ac)                                                                                               5 l                              10    I
Site selection                    Thana Fisheries Officers
Organization of Fisheries
Co-ops              Thana Project Officers
Planning, Design S. Tendering      Circle Officers (Dev.)
Construction_                                                                                                    iO            _
III LhbRuAFacilities 1
i)  TTDC Cosplexes (17 units)
Survey, Planning and Tendering    Circle Officers(Dev.)
Construction
85              b
ii)  Godowns (11 units)
Survey, Planning and Tendering    Circle Officers (Dev.)
Construction                       Cice1ficr0(e.
iii)  Procurement of Sq.ipment for
BADC workshop                     BAlDC                                                       . 10 ! - - - -
1/ Cusm,ulative progress as percent of total.
-152-



3AMIADESS                                                                  ANNEX 11
Exhibit I
RUIAL DEVE101gST I PROrSCT                                                       Page 3 of 3 P.ges
Csvlesntatioc Schedule           CiedrIa
Main iActivities 1'                     Raspon ibilit                     7                76              77                78   --    ----- 79
IV  Iinor Icrigation
i)  Low-lift P-ps (1,400 nos)
Reorganis-ation of TIP POW         TEasa Irrigation
groups into TCCA-KSSs          Caittee
Procurement of the puIps            HADC
Distribution to pusP groups         eDO                                                     _         5               5 _
ii)  Sballmow Tub _vells  (2.500 nos)
seleetion of ares suitable
for sballow tubevel'              MDCM
Processing of applicns.             Thba  Irrigation                       I                 _   _   _  _  _ . .                     +        |            i
Coitt_e
Proc.re.mt of EquipMant and                                            i   i                 _  is                                                 90           100
installation                     BmDC                                ;                                                          65
iii)  Dand Pus D  (5,000 005)
Selection of suitable areas         HADC                                                         - I
Processing of applicants            Thama Irrigation                                        I    -    - 4           -              -                -      -
Comittee                                                                      __ ___                        -          -
Inatallation                        Privet  contractors                                   -                      25               4                710
adevi      by BADC; 
V   TCCA-RSOS Progren                                                                                     5 i             60               75               90           100
i)  Preparation of MonJ =Ps             IRDP      ,
and RSS  sesbership registers                                                        10                                                                 100
ti)  Printing TCCA-ySS account books   IRDP                                              1_O                                   60                80
iii)  Printing  vork sanuals              CPEC                                                    i         i                                       __
iv)  Procureent of Office Equipsant   ICDP                                                    100  
v)  Procureient of Vehicles             CPEC                                                  80                                          100
vs.)  Villge coveted by TCCA-IsO         CHOP70                                                                                                                  1 
program  (Total No of                                                               -         55        i     60                5               70 7f
Villages about 1,350)
VI   Agriculture    ension                                                                                                                     II
i)  Procurasnt of Vehicles              CPRC                                                 10O0/                   _\                   
ii)  operation of deaonstrStiom          TEOo                                               -
ViI   Livestock                                                                                                                         I I      
i)  Procur_ent of Equipsent             Dept of Livstock                                    100
and supplies                                                >                    -                                                              I
ii)  ProcureosAt of Vehicles             CPEC                                                1Ii
iii)  operatton of Loennstfatton                                                                                                                    i
plots for forage and             Dept. of Livestock                                                                            -.i1---- |                   L
fodder crops                                               I
VIII  Fisheri-s
t)  operation of Trial/deOno             District Fisheries
str-tion ponds                  Officers
it)  Preparation of training sad
extension naterial               Dept. of Fisberies
iit)  E5tabli.h5ent of seed ponds         District Fisheries
Officersi                             , I          II
iv)  procoreent of Vehicles for
Staff                             OPEC                                                                                                                            I I
v)  ProcureneMt of Equipuent            Dept. of Pialseries
I                                                                                                          0    |S ol
1/ Cuulative progress as percent of total.
-153-



ANNEX 11
Table I
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVEIOPWENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates - lMonitoring and Evaluation
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Item                                Local     Foreign   Duties        Total
(i) Supplementary Benchmark
Survey                                   0.20        -          -          0.20
(ii) Mid-term  Evaluation                     0.45       0.05        -           0.50
(iii)Post Appraisal                           0.60       0.10        -          0.70
(iv) Base Cost Estimate
(i + ii + iii)                           1.25       0.15        -          1.40
(v)  Physical Contingencies                   0.12       0.02        -           0.14
(10% of iv)
(vi) Price Contingencies                      1.14       0.10        -           2.24
(vii)Total Cost - Monitoring ard
Evaluation (iv + Iv + vi)                2.51       0.27        -           3.78
-154-



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Project Organization
Concept of Project Organization
1.        The proposed project organization uses the existing GOB administra-
tive structure at all levels - Central, District, and thana. The project
aims at rural institution-building; it therefore seeks to identify the
causes for lack of performance and interagency coordination, to rectify
them and to make the present rural institutions work.
Causes                                    Project would
A.   Short of field staff, facilities,    A. Make up the shortages.
transportation, supply of
extension information, training.
B.   Programs either lack clearly           B. Reestablish working procedures for
defined procedures or announced           each project work item; enforce
procedures are not followed.              them; give the thana/District
officers freedom to act as long
as they adhere to announced pro-
cedures; compile procedures into
an "operational manual", which
will be made available to all
officers.
C.   Without active programs, there is  C.   Make every officer busy with
nothing to coordinate.  Where pro-        project works; point out in pro-
cedures are side-stepped, officers        cedures specific stages where
responsible tend to minimize com-         the responsible officer must
munication with other officers.           coordinate with officer of
"Lack of coordination" is often           other agencies.
a negative expression of passing
blame for lack of performance,
or when programs go wrong.
D.   IRDP thana officers tended to        D.   Upgrade extension service and
give advice to TCCA-KSS members           training of model farmers; enable
where extension service was               extension officers to visit
inactive.  This had made exten-           TCCA-KSS, so that IRDP will only
sion officers feel that their             need to play the role of coordi-
jurisdiction was impinged upon.           nating and facilitating the work
of other officers in TCCA-KSS
villages. On the other hand, it
will have a full work load for
-155-



ANNEX 12
Page 2
strengthening and expanding
TCCA-KSS membership coverage.
2.        The project places the executing responsibility at the Department
level. Each participating agency has direct line officers in the Districts
and thanas and would implement the project component that falls within its
jurisdiction (Exhibit 1). But since all project works, except rural works
and thana facilities, will be channeled to farmers through TCCA-KSS, the
IRDP will have the responsibility of (a) strengthening TCCA-KSS management
and expanding its membership so that services rendered by other agencies
could effectively reach more and more farmers, and (b) coordinating work
between agencies.
The Project Organization
3.        The organization structure responsible for implementing the project
will consist of the following four levels of Committees:
Ministry Level    -----  Central Project Coordination Committee
Department Level  -----  Central Project Executive Committee
District Level  --  District Project Executive        District Project Executive
Committee (Bogra)                Committee (Mymensingh)
Thana Level      --  Thana Project Executive         -Thana Project Executive
Committees                       Committees
(Kotwali, Sherpur,               (Muktagachha, Trisal,
Gabtali, and Sariakandi)         and Gaffargaon)
4.        Exhibit 1 of this Annex gives the membership composition of the
executive committees at the thana, District and Central levels. The com-
mittee chairmen and secretaries will be as follows:
Project Executive Committee           Chairman             Member Secretary
Thana               Circle Officer       IRDP Thana Project Officer
District            Deputy Com-          IRDP District Project
missioner            Director
Central             IRDP Director         IRDP Director for
General                Extension and Training
-156-



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Exhibit 1 also shows the line of command of each participating agency from
Central to thana, their respective area of responsibility, and participation
in the various project activities.
5.        The Central Project Coordination Committee would have the follow-
ing membership:
Co-Chairman:         Secretary of Agriculture
Secretary of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
Member:              Chief, Rural Institutions Division,
Planning Commission
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Forestry,
Fishery and Livestock
Chairman, BADC
Director, Agricultural Credit Department,
Bangladesh Bank
Member-Secretary:   IRDP Director General
Functions of the Committees
6.        The Thana Project Executive Committees:
(a) Each member (and his supporting staff) would execute his
share of project works according to the announced proce-
dure and coordinate with other members as outlined in pro-
cedures in the various Annexes. He would present to the chairman
a monthly progress report including only data required for
project monitoring (Annex 11) and a summary monthly project
account. He would submit detailed project accounts with
related papers (invoices, receipts, etc.) to his department
headquarters through the normal channels, and a copy of the
account to the Comoittee Chairman.
(b) The Committee Chairman would have the overall responsibility
of executing the project in the thana, and presiding over the
Committee meetings. The Committee would have regular meet-
ings once a month.
(c)  The Committee secretary would assist the chairman in coor-
dinating the day to day work between members, finalizing
requests and applications and compiling monthly thana
project progress report and summary project accounts to
be submitted to the District committee.
-157-



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(d) The members of the Committee will receive orders and
instructions from their respective Ministries departments
and agencies concerning project implementation.
7.        The District Project Executive Committees:
(a) Each member would supervise and backstop his thana officers
in implemeting the project works under his jurisdiction.
The main points of supervision are on adherence to announced
procedures, keeping time schedules and close cooperation
between the thana officers and IRDP/TCCA officers. He would
compile and present to the Chairman, a District monthly
progress report and summary project account based on reports
submitted by the thana comnittees. He would, however, transmit
the detailed accounts and related papers submitted by the thanas
to the department headquarters, and the Chairman of Central
Project Executive Committee.
(b) The responsibilities of the committee chairman and secretary
are the same as those of the thana committees, except the
requests, applications, reports and accounts of the District
would be submitted to the Central Project Executive Committee.
(c) The members of the Committee would receive orders and instructions
from Central Ministries concerning project implementation and
transmit them to thana comrnittees.
(d) Two District officers would have direct executing responsibilities:
The District Engineer, supervised by the Assistant Director
for Rural Development, would execute the pucca road construc-
tion and repair (Annex 3). The District Fishery Officer,
assisted by a Field MIan in each thana, would be directly
responsible for conducting the trial/demonstration of fish
pond management.
(e) The Committee will meet at least once a month.
8.        The Central Project Executive Committee:
(a) The committee would have overall responsibility for executing the
project. Each member agency would prepare detailed working
procedures for project works under its jurisdiction in
consultation with IRDP (para 4). The Committee Secretariat
would compile approved procedures into an "operational manual"
of the project.
(b) Each member would submit to the Chairman of this Committee,
a quarterly progress report on 15th of January, April, and
October and the 31st of July. The July report would include
-158-



ANNEX 12
Page 5
quarterly progress and an annual report. The Committee
would also compile consolidated quarterly and annual project
reports for submission to CPCC and IDA.
(c) Each member agency would maintain separate accounts for the
project at thana, District and Central levels, and send copies
of its project accounts monthly to the Central Project Execu-
tive Committee. The Committee Secretariat would collate and
process the accounts for application for IDA reimbursement.
(d) Auditors satisfactory to IDA would audit the
project accounts annually. The Committee would
send the audited project accounts, together with
auditors' comments, to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year.
(e) The Committee or the member agency concerned may initiate
requests for expatriate advisors of the bilateral or inter-
national projects for technical assistance to the project
or for visiting project thanas.
(f) The Committee Secretariat would be responsible for routine
monitoring of project progress and for organizing the mid-
term and fifth year evaluation studies.
(g) The Committee would manage the two revolving funds
created for the project.
(h) The Committee would meet at least once a month.
(i) The Committee would ensure the prompt release by the
customs of goods imported for the project.
9.        The Central Project Coordination Committee
(a) would ensure the approval and transmission of all the project
work procedures as orders to be issued by the concerned
ministries and agencies;
(b) would be responsible for causing appropriation of GOB funds
to various participating agencies and to the two Revolving
funds according to the approved PEP schedule;
(c) would instruct Central, District and Thana Executive Com-
mittees and member agencies that they must follow strictly
all announced procedures. Any individual or local group
requesting deviations from procedures should be asked to
present their case directly to the Central Project Coordi-
nation Committee for review;
(d) would resolve interagency coordination problems.
-159-
April 1976



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Membership Composition of Project Executive Comsittees
Area of                   Project Executive Commsittees                                                                       Project Component Participation
Responsi-                                                                                                                                                                                Reorganization  Registration
bility            Central            District         Thana           Rural Work  Thana Irrig.    Thana                                                          Rural    Fertilizer       of TIP-KSS         of New
Program       Program      Facilities   TCCA/KSS   Extension  Livestock  Fisheries  Credit  Distribution  into TCCA-KSS              TCCA-KSS
Chairman      Director General,    Deputy           Circle (fficer          x            x             x             x           x           x           x         x            x                x              x
IRDP                Commissioner   (Developenit)
Member        Director, Ext. &   IRDP Dist.    IRDP                         x            x             x             a           x           a           a         x             x               x               x
Secretary    Training, IRDP       Project         Project Officer
Director
TCCA-KSS      Director, Coop &   ditto            ditto                                                              x                                             x             x               x              x
Rural Credit,
IRDP
Cooperatives Registrar, Dept.   Asst. Regis-  Thana Co-op.                                                           x                                             x                             x               x
of Cooperatives    trator, Co-op.Officer
Extension     Director, Dept.   District          Thana                                  x                           x           x                                 x             x
/      of Agriculture      Agricultural  Extension
Extension/Manag.  Officer          Officer
*  Livestock    Director, Dept.    District          Thana                                                               x                       x
of Livestock        Livestock       Livestock
Officer        Officer
Fishery       Director, Dept.    District         Thana Fishery             x                                         x                                   x
of Fishery          Fishery         Officer
Officer
Minor         Member-Director,   Executive        Thana Irriga-                          x                            x                                             a            x
Irrigation   Irrigation, BADC   Engineer,         tion Officer,
Member-Director,   BADC             BADC
Field, BADC
Fertilizer   Member-Director,   District          Thana Inspector,                                      x             x                                             x            x
and Seeds    Supply, BADC         Manager,        BADC
BADC
Rural Works  Deputy Secretary   Asst.Director Thana Overseers!              x                                                                             x
Program &    (Rural Dev.),         Rural Dev.    Supervisors
Thana         Ministry of Local  District
Facilities   Government, Rural  Engineer          (RWP)
Development &
Cooperatives
Rural         General Manager,   District         Branch Manager                         x                            x                                   x         x            x                               x
Credit        Sonali Bank          Manager,       Sonali Bank
Sonali Bank
Horticul-    Executive Direc-   District                                                                                          x
ture          tor, Horticul-       Engineer,
ture  Dev. Board   H.D.B.
| 35| 



ANNEX 13
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditure, Vehicles and Equipment List,
Proposed Credit Allocation and Schedule of Disbursement
Table 1          Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditure
Table 2          Vehicles and Equipment List
Table 3          Proposed Credit Allocation
Table 4          Schedule of Disbursement
-161-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT                       1/ 2/
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE (TK ELLION)
Fiscal Year
Total Cost----             ----- (75/76) -----           --- - (76/77) --_        ------- (77/78) ------      ------ (78/79) ------   --           (79/80) ------    -------- 80/81)------
Item             Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  ForeiRn  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foraitn  Total
A. Rural Works
i. Pucca Roads         7.33    2.31      9.64      0.37    0.12    0.49        2.93    0.92    3.85       2.93    0.92    3.85        1.10    0.35    1.45          -        -        -         -        -        -
ii. Katcha Roads       15.90    1.80   17.70         -        -        -        4.77    0.54    5.31        4.77    0.54    5.31       4.77    0.54    5.31        1.59    0.18    1.77
iii. Markets             4.83    2.49    7.32         -        -        -        1.45    0.75    2.20        1.45    0.75    2.20       1.45    0.75    2.20        0.48    0.24    0.72
iv. Fish Ponds          4.75    -         4.75       -        -        -         -        -        -        2.40      -      2.40      2.35       -      2.35        -        -        -
v. Drains              7.02    -         7.02       -        -        -        1.75      -       1.75      1.76      -       1.76      1.75      -       1.75      1.76      -       1.76
vi. Sub-total (i -v)(39.83)  (6.60) (46.43)   (0.37)  (0.12)  (0.49)  (10.90)  (2.21) (13.11)  (13.31)  (2.21) (15.52)  (11.42)  (1.64) (13.06)   (3.83)  (0.42)  (4.25)
vii. Engineering &
Administration
(104 of vi)       4.64    -         4.64      0.05      -       0.05      1.31      -       1.31      1.55      -       1.55      1.30      -       1.30      0.43      -       0.43       -        -        -
viii. Base Cost Esti-
mate (vi + vii)  44.47    6.60   51.07          0.42    0.12    0.54    12.21    2.21   14.42    14.86    2.21   17.07    12.72    1.64   14.36                4.26    0.42    4.68
f   Ptv4r*l C 4r-,-
gencies (20%of
viii)    8.88    1.32   10.20         0.08    0.03    0.11       2.44    0.44    2.88        2.97    0.44    3.41        2.54    0.33    2.87        0.85    0.08    0.93          -        -        -
x. Price Conting-
encies             32.67    2.57   35.24        0.06    0.01    0.07       4.98    0.53    5.51    10.16    0.85   11.01    12.21    0.89   13.10              5.26    0.29    5.55
xi. Total Cost
(viii + ix +x)  86.02   10.49   96.51         0.56    0.16    0.72       19.63    3.18   22.81    27.99    3.50   31.49    27.47    2.86   30.33    10.37    0.79   11.16                  -       -         -
B. Minor Irrigation
i. Low-lift Pumps    7.70   10.99   18.69           -        -        -        1.93    2.75    4.68        3.85    5.49    9.34       1.92     2.75    4.67         -        -        -         _        _        -
ii. Shallow Tube-
wells              17.37   31.83   49.20         -        -        -        2.78    5.09    7.87        4.17    7.64   11.81       4.17    7.64   11.81         4.17     7,64   11.81       2.08    3.82      5.90
iii. Hand Pumps          6.50    1.00    7.50         -                          0 -  0.65    0.10    0.75   1.04    0.16    1.20        1.30    0.20    1.50        1.56    0.24    1.80        1.95    0.30    2.25
iv. Sub-total         (31.57) (43.82) (75.39)        -        -        -       (5.36)  (7.94) (13.30)   (9.06) (13.29) (22.35)   (7.39) (10.59) (17.98)   (5.73)  (7.88) (13.61)   (4.03)  (4.12)  (8.15)
v. Engineering &
Administration
(10% of iv)        7.54       -      7.54        -        -       -        1.33      -       1.33      2.24      -       2.24      1.80      -       1.80      1.36       -      1.36      0.81       -       0.81
vi. Base Cost
Estimate (iv+v)  39.11   43.82   82.93           -        -        -        6.69    7.94   14.63    11.30   13.29   24.59          9.19   10.59   19.78         7.09    7.88   14.97        4.84    4.12      8.96
vii. Price Conting-
encies             26.48   18.16   44.64         -        -        -        2.01    1.59    3.60        5.76    4.25   10.01       6.62    4.77   11.39         6.52    4.58   11.10        5.57     2.97    8.54
viii. Total Cost         65.59   61.98  127.57          -       -        -        8.70    9.53   18.23    17.06   17.54   34.60    15.81   15.36   31.17             13.61   12.46   26.07        10.41     7.09   17.50
1/  Local Costs includes taxes and duties.                                                   Fiscal Year                                                                                                          : Z
75/76      76/77      77/78      78/79      79/80      80/81                                                                               n   ,
1r"        2/  Price Escalation Factor  -  Local Cost                                                                                                                                                                      H,
°%        -                                   (excluding taxes & duties)         1.12       1.34       1.57        1.81       2.04       2.29
N.)                                        -  Foreign Cost and
taxes & duties                    1.07       1.20       1.32        1.45       1.58       1.72                                                                              0



BANGLADESH
RURAL nEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE (TK MILLION)
Fiscal Year
----- Total Cost ----     --   (75/76)           _  ------- (76/77)      -     ------- (77/78) ------     --- - (78/79)       -      ------- (79/80) -- -       -------- (80/81)
Ite                Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total-   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreitn  Total    Local  Foreign  ja1
C. Thana Facilities
i. TTDC Complexes    2.49    0.44    2.93       0.12    0.02    0.14       1.99    0.35    2.34      0.38    0.07    0.45
ii. Fertilizer
Godowns            2.12    0.63    2.75      0.11    0.03    0.14       2.01    0.60    2.61        -       -        -
iii. General Godowns   2.14    0.60    2.74       0.11    0.03    0.14       2.03    0.57    2.60        -       -        -
iv. Pump Workshop
Equipment          0.09    0.09    0.18       -        -       -        0.09    0.09    0.18        -       -        -
v. Sub-total
(i - iv)         (6.84)  (1.76)  (8.60)   (0.34)  (0.08)  (0.42)   (6.12)  (1.61)  (7.73)   (0.38)  (0.07)  (0.45)
vi. Engineering &
Administration
(107 of v)      0.86      -      0.86      0.04      -      0.04     0.77      -      0.77      0.05      -      0.05
vii. Base Cost
Esti_te (v+vi)  7.70    1.76    9.46         0.38    0.08    0.46       6.89    1.61    8.50       0.43    0.07    0.50
viii. Physical Conting-
encies             0.77    0.18    0.95      0.04    0.01    0.05       0.69    0.16    0.85      0.04    0.01    0.05
ix. Price Conting-
encies             2.81    0.39    3.20      0.05    0.01    0.06       2.50    0.35    2.85      0.26    0.03    0.29
x. Total Cost
(vii + viii +ix) 11.28    2.33   13.61       0.47    0.10    0.57    10.08    2.12   12.20        0.73    0.11    0.84
a141
o .W



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDUJLE OF EXPENDITURE (TK MILLION)
______ ______ _____ ______ ______ _____ ______ _____Fiscal_Year                                                      _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
--- Total Cost---          ---- (75/76) ----          ----76/77)  -----           ----(77/78) ----           ----(78/79) ---          ---- (79/80)---             ----- (80/81)---
Item  Loca   Foreign    otal    Loca  ForeignTotal    Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreig   Total    Local Foreign  Total               lolFoinTtl
D. IRDP/TCCA/iSS Programn
i. Office
Equipment          0.20    0.16    0.36       0.20    0.16    0.36                 -        -        -        -        -
ii. Vehicles for                                                                                                                   00        .0      03
Staff              0.50    0.90    1.40       0.47    0.60    1.07        -        -        -        -        -       -        00        .0     03                    
iii. 0 & M of Office
Equipment and
vehicles during   0.47    0.20    0.67        0.03    0.02    0.05       0.10    0.04    0.14       0.10    0.04    0.14       0.10    0.04    0.14       0.10    0.04    0.14       0.04   0.02       0.06
the project life
iv. Staff Training    0.89       -       0.89      0.13     -       0.13     0.13      -       0.13     0.18      -       0.18     0.18      -       0.18     0.18      -       0.18      0.09      -      0.09
V. Cost of Add~it 
ional Staff        0.40      -      0.40      0.4       -      0.0       0.608     -      0.08      0.08      -      0.08      0.08      -      0.08      0.08      -      0.08      0.04      -       0.04
vi. Per diem for
IRDP staff during
field work         0.23      -      0.23      0.02      -      0.02      0.05      -      0.05      0.05      -      0.05      0.05      -      0.05      0.05      -      0.05      0.01      -       0.01
vii. Preparation of
L.and Register     0.23   0.02      0.25      0.06    0.01    0.07       0.04      -      0.04      0.04      -      0.04      0.03    9.$I    0.04       0.04      -       0.04     0.02      -       0.02
and maps for KSS
viii. Printing TCCA-
KSS Account
Books              0.40    0.q10    0.50      0.08    0.02    0.10       0.08    0.02    0.10       0.0  9..JQ       .L&       ...Q1    0......  0.J      .08    0.02    0.10                  --
ix. Base Cost Esti-
matte IRDP/TCCA
Component          3.32    1.38    4,70       1.03    0.81    1.84       0.48    0.06    0.54       0.53    .080   0.59        0.55    o.IP    9.9        *js6,    0.06    0.59      0.20   0.02       0.22
i - viii)
x. Physical Conting- 0.33    0.14    0.47        0.10    0.08    0.18       0.05    0.01    0.06       0.05    Q.01    0.06       0.06    0.03    0.06       @.W~    .01    0.06         0 02     -       0.02
encies (107. of ix)
en.PrciesCnig        1.76-   0.32    2.08       0.12    0.06    0.18       0.15    (.01    0.16       0.29    0.02    0.31       0.43    0.JJ    0.61            O~I  .D4    0.56    _0.25  .o..ni    0.21
xii. Total Cost IRDP/
TCCA Component
(ix + x + xi)      5.41    1.84    7,25       1.25    0.95    2.20       0,68    0.08    0.76       0.87    0.09    0.96      1.04    0.51    1.62        1.10    0.11    1.21       0.47   0.03      0.50



MNGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPENT I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE (TK MILLION)
Piscal Year
-----Total Cost-----    -----(75/76)         - -_____  ___- (76/77)--- __  -___-_(77/78) ------     _--- (78/79)-------    ------ (79/80) -------    --------- (80/81) -----
Item              Local Foreign  Total   Local Poreizo  Total   Local yozeiZn Total   Local Forein  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local FordSn  Total
E. Asricultural Extension
i. Vehicles for
Staff            0.11    0.48    0.59    0.09     0.27    0.36     -       -       -        -       -       -      0.02    0.21    0.23      -      -        -        -       -       -
ii. 0 & M of Vehicles
during the pro-
ject life        0.13    0.13    0.26    0.02     0.01    0.03    0.03    0.02    0.05     0.02    0.03    0.05    0.03    0.02    0.05     0.02    0.03    0.05     0.01    0.02    0.03
iii. Staff Training    0.10    -      0.10   0.01       -     0.01     0.02     -      0.02     0.62    -      0.02     0.02     -      0.02     0.02     -      0.02     0.01     -      0.01
iv. Per di_ for ex-
tension staff    0.67     -      0.67    0.04      -     0.04     0.10     -      0.10    0.13      -      0.13    0.15     -    0.15       0.16     -      0.16     0.09     -      0.09
during field work
v. Rental of Train-
ing Farms        0.07     -      0.07      -               -      0.02     -      0,02     0.01     -      0.01    0.02            0.02     0.01     -      0.01     0.01            0.01
vi. Base Cost Esti-
mtes Agricultu-
ral Extension    1.08   0.61    1.69      0.16    0.28    0.44    0.17    0.02    0.19    0.18   0.03    0.21       0.24    0.23    0.47    0.21    0.03    0.24     0.12    0.02    0.14
vii.Physical Conting-
encies (10% of
vi)      0.11    0.06    0.17    0.02    0.03    0.05     0.02     -     0.02    0.02      -      0.02     0.02    0.02    0.04    0.02      -     0.02     0.01    0.01    0.02
viii. Price Conting-
encies           0.78    0.18    0.96    0.02   0.02    0.04      0.06            0.06    0.11    0.01    0.12     0.20    0.11    0.31     0.23    0.02    0.25     0.16    0.02    0.18
ix. Total Cost Agri.
Extension (vi +
vii + viii)      1.97    0.85    2.82    0.20   0.33   0.53       0.25    0.02   0.27    0.31   0.04    0.35        0.46    o.36    0.82    0.46    0.05    0.51     0.29    0.05    0.34
Ul                                                                                                                                                                                          0(a



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHELULE OF EXPENDITURE (TK MILLION
Fiscal Year
--------Total Cost -(75/76 -__  _                            (76/77)----               (77/78)-- ___             (78/79)-------    _------(79/80)----_         -------- (80/81)-
Item                 Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total
F. Livestock
i. Equipment for 7
Thana Veterinary
Dispensaries       0.34    0.34    0.68      0.34    0.34    0.68
ii. Equipment for 2
Artificial Inse-
mination Centers  0.14    0.11    0.25       0.14    0.11    0.25
iii. Field Equipment
& Supplies         0.15    0.20    0.35      0.15    0.20    0.35
iv. Vehicles and
Spares             0.30    0.37    0.67      0.28    0.22    0.50        -       -        -       0.02    0.15    0.17        -       -        -
v. 0 & M of Equip-   0.82    0.66    1.48        0.03    0.03    0.06      0.14    0.12    0.26       0.16    0.13    0.29      0.18    0.14    0.32      0.20    0.15    0.35       0.11    0.09    0.20
sent an. Venicies
vi. Chemicals and Med-
icines for Treat-
ment               0.15    0.35    0.50      0.01    0.02    0.03       0.03    0.07    0.10      0.03    0.07    0.10       0.03    0.07    0.10      0.03    0.07    0.10       0.02    0.05    0.07
vii. Staff Training    0.11       -      0.11      0.02     -       0.02     0.02      -      0.02      0.02     -      0.02      0.02      -      0.02      0.02     -       0.02     0.01      -       0.01
viii. Cost of Addit-
ional Staff        2.16     -       2.16     0.05      -      0.05     0.30      -      0.30      0.40      -      0.40     0.50      -      0.50      0.60      -      0.60      0.31     -       0.31
ix. Per diem for
Field Staff        0.48     -       0.48     0.03      -      0.03      0.08     -       0.08     0.09      -      0.09      0.10     -       0.10     0.11      -      0.11      0.07      -      0.07
x. Base Cost Esti-
mates (i - ix)    4.65    2.03    6.68       1.05    0.92    1.97       0.57    0.19    0.76      0.72    0.35    1.07       0.83    0.21    1.04      0.96    0.22    1.18       0.52    0.14    0.66
xi. Physical Conting-
encies (10% of x) 0.47    0.20    0.67       0.11    0.09    0.20       0.06    0.02    0.08      0.07    0.04    0.11       0.08    0.02    0.10      0.10    0.02    0.12       0.05    0.01    0.06
xii. Nrice Contingen-
cies.              2.89    0.58    3.47      0.12    0.07    0.19       0.19    0.04    0.23      0.39    0.12    0.51      0.63    0.10    0.73       0.94    0.14    1.08       0.62    0.11    0.73
xiii. Total Cost -Live-
stock Component
(x + xi + xii)    8.01    2.81   10.82       1.28    1.08    2.36      0.82    0.25    1.07       1.18    0.51    1.69      1.54    0.33    1.87       2.00    0.38    2.38       1.19   0.26      1.45
I
C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE (TK MILLION)
Fiscal Year
-Total Cost -----   -------- (75/76) ------    ------- (76/77) _            ---- -     (77l78) ------  ------ (78/79)   -       ------- (79/80) -------    ------- (80/81) -------
Item                 Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total   Local ForeiRn  Total
G. Fisheries
i. Equipment for
surveying the
fish ponds        0.09    0.08    0.17      0.09    0.08    0.17      -        -       -        -       -       -         -       -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
ii. Vehicles for
Staff             0.38    0.30    0.68      0.38    0.28    0.66      -        -       -        -       -       -         -      0.02    0.02
iii. 0 & M of
vehicles          0.37    0.18    0.55      0.04    0.02    0.06     0.07    0.04    0.11      0.08    0.03    0.11      0.07    0.04    0.11      0.08    0.03    0.11     0.03    0.02    0.05
iv. Operating cost of
trial/demonst-    0.94    0.17    1.11       -       -       -       0.40    0.03    0.43      0.15    0.04    0.19     0.15    0.04    0.19      0.15    0.04    0.19      0.09    0.02    0.11
ation ponds
v. Operating cost of
fish  seed ponds  0.34     -       0.34      -       -       -        -        -       -       0.10     -      0.10     0.10      -      0.10     0.10      -      0.10     0.04      -      0.04
vi. Staff Training    0.09      -      0.09     0.01     -      0.01     0.01      -      0.01     0.02     -      0.02      0.02     -      0.02      0.02     -      0.02      0.01     -      0.01
vii. Cost of addit-
ional staff       1.11     -       1.11     0.11     -      0.11     0.22      -      0.22     0.22     -      0.22     0.22      -      0.22     0.22      -      0.22     0.12      -      0.12
viii. Per diem for
field staff       0.10      -      0.10     0.01     -      0.01     0.02      -      0.02     0.02            0.02      0.02     -      0.02      0.02     -      0.02     0.01     -       0.01
ix. Base Cost Esti-
sate (i - viii)   3.42    0.73    4.15      0.64    0.38    1.02      0.72    0.07    0.79     0.59    0.07    0.66      0.58    0.10    0.68      0.59    0.07    0.66      0.30    0.04    0.34
x. Physical Conting-
encies            0.34    0.07    0.41      0.06    0.04    0.10     0.07    0.01    0.08      0.06     -      0.06      0.06    0.01    0.07      0.06    0.01    0.07     0.03      0      0.03
xi. Price Conting-
encies            2.09    0.20    2.29      0.08    0.03    0.11     0.24    O.W      0.26     0.33    0.02    0.35      0.46    0.05    0.51      0.60    0.05    0.65      0.38    0.03    0.41
xii. Total Cost -
Fisheries Compon- 5.85    1.00    6.85    0.78      0.45    1.23      1.03    0.10    1.13     0.98    0.09    1.07      1.10    0.16    1.26      1.25    0.13    1.38      0.71    0.07    0.78
ent (ix + x + xi)
0                                                                                                                                                                                                     



BANGIADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE (TK MILLION
Fiscal Year
----Total Cost ---        ----(75/76)-----           ----(76/77) ----          -----(77/78) ----           ---(78/79) ----           ----(79/80) ----          -----(80/81)----
Item               Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total
H. Technical Assistance
i. Per diets for sxp-
arts from other
aid agencies       0.54      -      0.54      0.06     -       0.06     0.11      -      0.11      0.11     -       0.11     0.11      -      0.11      0.11      -      0.11      0.04      -      0.04
ii. Short-terra con-
sultant for Rural
Credit              -      0.70    0.70        -      0.12    0.12       -       0.13    0.13       -      0.13    0.13       -       0.13    0.13       -      0.13    0.13        -       0.06    0.06
iii. Training Abroad     -       0.50    0.50       -       -        - -      -            -        -            0.25    0.25       -      0.25    0.25            -       -             --       -        -
iv. Ease Cost
Estimates          0.54    1.20    1.74       0.06    0.12    0.18      0.11    0.13    0.24       0.11    0.38    0.49      0.11    0.38    0.49       0.11    0.13    0.24       0 04    0~06    0.10
v. Physical Conting-
encies (107. of iv)0.05    0.12    0.17       0.01    0.01    0.02      0.01    0.01    0.02       0.01    0.04    0.05      0.01    0.04    0.05       0.01    0 01    0.02        -      0.01    0.01
vi. Price Contingen-
cies               0.39    0.50    0.89      0.01    0.01    0.02       0.04    0.03    0.07       0.07    0.14    0.21      0.10    0.19    0.29       0.12    0.08    0.20       0.05    0.05    0.10
vii. Total Cost -Tech-
nical Assistance
(iv + v + vi)      0.98    1.82    2.80      0.08    0.14    0.22       0.16    0.17    0.33      0.19    0.56    0.75       0.22    0.61    0.83       0.24    0.22    0.46      0.09    0.12    0.21
i. Supplesentary      0.20      -      0.20    0.20              0 .20      -        -       -         -
Benchmark Survey
ii. Mid-term Eva-
luation            0.45    0.05    0.50       -        -       -         -       -        -       0.45    0.05    0,50                                   -       -        --- --            -        -
iii. Post Appraisal    0.60    0.10    0.70         -       -        -        -        -       -         -       -        -        -        -       --                 -       -        0.60    0.10    0.70
iv. Base Cost Esti-
mate (i +ii
+ iii)       1.25    0.15    1.40      0.20      -      0.20       -       -        -       0.45    0.05    0.50        -      -         -         -       -        -       0.60    0.10    0.70
v. Physical Conting- 0.12    0.02    0.14        0.02     -       0.02      -        -       -        0.04    0.01    0.05       -        -       --                 -       -        0.06    0.01    0.07
encies (107. of iv)
vi. Price Contingen-
cies               1.14    0.10    1.24      0.03      -      0.03       -       -        -       0.26    0.02    0.28        -       -        --               --                 0.85    0.08    0.93
vii. Total Cost -Monit-
Aring and Evaluat-
ion (iv + v 4 vi) 2.51    0.27    2.78       0.25      -      0.25       -      -         -       0.75    0.08    0.83        -      -         -         -       -        -        1.51    0.19    1.70
J1. Rural Credit
i. Short-term
Credit            28.60   14.00   42.60       -   -            -        7.20    3.50   10.70      4.30    2.10    6.40       5.00    2.50    7.50      5.50    2.70    8.20       6.60    3.20    9 80
ii. ~d 
t5.00    2.00    7.00             -        -       -         -       -        -       0.70    0.30    1.00      1.50    0.50    2.00       1.40    0.60    2.00       1.40    0.60    2 00
ill. Total Cost
(i ± 10)         33.60   16.00   49.60        -        -       -        7.20    3.50   10.70      5.00    2.40    7.40      6.50    3.00    9.50       6.90    3.30   10.20       8.00    3.80   11.80
iv. Total Project                                                                                                                                                           ___
Coat (A --J)    221.22   99.39  320.61       4.62    3.21    6.08    48.51   18.95   62.50    15.06   24.92   29.98    54.14   23.26   77.40    35.93   17.44   53.37    22.67   11.61   34.28
00                                                                                                                                                                                                             0   L



ANNEX 13
Table 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMMET I PROJECT
Materials, Vehicles Equipment
TList                         1/2/              2/
L-st                Estimated        Total Cost
Item                             Quanti        Unit Price         (US$)
(a) Vehicles
4-Wheel drive vehicles                 5           5,600           28,000
3-Wheel Motorcycles,                   2           2,000            4,000
Motorcycles                           60              600          36,000
Bicycles                           1,400              100         140,000
Sub-total                                                       208,000
(b) Irrigation Equipment
Low-lift Pumps ( 1 cusec)          1O,400 No.         900       1,260,000
Shallow tube-wells                 2,500 No.       1,200        3,000,000
BADC Workshop Equipment                                         _10,000
Sub-total       ,,270,000
(c) Other Equipment
Livestock                                                          7°0,
Fisheries                                                          10,000
Misc. Office Equipment                                             20,000
Sub-total                                                      100,000
GRAND TOTAL                                                     4,578,000
Say US$ 4.6 million
1/ cif Chittagong if imported or ex-store project area if
procured locally.
Net of Contingencies.
-169-



ANNEX 13
Table 3
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount Allocated      % of Expenditure
Category                           (US$ million)         to be financed
1/
(i) Civil Works
(including construction                   5.0                 70%
materials procured locally)
(ii) Vehicles, Equipment and
Materials (other than those
under category (i))                       6.o
(a) Directly Imported                                    100% of foreign expend-
itures
(b) Manufactured Locally                                 100% of local expendi-
tures ex-factory
(c) Imported but Procured                                 70% of local expendi-
Locally                                                      tures
(iii) Short-term Rural Credit                   1.6                  50% of net incremental
loan disbursements
(iv) Consulting Services,                                               of foreign expend-
Technical Assistance and                  0.4                 100% itures and 70%    -
Project Evaluation                                                  local expenditures,
(v)  Unallocated                                3.0
Total                                    16.o
1/ Rural Works, Thana facilities.
2/ Incremental requirements refer to increment of lending at any time over
that of the highest lending volume previously.  For Year One, it would
be tLhe increment over the 1975 T. aman loans made by the Sonali Bank in
the project thanas (Annex 6, para 24).
-170-



ANNEX 13
Table 4
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVEIOPMENT I PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year                      Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                               (US$ million
1977
1st                                          2.0
2nd                                          3,5
1978
1st                                          5,5
2nd                                          7 5
1979
lst                                          9 5
2nd                                         11.0
1980
1st                                         13.0
2nd                                         14.5
1981
1st                                         15.5
2nd                                         15.8
1982
1st                                         16.0
-171-



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
General
1.        The estimated future farn gate prices of rice, jute and agricultural
inputs are derived from projected 1985 world market prices in mid-1975 cur-
rency values with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and process-
ing. Production of other crops suzh as pulses, oilseeds, potatoes and vege-
tables is relatively small and most of the output is consumed locally. Pro-
jected farm gate prices for these products are based on the typical ratio
between their prices and the price of rice.
2.        Bangladesh has experienced rapid inflation since independence.
Severe shortages on the domestic and international markets have caused
drastic price increase for several essential commodities. Other prices
have been controlled at relatively low levels. This has resulted in a
thriving black market in many controlled goods as well as a severe distor-
tion oF relative prices.
3.        In order to isolate the effects of the project from the effects of
expected changes in relative prices when the economic situation in Bangladesh
stabilizes, projected 1985 prices are used both for present and projected
future farm budgets. The pattern of domestic (financial) prices, arrived
at in this rmznier, is quite close to what the price situation in Bangladesh
was in the late 1960s.
Exchange Rate
4.        The Bangladesh Taka is oEficially pegged to the Pound Sterling and
floats, with the Pound, relative to other world currencies. In May 1975,
GOB devalued the Taka vis-a-vis the Pound by about 60% (approximately from
Taka S to Taka 13 per US Dollar). Accordingly, the financial analysis is
based upon the current official exchange rate of US$1.00 = Tk 13.00.
5.        There is some evidence tiat, even at the new rate, the Taka is
overvalued. The GOB maintains strict control over all official foreign
exchange transactions. This makes it difficult to estimate the opportunity
cost of foreign exchange. The unofficial market rate of US$1.00 = Tk 20 may
be taken as an upper limit, but it partially reflects demands for luxury
imports and for capital flight.  InterxT-tional price ^omparisons carried
out before the devaluation and anaLysis of the system of import duties
indicate that a rate of Tk 16.00 - US$1.00 is a reasonable estimate of the
value of foreign exchange to the e-onomy. Consequently, this rate has
been used in the economic analysis.
-172-



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Rice
6.        The projected 1985 price used as a basis for economic and finan..al
analyses is US$225 per metric ton of low-to-medium quality rice (25% - 35%
broken) fob Bangkok. 1/ This represents a sharp decline from the shortage-
related prices which have recently averaged more than US$400 per metric
ton. Adding shipping and insurance costs, this gives a projected price of
US$255 per metric ton cif Chittagong. Since, by 1985, the project Districts
are likely to be "deficit areas" without the project, the estimated handling,
transportation and marketing costs between Chittagong and the project Dis-
tricts are added to the cif price, resulting in a local market price for
milled rice of US$300 per ton. Deducting US$30 per ton as the cost of
the marketing, processing and transportation between the farm and the urban
areas of the two Districts gives a farm gate price of US$270 per ton rice
equivalent. For an estimated milling yield of 65%, this is equivalent to a
paddy farmgate price of US$175 per ton. However, this farm gate price
applies only to the aman paddy. The paddy grown in aus and boro is of
somewhat inferior quality and commands about 10% lower price. Thus, the
estimated farm gate price for aus and boro paddy would be about US$160 per
ton.
Jute
7.        The 1985 price for jute is projected to be US$405 (1975 dollars)
per ton fob Chittagong. The domestic jute marketing channels in Bangladesh
are rather inefficient, often involving as many as ten transactions between
the farm gate and the export point. A recent Bank review of jute marketing
in Bangladesh indicates that marketing, transportation, handling and process-
ing, account for over 40% of the export value. For the purposes of the
appraisal, the farm gate price is assumed to be US$240 per ton.
Other Agricultural Products
8.        Besides paddy and jute, the project area produces a variety of
minor crops such as chillies, potatoes, vegetables,pulses and oilseeds. Most
of these crops are consumed locally - often by the cultivators themselves.
Prices of these commodities experience wide fluctuations, even over short
periods. For the purposes of this appraisal these crops have been grouped
into a composite "rabi" crop with an average economic and financial farm
gate price of the 100/md.
1/   The Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department's latest fore-
cast for 1985 is US$325 per metric ton of high quality rice (5% brokens).
The price for low-to-medium quality rice is assumed to be 70% of the
price for high quality rice.
-173-



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Agricultural Inputs
9.        Fertilizers:  By 1985, Bangladesh is likely to be self-sufficient
in urea and may even have a small surplus fob export. The opportunity cost
for urea is consequently based on the price fob Chittagong. The interna-
tional urea price is projected to decline from the present shortage-related
high of around USJ65 per kilogram nitrogen nutrient fob Persian Gulf to
US434 per kg in 1985. The proximity to major markets in South Asia gives
an expected price of USJ35 per kilogram nutrient fob Chittagong. Adding
the costs for marketing and transport to the project areas gives a finan-
cial price of Tk 90 per maund and an economic price of Tk 110 per maund of
urea (46% N).
10.       The prices of phosphate and potassium fertilizers are likewise
projected to decline from the present highs of USJ72 per kg phosphate nu-
trient fob Morocco and US412.0 per kg potassium nutrient fob Vancouver to
US447 per kg and USJ9.3 per kg, respectively. Transportation and insurance
are expected to add an average of about USi 6.0 and USi 5.8 per kg nutrient,
respectively. Adding the costs for local marketing and transport gives the
estimated financial cost to the farmers in the project area of Tk 130 per
maund of TSP (46% P205) and Tk 55 per maund of muriate of potash (60% K). The
corresponding economic prices are Tk 160 and Tk 65 per maund respectively.
11.       Pesticides:  The two most common chemicals for rice plant protec-
tion in Bangladesh are diazinon (granular) and sumithion (emulsifiable con-
centrate). Their prices, which are assumed to remain at their present
levels, are shown in Table 1.
12.       Irrigation:  The estimated per acre costs of boro irrigation by
low-lift pumps and by shallow tubewells are detailed in Table 2. Due to the
existing structure of taxes and duties on equipment and diesel, the financial
costs are estimated to be quite close to the "economic" costs.
13.       Agricultural Labor:  This subject is discussed in detail in
Annex 16.
14.       Animal Labor:  Bullocks are the primary source of power for cul-
tivation in Bangladesh. Most medium and large farmers have their own pair
of bullocks. However, they can also be hired on a daily basis, the esti-
mated daily charges being Tk 10 per animal day, since the imputed cost of
bullocks to the owners is roughly the same as the rental charge, this rate
has been used for all animal labor.
Taxes and Subsidies on Agricultural Inputs
15.       Most agricultural inputs are procured by BADC and sold to the
farmers at subsidized prices. The amount of subsidy was significantly
reduced in 1974 and further reductions are recommended in the First Five
Year Plan. Table 3 shows the 197t situation with regards to subsidies on
agricultural inputs.                                                     -174-



ANNEX 14
Page 4
16.       The recent devaluation means that, unless the prices for many
of the inputs are revised upwards, the element of subsidy is likely to
increase significantly. Also, in view of the inflationary situation
prevailing in the countries, it is necessary that either the prices of
the inputs be indexed to the general price level, or they should be
revised more frequently than has been done in the past.
April 1976
-175-



ANNEX 14
Table 1
]3ANGLADESH
RURAL DE 3LOPMENT I PROJECT
Summary of Price Projection for 1985
Unsubsidized
Financial Price          Economic Price
Crops                        Tk/Maund                 Tk/Maund
Aus paddy                          77                        95 (2,550)3/
Aman paddy                         85                       105 (2,810)3/
Boro paddy                         77                        95 (2,550o)/
Jute                              115                       143
Rabi Crops-                       100                       100
Agricultural Inputs
Urea (46% N)                       90                       110
TSP (46% P205)                    130                       160
MP (60% K)                         55                        65
Diazinon                          800                       950
Sumithion                       3,100                     3O700
Animal power                       lOJ                       10-
1/ Mostly pulses, chillie3, vegetables, potatoes, oilseeds.
2/ Tk/animal-day
3/ Figures in parenthesis: Tk/rmetric ton
-176-



ANNEX 14
Table 2
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
EstiWated Costs of Boro Irrigation
Low-Lift Pumps           Shallow Tubewells
(1 cusec Pump,           (½ cusec Pump, 5 hp
S h    Engine)            Engine)
Area Irrigated (acres)                         25                           15
Required Boro Pumpage (inches)                 42                           42
Hours to be Operated_/                      1,050                        1,260
Specific Fuel Consumption
(imperial gallons/hp hr)                  0.05                         0.05
Total Fuel Consumption  (imperial gallons)  260                            315
2/ 3/
Cost of Fuel-/ I  (Tk)                      2,340                        2,840
(2,210)                     (2,680)
4/
Cost of Lubricationi(Tk)                      120                          140
(110)                       (130)
Salary of Driver  (Tk)                      1,200
(1,200)                         -
Spares and Overhead (Tk)                      800                          800
(OO)                       (900)
Total 0 & M (Tk)                            4,460                        3,780
(4,420)                     (3,710)
Per Acre 0 .& M Cost (Tk)                     180                          252
(177)                       (247)
Say (Tk)              180                          250
(180)                       (250)
Annual Amortization of Capital Costs
at 10% interest  5/ 6/  (Tk)           110                          210
(110)                       (210)
Per Acre Total Cost Including 0 & M
and Amortization (Tk)                 290                          460
(290)                       (460)
1/ 1 cusec-hr q 1 acre inch.
2/ Figures in parenthesis tased on economic prices
3/ Assumed prices for diesel: Financial Tk 9/gallon, Economic Tk 8.5/gallon
fl/ 5% of Cost of fuel.
5/ Low-Lift Pump - assumed life 7 years, capital cost = Tk 13,300.
Shallow Tubewells - assumed life 10 years, capital cost ; Tk 19,600.
6/ The capital costs for pumps and wells in economic terms (i.e. net of taxes and
duties and valuing the foreign exchange at the shadow rate) are estimated
to be very close to the current financial prices.                       -177-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT            1/
Subsidy Situation for Major Inputs in 1974L
Subsidized Price
Estimated Cost to GOB in 1974                  to Farmers              Subsidy in 1974
GOB actual pro-     Estimate based on                                             In percent
curement and dis-   world market                                                  of GOB cost
Input          tribution cost       price 2/                       1973/74  1974/75        Tk         %
Urea3/   Tk/md             42                   84                       30       (50)         (-8)       -
TSP4"    Tk/md            113                   93                       20        40           73       65
MP_/     Tk/md             68                   74 5/                     15       30           38       56
Diazinon Tk/lb              5.5                N.A.-                    free        2            3.5     65
Sumithion Tk/lb            20                  N.A.                     free        8           12       60
Irrigation Tk/ac of boro
( i) Low-Lift Pumps    200                   N.A.                      80       120          80        40
(ii) Shallow Tubewells 300                  N.A.                      100      150          150        50
1/ This table was prepared based on the data available at the time of appraisal.  It does not incorporate
the effects of the break down of Ghorosal urea plant in September 1974 or the devaluation in May 1975.
However, it is expected that the GOB will adjust the prices to take into account these developments.
2/ These prices reflect the shortage-related unusually high world market prices in 1973/74. However,
they were converted to Taka at the pre-devaluation rate. For TSP and MP these prices differ sub-
stantially from the projected 1985 prices converted to Taka at the new exchange rate.
3/ The Government estimate is based on actual cost of local production while the estimate used here
is based on the world market price. The GOB cost is dated April 1974 and is likely to have increased
somewhat since then. Consequently, the price to the farmers is approximately the same as the cost
to GOB.
4/ For TSP and MP the difference between the GOB estimate and the estimates based on the world market    
price is probably due to the rapid changes in world market prices in 1973 and 1974 so that the date               . "
of purchase had a considerable effect on the price.
5/ Not available.
co



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
General
1.        Present agricultural practices in the project area and the expected
overall changes in cropping patterns, yields and production due to the proj-
ect are described in Annex 2. This Annex discusses the impact on the indi-
vidual farm. The purposes of this micro analysis are:
(i) to estimate the farm incomes for representative farm
sizes in order to determine whether the prospective
increases in farm income would be sufficient to com-
pensate the farmer and his family for the additional
effort and for other production costs they would have
to incur;
(ii) to determine the distributional impact of the project
and to compare the income levels of the project area
farmers with those of farmers in other areas, and
(iii) to analyze the effects of different Government policies
regarding input subsidies and water charges.
Crop Input Requirements
2.        Present and projected unit input requirements under the project are
given in Table 1. Crop-wise monthly labor requirements are given in Table 2.
The estimated current levels of inputs are based on the agro-economic surveys
conducted by the IGU during project preparation as well as on the informa-
tion obtained from the thana administrations, the Ministry of Agriculture and
several other surveys in similar areas of Bangladesh. Some improvements in
farming practices are assumed for future "without project conditions".  Future
"with project" requirements are based on recommendations by the Directorate
of Agricultural Extension and Management and on observed cultural practices
of the progressive farmers of the area. The future estimates assume that
there would be no significant change in the level of farm mechanization.
Model Sizes for the Farm Budget Analysis
3.        Households in the project area can somewhat arbitrarily, be
classified into four groups according to their economic situation:
-179-



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Landless workers, most of whom earn their living as daily
workers or share croppers in the fields, in construction
or                   They make up about 30% of the house-
holds in the area.
Sub-marginal farmers cult:ivate less than 2.5 ac of land.
Usually the farm produce of these farmers is insufficient
to satisfy the subsistence requirements and they need
substantial outside incorie to supplement their farm
income. In the farm budget analysis, a 1.5 ac farm
has been chosen to represent some 45% of the households
that operate more than 0.25 ac but less than 2.5 ac.
Small farmers cultivate an area of 2.5 - 5.0 ac and
typically have a per capita income close to the national
average. About 15% of the households belong to this
category, which is represented in the farm budget anal-
ysis by a 4.0 ac farm.
Large farmers are defined as those owning 5 ac or more.
They are far from being "large" in any absolute sense.
Their families typically number about 10 persons and
their per capita income rarely exceeds $150. The medium
holding size for the "large" farmers is roughly 8.0 ac
and that has been chosen to represent this group in the
farm budget analyses.
4.        Farm budgets on an annua'L cash flow basis for the three repre-
sentative farm models are given in Table 3. The analysis assumes the
following:
Crop Yields and Input Requirements
(a)  Under the "with project" conditions cropping patterns,
crop yields and input requirements for the representa-
tive farms reflect the averages for the seven thanas.
Under the "without project" conditions, the respective
seven thana averages are adjusted for-the fact that
larger farmers would continue to have better access
to inputs such as irrigation, fertilizers, pesticides,
new seeds, extension and rural credit.
Prices and Subsidies
(b) The prices used in the farm budgets are the "financial"
farm gate prices discussed in detail in Annex 14. Two
different assumptions are used regarding the subsidies
on farm inputs: one assumes the continuation of the
present rate of subsidies while the other is based on
the elimination of all subsidies.
-180-



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Hired Labor
(c) The estimated hired labor is costed at Tk 15/day while
no value is put on family labor. In estimating the
need for hired labor due regard is given to the larger
family size, and hence the labor force, on the larger
farms.
Non-farm Income
(d) There is a lack of any reliable data on non-farm incomes
and any estimates must be inferred from the existing
indirect evidence. Most farm families catch their own
fish, have some poultry, perhaps own a milk cow or draft
animal, have some vegetable cultivation in their home
yards and live in their own homes. In addition, since
a farm household is a production-cum-consumption unit,
it bypasses several intermediate channels which would
be normally involved in the marketing and distribution
of food grains -- the food grain requirements to the
farm family come essentially at "farm gate" prices
rather than at the "retail" market prices. Thus, even
though the rural families may not have very much cash
income outside the farm, the imputed value of the goods
and services originating outside of the farm is likely
to be quite substantial.
(e) It is estimated that non-farm income as a percentage of
the total family income decreases with the size of the
farm. In absolute terms, however, it is likely to be
substantially higher for larger farmers because they
have larger family sizes, have better educational back-
ground, and are politically more influential. It is
assumed that even under "without project" conditions
there would be some improvement in the non-farm incomes.
"With project" there would be a still further increase
because of additional employment prospects in agriculture-
related activities. The basic pattern of higher non-farm
income for larger farmers, however, is expected to continue
into the future "with" or "without" the project.
-181-



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Incentive to Farmers
5.        The following table sun.arizes the estimated income level for the
three farm models:
Net Value of "Ncn-farm" Total Family                 Per capita
Production   Income       Income    Family Size   Income
---------------------------Tk----------------------------
1.5 ac farm
P                2,450      2,000        4,450          5.5         810
W                3,550      2,'i00        6,050         7.0         865
W                4,300      3,000         7,300         7.0       1,040
% Increase over
(a) Present             75         50            64        25            28
(b) Future
without
Project              21        20            20         -            20
4.0 ac farm
P                6,270      2,500        8,770          6.8        1,290
W                8,400      3,000       11,400          8.5        1,340
W                9,800      3,500       13,300          8.5        1,565
% Increase over
(a) Present              56        40            52        25             21
(b) Future
without
Project              17        17            17         -             17
8.0 ac farm
P               10,200      4,000       14,200          8.5        1,670
w               13,700      4,500       18,200         10.6        1,715
w               15,500      5,000       20,500         10.6        1,935
% Increase over
(a) Present              52         25           44        25             16
(b) Future
without
Project             13         11            13         -             13
Thus, it is estimated that the farm incomes would increase by about 50-75%
over the present level while total family income would be about 50% more
than that at present. It is projected that there would even be a significant
improvement in per capita income levels. These increases are considered
to be sufficient incentives for getting the cooperation and participation
of the project area farmers.
-182-



ANNEX 15
Page 5
Distributional Impact
6.        Due to the absence of really large holdings the income disparities
in Bangladesh are not quite as serious as in many other developing countries.
Instead the key problem is the dominance of farm inputs and credit by the
"larger" farmers. For example, they are kept out of the pump/well groups,
have to buy fertilizers on black market supplied by the larger farmers who
obtained more than their legitimate share, and have to borrow money from
larger farmers who obtain institutional credit. By improving the access
to institutional supplies and services to small farmers, the project would
have a beneficial effect on the existing income distribution. More signi-
ficantly, the project would bring the income levels in the area closer to
the national average and would substantially reduce the incidence of absolute
poverty.
Subsidies
7.        The following table shows the estimated Government subsidies to
the three representative models under the assumption that the current rate
of subsidies on fertilizer, pesticides and minor irrigation continues into
the future.
Farm Size        Amount of subsidy          Total Family Income without subsidy
(Tk)                                (Tk)
1.5 ac
p                       30                                4,450
W                      150                                6,050
W                      220                                7,300
4.0 ac
p                      230                                8,770
W                      430                               11,400
W                      620                               13,300
8.0 ac
P                      500                               14,200
W                      970                               18,270
W                    1,260                               20,500
These subsidies are clearly regressive, benefitting the large farmers much
more than the small farmers. In addition, these subsidies represent a heavy
drain on the Government budget; the continuation of these subsidies would
mean an annual increase of about 45 million Tk over the current level of
about 25 million Tk.
-183-



ANNEX 15
Page 6
8.        There may be some justification for subsidizing the pesticides
because of the associated externalities and because of the fact that
farmers in Bangladesh have still not, fully understood the benefits of
pesticide use. For fertilizers and for minor irrigation, the subsidies
almost serve no useful purpose and should be phased out as soon as possible.
April 1976
-184-



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements
B. Aus               Aus (HYV)             B. Aman            T. Aan (local)        T. Aman (HYV)          Boro (local)          Boro (HYV)                 Jute
P  W  W7 P     W      W       P      W      W       P      V     W        P      W      W        P     W      w        P            w        P      W7    w
FERTILIZERS AND PESTICIDES
Urea (46% N)         (mds/ac)          0.1   0.2   0.2       0.5   1.4   1.5       0      0     0        0.2   0.3   0.4       1.0   1.5   1.6       0.3   0.4   0.5       1.0   1.5   1.7       0.7   0.8   0.8
TSP (46% P205)       (mds/ac)          0      0.1   0.1      0.3   0.6   0.8       0      0     0        0.1   0.2   0.3       0.6   0.9   1.0       0.2   0.3   0.4       0.3   0.5   0.8       0.5   0.6   0.6
M P (60% K)          (mds/ac)          0      0     0        0.1   0.1   0.3       0      0     0        0      0.1   0.1      0.1   0.3   0.4       0      0.1   0.2       0.1   0.3   0.5      0      0      0
Diazinon             (mds/ac)          0      0     0        0.01  0.01  0.01    0        0     0        0.005 0.005 0.005   0.01  0.01  0.01    0.005 0.005 0.005   0.01  0.01  0.01    0              0      0
Sumithion            (mds/ac)          0      0     0        0.005 0.01  0.01    0        0     0        0.005 0.005 0.005   0.01  0.01  0.01    0.005 0.005 0.005   0.01  0.01  0.01    0              0      0
LABOR
Preparation          (_d/-c)          17    17    17        18    20    22        15    15    15        20    22    22        22    22    22        22    22    22        22    22    22        15    16    16
Planting and
Nursing           (m-d/ac)           2      2     2        2      2     2        2     2      2       18    18    18        18    18    18        18    18    18        18    18    18         1      1      1
Crop Management    (m-d/ac)            6      6     6       10    11    12         3      3     3       10    11    12        11    12    13        10    11    12        12    15    16        18    20    20
Harvesting and
Threshing         (m-d/ac)          20    20    20        22    25    28        20    20    20        22    25    26        25    27    28        23    25    27        30    31    32        50    50    50
Subtotal       (m-d/ac)          45    45    45       52    58    64        40    40    40        70    76    78        76    79    81        73    76    79         82    86    88        84    87    87
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power         (a-d/ac)         15    15    15        17    17    17        15    15    15        17    17    17        17    17    17        17    17    17        17    17    17        16    16    16
Seed                 (mds/ac)          1.0   1.0   1.0       1.0   1.0   1.0       1.0   1.0   1.0       0.4   0.4   0.4       0.4   0.4   0.3       0.4   0.4   0.3       0.4   0.4   0.3       0.1   0.1   0.1
Miscellaneous        (Tk/ac)          10    10    10        10    20    40        10    10    10        10    15    15        30    30    40        10    10    10        30    40    50        10    10    10
P = present, W = future without project, W = future with project
OD
n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~a



ANNEX 15
BANGLADESH                                            Table 2
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul    Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec                      Total
RICE (PADDY)
Aus               P          0      0      7    13       2      2      12      9       0      0      0      0              45
(Local)        W          0      0      7    13       2      2      12      9       0      0      0      0              45
w         0      0      7    13       2      2      12      9       0      0      0      0               45
Aus B.            P          0      0      6    12       7      3      14    10        0      0      0      0              52
(HYV)          W          0      0      7    13       8      3      16    11        0      0      0      0              58
W         0      0      7    15       9      4      17    12        0      0      0      0               64
Aman - B.         P          0      0      6    12      2       1       1     0        0      6    12       0              40
W         0      0      6    12       2      1       1      0       0      6    12       0               40
W         U      0      U    IL              I       i      u       u      6    i2       u               4u
Aman - T.         P          0      0      0      0     0      7      14    20         3      3    15       8              70
(Local)        W          0      0      0      0      0      7      15    21        3      3    17      10              76
W         0      0      0      0      0      7      15    21        3      4    17    11                 78
Aman - T          P          0      0      0      0     0      7      15    21         4      3    18       8              76
(HYV,rainfed) W           0      0      0      0      0      7      15    21        4      4    19       9              79
w         0      0      0      0      0      7      15    21        5      4    19      10               81
Boro              P         12    27       2      2    10    16         0      0       0      0      0      4              73
(Local)        W         12    27       3      3    11      16       0      0       0      0      0      4              76
W        12    27       3      4    12      17       0      0       0      0      0      4               79
Boro              P         12    28       3      3    12     20        0      0       0      0      0      4              82
(HYV)          W         12    28       4      4    12    22         0      0       0      0      0      4              86
W        12    28       5      4    13    22         0      0       0      0      0      4               88
Rabi Crops        P        10    10    10        5      0      0        0     0        0      0      5    10               50
W        10    10    10        8      0      0       0      0       0      0      7     10               55
w        10    10    10       10      0      0       0      0       0      0    10      10               60
Jute              P          0      0    10     10    15    35         14      0       0      0      0      0              84
W         0      0    10    11    16    35          15      0       0      0      0      0               87
w         0      0    10    11    16    35          15      0       0      0      0      0               87
co



BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Farm Budget 1/ 2/
1.5 ac Farm                  4.0 ac Farm                   8.0 ac Farm
P        W        w          p         W        W          P         W        w
Cropped Area (ac)
Aus   -  Local                         0.6      0.4       0.3       1.3       1.0       0.9       2.4       1.8       1.8
- HYV                             -       0.2      0.3        0.3      0.7       0.8        0.6      1.4       1.6
Aman  - Broadcast                      0.1      0.1       0.1       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.4       0.4       1.6
-  Local                        1.2       0.9      0.7        2.6      2.2       1.7        4.8      3.7       3.2
- HYV                           0.1       0.4      0.6        0.5       1.0      1.5        1.2      2.5       3.0
Boro  -  Local                         0.1        -         -       0.2       0.3      0.3        0.4       0.4      0.4
- HYV                             -       0.1      0.2        0.2      0.3       0.5        0.6      1.0       1.2
Jute                                   0.2      0.2       0.2       0.6       0.6       0.6       1.2       1.2       1.2
Rabi Crops 3/                          0.2      0.3       0.3       0.4       0.4      0.4        0.8       0.8       0.8
Total                             2.5       2.6      2.7        6.4       6.8      7.0       12.4      13.2     13.6
Cropping Intensity (X)                   167      173       180       160       170       175       155       165       170
Gross Production Value (Tk)            3,250    4,600    5,600      9,200   12,100   14,150    18,500   24,500   28,100
Farm Production Costs (Tk)
Crop Inputs                          800    1,050    1,300      2,130    2,800    3,350       4,300    5,800    6,600
(770)    (900)  (1,080)   (1,900)  (2,370)  (2,730)   (3,800)  (4,830)  (5,340)
Hired Labor                          _               -            800       900    1,000      4.000    5,000    6.000
Total                          800    1,050    1,300       2,930    3,700    4,350       8,300   10,800   12,600
(770)    (900)  (1,080)   (2,700)  (3,270)  (3,730)   (7,800)  (9,830) (11,340)
Net Production Value (Tk)              2,450    3,550    4,300      6,270    8,400    9,800    10,200   13,700   15,500
(2,480)  (3,700)  (4,520)   (6,500)  (8,830) (10,420)  (10,700) (14,670) (16,760)
Non-farm Income (Tk)                   2,000    2.500    3,000      2,500    3.000    3.500       4.000    4.500    5.000
Total Family Income (Tk)               4,450    6,050    7,300      8,770   11,400   13,300    14,200   18,200   20,500
(4,480)  (6,200)  (7,520)   (9,000) (11,830) (13,920)  (14,700) (19,170) (21,760)
Estimated Family Size                      5.5      7.0       7.0        6.8      8.5       8.5        8.5     10.6      10.6
Per capita Income (Tk)                   810      865    1,040      1,290    1,340    1,565       1,670    1,715    1,935
(815)    (885)  (1,075)   (1,325)  (1,390)  (1,640)   (1,730)  (1,810)  (2,050)
1/  P  =  Present, W  =  Future without Project, W  =  Future with Project.
2/ Figures in Parenthesis based on the continuation of existing subsidies on crop inputs.
3/ Assumed gross value of production Tk 2,000/ac and cost of inputs Tk 500/ac.
ODI
4o



ANNEX 16
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        The 1961 census results and the preliminary results from the 1974
census indicate a population of about 1.70 million for the seven thanas.
Of that, about 0.25 million are estimated to be primarily non-agricultural,
leaving a farm-dependent population of about 1.45 million. In Bangladesh,
women normally do not work outside of their homes and, accordingly, the
labor force participation rate is much lower than in most other developing
countries. Including all able-bodLed males between the ages of 14 to 65 in
the potential labor force, the participation rate is estimated to be about
28%. Assuming 250 days per year per participant, the potential labor
availability is estimated at about 102 million man-days, or an average of
8.5 million man-days per month. During "peak" periods farmers tend to work
longer hours and, accordingly, the potential labor availability during the
peak period would perhaps be arouni 10 million man-days per month. At full
development in 1985, the current labor availability is likely to increase
by about 25% through population increase. Accordingly, at full development,
the potential annual labor availability would be about 127 million man-days,
an average monthly availability of about 10.5 million man-days and a peak
monthly availability of about 12 million man-days.
Labor Demand
2.        Estimates of monthly fars labor requirements for various crops are
given in Annex 15, Table 2. Estimates of the total monthly labor require-
ments, taking into account the cropping patterns, are shown in Table 1 of
this Annex. Thus, presently there is an annual need for about 47 million
man-days of farm labor compared to a potential supply of about 102 million
man-days. Except for the months of July and August, corresponding to the
harvesting of aus crop and transplanting of the aman crop, the agricultural
operations are unable to provide adequate employment to the farm labor force
of the project area.
3.        "Without the project" total farm labor requirement is estimated to
increase to about 53.5 million man-days by 1985. Ilowever, this would still
represent a fall in the employment rate from about 46% at present to about
42% in 1985 because of the increase in the labor force during the intervening
period. "With project", the farm labor requirement at full development in
1985 is likely to be about 58.2 million man-days or about the same employment
rate as at present.
-188-



ANNEX 16
Page 2
4.        Besides crop-related farm work, the agricultural labor force is
also involved in a variety of activities such as farm and home maintenance,
handicrafts, fishing, care of livestock, poultry, trade and other servicez.
These activities, generally characterized by low productivity, are taken on
a self employment basis. The low returns are partially compensated by con-
siderable flexibility in terms of undertaking them as and when desired. Con-
struction works, private or public, generally undertaken in the dry season
also provide some employment during the slack periods. There are virtually
no statistics about either the level of employment or the level of income in
these non-farm activities. On a very rough basis, it is estimated that
about one-quarter of the potential labor force i.e. about 25 million man-
days is employed in these activities. Also, it is believed that for most
landless workers and small farmers a substantial part -- perhaps up to one-
half of their total family income--comes from these activities.
5.        It is projected that even without the project, the agricultural
production in the area would increase by about 40% over the current levels
resulting in a somewhat increased per capita income. In view of the rise
in per capita income as well as the likely increases in the use of purchased
inputs, it is likely that there would be some increase in the non-farm labor
employment perhaps up to 30% of the 1985 labor supply, i.e. about 38 million
man-days.
6.        In 1985, with the project, per capita income is likely to increase
by 40% over the current level which would mean an even higher increase in
the "discretionary income" available for non-subsistence expenditure. There
would also be a substantial increase in the volume of the marketed paddy
perhaps from about 80,000 tons at present to about 200,000 tons. Also,
there would be substantial increase in the use of fertilizers, pesticides,
improved seeds and irrigation facilities. All these should create a sub-
stantially increased employment in trade, distribution, handicrafts and
services. It is projected accordingly, that "with project" the non-farm
employment would increase to about 35% of the supply, i.e., about 44 mil-
lion man-days.
7.        The overall employment situation would then be:
1975                      1985
Total Supply                            Without Project        With Project
(million man-days)        102                  127                127
Employed in Agriculture   47                    53.5               58.2
Non-farm Employment         25.0                38.0                44.0
Surplus                     30.0                35.5                24.8
Unemployment Rate           30%                 28%                 20%
The quality of the data, particularly on non-farm employment, underlying
the above analysis leaves much to be desired. It is clear, however, that
in the Bangladesh situation where most of the cultivable land is already
-189-



ANNEX 16
Page 3
under rather intensive cultivation, there is little scope for expanding on-
farm employment and much of the new employment must come from non-farm activi-
ties.
Existing Wage Rate
8.        Much of the farm work is done by family labor.  It is estimated
that less than 15% of the total farm labor requirements come from hired
labor. Except for the months of July and August, there is virtually no
demand for hired farm labor and accordingly there is practically no data
on the wage rates during the rest of the year. Even the data for the peak
months tends to be unreliable as part of the wages are often paid in kind.
Also the practice of hiring on a piece work basis further complicates the
estimation of existing wage rates.
9.        Historically, the wage rates in the area have averaged about 0.15-
0.20 maunds of paddy. However, during the rapid inflation of the last few
years (five fold increase in food price since 1970) there has been a decline
in the real wage rate. The 1974 peak wage of about Tk 10-12 per day repre-
sented somewhat less than 0.1 md of paddy. However, it is felt that this
represents a temporary phase and the real wage rates will correct to their
historical trend. On this basis, it is projected that the peak wage rate
in 1985 would be about 15 Taka/day (in 1975 prices).
10.       The fragmentary information available for the wage rate during
the non-peak periods indicates that despite the highly seasonal demand for
farm labor, there is relatively little seasonal variation in the wage rates.
This strongly suggests the divergence of the non-peak wage rates from the
opportunity costs in alternative emnployments.
Employment Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
11.       Scarcity of detailed data on farm income levels, off-farm employ-
ment opportunities, and the agricultural labor force profile makes the
evaluation of economic shadow rates for farm labor extremely subjective.
Economic farm labor costs were estimated by using monthly shadow rates re-
flecting different opportunity costs associated with various periods during
the year.
12.       On the basis of available information about the project area and
experience from similar areas, it is postulated that the marginal opportunity
cost of farm labor can be represented by an "S-shaped" curve. The marginal
opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of demand and in-
creases when more labor is absorbed into field work. The increase in oppor-
tunity cost is initially slow and reflects the scarcity of alternative pro-
ductive employment, but it is more rapid when the full labor supply is
utilized. At employment levels above the maximum available in the area, the
opportunity cost wqould again increase at a slower rate since a large number
of migrants would be attracted to the project area from neighboring areas
where there is substantial under-employment. In practice, it is reasonable
to approximate this idealized "S-shaped" curve by three straight segments.
-190-



ANNEX 16
Page 4
13.       Figure 1 gives the curve of approximate shadow rates used in the
analysis. The curve shows the estimated marginal opportunity cost of labor
as a function of demand (expressed as a proportion of the peak monthly sup-
ply). The shape of the curve is based on the following assumptions:
(a) At minimum employment levels, the marginal cost would be
the value of incremental consumption required to undertake
physically more demanding field work (Tk 1.0 per man-day 1/),
plus the value of foregone output in activities such as
fishing, home improvement, etc., (Tk 1.5 per man-day).
(b) For employment levels corresponding to 50% of the peak
labor availability, the marginal cost would be half of
the peak market rate (Tk 7.50 per man-day).
(c) At a monthly labor demand corresponding to present peak
level (about 90% of full labor supply), the marginal cost
would be equal to the peak market rate (Tk 15 per man-day).
(d) When the employment is equal to the full supply from the
area, the opportunity cost would be about Tk 17 per man-day.
Beyond that, the wage rate would remain constant as at that
wage rate a large number of migrants would be attracted to
the project area.
14.       While the shape of the curve at the upper level can be viewed
with reasonable confidence, the segments corresponding to low employment
levels are open to debate. Fortunately, however, the lower levels of
employment occur in both "with" and "without" situations and hence the
incremental costs of farm labor are not sensitive to the shape of the
curve for low employment levels.
15.       The monthly marginal opportunity cost can be read directly from
the opportunity cost curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. The
total economic cost of farm labor is then the area under the curve up to
that level of employment. Table 1 shows the marginal and the total oppor-
tunity costs for the various months. Presently, the estimated marginal
cost varies from a low of Tk 3.5/day in January to a high of Tk 14.8/day
in August. The increase in boro cultivation in the future would result
in a somewhat more even demand for farm labor. The two extreme opportunity
costs under "with" project conditions are estimated to be Tk 3.7/day (in
September) and Tk 12.9/day (in August). The total annual economic cost of
farm labor is estimated to increase from about Tk 266 million at present
to about Tk 284 million under "without project" conditions and about Tk 312
million under "with project" conditions. Thus, the economic cost of using
1/   Taken as 60% of the current average daily consumption of food grains
(16 oz per day).
-191-



ANNEX 16
Page 5
the additional 4.7 million man-days over the "without project" requirements
is estimated to be about Tk 28 milLion, or an average of Tk 6.0/man-day. In
view of the unemployment and underemployment situation prevailing in rural
Bangladesh this valuation is considered to be appropriate.
April 1976
-192-



ANNEX 16
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
Jan     Feb   Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug   Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec       Total
1/I
Farm Labor Requirements   P        1.0     1.6   2.9    4.0    2.1    6.1    8.4    8.9    1.1    1.3    6.1    3.5        47.0
(million man-days)      W       1.3     2.2   3.2    4.6    2.8    6.7    9.3    9.5    1.2    1.4    7.1    4.2         53.5
W       1.8     3.2   3.3    4.9    3.6    7.6    9.3    9.5    1.4    1.6    7.3    4.7         58.2
Farm Labor Requirement    P       10      16    29     40     21      61     84     89     11      13     61     35
(% of "Peak" monthly    W      11      18    27      38     23     56     77      79     10     12     59      35
labor supply 2/)        W      15      27    27    41       30     63     77      79     12     13      61     39
Marginal Opp. Cost        p        3.5    4.1    5.4    6.5    4.6    9.6   13.9  14.8    3.6    3.8    9.6    6.0
of Labor (Tk/day)       W        3.6    4.3    5.2    6.3    4.8    8.6   12.6   12.9    3.5    3.7    9.2    6.0
w       4.0    5.2    5.2    6.6    5.5    9.9  12.6   12.9    3.7    3.8    9.6    6.4
Total Economic Cost       P        3.00   5.28  11.46  18.00   7.46  34.40  61.38  68.49   3.36   4.10  34.40  14.88    266.21
of Labor (million Tk)   W       3.97   7.48  12.32  20.24  10.22  35.64  63.17  65.70   3.60   4.34  39.19  17.85    283.72
w       5.85  12.32  12.71  22.30  14.40  44.00  63.22  65.86   4.34   5.04  41.12  2O."    312.05
1/  P =  Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
2/ Peak monthly supply - Present = 10 million man-days
Future = 12 million man-days
'.0s



BANGLADESH                                  ANNEX 16
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT                         Figure 1
Margia" -Enzomie   --GG6  of Fr* Labor
TAKA/MAN-DAY
ur-
C-4
0
-4
"4
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
I
I
u                                     s      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
o                                                            J
o/                                                      1
,4                             ,
Caaa   ein *        .    _ --
0   20    40           60           80           100         120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LAO   EAN   S/
OFLCL  UPY
I~~~~14



ANNEX 17
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.        The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Prices: The farm gate prices used in the economic analysis
are derived from projected 1985 world market prices expressed
in mid-1975 currency values. Appropriate adjustments have
been made for freight, handling and processing. A shadow
exchange rate of US$1.00 = Tk 16.00 is used to reflect the
scarcity of foreign exchange. The price assumptions are
discussed in more detail in Annex 14.
(b) Benefits: The direct benefits of the project would be:
increased agricultural production; reduced transport costs
through improved road network; reduced marketing costs
due to improved markets; increased fish yields, and improve-
ments in draft animal power supply. The project would also
have substantial secondary income and employment effects in
trade and transport. In this analysis, however, only
increased paddy production due to the project is counted as
a project benefit. Expected crop yields, acreages and
production are shown in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 5. The gross
benefits are summarized in Table 1 of this Annex.
(c) Crop Production Costs: Per acre input requirements are
shown in Annex 15, Tables 1 and 2. The 0 & M cost of
irrigating boro paddy through pumps/wells is treated as a
recurrent crop production cost. Crop production costs are
summarized in Table 2.
(d) Pricing of Labor: Farm labor is evaluated at a seasonally
adjusted opportunity cost. The average economic cost per
man-day for incremental farm labor requirements is estimated
at Tk 6.0, which is equivalent to 40% of the peak wage rate.
(For a detailed analysis, see Annex 16). Unskilled con-
struction labor has been valued at the market rate.
(e) Investment Costs: All investment costs except price con-
tingencies (Tk 94.0 million), short-term agricultural credit
-195-



ANNEX 17
Page 2
(Tk 42.6 million), cost of low-lift pumps 1/ (Base Cost,
-   ,, I    l" 'aind taxes and duties (Tk 16.6 million) 2/
are included in the economic analysis.  On this basis the
investment costs are estimated at Tk 146.8 million of
wnicn Tk 50.3 million are in foreign exchange (Annex 13,
Table 1). Shadow pricing the foreign exchange component
results in an estimated "economic" cost of Tk 158.4
million. It is assumed that all the shallow tubewells
would be replaced every ten years. The estimated replace-
ment costs are included as investment costs in years 11
and 21.
(f)  Operation and Maintenance:  The 0 & M costs for pumps and
wells have been included as recurrent crop production costs
(Para 1 (c)). The anniual 0 & M costs for rural works and
thana facilities are estimated at Tk 3.5 million (about 5%
of the initial investment costs). The annual costs of
additional staff and  :he 0 & M of staff vehicles and equip-
ment are estimated at Tk 3.0 million. 3/ These costs are
used as a cost stream against the project benefits.
(g)  Development Phasing:  Implementation would be phased over
five (six fiscal) years. It is assumed that full project
benefits would be achieved five years after project imple-
mentation. It is assulmed that the benefits originating
from increased irrigation (about 40% of the total net
benefits) would rapid]y follow a straight line pattern
over the ten year development period. On this basis,
the overall phasing ol the benefits is estimated to be as
follows:
Year            1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11
Net benefits   0   5  15  30  50  65  75  85  90   95  100
(% of full
development
benefits)
1/   Low-lift pumps financed under the project are merely a replacement for
the existing pumps and this expenditure would be incurred even without
the project.
2/   This figure differs from the one in the text (para 4.13) as taxes and
duties in the amount of Tk 4.4 million are included in the price
contingencies and the base cost of low-lift pumps.
3/   During project implementation this cost is provided by the project and
is included in the "investment costs".
-196-



ANNEX 17
Page 3
Economic Rate of Return
2.        Resulting costs and benefit streams are shown in Table 3.  Assuming
a 30-year project life, the economic rate of return is estimated to be over
40%.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        Several tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the rate
of return estimates to various alternative assumptions about costs and
benefits. The tests indicate that returns remain high under a variety of
adverse assumptions e.g. even if the foreign exchange were to be valued at
the official exchange rate (US$1.00 - Tk 13.00) or all the farm labor were
to be priced at the peak market wage rate (Tk 15/man-day), the rate of return
would remain over 40%. Similarly, even if the net benefits were 25% smaller,
or the investment costs 25% higher, or the build-up of project benefits
considerably slower 1/, the rate of return would still exceed 40%. Finally,
in the rather unlikely event that the last three conditions occur simultan-
eously i.e. the benefits are 25% lower, the costs 25% higher and the build-
up of benefits slower, the rate of return would be about 30%.
4.        By conventional standards the returns estimated for this project
are rather high. However, this should not be surprising for, in contrast
to the conventional capital intensive projects, the primary emphasis in
this project is to achieve increased production by promoting a markedly
better technology (rainfed HYV cultivation) through marginal (capital)
investments in institutional improvement. Results from similar concentrated
efforts elsewhere 2/ indicate that the estimated project benefits may still
be too conservative.
Analysis of Various Project Components
5.        To ensure the proper mix of various project components and to
weed out any unviable components, it is desirable that each component be
analyzed separately. However, in this case such an analysis was not under-
taken because of:
1/   Assumed phasing of benefits:
Year            1  2  3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14   15
Net benefits   0  0  5  15  25  40  50  60  70  75  80  85  90  95  100
(% of full
development
benefits)
2/   e.g. the extension approach tried by Mr. Daniel Benor in India
and the development of Comilla Kotwali thana under the initiative
of the Comilla Academy.                                          -197-



ANNEX 17
Page 4
(a)  the highly interrelated nature of many project components
(e.g., IRDP program, t'ana facilities, agricultural extension,
technical assistance, rural credit, markets and road, etc.).
There is no sound basi, for allocating the production benefits
to these components;
(b) economic viability of components such as low-lift pumps and
shallow tubewells has, by now, been proved so conclusively
that any detailed analysis was considered superfluous. The
size of these components were governed either by the avail-
ability of surface water (for low-lift pumps) or the imple-
mentation capacity (for installing shallow wells);
(c)  some components such as fisheries and simple processing
equipment were included on an experimental basis only. The
existing experience in the country about such components is
too meager to permit any meaningful quantitative assessment
at this stage. Hopeful-ly, the experience from this project
would provide adequate data for later evaluation.
April 1976
-198-



ANNEX 17
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELDR4MENT I PROJECT
1/
Annual Gross Benefits (Economic)
Gross value
Item                 Price_      Production (.000 tons)    _  (Tk million)
(Tk/Ton)    W       W    Increment      R       w   Increment
Aus paddy            2,550     145.7  155.3      9.6       371.5  396.0    24.5
Aman paddy           2,810     329.3  364.o   34.7         925.3 1,022.8    97.5
Boro paddy           2,550      69.3  139.3   70.0         176.7  355.2  178.5
Total                          544.3  658.6  114.3   1,473.5 1,774.0  300.5
Less 5% losses in
transport and handling         -27.2  -32.9   -5.7         -73.7    88.7  -15.0
Annual Total                   517.1  625.7  108.6    1,399.8 1,685.3   285.5
/ W     Future without project
W  = Future with project
-199-



r-U;uD. bLTh'(LL).lEIT I .9J ? CT   1/
Annua. iro Prod-tior. C.osts (Economnic)
Quanitity 'Jsed                       Production Cost
Price           w          '       Increment           v          w      Increment
(Tk/mdY           ----(Thousand mds)-                       -     (Tk million)------
Urea (46% N)             11(-             459.8      647.u,   187.2              50.6      71.2      20.6
TSP (46% P205)           160              239.1      380.5    411.4              38.3      60.9      22.6
M4P (60% K)               6<                83.8     156.5      72.7              5.5       10.2      4.7
Fertilizers Total                         782.7   1,184.0    401.3               94.4      142.3     47.9
Diazinon                 950                 3.74      4.48      0.74             3.6        4.3      0.7
Sumithion              3,700                3.74       4.48      0.74            13.8      i6.5       2-7
Farm Labor - -                             53.5       58.2       4.7            283.7     312.0      28.3
Animal Labor 4/           10               10.9       ii.4       0.5            109.0     114.0       5.0
Seed,/                                    419.6      386.3      33.3             42.0      44.4       2.4
Miscellaneous               -                -         -         -               12.3       18.7       6.4
Irrigation 6/            210               60.5       97.0      36.5             12.7       20.4      7.7
(Annual 0 & M)
Total Crop Production Costs                                                     571.5     672.6    101.1
Annual Net Benefits = (285.5 - 101.1)   Tk 184.4 million   Say Tk 185.0 million
1/ W = Future without project
W = Future with project
Increment = W - W
2/ Both family and hired labor (See Annex 16 for details)                                                           ( 
3/ In million man-days.                                                                                             U w
4/ Quantity in million animal days and price in Tk/animal day.
3/ Average price Tk 100/md for "without project" and Tk 115/md for "with project" to
reflect improved quality.
6/ Price in Tk/ac of boro crop. Quantity in thousand acres of boro crop. The price is taken
to be the weighted average 0 &M cost of irrigation by 2ow-lift pnmps and shallow
°     tubewells (See Annex l14Table 2).



ANNEX 17
Table 3
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Year           Investment Costs             0 & M Costs          Net Benefits
------------(in Million Tk)------------------
1                    7.3
2                   37.4                     -                    9.2
3                   39.2                    1.3                  27.8
4                   36.4                     2.5                 55.5
5                   25.1                    3.3                  92.5
6                   13.0                     5.0                120.2
7                     -                     6.5                 138.8
8                     -                      6.5                157.3
9                     -                     6.5                 166.5
10                     _                      6.5                175.8
11                   54.0                     6.5                185.0
12 -20                 -                      6.5                185.0
21                   54.o                     6.5                185.0
22-30                  -                      6.5                185.0
Economic RCR= Over 40%
-201-



ANNEX 18
Page 1
_NGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
Introduction
1.        The need for training thana and union officers in Bangladesh
has been fully discussed in the IDA Agricultural and Rural Training Project
Appraisal Report (Report No. 68CIb-BD). The success of rural development
depends on these front-line officers and TCCA-KSS staff bringing their work
to the villages and doing it effectively. The technical training under the
Rural Development I Project, therefore, would take the knowledge that has
been imparted to the thana/union officers by the Rural Training Project and
other international/bilateral projects and spread it through the TCCA-KSS
system to its member farmers. Ihe training load as well as its impact would
increase as TCCA-KSS membership expands.
2.        In addition, training under this project would emphasize work
procedures to be adopted for implementing the various project components,
particularly those for supplying production inputs, technical services and
rural credit to KSS members. The existing weekly training sessions for
KSS managers and accountants and bi-weekly sessions for KSS model farmers
would become operational-oriented sessions on "work to be done next week or
next month and how to do it."
Coordination with IDA Agricultural and Pural Training Project (ARTP)
3.        All the technical training under this project would use the training
and extension material produced by the Agricultural and Rural Training Project
and its cooperating international/bilateral projects, when such material
becomes available.
4.        All training under this project would utilize the buildings
and training facilities provided by the ARTP and its cooperating projects,
when such buildings and facilities are ready for use. It would provide
additional facilities which are aot included in the Agricultural and Rural
Training Project and its cooperating projects.
5.        This project would pre?are training material for its special
needs which are not covered by tie ARTP project, nor its cooperating projects.
The Central Project Executive Committee of this project would send copies
of such material to the National Committee on Rural Training which has already
been established for its information and coordination.
-202-



ANNEX 18
Page 2
6.        Project evaluation surveys (Annex 11) under this project would
be conducted in coordination with the Rural Training Project.
7.        The training activities of this project would be one would of the
field level training which the ARTP could take into consideration in planning
of future improvement of rural training.
The Trainees
8.        The following number of officers would be trained annually:
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4 Year 5
IRDP officers                          32       39      39      39       39
TCCA/KSS (TCCA managers, chief      2,290   2,544   2,775   3,013   3,251
inspectors, inspectors,
assistant inspectors, village
accountants, and KSS managers,
accountants and model farmers
Extension officers                    115      160     205     250      295
Livestock officers and KSS
vaccination trainees                219      426     412     426      412
Fishery officers and KSS pond
keepers                              9        53     218     418      418
Total                    2,665    3,222   3,649   4,146   4,415
The annual increase in number of trainees shown above indicates new officers
joining the service as the TCCA-KSS membership expands (para 5.09). An
IRDP Thana Training Officer would be added to each of the seven thanas to
handle the training of the increasing number of TCCA/KSS staff shown above.
Training Specifics
9.        The training subject, location, duration, trainers and trainees
are given below:
(a)  IRDP/TCCA/KSS staff
Training subject -- Exhibit 1
Location, duration, trainers and trainees -- Table 1
(b)  Extension Officers -- Table 2
(c)  Livestock Officers -- Table 3
(d)  Fishery Officers   -- Table 4
-203-
April 1976



ANNEX 18
Exhibit 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
List of TCCA/KSS Training Subjects
A.   Improvement of KSS Working Tools
A - 1     Preparation of KSS land register, land map (by employ-
ment of "Amins") and draft animal register.
A - 2     Use of these registers and maps for:
(1) Preparation :f KSS seasonal production plan
(2) Application of fertilizer allocation (BADC)
(3) Application of rural credit (Sonali Bank)
(4) Application of pumps and shallow tubewells (BADC)
A - 3     Preparation of the KSS monthly work calendar according
to crop seasons.
A - 4     Use of the work calendar for rescheduling:
(1) Major operations
(2) Training
(3) Visits by extension officers, veterinarians and
IRDP/TCCA officers.
B.   KSS Organizational Operations
B - 1     Reorganization of existing non-TCCA pump groups into
TCCA-KSS pump groups.
B - 2     Organization of TCCA-KSS shallow tubewell groups.
B - 3     Organization of nev KSS in rainfed Aus and T. aman areas.
B - 4     Organization of poad-fishery Cooperatives (landless people).
-204-



ANNEX 18
Exhibit 1
Page 2
C.   KSS Financial Operations
C - 1     Treatment of outstanding debts to traditional cooperatives
of farmers applying to join TCCA-KSS.
C - 2     Short- and medium-term loan operation under conditions
of the project.
C - 3     Strict collection of share capital and thrift savings
deposit from members.
C - 4    Maintenance of books, accounts and preparation of account
statements.
D.   KSS Input Supply Operations
D - 1     Take bulk delivery of fertilizers from thana godown by
KSS and distribution of same to members according to
production plan.
D - 2    Management of pump/well group operation.
D - 3     Cooperative procurement of pesticides by KSS according
to production plan.
D - 4     KSS own HYV seed multiplication plan.
E.   KSS Extension Operations
E - 1     Scheduling visits by Extension officers to KSS and
follow-up discussions in weekly member meetings.
E - .2    Scheduling visits by veterinarians for vaccination,
insemination and deworming of draft animals.
E - 3     Developing KSS land utilization plan in consultation
with extension officers.
E - 4     Facilitating verification of HYV area, pump/well
irrigated area, flood damaged area, etc., on KSS land
by extension or BADC officers.
-205-



ANNEX 18
Table 1
BANGLADESH                                  Page 1 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 1--IRDP/TCCA/KSS TraininRg Program
Year One
Training          Location         Duration        Trainer                   Trainee
Subject          of Training    of TraLning                                Title               No
(days)
(a)  KSS Operations    IRDP              Trainilig   17   IRDP            District Project Directors   2
A - E (see         Headquarters,   Sunday    2-3   Directors,        District Deputy PDS            2
Exhibit 1).        Dacca            Travel      2   Deputy and       Thana Project Officers         7
Assistant       Thana Deputy POs              14
Directors       Thana Project Accountants    7
Sub-total                                      22                                                  32
(b)  KSS Operations    Separately                    10   Existing        TCCA Managers                  7
A - E (see         at TTDCs                          Thana            "   Chief Inspectors         14
Exhibit 1).       in 7 thanas                       Project           "   Inspectors              10
Officers,        "   Assistant Inspectors   52
Deputy P.O.      "   Village Accountants   104
and Accoun-
tants, and
one new DTPO
Sub-total                                       10                                                187
Existing
(c)  KSS Operations    Separately        On-going         Thana officers  KSS Managers                 626
A - E (see         at TTDCs         weekly train-   of various        KSS Accountants             626
Exhibit 1)         in 7 thanas      ing for KSS      agencies.       KSS model farmers           626
and on going                        managers and                     Additional KSS to
training                            accountants,                     be formed in
subject.                            bi-weekly                        year 1
training for                     KSS Managers                 75
model :armers                     KSS Accountants              75
KSS model farmers           75
Sub-total                                                                                      2,103
Total 1st year                                                                                  2,322
-206-



ANNEX 18
Table 1
BANGLADESH                              Page 2 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 1--IRDP/TCCA/KSS Training Program (Continue)
Year Two
Location        Duration                                     Trainee
Training Subject            of           of Training        Trainer
Training          (days)                                Title                   No
(a)  Annual review and       IRDP            Meeting      6   IRDP Directors   District Project Directors    2
discussion on           Headquarters   Travel        2   Deputy and        District Deputy PDs             2
necessary changes.      Dacca                            Assistant Di-    Thana Project Officers           7
in Exhibit 1.                                            rectors           Thana Deputy POs               14
Thana Project Accountants      7
Thana Training Officers        7
Sub-total                                            8                                                    39
Existing
(b)  Annual review and       Separately                   3   IRDP Thana        TCCA Managers                   7
discussion on nec-      at TTDC in                       Project                Chief Inspectors          14
essary changes in       7 thanas                         Officers,              Inspectors                10
Exhibit 1 for                                            Deputy                 Assistant Inspectors    52
existing TCCA staff.                                     Project                Village Accountants    104
Officers,
Accountants,
Training
Officers
Sub-total                                            3                                                   187
New
(c)  Training of new         Zonal           Training   18   IRDP District    TCCA Inspector                    I
Inspectors              Cooperative    Travel        2   Project            "   Assistant Inspectors       7
Assistant Inspec-       Training                         Director and       "   Village Accountants       12
tors and Village        Institute                        District
Accountants on                                           Deputy P.D.
project works.
(Exhibit 1_
Sub-total                                           20                                                    20
Existing
(d)  Weekly 1-day            Separately      Regular          Thana officers   KSS Managers                   701
training of             at TTDC in      weekly and       of various         "  Accountants               701
KSS Managers            7 thanas        bi-weekly        agencies           "  Model farmers             701
and Accoun-                             sessions
tants and
bi-weekly
training of
KSS model
farmers. (Exhibit 1)
Sub-total                                                                                              2,103
New
(e)  Training of             Separately      Incorporated                       KSS Managers                   78
new KSS                 at TTDC in      in regular                          "  Accountants                78
staff on                7 thanas        weekly and          ditto           "  Model farmers              78
Exhibit 1.                              bi-weekly
sessions
Sub-total                                                                                                234
Total 2nd year                                                                                         2,583
-207-



ANNEX 18
Table 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
BANGLiDESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
IRDP/TCCA/KSS Training (Continue)
Year 3, 4 and 5
Same as Year 2, except the number of trainees would increase as
follows:
Training Subject                                Year
(same as page                     3              4              5
(a)                          39             39              39
(b)                          207            225            244
(c)                           18             19             22
(d)                       2,337          2,55o          2,769
(e)                         213            219             216
Total                     2,814           3,052          3,290
-208-



ANNEX 18
Table 2
BANGLADESH                                      Page I of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 2--Extension Officer Training Program
Year One
Location         Duration                                          Trainee
Training Subject                       of               of             Trainer                   Title                    No
Training         Training
(davs)
A.  BYV technology and special            BRRI              23            BRRI/IRRI          District Agricultural Officers   2
extension items for KSS-                                              specialists       Thana Extension Officers           7
wide adoption.                                                                          Thana Agricultural Officers         7
IRDP-DDPD                          2
IRDP-DTPO                          7
B.  (1)  How to conduct the new           BRRI               1            Director of        Same group as A.
model farmer training                         (immediately       Extension,
program.                                      following the      MOA, Director
(2)  Use of TCCA-KSS land                          3 week train-      of E-T, IRDP,
register/land map for                         ing)               and UNDP rice
verification of HYV,                                             production
irrigated and flood                                              specialist
damaged areas.
(3)  Scheduled visits by
extension officers to
KSS.
Sub-total A and B                                                                                                         25
2/
C.  Same as A.                        Two groups            16            ATI                UAA                               90
separately                          instructors,
at 2 ATIs                           UNDP rice
in Bogra &                          production
Mymensingh                          specialist
D.  Same as B.                        Same as C.             1            DAO                Same group as C
IRDP-DDPD
Sub-total C and D                                                                                                         90
Total Year One                                                                                                            115
1/  IRDP officers are to receive the same training so they can effectively persuade KSS member farmers to adopt what
was taught by the extension officers.
2/ Including 2 days of travel from duty station to training location and back.
-209-



ANNEX 18
Table 2
BANGLADESH                                      Page 2 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 2--Extension Oflicer Training Program (Continue)
Year Two
Location         Duration                                            Trainee
Training Subject                        of               of             Trainer                   Title                     No
Training         Training
(days)
A.  Refresher course for:                BRRI                  2/           BRRI/IRRI         DAO                                 2
Subject A under year one                                 9             specialists.       TEO                                 7
Subject B under year one                                 1             Same as B          TAO                                 7
under year        IRDP-DDPD                           2
one.              IRDP-DTPO                           7
Sub-total                                                                                                                    25
B.  Refresher course for:              Same as                 2/           Same as           UAA                                90
Subject A under year one          year one               9             year one           VEA                                45
Subject B under year one                                 I
Sub-total                                                                                                                  135
Total Year Two                                                                                                              160
-210-



ANNEX 18
Table 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMT I PROJECT
Extension Officer Training Program (Continue)
Year 3, 4 and 5
Same as Year 2, except the number of VEAs to be trained would increase
as follows:
Year                        VEA to be Trained
3                                  90
4                                 135
5                                 180
-211-



ANNEX 18
Table 3
BANGLADESH                            Page 1 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 3--Livestock Officer Training Program
Year One
Location          Daration                                       Trainee
Training Subject            of                of             Trainer
Training          Training                               Title                   No
(days)
A.  Basic Training Course   Savar                   1/     Savar Farm and       District Livestock Officers   2
for Livestock Officers. Farm                 30       German Team Ex-       Thana Livestock Officers        7
perts
Sub-total                                                                                                   9
B.  Basic Training for       Savar                  1/                          Thana Livestock Field           7
Field Assistant for      Farm                30            ditto            Assistants (F/F Crops)
Forage and Fodder
Crops (new).
Sub-total                                                                                                   7
C.  Basic Training for       Savar                  1/                          Thana Livestock Field           7
Field Assistant for      Farm                30            ditto            Assistants (A.I.)
Artificial Insemiina-
tion.
Sub-total                                                                                                   7
D.  Training of new:
(1)  Vaccinators         On-job               7        TLO and existing    New Vaccinators                 14
(2)  Inseminators        in Thanas            7       officers              New Inseminators                7
Sub-total                                                                                                  21
E.  Training of Selected    A Demonstra-    SiE l-day-  Thana F.A.              Selected Farmers:
TCCA-KSS Farmers on      tion plot        field ses-  (F/F Crops)           (1)  Demonstration plots    140
Forage and Fodder        site in each    sicas in a                               7 x 20
Crops.                   thana            year                              (2)  Multiplication plots    35
7 x 5
Sub-total                                                                                                 175
Total Year One                                                                                            219
1/  includ_ng 2 days iravel from duty station to Savar and back.
2/ Including chemicals, feeds, animals, etc. used for training and housing for trainees.
(There is no housing accommodation at trie Savar Farm.)
3/ All demonstration and multiplication plht farmers of each thana will meet at site of one plot
and receive training in field.
-212-



ANNEX 18
Table 3
BANGLADESH                             Page 2 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 3--Livestock Officer Training Program (Continue)
Year Two
Location          Duration                                       Trainee
Training Subject            of                of             Trainer
Training          Training                               Title                   No
(days)
A. Training of new:
(1)  Vaccinators         -       -       ----      Same as D under Year One  --------------------          14
(2)  Inseminators                                                                                           7
Sub-total                                                                                                  21
1
B.  Training of selected    in             When vaccina-    Thana                Selected TCCA-KSS young      200
TCCA-RSS farmers on      TCCA-KSS      tors make         vaccinators        farmers
vaccination and A.I.    villages       scheduled
visits to
TCCA-KSS
Sub-total                                                                                                 200
C.  Review of First Year    Two groups            92         Director of        District Livestock Officers   2
Program and discuss      separately                      Livestock          Thana Livestock Officers        7
necessary imiprove-      at Bogra                        Department,        Thana Livestock Field           7
ment.                    and Mymen-                      Savar Farm         Assistants (F/F Crops)
singh                          and German         Thana Livestock Field           7
Kotwali                         Team Spe-          Assistants (A.I.)
cialists           Senior Vaccinators              7
Sub-total                                                                                                  30
D.  Review of Forage         Separately           I          TLO, TLTA          Demonstration plot farmers  140
and Fodder Crop.         at 7 TTDC                       (F/F Crop)         Multiplication plot farmers  35
program per-
formance
Sub-total                                                                                                 175
Total Year Two                                                                                            426
JJ To assist vaccinator/inseminator when TCCA-KSS meimber increases.
2/ Including 2 days travel to training locations and back.
3/  Per diem and travel for German Team members not included.                                     -213_



ANNEX 18
Table 3
BANGLADESH                             Page 3 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 3--Livestock Officer Training Program (Continue)
Year Three, Four. Five
Location          Duration                                          Trainee
Training Subject             of                 of             Trainer
Training          Training                                 Title                    No
(days)
Yer Three
A.  Refresher Course for         Savar               16         Same as Year One   District Livestock Officers  2
Livestock Officers.         Farm                                                Thana Livestock Officers         7
Sub-total                                                                                                        9
B.  Refresher Course for         Savar                16        Same as Year One   Thana Livestock Field             7
Field Assistants            Farm                                                 Assistants
(F/F Crops)
Sub-total                                                                                                        7
C. Training of new:
(1)  Vaccinators            on job in             7         TLO and existing   New Vaccinators                  14
(2)  Inseminators           Thanas                          officers             New Inseminators                7
Sub-total                                                                                                       21
D.  Training of Selected         In TCCA-KSS   Vhen vaccina-  TLO, TLFA              Selected TCCA-KSS young    200
TCCA-KSS Farmers            Villages        tors make                            farmers
on Vaccination and                          Echeduled
A.I.                                        visits to
ICCA-KSS
Sub-total                                                                                                      200
E.  Review of Forage and    ------------------------  Same as D. under Year Two ---------------------------------
Fodder Crop program
performance.
Sub-total                                                                                                      175
Total Year Three                                                                                               412
Year Four
------------------------------------------------  Same as Year Two  ------------------------------------------------
Total Year Four                                                                                                426
Year Five
---------------  Same as Year Three  -----------------------------------------------
Total Year Five                                                                                                412
-214-



ANNEX 18
Table 4
BANGLADESH                                  Page 1 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 4--Fishery Officer Training Program
Year One
Location        Duration                                              Trainee
Training Subject                   of               of              Trainer                   Title                   No
Training         Training
(days)
2/
(a)  Training on:                    Mymensingh          23            Senior              District Fishery Officers         2
(1)  Survey of fish ponds.    University                         specialists          Thana Fishery Officers            7
(2)  Conducting field trials                                     from Dept. of
on management of fish                                       Fishery, IVS
seed ponds and general                                      fishery spe-
fish ponds.                                                 cialist, M.
University
specialists
Sub-total                                                                                                               9
(b)  Review session on (1) &          Bogra                2/           Same as (a)        District Fishery Officers         2
(2) under (a) 3 months          Rotwali              9                                Thana Fishery Officers            7
after the initial training
to discuss problems en-
countered and improvement
of methods.
Sub-total                                                                                                               9
2/
(c)  Review session on survey       Mymensingh            9             Same as (a)        District Fishery Officers         2
and trials at the end of       University                                             Thana Fishery Officers            7
the 1st year.
Sub-total                                                                                                                9
Total Year One                                                                                                          9
1/ Per diem for IVS fishery specialist for field trips not included.
2/ Including 2 days for travelling from Bogra to Mymensingh and back.
-215-



AM=K 18
Table 4
BANGLADESH                                   Pago 2 of 3 pages
RIUAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Tabl 4--FiLsher Officer Training Program (Continue)
Year Two
Location         Duration                                              Trainee
--aining Subject                   of               of               Trainer                    Title                  No
Training         Training
(days)
(a) Conference on:
(1)  Field demonstration        Mymensingh           9              Senior staff       District Fishery Officers          2
of fish pond manage-      University                          of Fishery          IRDP-DPD                          2
ment.                                                         Dept. and
(2)  Organization of pilot                                         IRDP, IVS
fish TCCA-KSS to                                              fishery spe-
manage the demonstra-                                         cialist,
tion ponds.                                                   Mymensingh          Thana Fishery Officers            7
Univ.specialists  TRDP-TPO                            7
TCCA Managers                     7
Sub-total                                                                                                                25
(b) Training on:
(1)  Fish pond management.    Two groups         3-classroom        DFO                Fish TCCA-KSS Managers            14
(2)  Supply of fish fry,        Separately         training         IRDP-DPO           Pond Keepers                      14
inputs, rural credit       at Bogra                           TFO,
cooperative marketing,   and Mymen-                           IRDP-TPO
account keeping.           singh            4-pondside
instruction
(2 ponds
per day)
Sub-total                                                                                                                28
(c) Review of:
(1)  Fish pond survey,          Mymensingh            9             ----------------- Same as (a) -----------------------
(2)  Field trial results,       University
(3) Pilot demonstration
pond performance,
(4) Pilot fish TCCA-KSS,
4 months after the field
,,ork of (b) was started.
Sub-total                                                                                                                25
(d) Final review of:
(1)  Ponds to be rehabil-        Dacca                9             Same as (a),       District Fishery Officers          2
itated.                                                                           IRDP-DPD                           2
(2)  Pond management ex-                                            Directorsof        Thana Fishery Officers             7
tension material.                                             Fishery
(3)  Production and finan-                                          Directors of       IRDP-TPO                           7
cial performance of                                           IRDP
pilot fish TCCA-KSS.
(4) Fishery program for
Year Three through
Year Five.
Sub-total                                                                                                                18
Total Year Two                                                                                                           25
-216-



ANNEX 18
Table 4
BANGLADESH                                 Page 3 of 3 pages
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Table 4--Fishery Officer Training Program (Continue)
Year Three, Four, Five
Location         Duration                                             Trainee
Training Subject                   of               of              Trainer                    Title                  No
Training         Training
(days)
Yew Three
(a)  Training on:                                          If
(1)  Fish pond management.    Separately             9            TFO                 Fish TCCA-KSS Managers          100
(2)  Supply of fish fry,       at 7 TTDCs                          IRDP-TPO           Fish TCCA-KSS Pond Keepers    100
inputs, rural credit,                                                            (average 30 per thana)
Co-op marketing,
account keeping.
Sub-total                                                                                                             200
I/
(b)  Refresher course for           Mymensingh           9              Same as            District Fishery Officers         2
Fishery Officers.               University                         Year Two           IRDP-DPD                          2
(a)               Thana Fishery Officers             7
IRDP-TPO                          7
Sub-total                                                                                                              18
Total Year Three                                                                                                      218
Year Four
(a)  Same as (a) under               Each TTDC            9             TFo                New Fish TCCA-KSS Managers    200
Year Three.                    will hold                           IRDP-TPO                              Pond Keepers 200
2 sessions
each of
about 30
trainees
Sub-total                                                                                                             400
(b)  Same as (b) under
Year Three.
Sub-total                                                                                                              18
Total Year Four                                                                                                       418
Year Five
(a) and (b) same as Year Four.
418
Total Year Five
1/ Including 2 days of travel from duty station to training location and back.
-21 7-



ANNEX 19
Page 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
1.        Technical assistance is needed for implementing various components
of this project. Most participat-Lng agencies responsible for implementing
these components already have international or bilateral projects providing
assistance to them. These projects have a national scope and most have or
will have a team of expatriate experts.
2.        Unless otherwise stated., this project would not hire consultants
of its own but would utilize the expert teams of other international or
bilateral projects for providing technical assistance. This approach would
avoid different foreign assistance projects providing different advice to
the same GOB agency for the same line of work.
3.        GOB has reached agreement with the various expatriate projects to
provide technical assistance for various project components as follows:
(a) Agricultural Extension -- The UNDP/FAO Extension Project
in the Ministry of Agriculture for strengthening the national
extension system is expected to provide technical backstopping
for the project extension officers, particularly in planning
the TEO/TAO/UAA/VEA and model farmer training, and setting
up training farms at ATIs and TTDCs in the seven thanas.
The UNDP Senior Land-Use Advisor would assist KSS land-use
planning, particularly for expansion of the HYV aman and
aus paddy. The IRRI team in the Bangladesh Rice Research
Institute (BRRI) would assist in extension officer training
and training of IRDP officers in the use and management of
processing equipment. The Ministry has established a
committee to coordinate the work of the international and
bilateral agencies' projects for crop research, extension
and training.
(b) Livestock -- The West German Livestock Team currently
assisting the Savar Central Livestock Farm near Dacca
agreed to provide technical assistance to the Livestock
Department in the project, particularly in procurement
use and maintenance of the equipment and apparatus, and
in the full range of training as given in Table 3, Annex 18.
-218-



ANNEX 19
Page 2
(c) Minor Irrigation -- The GOB is negotiating for a UNDP/FAO
project to assist BADC in improving the operation and main-
tenance of the low-lift pumps and tubewells. The services
of experts are expected to be made available in the project
thanas.
(d) Rural Works Program -- In implementing the Rural Works
Program, the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives would be assisted by local consulting firms.
The Bank staff resident in Dacca would be available for
consultation with the Ministry and the local consultants.
The USAID/CARE has agreed that their experience in this
field would be available for consultation by the project.
(e) IRDP/TCCA/KSS -- Swedish bilateral aid (Swedish International
Development Agency - SIDA) is preparing an education and
training project of its own to improve IRDP and the TCCA
system. GOB would seek its assistance when the SIDA project
is finalized.
(f) Rural Credit -- The project would provide two short-term
expatriate consultants positions, one to train the IRDP,
Sonali Bank and TCCA staff in new procedures and another
for follow-up supervision.
4.        If necessary, the project would provide for the local travel and
per diem according to UNDP rates to expatriate experts who visit the proj-
ect thanas at the request of participating agency, through CPEC of the
project or IDA.
Training Abroad
5.        Under the project, ten GOB technical officers would be sent to
selected Asian countries for training and observing how similar works are
being done in other countries with small farms. The ten officers would
include, tentatively, two each among the extension officers, livestock
officers, fishery officers, IRDP officers, and BADC officers. They would
be selected on the basis of performance in project works during the first
two years. Out of country training for three months would begin in Year
Three. These training programs would be worked out timing project imple-
mentation.
Cost Estimates
6.        See Table 1.
April 1976
-219-



ANNEX 19
Table 1
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Cost Estimates--Technical Assistance
Cost (Tk million)
Taxes &
Local   Foreign   Duties  Total
i.  Per diem for experts from other         0.54          -      -     0.54
aid agencies 1/
ii.  Short-term consultant for Rural             -      0.70      -      0.70
Credit 2/
iii.  Training Abroad 3/                          -      0.50      -      0.50
iv. Base Cost Estimates                      0.54       1.20      -      1.74
v. Physical Contingencies                   0.05       0.12       -     0.17
(10% of iv)
vi.  Price Contingencies                     0.39       0.50       -     0.89
vii. Total Cost--Technical Assistance
(iv + v + vi)                           0.98       1.82      -     2.80
1/ Average of 360 mandays/year at Tk 300/day.
2/ Two man-months for the first year and one man-month per year for the
next four years.
3/ Ten trainees (two each from Agricultural Extension, Fisheries,
Livestock, IRDP, and BADC) for three months training in countries
of similar farming conditions. Estimated cost Tk 50,000/trainee.
-220-



(~~~~~~~~~~   Polo. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1975
N                                                                                                                             -    t
G.b\ih                       ~     >IJdgolue           N- M             LMH  NI0                                                                                 Dh pEh ~
Eaninogor                                                                                                                                                                  I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  kA~~~~~~~~ Sh-.rj
08)0       RHUTAN~                                                                               pu  RRA  DEELPM N  POJC         E,-~ Ih - --- ph
'N~~~(  0    50   100   150  BO GRA  THANAS  __________________~         ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~               ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~N
____________  MYMENSINGH THANAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIGH                                                                                                                     C
00G0~ ~~~
A"RJC~           MN 
BHUTAN A   S-a,                     -                                                                                                                                                         -- IISO-BUDAIS--s--- AIRAD-onr-g
-~                   DIST~R RICT OUDAREVELOP ENTIPOJEC
j   0  ~O    1~0   15           BO R          THANAS BOUNDARIESH THANA ADARES   I. , .                                                                                  
IMI.LEI 
L\                                  LEVE BARIN  TRACTMADHUrR TRAC
B-C             TISTA FLOOD PLAIN (NORTH)                  HIGH PARTS OF~~~in eOL  remn BoHAURA FLOeODne PyLAINo----0 
-  -                                       Woeld Ron), sod ie.offlteateo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oPk.dI






IBRD  1600
8 20'                      89'25'              \           0   RA   N   G A P U89 35                            8940'                JUNE 1975
BAN GLADES H
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                  Rm               c-'
2455'                                                                                                                                                                                                           2V21
IMPROVED KATCHA ROADS
IMPROVED PUJOCA ROADS                                                                                                                  0llK,(
IMPROVED DRAINS
PAVED ROADS
KATCHA ROADS
2450'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g0
PATS
N=     CULVERTSANDBRIDGES                        a                                                      t
tlr---I---- RAILROADS -'
RIVERS AND KHA1S
BRAHMAPUTRA FLOOD EMBANKMENT                         B                     r         f
-DIVISION BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                          .        '      RT                    K n,,IS.., k
-244    .45..THANA BOUNDARIES                                                                     ,,.                                                     , ,  .                                 K
0         2          4          6 S
24'40'
wI 3B0                                       /
R~~~RR~~~IfD~~~~            89-15-                      89-20'925                                                  89 3D0'       /            891
I                   ~        ~        ~~I                                                                                  I_____________






90-20.             *. 9q025                                                       ^                         5'30                                                 90'35
2X44 *_. .., *';  ' --   >  ------------e    auobr                      r            /B                                                                    N    L    D 5                                44
-24'40O                                                                                                                                                                                                         2440
.~lbo~  a                                                                     BANGLADESH
/.                                               \ 2,                                          ;s \  ux  '< RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.a.on~ -  s.' S  D  <   XMYMENSINGH THANAS
*Dh-lkhd.~
S :-   Dhomkh<ic >   \@   (tKonnr  a 4          thoX  mirn                                                       -   -^ -    Improved drains
,Sonrhariopcfr: z ~L < Konfhel,~ 5WImproved katcha rocads
Amdhopsoo  Boo   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Metalled roads
':  ,                      l \  I  /           \    \    r\        <    ~     r                                  -         - Unmetalled rocds
I                                                                                 -.----.----'--.-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroad
R.dh.k-n      4'             7/----o-  33 (V lines, existing
Rodhpjam S   \ ,      <       -Hdd abh,to                   /                                                                           ---   33 KV lines, planned
I   S    A  L                                               ------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers ord khals
........... Thana boundcries
-          5 -a  n- ---District boundary
-24.35'                                                                                                                                                                                                          24'5'
tRlSAL,~~~~~~~~h. R1L
, XChEna Monoher |                      5 5 5R\   mpur  ;    Chok eI,p4r     I
/,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/ '' ,  Satin  cr5  Bs    r\             gas    mrs            -.                                                                            .       .
NGa'd5jt~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~H. .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kdp, -uuPr   -gobhH                                 - - -  - - - --- 
u rj a    r    o       \\\          *Z*           S f           t/; Parsbhars. a
D            h~~~~~~~~-it7r.                                |          -'  7
-24 25                                                                             lo3h9a,47aaA05 2  3  I  I                                                 U
NE/AL  '  E-OO0AinO ~~~~      KILOMETERS                                                                                                            1   5    niE  > ~ ssisl    B.Iip...   Sh,rs- i~B~ss'a'o
- 4'20e               ______|__________________                                                                                                                                                                  24_20_-
_13 x    3hTAN          9dI                                                                                          /.z1 J*
$\;ll  7 m |                                                                t~~~~~                     ~           ~        ~ ~                 ~          ~~~~~~~~Gh-p.,)B=it  
' ,r                       /Av1                                                                                             ,a1                                                               '
- t_S *xt__I_N  I A(  r
A S   0-In   0,.aS.;1
22'   f>\WtX     N\                           ani r O
i N! D I' ~    ~        t  D 
8.   A y    csde 80acwbCg.lth 
lNDI~~~~~~~~~~~"  0~~~~~~~~~caO   N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   555~~~~~Z~0
W                                                                                                              900 n       70 03                                                  






IBRD 11615
90'05'                                                90'lO'                                                 90--5' s 7L X                                     JU'9NE  1975
,--' \. 4.                               MYMENSINGH- KOTWALI
24'50'  ~   ~            ~           ~          /~½...THANA
-24-50'                                                                   J0 7gSankcrpur/                                                                             24°50
handbri
JAMALPUR  THANA NA                                                                     h                       9...                             'N
BalyaBilsh   ur     ,     Tooi
\    /Srin lhbori )                                \               UKTMKGACHA   -                                ,
24 45'                                                            Chandrabori    R
t S / 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Baril Bil /A -   
t  >   '   \    /  /        9_/>   s>) /                        L -."e                    \.- 
M  U  K TAG                                    C            A~Ki9t
\   < uXGabX ~~~~~~XT H A    " 'A V                                          |--
Ch ndpu)/               f         <,                            r     
/     Soitchapro                    t\        f  (^
MADHUPU R                                 rvrau    *  
THANA                                            ~~~~ahapur..2. 
I\            N                 / Xa 
24-40 U                                            Gobr,d                  B *          P U B R                                                                       24'40'
>ae PHULBA RIA
|7 Pabaijarn     T H A N A
BANGLADESH
T b-rdariew-o1th55                      \ dN w                                               RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
90`105'  WWora8nhk-dft,ffdlikt-s                S         ----o1       *-  g/>MUKTAGACHA   THANA
883     \       B H U TAN       92 i                                  *          \
NEPAL.       *_;.-.        _   _ -I                Mahespur-'                                                               Improved  drains
oJ -.Sli Og, 150Kilo                                                                                 meters J  :  Improved katcha roads
11 tN D I A                                                                                    Metalled roads
S> rJ  9    t;;NkJktraracR                     >v                                                                   Unmetalled reads
-.-,,---- --I.I-I-- Railroad
>>    pEOJE  AREAr ; n  .r'~                                                                              e  0        132 KV line under construction or planned
-e-  - - (   c    K 33KV lines under construction or planned
)' D c       1 -°'|2 Rivers and khols                   24°3s
IN (A                                                                                                         1t ffi ) .............. .Thana boundary
9'--   District boundory
0          1         2         3         4          5.
~~# *~~~~esogat  A,,~~~~~~~~~        I.                          0      1     2 ~~~~~~~MILES
9C1O'                                                 9'5KILOM ETERS                                         9'0



