CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 631 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Rural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 197b


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1976, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
,Nw


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "BADC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporation established by the law of the Borrower;
(b) "BJSB" means the Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Bank;
(c) "BKB" means the Bangladesh Krishi Bank;
(d)  "CCB" means a Central Cooperative Bank under BJSB;
(e)  "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program,
an agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives;


﻿-3-
(f) "KSS" means a Krishak Samabaya Samiti (farmers' coopera-
tive society at village level);
(g) "Project Area" means the area of about 612,000 acres
comprising Kotwali, Sherpur, Gabtali, and Sariakandi thanas in
Bogra District and Muktagachha, Trishal and Gaffargaon thanas
in Mymensing District;
(h) "Taka" means Taka in the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "TCCA" means a Thana Central Cooperative Association;
(j) "TIP-KSS" means an irrigation pump cooperative society
outside the TCCA framework; and
(k) "UMPCS" means a Union Multipurpose Cooperative Society.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for ex-
penditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a ser-
vice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1986, and ending May 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, fi-
nancial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in, (i)
implementing the rural works and thana facilities programs, and
(ii) training of TCCA-KSS staff in rural credit operations, the
Borrower shall employ engineering and financial consultants, re-
spectively, whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in implementing parts
of the Project other than those referred to in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall, as and when needed, seek technical
assistance from the experts stationed in its territories under
projects being financed from other external assistance.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purposes of coordinating the par-
ticipation of the Borrower's agencies responsible for implementa-
tion of any part of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain a Central Project Coordination Committee (CPCC) under the
co-chairmanship of the Secretary, Local Government, Rural Develop-
ment and Cooperatives Division and the Secretary, Agriculture
Divisiou.


﻿-7-
(b) For the purpose of better coordination in implementation
of the Project, the Borrower shall, in consultation with the Asso-
ciation, establish and maintain, (i) a Central Project Executive
Committee (CPEC), with adequate staff, under the chairmanship of
the Director General, IRDP, (ii) two District Project Executive
Committees (DPEC), one each in Bogra and Mymensing Districts, each
under the chairmanship of the respective Deputy Commissioner, an).d
(iii) seven Thana Project Executive Committees (TPEC), one each in
the seven thanas in the Project Area each under the chairmanship
of the respective Circle Officer (Development).
(c) The Borrower shall issue or cause to be issued to the
Central, District and Thana Project Executive Committees necessary
orders on the detailed procedures acceptable to th, Association
for implementation of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-                                          0
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched--
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or ad-
ditions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited re-
presentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and upon request shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
and without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section


﻿()                                       -9-
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) establish or cause
to be established two funds (hereinafter called the Rural Credit
Fund and the Project Fund, respectively) in commercial banks to
be used for the sole purpose of making payments of local expendi-
tures for goods and services required for the Project, (ii) deposit
or cause to be deposited in the said Funds, not later than the fifth
day of each month, such amounts as shall be required to maintain the
said Funds at a level which will be sufficient to meet local expen-
ditures expected to be incurred by the Borrower in respect of Part
A and Parts B through E of the Project, respectively, during the
next three months, as estimated on the basis of the Project work
schedules, (iii) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices, the operations and financial condition of the said
Funds, and (iv) authorize the Director General of IRDP, or such other
person as the Director General of IRDP shall designate in writing, to
make withdrawals from the said Funds for purposes of carrying out the
Proj ect.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) implement the rural works, minor irrigation and thana faci-
lities programs included in the Project in accordance with procedures
and timetables to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association;
(b) implement the rural credit program included in the Project
in accordance with procedures, and upon terms and conditions, to be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and


﻿- 10                                       0
(c) strengthen the operation of TCCA-KSS cooperative system,
intensify the agricultural extension services, improve livestock
and veterinarian services, and increase the pond fish production,
in the Project Area, in accordance with procedures and timetables
to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower undertakes to ensure that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, during the implementa-
tion of the Project, BADC and BKB shall not extend credit to the
farmers in the Project Area for the purchase of shallow tubewells.


﻿*                           -11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the ministries,
institutions and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof to maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices their operations and financial condi-
tion related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the ministries, institutions
and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and fi-
nancial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements), related to the Project, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all measures necessary to ensure the adequate operation,


﻿- 12-
maintenance and repair of works, buildings, installations and
equipment included in the Project in accordance with sound fi-
nancial and engineering practices.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to make satisfactory arrange-
ments for an adequate supply of fuel, oil and spares in order to
maintain pumps and wells installed under the Project for the pur-
poses of minor irrigation.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) within on.e year from the Effective Date, or such other
date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association for
its concurrence proposals for the management of rural markets to
be constructed under the Project together with a schedule of fees
to be levied by the Borrower for the use of said markets; and
(b) within three years from the Effective Date, or such
other date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Associa-
tion a plan for collection of fees in the Project Area sufficient
to recover the operation and maintenance costs of equipment and
vehicles in use for the livestock disease control and insemination
programs established under the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, within six months of the
Effective Date, furnish to the Association for its approval a
detailed plan for the evaluation of the Project, with particular
emphasis on the impact on small farmers and rural landless peo-
ple, and shall evaluate the impact of the Project on the basis
of such plan.


﻿-13 -
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, (i) within one year
from the date of this Agreement or such other date as the Asso-
ciation may agree, prepare or cause to be prepared an inventory
of all overdue and outstanding institutional debt owed by farmers
in the Project Area; (ii) establish guidelines satisfactory to
the Association for the repayment, including rescheduling, of in-
stitutional debt under appropriate circumstancez; (iii) in re-
spect of such farmers in the Project Area who are in default on
institutional debt, cause agencies that are owed such debt to
either recover all overdue payments or adjust repayment obliga-
tions in accordance with said guidelines; (iv) ensure that no
funds from the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent to farmers
who are in default in respect of institutional debt; and (v) en-
sure that no farmer shall be permitted to become a member of a
TCCA-KSS in the Project Area if he is in default in respect of
institutional debt after reasonable efforts have been made by
the creditor involved to rectify the situation in accordance
with said guidelines.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, "institutional debt"
means an agricultural loan extended to a farmer by, (i) BJSB/CCB
through a UMPCS or a TIP-KSS, or (ii) the Sonali Bank through a
TCCA-KSS.
Section 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to ensure that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Village Extension
Agents employed in the Project Area shall be assigned only such
duties as are directly related to agricultural extension work.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Rural Credit Fund and the Project Fund referred to
in Section 3.07 of this Agreement have been established and an
initial amount of Taka 4 million each has been deposited in each
said Fund;
(b) the Borrower has issued necessary orders to the Central,
District and Thana Project Executive Committees referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement on the detailed procedures ac-
ceptable to the Association for implementation of the Project; and
(c) the Borrower has furnished to the Association guidelines
satisfactory to the Association in respect of recovery of institu-
tional debt referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date August 3, 1976 is hereby specif±ed for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as re-
presentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-16-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Isf M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 5,000,000         70%
(2) Vehicles, equipment         6,000,000
and materials
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) manufactured                             100% of local
locally                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally pro-                             70% of local
cured                                   expenditures
(3) Short-term rural            1,600,000         50% of net in-
credit                                       cremental loan
disbursements


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) consulting services,          400,000         100% of foreign
technical assistance                         expenditures
and project evalua-                          and. 70% of local
tion                                         expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 3,000,000
TOTAL      16,000,000


﻿-19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "net incremental loan disbursements" means the
increase in lending for transplanted aman in any year over that
of the highest lending volume in the previous year. For year one
it would be the incremeLt over the 1975 transplanted aman loans
made by the Sonali Bank in the Project Area.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in comp-
liance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 20-
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opin-
ion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would other-
wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿-21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A.   A five year program of credit through the Sonali Bank
to TCCA-KSS members in the Project Area comprising,
(i) short-term credit for financing seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, and other cash inputs, and (ii) medium-
term credit for financing about 2,500 new 1/2 cusec
shallow tubewells, about 5,000 one and one-half inch
diameter hand pumps and simple processing equipment.
Part B.   Rehabilitation of 6 miles of metaled roads and consFruc-;
tion of 9 miles of new roads with 15 bridges to connect
Gabtali and Sariakandi thanas to the Bogra district head-
quarters; improvement of about 300 miles of earth dirt
roads including installation of about 600 culverts; re-
habilitation of about 500 acres of derelict fish ponds;
construction of 40 paved rural markets; and improvement
of about 60 miles of drainage channels.
Part C.   Replacement of about 805 existing two cusec low-lift
pumps with about 1,400 one cusec pumps.
Part D.   Completion of four Thana Training and Development Centers
and four houses for the Circle Officers (Development);
completion of 11 twin-type residential quarters for the
departmental officers; construction of four 3,200 sq. ft.


﻿- 22 -
each storage space fertilizer warehouses and seven 2,000
sq. ft. each general stores at the headquarters of the
Thana Central Cooperative Associations.
Part E.   Strengthening of rural institutions and services through
acquisition and utilization of equipment and vehicles for
field officers; improvement of livestock through control
of major diseases; survey of fish ponds and demonstration
of pond fish culture; training of extension, livestock
and fisheries officers and TCCA-KSS managers, accountants
and inspectors and model farmers; and utilization of con-
sultant services in implementation of rural works and
thana facilities programs and in training of TCCA-KSS
staff in rural credit operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods, works and
services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement ProceOlures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than $10,000 equivalent may be let through normal government pro-
curement procedures, provided that the aggregate of such contracts
shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for civil works (except earthworks) and vehicles
may be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the


﻿- 24 -
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bangladesh equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Bangladesh.


﻿- 25 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each
group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an
amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importa-
tion of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes ex-
ceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further compari-
son is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the
bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under puragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Execution of earthworks (earth roads, fish ponds and drain im-
provements) may be carried out in accordance with the usual proce-
dures of the Borrower for such works.


﻿- 26 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works and for contracts
for dquipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a de-
tailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 27 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the. first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recomiandations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


