Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15307-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMUNIA
BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
July 8, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 8, 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Leu (ROL)
ROL 1,000   =  US$ 0.33
US$1   =  ROL 3,041
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
ROL per US$1
1992         1993         1994       1995
308          760          1660       2070
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CIF  - Cost, Insurance and Freight
CLMB  - Bucharest Municipal Council (Consiliul Local al Municipiului Bucuresti)
FESAL  - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FIP  - Financial Improvement Plan
FRP  - Financial Recovery Plan
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IRR  - Internal Rate of Return
IS - International Shopping
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
MOH  - Ministry of Health
MOPWRD  - Ministry of Public Works and Regional Development
MOWFEN  - Ministry of Water, Forests, and Environment
NCB  - National Competitive Bidding
OED  - Operations Evaluation Department
PCU  - Project Coordination Unit
PIP  - Project Implementation Plan
RA  - Regia Autonomd
RADET  - Bucharest District Heating Company (Regia Autonoma de Distribupie a
Energiei Termice)
RATB  - Bucharest Public Transport Company (Regia Autonomna de Transport
Bucureti)
RGAB  - Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company (Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti)
RENEL  - Romanian National Power Company (Regia Nationala de Electricitate)
STAP  - Short-Term Action Program
VAT  - Value-Added Tax
ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................... i
PART I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND .1
A.  Country and Sector .1
B.   Water Supply in Bucharest.                                                3
C.   Development Strategy Issues.                                              5
D.    Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy.                                   7
E.      Bank Experience in the Sector and Lessons Learned.                     8
PART II. THE PROJECT.                                                                       9
A. Project Origin.                                                             9
B.   Project Rationale and Objectives.                                         9
C.  Project Description .10
D.  Cost Estimates .11
E.   Project Financing Arrangements .12
F.  Environmental Aspects .13
PART III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS .15
A.   Organization and Management .15
B. Procurement .15
C.       Disbursements    ......................................   17
D.      Project Monitoring, Supervision and Auditing .19
PART IV. FINANCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS .20
A.  General Aspects .20
B.    RGAB's Past Financial Performance .20
C.  Tariff Schedule and Level .22
D.    RGAB's Future Financial Performance .23
PART V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .27
A.  Project Benefits .27
B. Project Risks .29
PART VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . .31



ANNEXES:
1.    Environmental Review
2.    Financial Analysis
3.    Economic Evaluation
4.    Quarterly Disbursement Estimates
5.    Project implementation Plan (PIP)
5.1       Detailed Project Description
5.2       Procurement Plan
5.3       Sunmmary Implementation Plan
5.4       Disbursement Plan
5.5       Performnance Monitoring Indicators
5.6       Reporting Plan
5.7       Technical Assistance Terms of Reference:
(a)   Project Coordination Unit
(b)   Public Awareness Campaign/Financial Incentive and Tariff Studies
(c)   Operational Assistance and Training
6.    Short-Term Action Program (STAP)
7.    Project Supervision Plan
8.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP:
Map IBRD 27830 Romania - Bucharest Water Supply Project
CHARTS:
Chart A Organizational Structure of RGAB
This document is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Romania from December 4 to 15, 1995. Members of the
mission included Felix A. Jakob (Task Manager); Augusta Dianderas (Water Sector Specialist); Pascal Douard (Municipal
Engineer); Bernardo Gomez (Financial Analyst); Anca Dumitrescu (Project Officer, Romania Resident Mission); and Kristalina
Georgieva (Environmental Specialist). Mirtha Pokorny (ECIIN) helped in the preparation of the economic evaluation and Anita
George (EClIN) in that of the final results of the financial analysis. Peer reviewers were Vincent Gouarne (EMTIE), Peter
Koenig (EMTAW), and Guillermo Yepes (TWUWS). The Division Chief is Ricardo A. Halperin and the Department Director
is Kenneth Lay. The project was prepared with the support of a Japanese Government PHRD Grant to Romania.



ROMANIA
BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Executive Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Romania
Beneficiary and       Regia Generall de Apa Bucuresti - RGAB (Bucharest Water and
Implementing Agency:  Sewerage Company)
IBRD Loan Amount:   US$ 25 million
Lending Terms:        Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency loans.
On-Lending Terms:    To RGAB, for twenty years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency loans.
Project Objectives:   The primary objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the reliability and
quality of water supply in Bucharest; (b) progressively reduce water losses
(both physical and commercial); and (c) strengthen RGAB's operational,
commercial and financial management.
Project Description:    To achieve these objectives, the project would comprise the following
components:
(a)  Improvement of water supply reliability and quality - through the
rehabilitation of water treatment plants and water pumping stations (US$
14.5 million; 33% of base cost);
(b)  Reduction of water losses - through (i) the repair and replacement of
deteriorated sections of the primary and secondary distribution network
in several neighborhoods of Bucharest; and (ii) the replacement of meters
foi residential and commercial consumers; (US$ 24.9 million; 57% of
base cost); and
(c)  Institutional Strengthening of RGAB - through technical assistance to
improve the company's customer account management for the
reorganization of billing and collection operations, develop the
effectiveness of its operational management, and prepare and implement
public awareness and water conservation programs, (US$ 4.1 million;
9% of base cost).
Project Benefits:     The project supports the rehabilitation of infrastructure which has been
identified as a priority in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
project benefits for RGAB would consist in (a) decreases in operating costs as
a result of the progressive reduction of physical and commercial water losses;
and (b) increases in RGAB revenues from the improvement in the company's
commercial and financial management. The IRR, that has been calculated
with very conservative assumptions for the project components with
quantifiable benefits (76% of total base cost), is about 12%. The benefits for



ii
the consumer, though not quantifiable, are significant and include improved
reliability of water supply in terms of daily hours of adequate supply and
pressure, as well as an improvement in water quality and concurrent reduction
of public health risks arising from water-borne diseases.
Environmental Impact: The project has been classified as a category "B" project. An environmental
review has been carried out consistent with the provisions of the World Bank's
O.D. 4.01 "Environmental Assessment" and the applicable environmental
procedures of the Government of Romania.
Project Risks:         The principal risks faced by the proposed project are of two kinds: financial
risks: although assurances have been given, and official commitments made,
by both the Romania Government and the Bucharest municipality as to the
availability of counterpart funding, Bank-experience shows that the possibility
of a future shortfall of such resources either at the central government level
(owing to a deterioration of the country's macro-economic conditions) or at
the Bucharest municipality level (owing to local fiscal difficulties) can never
be ruled out entirely; and technical risks: even if carefully planned and
prepared, the implementation of a first-time investment operation by a new
beneficiary carries inherent risks, including possible delays in implementation
start-up due to (i) the beneficiary's general inexperience in this type of
activity; and (ii) his lack of practice in dealing with the complexity of the
procurement review and approval process by the Government.
While the technical risks can be mitigated by the build-up of RGAB's
implementation capacity through provision of technical assistance and an early
completion of procurement documents, the project's financial risks are, to a
large extent, not project-, but country-specific. They can only be addressed
through the continuation and intensification of the ongoing dialogue with the
Government and the Bucharest municipality on institutional and financial
management issues for local governments. The risk of a deterioration of
RGAB's financial performance and its ensuing inability to make its financial
contribution to the project is mitigated by (a) the Government, the Bucharest
municipality, and RGAB's to implement the three-year Short-Term Action
Plan (STAP) included in the project; and the implementation of a technical
assistance program for the strengthening of RGAB's customer account
management department that was initiated in January 1996 under funding from
the French Government. Rigorous planning of work execution and continuous
monitoring of project implementation by staff from Bank headquarters and the
Bank Resident Mission in Romania is planned.
Project ID Number      RO-PA-8778



Project Cost and Financing:
----------------USS Millions----------------
Project Components                          Local         Foreign        Total      % Foreign
A. Improvement of Water Supply Reliability    6.4          8.1           14.5        56
B. Reduction of Water Losses                 13.2         11.7           24.9        47
C. Institutional Strengthenirg of RGAB        1.4          2.8            4.2        67
Base Cost                            21.0          22.6          43.6         52
D. Physical Contingencics                    2.0           1.0            3.0
E. Price Contingencies                        1.6          1.8            3.4
Total Project Cost                   24.6          25.4          50.0         51
Financing Plan:
----------------US$ Millions----------------
Local        Foreign         Total      % Total
IBRD                                                      25.0           25.0        50
Government                                   15.0                        15.0        30
Bucharest Municipality                        7.5                         7.5        15
RGAB                                          2.1          0.4            2.5         5
Total                                        24.6         25.4           50.0        100
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year              1997           1998         1999           2000        2001
Annual                        4.0            9.5           7.5           3.0          1.0
Cumulative                    4.0            13.5         21.0           24.0         25.0
Intemal Rate of Return:     about 12 %
Poverty Category:            nla






ROMANIA
BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country and Sectoral Context
1.1           Country Profile. With a land area of 283,000 km2 and a population of about 23 million,
Romania is the second largest country in Eastern Europe, after Poland. Until World War 11 a country
with an agriculture-dominated economy, Romania underwent, under the communist rule, a process of
forced industrialization that inter alia resulted in an increase of the urbanization rate from 23 % in 1948
to 54% in 1990. Following the overturn of the Ceaucescu regime in 1989 the economy suffered a decline
of about 40% over the first three years of transition. Since then it has resumed growing reaching in 1994
a growth rate of 4% and a GDP per capita of about US$ 1,450. The growth rate is estimated to have
reached 5% in 1995 and could stay at that level for the rest of the decade if sound economic policies
continue to be followed. Inflation that was at 260% in 1993, decreased to 137% in 1994, and to 31%
in 1995. The economic transition has not gone without deeply affecting the population's living standards.
According to the Bank's 1995 Poverty Assessment, average household income in 1993 stood, in real
terms, at about 80% of that of 1989, while over the same interval the level of poverty had countrywide
increased from about 4% to about 22%. In 1995 Romania became an associate member of the European
Union and it is expected that this will contribute to accelerate the transition to a market economy.
1.2           In parallel to taking the necessary measures to stabilize the economy, the Government has
moved on a number of structural reforms. Significant progress has been made in price reform (including
the reduction of controls on industrial and agricultural products, energy price increases to acceptable
levels and virtual elimination of consumer subsidies) and tax reform. The most difficult challenges have
been the enforcement of enterprise financial discipline and the acceleration of privatization, two issues
that are now addressed, in coordination with the IMF, under the Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL) which was approved by the Board on January 18, 1996.
1.3           Local Government. In 1991 Romania reverted to local autonomy as a basic principle
of governance and established a two-tiered system of public administration, within which the central
governmert and State administration is paralleled by a system of local government. The local government
system is comprised of two distinct, non-hierarchically organized segments: district governments (judefe)
and municipalities (municipii, orare, and comune).' Districts, of which there are forty-one (including
Bucharest), are responsible for matters of regional/sub-regional interest, whereas municipalities, totalling
close to 3,000, are in charge of matters of local interest. Because of its role as the country's capital and
the size of its population, Bucharest has a special status as it combines features of both a district and a
municipality.
1.4           Although endowed, in principle, with autonomy in financial management, local
governments (both districts and municipalities) have little own revenue and therefore rely extensively on
inter-governmental fiscal transfers for both the funding of current and capital expenditures. Financing
The classification reflects population size and geographical importance of the locality, but does not involve any difference
in terms of legal obligations and/or responsibilities of the respective local governments.



2
of major investment projects is almost exclusively secured through project-specific investment grarnts from
the State budget. Because of the decline of the overall economy and the Government's efforts to reduce
inflation, investment appropriations for local infrastructure and services which in comparison to other
countries have traditionally been low in Romania, have shrunk even further in recent years falling from
2.2% of GDP in 19l to 1.9% in 1994. As a result, there is an enormous backlog of investment needs
which, if not addressed, may pose constraints to the resumption of economic growth.
1.5           Provision of Local Public Services. Provision of local public services is a responsibility
of municipalities. Most services are delivered by local utilities, so-called local regie autonome (Ras).
Local RAs were created in 1990 as a result of the break-up of the of the former State enterprise complex.
Local RAs are legally independent entities endowed with a distinct administrative board, but operate
under the overall supervision and regulatory oversight of the municipal governments. They are run, in
principle, on a self-financ..Ag basis and have the legal capacity to raise loans for the financing of their
capital expenditure needs. Tariffs for services are regulated by the-municipal authorities in consultation
with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and, specifically, its Department for Prices and Protection of
Competitiori. Typically, tariffs cover only the operating costs of the utilities, whereas investments for
infrastructure ani equipment, like other municipal investments, are financed, on a grant basis, from the
central government budget and, occasionally, from small contributions by the municipalities themselves.
1.6           The currently existing local RAs result from the dismantling in 1990 of previously State-
owned public service enterprises that until then operated at district level. Because their creation predates
the establishment of the new local government system in 1991, the legal regime under which these local
RAs operate has remained imprecisely defined in certain areas. A definitive ruling on the property
regime of RA assets that were formerly owned by the State is still outstanding and some aspects of the
legal relationship between the local RAs, the overseeing municipal authorities, and the central government
administration still require further clarification, in particular as far as the precise delimitation of the
respective competencies in matters of setting of technical and financial objectives, and monitoring of
management performance is concerned. However, the existence of these deficiencies does not pose any
problem  for the proposed operation.  Moreover, amendments to the existing legislation on local
governments are currently under discussion at the Parliament.
1.7           Like their equivalent operating at national level, most local RAs face severe financial
problems. Their ability to offset cost increases is constrained by a complex approval process that is often
influenced by political concerns about the possible impact of tariff increases. Moreover, they are
confronted with a widespread lack of payment discipline among their customers. As a result, local RAs
face difficulty to meet their financial obligations. Financial shortfalls have been customarily minimized
by cutting maintenance expenditures below acceptable levels and delaying payments to suppliers. Because
of the potentially severe macroeconomic consequences of a continuing build-up of public sector enterprise
arrears, restoring stricter discipline in the financial management of public enterprises is one of the
objectives of the FESAL which includes Financial Recovery Plans (FRP) for a series of RAs.
1.8           Water Sector.  Romania is comparatively well endowed with both surface and
underground water resources, although their distribution across the territory is uneven. Like other natural
resources, water is declared by the Romanian Constitution to be an exclusive and inalienable public
property. There is no single institution specifically responsible for sector policies as a whole. Use of
water resources at the national level is administered and regulated by the Ministry of Water, Forestry and
Environment (MOWFEN) within which a specific body - APELE ROMANE - is in charge of water
management questions. MOWFEN is also responsible for monitoring and enforcing water pollution and



3
quality standards, while specific drinking water standards are monitored by the Ministry of Health
(MOH). Provision of water supply, sewerage and waste water treatment services is a responsibility of
municipal governments. Operational quality standards and norms for water and sewerage utilities are set
by the Ministry of Public Works and Regional Development (MOPWRD), while the financial aspects of
local utility management are monitored by MOF.
1.9          Water resource management by APELE ROMANE is organized on a watershed basis with
specific bodies set up for each of the country's eleven major river basins. These bodies are in charge
of regulating water allocation to different users as well as acting as executing agencies for all investment
programs related to water resource management. Water is provided by APELE ROMANE to municipal
water companies for an abstraction fee. Charges for water abstraction are set by the Government on a
countrywide unitary basis (currently ROL 5,967 per 1,000 m3 for domestic consumption and ROL 16,271
per 1,000 m3 for industrial use). Fees for waste water discharges and pollution are regulated similarly.
Though most legislation regarding water resource management still dates back to the previous regime,
a new law on water resources is presently under preparation. A new law on the protection of the
environment was approved in December 1995. Romania has ratified the 1992 Convention on the use and
protection of international rivers and lakes. It is member of the Black Sea Convention and has ratified
the 1994 Danube River Protection Convention.
1.10         Water supply conditions in Romania are poor by international standards. Only about 50%
of the total population has access to piped drinking water supply with the proportion going from about
80% for urban areas, to only about 20% in rural areas. However, such statistics must be interpreted with
caution. Indeed, because of the general dilapidation of water supply systems, the quality of water
available in urban areas is considered, in many cases, to be inferior to that of the water obtained from
sources or wells in rural areas. The service level for sewerage is significantly lower with only about 40%
of households connected and most of them located in urban areas. Wastewater treatment is similarly
insufficient as highlighted by the studies carried out under the Environmental Program for the Danube
River Basin. According to available statistics, about two hundred municipal waste water treatment plants
are currently operating. However, they are, in a large proportion, equipped for primary treatment only
and, therefore, have a relatively reduced effect on pollution abatement.
B. Water Supply in Bucharest
1.11         The City. Bucharest, as the capital of Romania and the country's largest urban center,
has a population of about 2.1 million which represents about 10% of the total population. At present,
Bucharest counts some 750,000 households of which over 80% live in multi-level apartment buildings
(blocs) built during the last forty years predominantly with industrial pre-fabrication techniques.
Population growth since 1989 has stagnated in reaction to the decline of the economy and the shrinking
of the labor market in the industrial sector. Given the prevailing demographic dynamics (with a natural
growth rate of close to zero) and the weak prospects in Bucharest for a rapid resumption of labor-
intensive activities, no significant urban growth is expected. Despite the extensive loss of employment,
Bucharest has suffered comparatively less from the economic transition than other parts of the country
and, in 1994, less than 10% of its population was estimated to live below the poverty level.
1.12         Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company (Regia GeneralA de ApE-Bucurelti/RGAB).
The construction of a modem city wide water supply system including a first water treatment plant began
towards the end of the 19th century. The system has been successively expanded and, operated at present



4
by the Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company (Regia Generall de Apa Bucure$ti - RGAB), supplies
drinking water to about 93 % of all households as well as to a large number of industrial, commnercial and
institutional customers. The distribution network has a total length of about 2,700 km. The daily
production of drinking water reaches currently about 1.7 million m3 and relies to about 90% on surface
sources (Arges and Dimbovila rivers) while the remainder is provided through groundwater abstraction.
Water is treated in two relatively old plants (Arcuda, Rosu) that operate between 20% and 40% beyond
their nominal capacity. A complementary third plant (Crivina-Ogrezeni) that should allow to reduce the
pressure on the existing plants, is under construction, but is not expected to become operational before
the turn of the century due to the financial constraints on the central government budget (see para. 1.18).
1.13          Water supply conditions are unsatisfactory in most parts of the city. Service interruptions
are frequent, pressure is poor and in many neighborhoods availability of reliable water supply service is
only intermittent and limited, on average, to twelve hours per day. Paradoxically, this is contrasted by
an extremely high production level which is in excess of 800 liters per capita per day. At least 60% of
.production is estimated to be lost either through leaks in the RGAB distribution network (25 %) or as a
result of building internal leaks, defective appliances and wastage by households and other RGAB
customers (35%). As a result, RGAB produces and distributes about 80% more water than it would need
to do under normal operating conditions (i.e. about 1,7 million m3 instead of about 0.9 million mi3). An
important loss contributing factor is the widely used practice of households to resort to 'coping strategies',
that is to mitigate the effects of the intermittent availability of reliable water supply by stocking reserves
in various recipients and drain most of them at the first sign of resumption of normal service conditions.
1.14          Treatment plants are operating with substandard and worn out equipment. Filtering, in
particular, is inadequate. The distribution network is in a state of advanced dilapidation, primarily owing
to the low quality of the materials used over most of the past forty years and the lack of systematic
maintenance. The quality of water delivered to the consumer is generally poor and, although no specific
data are available, risks of contamination by the intrusion of polluted groundwater in periods of service
interruption are suspected to exist in many areas. Outbreaks of viral hepatitis and acute diarrhea have
been reported, as well as, in 1995, several cases of cholera. Currently, about 85% of the city population
is served by the sewer system, the remainder relying on septic tanks. Waste water treatment, however,
is extremely unsatisfactory. A large-scale treatment plant has been under construction for over ten years
but is unlikely to be completed in the foreseeable future.
1.15           RGAB supplies cold water and provides sewerage services within the boundaries of the
Bucharest municipality. (Hot water is supplied separately by RADET, another local RA that also ensures
district heating for residential, institutional and commercial customers). RGAB was created in 1990 as
a successor to ICAB, the State-enterprise previously in charge of local services in the capital city. RGAB
purchases raw water from APELE ROMANE and treats and distributes it to residential, commercial,
industrial, and institutional customers. (Additionally, it supplies, through separate networks untreated
water to a few specific industrial customers). RGAB has a staff of about 4,800, of which about 4,000
are low-skilled workers (see Chart A). In 1995, RGAB had operating revenues of US$ 49 million
equivalent, operating costs of US$ 46 million equivalent (before depreciation), and total assets with a
book value of US$ 345 million equivalent (see Annex 2).
1.16          RGAB faces institutional and financial problems similar to those of other local Ras in
regard to its legal status, its accountabilities and the legal ownership of its assets. Like other municipal
RAs its revenues only cover its operating expenditure. However, unlike various other local RAs, RGAB
does not receive any subsidy for operational expenditures. Water sale proceeds and sewerage service



5
charges are its only source of revenue. Its financial difficulties result in a large proportion from the fact
that, for a variety of reasons, over 70% of water consumption is not metered and, as a consequence,
customers are billed on a flat-rate basis (including a sewerage surcharge) for a normative consumption
of 170 liters/day/inhabitant which is unrelated to the volume actually consumed. (Additionally, customers
are billed, under the same procedure, for a consumption of 110 liters/day/inhabitant of hot water by
RADET). Bill collection is unsatisfactory, especially from larger institutional consumers. By end of
1995, RGAB's accounts receivable stood at US$ 15 million equivalent. They equaled around 33% of
RGAB's operating revenues and about one-third of them were owed by RADET, RGAB's single largest
customer. To make ends meet, RGAB has been running up arrears with suppliers such as the National
Power Company (RENEL) and its total payables amounted to US$ 17 million equivalent by end of 1995.
1.17         RGAB's tariffs for water and sewerage are uniform and non-discriminating. They have
increased repeatedly since 1990 and, contrary to those of other public services, were allowed to keep up
with inflation, though often with substantial delay (see para. 4.6). To revert the downward trend, tariffs
were increased twice in 1995 leading to an increase of 80% in nominal terms, while total annual inflation
did not exceed 31 %. The current tariffs of US$ 0.12 2 (ROL 355) per m3 for water supply and US$
0.02 (ROL 41) for sewerage services should be sufficient to allow RGAB to cover its operating costs
(before depreciation). Further tariff increases in real terms will be unavoidable but are likely to face
significant resistance as long as income levels stay below pre-1989 levels and quality of services remains
poor. Average household expenditure for water supply and sewerage services (including hot water
purchases from RADET) at present equals about 3% of total average household expenditures, a
proportion that is substantially higher in the lower segments of the income scale. Lest increases in real
tariffs may simply help perpetuate existing inefficiencies, new real tariff adjustments should only be
contemplated after all possible cost reduction alternatives have been implemented, financial discipline
enforced and arrangements made to relate water billings to actual consumption, issues that are addressed
through the Short-Term Action Program (STAP) included in the proposed project (see para. 4.12).
1.18         To date, investments for the Bucharest water supply and sewerage system are financed,
to about 95%, by central government subsidies, the remainder being financed from the Bucharest
municipality's own resources. Over the three-year period 1992-94, the total amount of these investments
was US$ 108 million equivalent (see para. 1.21). A major part of the resources allocated went into the
continuation of works on tv/o large-scale investment projects (Glina wastewater treatment and Crivina-
Ogrezeni water treatment plants). All service infrastructure and equipment is, in principle, municipal
property. Investment execution is managed by the Bucharest municipality as the recipient of the
investment grants, though some delegation of responsibilities to RGAB has occasionally occurred in recent
years. RGAB attempts to break away from the dependency on exclusive government investment funding
and to finance rehabilitation programs from its own resources. It has, in particular, been able to fund
the acquisition and installation of water meters to larger institutional and industrial consumers, as well
the implementation of leak-detection campaigns by private operators. However, given the state of its
finances, its access to commercial credit remains to date extremely limited.
C. Issues of Sector Development Strategy
1.19         General Issues: As mentioned above (see para. 1.5), the provision of local public
services in Romania is a direct responsibility of municipalities and the central government plays, in
2   At the end of June 1996 exchange rate of USS I = ROL 3000



6
principle, only a monitoring role. However, because many decentralization issues have not yet been
resolved, the actual ability of local governments to decide on questions of service organization is
extremely limited. To eliminate existing ambiguities and fill critical gaps amendments to the local
government legislation issued in 1991 were made in April 1996. Also, in keeping with its reform
program for public enterprises that aims at restoring financial discipline in their management and
enhancing their profitability, the Government introduced in 1993 legislation (Law 66/93) that made
mandatory for all RAs the preparation of management contracts linking the pay of the managers to their
performance, assessed according to a set of previously negotiated and agreed performance criteria.
1.20          The Government and the Bucharest municipality recognize that there is a need for
substantial changes to be brought into the institutional setup and policies regulating the provision of
municipal services. In response to 1994 legislation that mandated extensive organizational changes in the
system of local RAs, the Bucharest municipality is studying a redesign of the framework of the legal and
financial relationships with the RAs operating under its supervision (RGAB, RATB, RADET), and how
to contract out to private operators a certain number of its services and, in particular, solid waste
collection. RGAB itself has started in 1995 to restructure its management organization in order to make
itself more responsive to the needs of a company run along commercial and customer-oriented principles
and its general director is performing under a management contract arrangement since end of 1995.
1.21          Financing of Sector Investment. Investment decisions for local utilities are made by
the central govermnent authorities in consultation with the recipient municipalities as well as the
beneficiary RAs. To date, investments are selected primarily according to their technical merits with a
generally modest regaid for economic considerations, including whether they represent the least-cost
solution in terns of capital expenditure or the resulting operational costs for the beneficiary. Another
drawback of the current sys.em of financing is that frequently projects are started without any guarantee
that the required resources will be available over time when needed and, as a result, an excessive amount
of time is needed for their completion. The shortcomings of these policies are illustrated by the cases
of two major investment operations for the Bucharest area, the Glina waste water treatment plant
(estimated cost US$ 220 million equivalent) and the Crivina-Ogrezeni water treatment plant (estimated
cost US$ 100 million equivalent) that were started in 1985 and 1986, respectively, but are still far from
completion.
1.22          The full rehabilitation of the entire water and sewerage system in Bucharest (excluding
waste water treatment) would require investments of over US$ 500 million equivalent, at 1995 prices,
according to studies carried out for the preparation of the proposed project. RGAB and the Bucharest
municipality are aware that such amounts are not affordable presently, and that a comprehensive overhaul
of management practices is warranted. In particular, incentives for a more conmmercially oriented
management must be introduced as a first step to ensure that available resources are used efficiently.
However, in line with the Government's general political strategy, the Bucharest municipality is opting
for a gradual approach to reforms rather than an immediate and wholesale restructuring of the local
services sector. The proposed project will lead to a clear departure from past procedures of infrastructure
financing for local utilities and introduce, for the first time, an explicit linkage between investment costs,
affordability, and the operator's capacity to assume the corresponding financial obligations.
1.23          Private sector involvement in the delivery of local public services is still limited in
Romania. Some small-scale attempts are being made in sectors such as solid waste collection, where
operations can easily be fragmented and the intervention of private operators is facilitated. The water
supply and sewerage sector, however, is unlikely to elicit a major private sector interest in the medium-



7
term for three main reasons: (a) the need to develop the trust in the political commitment to assign the
delivery of vital public services to private sector operators, create the necessary regulatory capacity, and
allow a liberalization of tariffs; (b) the lack of reliable data on (i) the technical and financial performance
of RGAB, (ii) the ownership and value of its fixed assets, (iii) the present and likely future demand for
water, and (iv) the physical condition of the system and the likely costs of its rehabilitation; and (c) the
uncertainty still surrounding the future development of the economy and the ensuing question whether
and to which extent needed price increases would be affordable and politically acceptable.
1.24          RGAB's Development Strategy: The strategy developed by RGAB, which is supported
by the Government and the Bucharest municipality, for overcoming the water supply problems in
Bucharest and improving the enterprise's operational and financial performance represents an important
break with past policies that tried to resolve shortfalls in service quality by investing in increased
production capacity.  RGAB's strategy focusses on rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
infrastructure and reduction of water production and distribution costs and pursues two major objectives:
first, to progressively reduce RGAB's large water losses (and corresponding operating costs) by
(a) improving the maintenance and intensifying the rehabilitation of the existing network; and (b) through
the shift from the flat-rate billing of a theoretical consumption to the billing of the metered actual
consumption creating the financial incentives for consumers to opt for a more rational use of water.
second, to improve the efficiency of RGAB's operations by (a) strengthening the enterprise's
technical, financial and commercial management functions and restructuring it along conmmercial and
consumer-oriented business principles, and (b) streamlining the cost of RGAB's operations to ensure the
provision of water at affordable tariffs, and create the conditions that could facilitate, in the longer-term,
a possible involvement of private sector operators.
D. Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy
1.25          The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Romania, discussed by the Board of
Directors on April 5, 1994, during the presentation of the Romania Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 3723-RO) aims primarily at supporting the Govermnent's structural adjustment program
and macro-economic stabilization objectives. It also identifies rehabilitation of infrastructure as one of
the priority areas for Bank lending. The Bank's support of the strategy has been materialized through
the Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Project (Loan 3363-RO) which financed studies for the
restructuring of the railway sector and urban transport in Bucharest, the Transport (Road Rehabilitation)
Project (Loan 3593-RO), and the Railway Rehabilitation Project presented to the Board on January 18,
1996.  Important issues of public utility management were addressed under the Power Sector
Rehabilitation and Modernization Project presented to the Board on August 29, 1995, and the Financial
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) presented to the Board on January 18, 1996.
1.26         The proposed project is consistent with the objectives of the CAS and in line with the
strategy options adopted for the other above mentioned infrastructure sector projects. It is based on
studies initiated as an outcome of the Bank's ESW in Fall 1990 summarized in the ESW Report
'Romania: The Challenge of Transition' (Report No. 9497-RO). It has also benefitted from informal
sector work on local government development issues that was carried out in 1992.



8
E. Bank Experience in the Sector and Lessons Learned
1.27          The project is the Bank's first operation in the water sector in Romania and, thus, cannot
build up on previous experience. Bank experience in other transition economy countries is also limited
to date, and consists primarily of operations that are in start-up phase and do not yet allow any conclusion
as to their implementation performance. Involvement of other donors in the Romania water thus far has
been modest, too. EBRD is currently funding a Municipal Utilities Project (US$ 28 million equivalent)
for five of the largest secondary cities that was signed in Spring 1995 and which finances rehabilitation
of water supply and waste water treatment. It has also has started the preparation of a second operation
of similar size and scope. Other, bilaterally funded operations include ongoing studies for water supply
and sewerage rehabilitation in various secondary cities.
1.28          In designing the project, attention was paid to general Bank experience in the water and
sanitation sector. A 1995 OED Water Sector Report as well as other Bank surveys have concluded that
although projects have often been successful in achieving their physical objectives, in general, limited
succ,ess has been obtained in improving the institutional performance of the utilities. Some of the reasons
for the less than optimal results were: (i) inadequate linkages between physical and institutional objectives;
(ii) lack of management and financial autonomy of local utilities; (iii) staff inexperience in project
implementation and institutional problem solving; (iv) project complexity; (v) lack of reliable information
on production and consumption patterns that prevented the design of well-focused unaccounted-for-water
reduction prograrns and adequate tariff structures; and (vi) problems related to cost recovery and timely
provision of counterpart funds.
1.29         These lessons have been incorporated, to the extent feasible, into the design of the project
in the following way:
(a)    project components were selected linking physical improvements with the implementation
of institutional, technical and financial measures to improve RGAB's management,
productivity, financial self-sufficiency and expertise in project implementation;
(b)    strong support for the project at the level of the central government, the Bucharest
municipality and RGAB as the implementing agency, was sought at an early stage of
project preparation;
(c)    special attention was given to RGAB's overall financial situation and to set realistic
financial targets, taking into account the constraints for tariff increases stemming from
the overall economic conditions;
(d)    simplicity in project design was sought in view of RGAB's lack of familiarity with Bank
preparation and implementation procedures;
(e)    strengthening the commercial management together with implementation of a metering
program will enable RGAB to monitor its production and acquire a better understanding
of the demand and consumption patterns of its customers; and
(f)    support to public awareness development will build up on, and complement, previous
efforts deployed by RGAB and the Bucharest municipality to better understand customer
satisfaction with local public services and benefit from the experience already acquired.



9
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.1           The proposed project was identified in February 1995 after discussions with officials of
the Government, the Bucharest mumnicipality, and RGAB.  Preparation of feasibility studies was
undertaken with fund.ng from the Japanese PHRD Grant TF 20515 (Bucharest Water Supply and
Sewerage Rehabilitation). Complementary technical assistance for project preparation was provided
through the Japanese PHRD Grant TF 23063 (Local Government Development). Preappraisal was carried
out in June 1995, followed by appraisal in December 1995. Negotiations were held in Washington from
June 10 to 14, 1996.
2.2           The outline and general concept of the proposed project was approved by the Board of
Administrators of RGAB on June 22, 1995 and officially endorsed by the Municipal Council of Bucharest
on October 6, 1995, (CLMB Decision 81/95). It was approved by the Government on March 21, 1996,
(Government Decision 181/96).
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.3           The amount of financial resources that would be required for a full rehabilitation of the
entire Bucharest water supply and sewerage is in excess of US$ 500 million equivalent (para. 1.21).
However, rather than engage in the preparation of a large-scale and complex operation, the Bank and the
Romania Government, together with the Bucharest municipality and RGAB, have agreed to opt for a step-
by-step approach that would consist of a series of separate, sequential projects over a multi-year period.
Each of these projects would build up on, and benefit from, the preceding operations' institutional
achievements and implementation experience and allow to tailor the size, timing, and design features of
these successive projects to the pace of improvement in RGAB's technical and financial performance, its
compliance with project conditionality, and the evolution of the country's economic and institutional
context. The primary reasons that justify such a 'widening circle' approach are that:
(a)   thus far, RGAB has not had any significant experience with the preparation and
implementation of operations funded from external sources and its project management
capacity needs to be progressively built-up;
(b)    without further real tariff increases that are unlikely to be politically and socially
acceptable at this point RGAB can only afford a relatively small project. Tariff increases
will become unavoidable in the longer terrn, however, and it is expected that the display
under the proposed project of a first visible effort to improve water supply conditions,
together with a public outreach program supported by the project, will create the climate
that will facilitate such future tariff increases. Furthermore, there is also a potential for
a significant rationalization of RGAB's operational expenditures, that must (and will
under the proposed project) be explored before raising tariffs any further; and
(c)    RGAB's current financial position is weak and needs to be strengthened before any
significant expansion of its financial commitments can be considered. Likewise, RGAB's
basic managerial informations lack the reliability and relevance required for an efficient



10
management and must be thoroughly overhauled to allow RGAB to achieve a better
operational and financial performance and expand its investments.
2.4           Given the constraints described above, the scope and size of the proposed project have
deliberately been kept narrow to create the framework for a successful project implementation. The
project's objectives would be to finance the execution of a three-year program of investments that have
been identified as the highest priority to:
(a)    improve the reliability and quality of water supply in Bucharest;
(b)    start to reduce water losses (both physical and commercial); and
(c)    strengthen RGAB's operational, commercial and financial management and help it acquire
the expertise necessary for the preparation and implementation of future operations.
2.5           The relatively narrow focus of the proposed operation reflects a concern for simplicity
in design since the project will be carried out by a beneficiary without prior experience in the
implementation of such projects. Lack of complexi.y will permit an easier implementation and allow
RGAB to rapidly display a visible and concrete effort to improve the living conditions of the Bucharest
population. This will also help further the dialogue with the Government and municipal authorities on
issues of local utility management, which has already seen a fruitful beginning. For these reasons,
components for waste water collection and treatment that are more complex and require more intensive
scrutiny have been deferred, in agreement with the Government and RGAB, to a future operation.
C. Project Description
2.6           The proposed project will include the following components:
A.            Improvement of Water Supplv Reliability and Quality (33% of base project cost)
(a)    Water treatment plant rehabilitation, including the repair and/or replacement of filters,
and installation of new chlorination and chemical treatment equipment for existing
treatment plants;
(b)    Aqueduct flow control improvement and reservoir upgrading, including the purchase and
installation of flow control valves and flow meters at key locations of the network; and
(c)    Pumping station rehabilitation, including the acquisition and installation of new high
energy efficiency pumps, the rehabilitation of existing pumps and electrical equipment,
and the installation of flow control equipment for several key pumping stations.
B.            Reduction of Water Losses (57% of base project cost)
(a)    Primary network repair, including the replacem-.ent of deteriorated network sections,
survey and repair and/or replacement of distribution valves as well as the reconstitution
of a minimum stock of essential spare parts;



I1
(b)    Secondary network rehabilitation, including the repair and/or replacement of elements of
the secondary network including house connections in several city neighborhoods with
above average water losses and reported breaks; and
(c)    Metering program, including the purchase and installation of meters of different sizes for
larger consumers such as housing development authorities and commercial enterprises.
C.            Institutional Strengthening of RGAB (9% of base project cost)
(a)    Public awareness and water wastage reduction campaign, including the preparation and
implementation of media campaigns (press, radio, TV) to sensitize the public on water
conservation issues and the study of measures to provide incentives to consumers for
reducing excessive water consumption; as well as preparation of a tariff study including
the identification of possible financial incentives for water consumption reduction;
(b)    Improvement of RGAB's customur accounts management system, including technical
assistance to pursue the reorganization efforts initiated with technical assistance
provided, as of January 1996, by the French Government under a bilateral agreement;
(c)    Training and other technical assistance, including training for RGAB staff to acquire
and/or develop management skills in the areas of finance and accounting, human resource
management, and technical operations. Complementary technical assistance (not included
in project costs) is provided under the Danube River Basin Environmental Program; and
(d)    Implementation supervision, including consulting services to assist RGAB  in the
management of project execution.
A detailed description of project components is contained in Annex 5. 1.
D. Cost Estimates
2.7           The total project cost (including contingencies, taxes and duties) is estimated to be about
US$ 50 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$ 25.4 million equivalent or about
50% of the total project cost. Cost estimates were prepared by the consultant SAFEGE/LOTTI on the
basis of quantity estimates from substantially completed design studies, and using unit prices from similar
projects under implementation either in Romania or other countries. A detailed analysis of costs has been
made to determine the foreign exchange component and local costs. All project costs have been estimated
in US Dollars on the basis of December 1995 prices at the mid-December 1995 exchange rate of ROL
2,550 per US$ 1. Import duties (15%), VAT (18% of total costs) and other incidental taxes are included
in the local component. Physical contingencies (5% for equipment, 10% for civil works) have been
added to cover possible increases in quantities. Price contingencies have been applied to base costs
following the Bank's expected price increases as per OP 6.50 of October 1995,(1996: 3.3%; 1997: 2.3%;
1998: 2.5%; 199: 2.5%) with the assumption that the exchange rate will adjust to the evolution of
domestic prices and external inflation.



12
2.8               Summary Cost estimates are shown in Table 1 below.
TABLE 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
-------(in US$ million)-------
% foreign           %
Project Components                              Local*         Foreign        Total       exchange        of base cost
A.  Improvement of Water Supply Reliability and Quality
Water Treatment Plant Rehabilitation              2.4            2.1           4.5            47
Aqueduct Flow Control and Reservoir Upgrading     0.7            0.9            1.6           56
Pumping Station Rehabilitation                    3.3            5.1           8.4            61
Subtotal                                          6.4            8.1          14.5           56             33
B.  Reduction of Watf r Losses
Primary Network Repair                            1.2            1.4           2.6            54
Secondary Network Repair                          8.2            8.3           16.5           50
Metering Program                                  3.8            2.0           5.8            34
Subtotal                                         13.2           11.7          24.9           47             57
C.  Institutional Strengthening of RGAB
Public Awareness Campaign                                        0.6           0.0             0.6           0
Improvement of Customer Accounts Management       0.4            1.3           1.7            76
Training                                          0.1            0.5           0.6            83
Implementation Supervision                        0.3            1.0           1.3           77
Subtotal                                          1.4            2.8           4.2           67              9
Total Base Cost (December 1995 prices)           21.0           22.6          43.6           52            100
Physical Contingencies                            2.0            1.0           3.0
Price Contingencies                               1.6            1.8           3.4
Total Project Cost                               24.6           25.4          50.0           51
*The local cost component includes local material, installation works, custom duties (15%) and value-added-tax (VAT) (18%).
Note: some figures may not add up due to rounding.
E. Project Financing Arrangements
2.9               The financing plan of the project is summarized in Table 2 below. The Bank will finance
US$ 25 million of the project's total foreign cost estimated at US$ 25.4 million or about 51 % of total
project costs. 3 Local counterpart financing will be provided, as a grant, for about US$ 15 million
equivalent (or 30% of total project cost) from the central government budget and about US$ 7.5 million
3   The proposed cost-sharing: IBRD 50 % / Romania 50%  is consistent with the cost-sharing arrangements adopted for
EBRD's Municipal Utilities loan signed on April 9, 1995 for the rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage infrastructure
in five major Romanian secondary cities.



13
equivalent frorr the Bucharest municipal budget (15 % of total project cost). RGAB will contribute about
US$ 2.5 million from its own annual budgetary resources (5% of total project cost).
TABLE 2: FINANCING PLAN
----------------US$ Millions----------------
Local    Foreign        Total      % Total
IBRD                      0.0       25.0          25.0          50
Government                15.0                    15.0          30
Bucharest Municipality    7.5                      7.5          15
RGAB                       2.1       0.4           2.5           5
Total                     24.6      25.4          50.0         100
2.10          The Borrower for the loan will be Romania. At the Borrower's request, the loan will be
made at the Bank's standard variable rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar Single Currency Loans at the
Bank's standard conditions for Romania (20 years, including five years of grace). Loan proceeds will
be on-lent by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), with a guarantee from the Bucharest municipality, to
RGAB on the basis of a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement. The Agreement of MOF, the
Bucharest municipality and RGAB on the on-lending arrangement was confirmed at negotiations fsee para.
6.1(a)1. Signature of the on-lending agreement will be a condition for loan effectiveness fsee para.
6.2(a)]. On-lending will be made in foreign currency at the IBRD variable interest rate. RGAB would
carry the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. The contributions from the central government and
the Bucharest municipality budgets, respectively, will be made through annual appropriations in
accordance with Romanian public finance procedures. During negotiations an understanding was reached
with the Government, the Bucharest municipality, and RGAB on the funding arrangements for the local
counterpart contribution.
F. Environmental Aspects
2.11          For the purpose of O.D. 4.01 on Environmental Impact Assessment the Project has been
classified as Category B, which requires a limited environmental review to determine potential negative
environmental impacts and propose mitigation measures where needed, as well as to identify opportunities
for environmental enhancement. Such a review has been carried out during project appraisal by RGAB
and Bank experts [see Annex 11.
2.12          The project will have relatively minor negative environmental effects and will not raise
any resettlement or property rights issues since it focuses primarily on rehabilitation of existing network
and facilities.  All works will be executed either within the premises of existing facilities or the rights
of way of the public street network. The project will not affect any archeological or historical site.
Contractors will be responsible, under the clauses of the bidding documents, for keeping worksites pollu-
tion free, returning sites to their original conditions, and minimizing dust, noise and other work-related



14
nuisances. They will also be responsible for notification of the discovery of, or any problem related to,
a previously unknown historical site. The project will have no impact on the flow regime of the Arges
and Dimbovila rivers nor will it affect the quality of their waters through increased water abstraction or
waste water discharges and, therefore, does not require a notification for the purposes of OD.7.50.
2.13          The project is expected to bring significant environmental, as well as health, benefits
from. (i) reducing water losses in the distribution network; (ii) assuring better drinking water quality
from improved operation and maintenance of the drinking water plants and elimination of point-
contamination sources in the distribution network; (iii) better handling of residuals from drinking water
treatment; and (iv) increased energy efficiency of water supply distribution. To improve its operational
day-to-day environmental management (sludge management; handling of chemicals and toxic substances;
improvements in the operation and maintenance of the sewerage network, including improved emergency
response; more efficient use of information from the existing water quality monitoring networks; and
better compliance with environmental regulations), RGAB will create an environmental advisory position
and appoint an environmental advisor to the general director. During negotiations RGAB confirmed that
it would appoint an environmental advisor by January 1. 1997 at the latest under terms of reference
reviewed, and found satisfactory. by the Bank Isee para. 6. 1(b)l.
2.14          Moreover, the project will support RGAB's efforts to encourage water conservation
through the extension of metering to all major consumers and the implementation of an awareness
campaign. The purpose of the latter, for which complementary support from the Danube River Basin
Environmental Program is being provided, is to raise public awareness of the need to manage water
resources more carefully through the preparation of advertising campaigns in different media (press,
radio, TV, billboards, etc.) and the development of educational programs for kindergartens and primary
schools [see Annex 5.7(b)1.



15
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organization and Management
3.1           The project will be executed by RGAB as the sole implementing agency. As such, RGAB
will assume direct obligations towards the Bank on all matters under its jurisdiction. RGAB has set up
a project coordination unit (PCU) and has hired appropriately skilled Romanian staff. The PCU reports
directly to the general director of RGAB and has a non-hierarchical relationship with RGAB's four main
departments: commercial (customer account management) services, finances and accounting, technical
services, and human resources [see para. 1.14 and Chart Al, and coordinates their participation in project
implementation. Technical assistance has been recruited under funding from a Japanese PHRD Grant to
train local specialists in matters of procurement and project coordination prior to project preparation
completion. To compensate for its current lack of expertise in project implementation management, the
PCU would be supported, throughout project implementation, by a team of adequately experienced
technical assistance experts [see para. 3.8]. Additionally, technical assistance will be provided to RGAB
to help it train its technical staff in the operation of the facilities upgraded under the project, and monitor
and evaluate the effects of the network rehabilitation program [see Annex 5.7(c)1.
3.2           The PCU will review and follow-up on procurement procedures and bidding documents,
monitor and coorcdinate every aspect of project implementation (including procurement). The PCU will
prepare detailed work schedules and coordinate project activities in accordance with Terms of Reference
agreed with the Bank [see Annex 5.7(a)1. The PCU will also be responsible for preparing and submitting
quarterly reports on project implementation performance to the Bank and the Romanian authorities
according to an agreed Reporting Plan [see Annex 5.61. During negotiations RGAB confirmed that PCU
will remain in operation and be satisfactorily staffed and funded through the project implementation [see
para. 6. 1(c)1. Agreement was also reached on the project implementation schedule, monitoring criteria.
and reporting arrangements [see para. 6. 1(d) and Annex 5.61.
3.3           The target implementation scenario for the project is that it would be executed over a
period of about three years and completed by December 31, 1999. The project's Implementation Plan
(PIP) is shown in Annex 5.3. The loan will close on June 30, 2000, six months after the project
completion date. The approval procedures required by the Romania Government for all investments
funded totally or partially with central or local government resources are relatively complex and there
is a risk that this could lead to possible delays. In order to avoid such delays, an early clearance of
bidding documents was warranted and completion of four bidding packages for ICB procured contracts
was sought as a condition for Board Presentation.
B. Procurement
3.4           Procurement arrangements for the elements of the project, their estimated cost and
proposed methods of procurement are summarized in Table 3 below. A detailed list of contracts to be
concluded is contained in the Project Procurement Plan [see Annex 5.21.
3.5           All goods, works and services to be financed from the loan proceeds will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995), including amendments as of the
loan signing date, using the Bank standard bidding documents. Consulting Services will be procured in



16
accordance with the Guidelines for use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency (August 1981), including possible amendments as of the loan signing date. A
Country Procurement Assessment Report will be completed by June 1997. The laws and regulations
governing national procurement procedures and practices in Romania are being reviewed in the Bank in
order to establish whether national procedures are acceptable for Bank-financed contracts. A 'General
Procurement Notice' containing information about bidding opportunities (for procurement on the basis
of ICB) has been published in the April 16, 1996 issue of the 'Development Business' in accordance with
paras. 2.7 and 2.8 of the Bank Guidelines for Procurement, January 1995. Prequalification documents
were completed as a condition for negotiation. A project launching workshop will be held prior to
implementation start-up expected for September 1996.
TABLE 3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million) a/
ELEMENTS                         PROCUREMENT METHOD                                  TOTAL
ICB           NCB          Other b/        NBF          COST
1. Civil Works                          26.5           2.0                                        28.5
(11.9)        (0.9)                                      (12.8)
2. Goods                                 4.9            0.3           0.3                         5.5
(3.4)         (0.2)         (0.2)                       (3.8)
3. Supply and Install                    11.6                                 -                   11.6
(7.5)           --                                       (7.5)
4. Consultant Services                                                3.8           0.6 c/        4.4
-             -            (0.9)         (0.0)         (0.9)
Total Cost                43.0           2.3            4.1           0.6           50.0
(22.8)        (1. 1)         (1.1)         (0.0)         (25.0)
Note:   a/ Cost estimates include contingencies, taxes and duties. Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank loan.
b/ Other includes international shopping (USS 0.3 million) and contracting of consultants according to Bank guidelines.
c/ NBF includes consulting services financed directly by RGAB
3.6              Civil Works. Civi1 works contracts (including supply of necessary goods and equipment)
for the rehabilitation of water treatment plants and primary and secondary network repair (about US$ 26.5
million) will be carried out under ICB with prequalification. They would be procured in seven packages
[see Annex 5.21. Four of these contracts (secondary network repair and replacement, about US$ 19.3
million) will be advertised and procured on a slice-and-package basis. Romanian firms with adequate
experience are likely to enter into joint venture agreements with foreign contractors in order to bid. For
all ICB contracts prequalification of firms will be required. Contracts of less than US$ 10 million
equivalent will be procured using the Bank's standard bidding document for civil works (smaller
contracts). Civil works for meter installation will be carried out under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures through at least four separate contracts with an aggregate value not to exceed US$ 2.0
million.



17
3.7           Goods and Supply and Installation. Goods to be financed from the Bank loan (about
US$ 5.5 million) consisting of filtering equipment, water meters, accessories and complementary
equipment will, to over 85%, be procured through ICB. They will be procured in four packages [see
Annex 5.21. Romanian manufacturers competing for the contracts for the supply of goods procured under
ICB procedures will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the
prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove
to the satisfaction o- the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes more
than 30 percent of 'ocally procured labor, raw materials and components. National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) will be used for the procurement of filtering sand (US$ 300,000). International Shopping (IS)
based on a comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two eligible
countries will be used for the procurement filter nozzles (US$ 300,000).  Supply and Installation
procurement (US$ 11.6 million) will be used for two contracts for (a) the rehabilitation of pumping
stations and (b) the installation of flow control equipment on the primary network. Bidding for these
contracts will be carried out through ICB on the basis of prequalification and, given the adequate
preparation of technical specifications, one-stage bidding for supply and installation contracts using the
Bank standard contract for Supply and Installation.
3.8           Consultant services. Consultant services estimated at US$ 4.5 million for technical
assistance and training will be carried out by qualified and experienced consulting firms and individual
consultants appointed in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
Consulting services will be required to assist (a) RGAB's PCU in project implementation management
[see para 3.1]; (b) RGAB in the management improvement of its customer accounts system [see para.
4.131 and operating systems [see para. 3.11; and (d) the preparation of a public awareness campaign [see
para 2.14]. A detailed description of the consulting services to be procured is contained in the Project
Implementation Plan [see Annex 5.21. Available local expertise should allow for the participation of
Romanian experts in consulting assignments under the project. Unless otherwise agreed, all individual
contracts will be awarded on the basis of comparison of at least three curricula vitae for each selection
of consultant (see para. 3.9 below) and will be limited to assignments of short duration and requiring
specialized expertise.
3.9           Prior Review. All contracts exceeding US$ 250,000 (more than 80% of total project
cost), and all contracts for consultant services valued in excess of US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000
for individual consultants will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. Contracts of a lesser
amount would be subject to ex-post review by Bank supervision missions. Likewise, terms of reference
for all consultant contracts will be reviewed in advance by the Bank. Procurement information will be
included in the quarterly project progress reports to be prepared by RGAB [see para. 3.2 and Annex 5.61.
During negotiations, an understanding was reached with the Government and RGAB on all procurement
arrangements, including the list of contract packages and the procurement timetable.
C. Disbursements
3.10          The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against the different categories of project
elements as shown in Table 4 below.
3.11          Withdrawal applications for contracts for civil works and goods above US$ 250,000,
consulting firms above US$ 100,000 and individual consultants above US$ 50,000 will be fully
documented and for contracts for less than these amounts will be made on the basis of Statements of



18
Expenditures (SOE). Documnentation to support expenditure financed under SOE will be maintained by
the Borrower in one location and made available upon request for review by Bank representatives in
addition to being audited by the auditors [see para. 3.16 and para. 4.19].  Agreement on these
arrangements was obtained from the Government and RGAB during negotiations [see para. 6. l(e)l.
TABLE 4: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
(in US$ million)
Amount of the Loan     56 of expenditure
Category           Description          Allocated in US$       to be financed
1               Civil Works               11.7             45% of total expenditures;
2         Goods and Supply and Install    10.0              100% of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local
(ex-factory net of taxes and duties), or
70% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
3            Consultant Services           0.8             25 % of total expenditures
4               Unallocated                2.5              n.a.
TOTAL                                        25.0
3.12            Estimrted disb'irsements by Bank fiscal year are summarized in Table 4 below.  The
schedule of quarterly disbursements is shown in Annex 4. RGAB expects to disburse the loan of US$
25 million over a period of about three years with the completion of all project activities by December
31, 1999 but with disbursements continuing for another six months through June 30, 2000.
TABLE 4: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year        1997             1998            1999            2000             2001
Annual                  4.0 1/           9.5              7.5             3.0              1.0
Cumulative              4.0              13.5            21.0            24.0             25.0
" includes 1.0 million for initial deposit in Special Account
3.13            To maintain an adequate flow of funds for eligible project expenditure with a minimum
of administrative delay, the Borrower will establish a Special Account with an authorized allocation of
US$ 2.0 million at a bank of its choice acceptable to the Bank. The initial deposit of the authorized
allocation will be limited to US$ 1.0 million and the remaining portion of the authorized allocation would
be released when disbursements reach a level of US$ 3.0 million. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account will be submitted on a monthly basis or when one third of the amount deposited has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. All applications for direct payment or special commitments must
be for an amount not less than 20%  of the initial deposit of the authorized allocation to the Special
Account or not less than 20 % of the full authorized allocation once available. In addition to the



19
documcntation mentioned above, all replenishment applications would be accompanied by monthly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower. Records of the Special
Account proceeds and outlays will be available for review by the Bank's supervision mission and subject
to anuual audit (see para. 4.18). During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
RGAB on all Special Account management and disbursement arrangements [see para. 6. 1(e)1.
D. Project Monitoring, Supervision, and Auditing
3.14          A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared jointly with RGAB to ensure a
shared understanding of the project activities to be carried out and their timing [see Annex 51. The
compliance with the PIP will be monitored by the PCU project coordinator and the Bank on the base of
monitoring indicators shown in Annex 5.5.
3.15          In addition to direct monitoring and assistance on day-to-day matters which will be
provided by the Resident Mission in Romania, about 20 staff/weeks per year of headquarter staff input
will be reqjuired over the life of the project. Supervision missions staff should include a water sector
specialist, financial analyst and institutional experts. Although, because of the short duration of the
project, a full mid-term review would not be warranted, a project implementation progress review will
be carried out about eightecn months after project implementation start-up with a view to take stock of
project achievements, agree on remedial action, if necessary, and determine the prospects for the
preparation of a follow-up project, identify the most important issues such an operation should.address
and decide on its content and timing. During negotiations, agreement on the scope and timing of the
proiect implementation progress review was obtained [see para. 4.18 and para. 6. 1(f)1.
3.16          RGAB will establish a separate Project Account and maintain it according to accepted
international accounting standards, in order to ensure that the flow of funds associated with the project
can be identified and tracked. The Project Account, together with the Special Account and SOEs [see
para. 3. 11 and para. 3.13] will be subject to annual audit by qualified independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and in accordance with international accounting auditing procedures. Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year [see para. 4.19]. Agreement on
the auditing arrangements for the Special Account and the Proiect Account was confirmed at negotiations
[see para. 6.1(e) and para 6.1(i)1.



20
IV. FINANCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
A. General Aspects
4.1            In line with the prevailing financing practices for local water utilities in Romania, RGAB
is only expected to cover its current expenditures (including maintenance) through revenues from water
and sewerage services [see para. 1.16]. All water supply and sewerage investments are financed from
the State budget through annual fiscal grants to the Bucharest municipal budget, the remainder, if any,
being financed from the Bucharest municipality's own resources. Unlike other RAs providing local
services in Bucharest (RADET, RATB), RGAB receives no subsidy for its operations. It relies
ex-lusively on service proceeds as a source of funding for its operational expenditures. As a result of
this policy, RGAB has currently no long-term debts and its only liabilities are with suppliers. Thus, if
properly managed, RGAB has the potential capacity to borrow in order to fund a reasonable proportion
of its investment needs.
B. RGAB's Past Financial Performance
4.2            Overall Results. RGAB's financial performance since its creation in 1990 has been less
than satisfactory as a result of inadequate tariff and bill collection policies and practices:
First, in the more recent years RGAB's revenues have not been sufficient to adequately
cover the utility's operating costs. According to RGAB's accounting records, the amounts billed in 1992
zind 1993 (about ROL 9 billion and ROL 21 billion, respectively, or US$ 25 million and US$ 28 million
equivalent) 4 were roughly equivalent to the total operating costs each year; in 1994 losses amounted to
over ROL 6 billion, or the equivalent of over US$ 3 million, but in 1995 losses decreased (prior to extra-
o1dinary income) to ROL 0.6 billion or about US$ 0.3 million. I It has to be noted, however, that the
above figures provide a rather optimistic picture of RGAB's performance because the company's
accounting practices underestimate its operating costs and, thus, overestimate its net income. Important
among these practices are those that relate to depreciation charges and accounts receivable.  The
depreciation charges from 1992 to 1994 were calculated on non-revalued fixed assets and were negligible
(the estimated 1995 financial statements include adequate depreciation charges). No provision was made
for losses on accounts receivable during the whole 1992-95 period despite the unsatisfactory bill collection
performance. These practices are closely regulated by the Government, however, and RGAB, in these
matters, has been complying with existing accounting regulations in Romania. The financial statements
in Annex 2 contain complementary details on RGAB's financial performance.
Second, a large proportion of RGAB's assets are worn down owing to the insufficient
allocation of financial resources to preventive maintenance and renewal of the existing infrastructure and
equipment. This fact has serious negative implications on RGAB's ability to continue providing services
to its customers at an acceptable level of quality and, if not corrected promptly, would result in a further
deterioration of RGAB's finances.
4   All Romanian currency amounts indicated in this chapter are in current ROL. All US$ equivalents are at the average
exchange rates for the corresponding years for revenues and expenditures and at the end-of-the year exchange rates for
balance statement data.
1995 figures are still provisional and unaudited but were prepared in accordance with Romanian regulations.



21
Third, bill collection by RGAB has been negatively affected by the weak performance
of the economy, in general, and by the financial problems encountered by public sector enterprises, in
particular. The problem has been compounded by the lack, or inadequate implementation, of sanctions
to customers for delays in payment of bills. Between 1992 and 1994 collection rates stood at around 75 %
of the amounts billed each year, but dropped to 68% in 1995 (for definition of collection rate see para.
4.13). By the end of 1995, accounts receivable were at about ROL 34 billion (about US$ 13 million
equivalent at Lhe end-of-the year exchange rate) or about four months of billings.
4.3           An additional problem is that the above figures mask the fact that RGAB has suffered
significant financial losses from delayed collection of bills without penalties or adjustments in an
inflationary environment. A significant proportion of receivables is older than six months and due from
public sector entities. By law, penalties for late payments are fixed at 0.5% per day for the amount in
arrears with the provision that the total accumulated amount of penalties cannot exceed the amount of the
original bill. Such penalties are rarely applied, though. RGAB is also authorized to cut off water supply
to customers that are forty or more days in arrears, but for a variety of reasons, it has, so far, rarely
resorted to this measure. The arrears issue is endemic to the public sector enterprise sector in Romania
and can only be addressed effectively through a comprehensive program to restore and promote financial
discipline - which is one of the objectives of the recently approved FESAL [see para. 1.2]. Actions to
reduce accounts receivable are part of the three-year Short-Term Action Program (STAP) included in the
project [see para. 4.12]. The technical assistance currently provided to RGAB under a French bilateral
program will be continued under the project and is expected to significantly help improve the procedures
for collecting bills and managing arrears.
4.4           Unsatisfactory bill collections have resulted in significant cash shortfalls, which RGAB
(like other RAs) has routinely compensated by delaying payments to its key suppliers, in particular to
RENELI for power consumption and to APELE ROMANE for water abstraction. By the end of 1994,
GAB's accounts due to RENEL and APELE ROMANE amounted to the equivalent of US$ 11 million
and equaled nine months of billing in the case of RENEL and six months in the case of APELE
ROMANE. This situation deteriorated in 1995 and the accounts payable to RENEL and APELE
ROMANE as of the end of the year were estimated to be in the vicinity of ROL 30 billion (US$ 12
million equivalent) representing 13 me nths of billings in the case of RENEL and three months of billings
in the case of APELE ROMANE. Like the reduction of accounts receivable, the reduction of accounts
payable is addressed tlirough the STAP included in the project [see para. 4.12].
4.5           RGAB Cost and Revenue Structure. Thus far, RGAB's current expenditures have been
limited tc those strictly necessary for keeping day-to-day operations going at minimal technical quality
standards and limiting maintenance to indispensable emergency interventions. In 1994 and 1995, about
80% of costs were incurred for three primary production inputs: power consumption (35%), raw water
abstraction fees (8%), and payroll (39%), while expenses for administrative and other operational and
maintenance expenditures accounted for the remaining 18%. The comparatively high proportion of
expenditures for primary production inputs is the combined result of various factors including the
predominant use of low energy efficiency equipment, especially for pumping, the importance of physical
and commercial water losses, and, owing to the disproportionally high needs for repair work, a relatively
numerous staff (though the impact of the latter is, to some extent, still offset by a low salary level).



22
C. Tariff Schedule and Level
4.6           Tariffs for water supply and sewerage are set by the Bucharest municipality at the request
of RGAB and upon prior clearance by MOF [see para. 1.5]. Tariffs are set on the basis of RGAB's
recurrent costs at the time of the submission of the tariff proposal plus a 10% mark-up or "profit". As
applied, the tariff setting system is far from adequate as it (a) is based on past rather than projected costs;
'b) does not include any provision for uncollectible bills; (c) is affected by inappropriate accounting for
depreciation of fixed assets [see para. 4.2]; and, above all, (d) refers to a normative m' consumption and
not actual metered consumption [see para. 1.16 and para. 4.71.
4.7           Owing to the 'condominium' management procedures for large housing developments in
force under the previous regime, the installation of building-specific meters, let alone individual
household meters, was thought to be superfluous. Even when existing, meters are frequently broken
down. As a result, most customers are billed by water supply and sewerage utilities on a flat-rate basis
for a ncrmative daily per capita consumption of 170 liters for cold water (and separately by hot water
and district heating utilities for a consumption of 110 liters of hot water). Sewerage services are covered
through a sewerage surcharge. Tariff discrimination was eliminated in 1992 and, at present, all RGAB
customers pay the same price per m3 for supply of treated drinking water and for sewerage services,
(whereas previously a different tariff existed for industrial customers). In addition, RGAB also provides,
through separate networks, small amounts of untreated water for industrial use (about 6% of water sales)
at a lower tariff. Until March 1995, RGAB was also co-responsible for the delivery of hot water to
residenLial customers through an arrangement under which RGAB billed customers for the quantity of
water used whereas RADET charged them for the energy required to heat it. This arrangement has been
discontinued and at present RGAB only sells bulk water to RADET leaving it to the latter to recover its
costs from customers through separate billing.
4.8           Tariff increases have been made periodically since 1992 and, globally, the evolution of
the price of water and sewerage services has been above that of inflation and, thus has resulted in a steady
increase in the base tariff. Tariff adjustments, however, have usually been made at erratic intervals
causing wide fluctuations in real tariff levels, which, in US$ equivalents, have experienced declines of
30% to 50 % between successive adjustments. In view of the cash shortfalls suffered by RGAB in recent
years and confronted with the threat of major system breakdowns, as well as in response to discussions
held by the Bank with authorities of the central government and the Bucharest municipality in connection
with the preparation of the proposed project, RGAB tariffs were adjusted twice in 1995: first, in March,
from ROL 189 per m3 to ROL 250 per m3 for water supply, and from ROL 21 to ROL 29 for the
sewerage surcharge; and again in August, to ROL 355 per m3 (US$ 0.12 at end of June 1996 exchange
rates) for water supply and ROL 41 (US$ 0.02) for the sewerage surcharge. This resulted in an increase
of about 80% in nominal terms, while inflation for 1995 was 31 %. Because no increase in the cost of
RGAB's primary production inputs has occurred since August 1995, no further tariff adjustment has been
required until now [see para. 4.5]. It has been agreed and confirmed during negotiations. however, that.
in accordance with the provisions of the STAP. tariff adiustments will be carried out as soon as rises in
the cost of the above mentioned production inputs will cause RGAB's operating costs to increase by more
than 10% [see para. 4.12. para. 4.13. and para. 6.1(g)l.
4.9           Because of the 'condominium' management practices mentioned above, the distribution
networks in housing developments built since the 60's as well as within buildings were designed in a way
that makes apartment specific metering virtually unfeasible. Today household water bills only reflect
therefore the average household consumption of an entire building and, thus, provide no incentive to
individual households to strive for water conservation. As part of the Public Awareness and Water



23
Wastage Reduction Program included in the proposed project RGAB will be exploring possible solutions
(both technical and commercial) that would allow to create financial incentives for water conservation at
the level of individual households. It will also carry out a tariff study and identify possible solutions that
would ensure that the services remain affordable to poorer households [see para. 4.13 and Annex 5.7(b)1.
D. RGAB's Future Financial Performance
4.10          In the institutional context of Romania, the case of RGAB cannot be dissociated from that
of other municipal RAs, and it seems unrealistic to try to change its operating regime (unless within the
context of a broader reform for all local RAs). Thus, it must be presumed that (a) authority over tariffs
will remain with the Bucharest municipality, with MOF continuing to exercise an indirect yet powerful
control, and (b) a substantial portion of water sector investments and, in particular, the completion of the
projects of the Glina waste water and the Crivina-Ogrezeni water treatment plants will continue to be
financed on a grant basis from the central government budget. This notwithstanding, the Government,
the Bucharest municipality, and RGAB have agreed that it is possible and desirable to introduce, under
the proposed project, significant changes in RGAB's current financial management practices. The main
effect of these changes would be that RGAB would (a) assume the full responsibility for contracting and
servicing the Bank, loan, (b) increase its internal cash generation in order to participate in the financing
of the project investments, and (c) take into account the resulting financial costs in its budgetary planning.
4.11          Financial projections for the 1996-2002 period [see Annex 21 using the tariff levels
contemplated under the proposed project show that RGAB would have some negative net income (after
depreciation), mainly as a result of: (a) more realistic estimates of losses on accounts receivable (the
equivalent of about 17% of the amount billed in 1996 to reflect accumulated losses, and about 4% to 5%
annually after 1996), (b) more adequate depreciation charges (2.5% on revalued fixed assets); and (c)
increased allocations (in real terms) to operation and maintenance expenditures. The projections are
conservative and assume a lag of two months in tariff increases to cover increases in operating costs. It
also assumes a gradual improvement in parameters such as bill collection, resulting from the actions taken
under the STAP. RGAB's internal cash generation will increase gradually from ROL 14 billion (US$
4 million) in 1996 to ROL 27 billion (US$ 6 million) in the year 2000. RGAB will be able to maintain
a debt service coverage ratio greater than 1.3 through the life of the project and will be able to generate
(after taking care of working capital and debt service requirements) close to ROL 50 billion (US$ 12
million) for contribution to the project and for other network rehabilitation programs.
4.12          Short-Term  Action Program  (STAP).  RGAB, in consultation with the Bucharest
Municipality and MOF, prepared by end of 1995 a Financial Improvement Plan (FIP) using the
methodology developed for the FESAL. The FIP identified those key actions that affect the cash
generation of RGAB and the viability of the project and allowed to group them in a coherent thee-year
Short-Term Action Program (STAP) [see Annex 61. The STAP includes the measures required to achieve
the targets indicated above and, specifically, the steps to be taken to (a) reduce payables, (b) improve bill
collection rates, and (c) prevent the recurrence of arrears build-up. The plan, whose outline was
approved by the RGAB Administration Board on December 28, 1995, contains a detailed implementation
schedule of the above measures and defines a series of criteria and performance targets that will allow
a close surveillance of RGAB's future financial perfornance.
4.13          The most critical actions included in the STAP that will be closely monitored during
project implementation are the following [see Annex 61:



24
(a)    Tariff adiustment: adoption of the principle of a tariff adjustment to compensate
for increases in the cost of RGAB's main production inputs within a period of
thirty days after RGAB's operating costs 6 have increased by 10% over previous
levels with a view to obtain coverage of RGAB's full costs 7 and maintain real
tariffs at the August 1995 level [see para. 4.8];
(b)    Receivables and payables: measures to improve bill collection as percentage of
the total potential collections (current year bills + accounts receivable at the
beginning of the year) from 69% (1995 peformance) to levels consistent with the
financial program supporting the project. Technical assistance to improve the
management of its customers accounts is currently provided to RGAB under a
French bilateral program and will be continued under the project. The bill
collection targets I included in the financial projections are: 70% in 1996; 72%
in 1997; and 75 % in 1998 and beyond. To make the bill collection performance
feasible, the STAP includes measures to: (i) establish compensation agreements
between RGAB, suppliers and customers for settlement of arrears; (ii) reschedule
and write-off of arrears of more than one year; (iii) swap RADET debt with
RENEL and other public sector enterprises at a discount to be negotiated between
RGAB and other public sector enterprises; and (iv) make amendments in
contracts with RADET and other customers to enable RGAB to enforce payment
according to metered consumption;
(c)    Operating costs: implementation of measures to (i) increase staff productivity;
(ii) reduce wastage of production inputs; and (iii) renegotiate financial conditions
of raw water purchases from APELE ROMANE;
(d)    Payroll: reduction of number of employees (all categories) by about 12% over
the 1996 - 1999 period through attrition, encouragement of voluntary departures,
and divestment of non-essential activities.
During negotiations. agreement was obtained on the content and implementation timetable
of the Short-Term Action Program (STAP) [see para. 6. 1(g)1. Approval of the STAP by the Romanian
authorities is a condition for loan effectiveness Isee para. 6.2(b)1.
4.14           Progress in the implementation of the STAP will be monitored closely on the basis of
indicators agreed upon with RGAB (working ratio, bill collection ratio) and results will be reviewed and
discussed annually with the Bank (see Annex 6). Discussions would take place before September 30 each
year starting in 1996 and the review would include: (a) assessment of progress achieved; (b) possibly
required target adjustments, antd (c) adequacy of budget proposal for following year. If any of these
reviews would show results unsatisfactory to the Bank, RGAB would submit an acceptable alternative
adjustment proposal no later than November 30 of the same year [see para. 4.121. During negotiations,
6  Operating costs defined as: Expenditure for salaries and wages + energy + raw water + materials + maintenance
7 Full costs include operating costs + non-operating costs + depreciation + taxes + provision for bad debts
8  Bill collection ratio defined as amount of collections against current year bills + accounts receivable at the beginning of
the year divided by amount of current year bills + accounts receivable at the beginning of the year



25
the conditions, timing and performance evaluation criteria for the annual review of STAP results were
reviewed and agreed [see para. 6. 1(g)l.
4.15          Financial Risks. An acknowledged risk is that RGAB could be unable to fund its
financial contribution to the project or service the Bank loan. A change in the volume of water billed
is likely to be a lesser risk given that the financial projections are based on a moderate increase in billings
(from 340 million m3 estimated in 1995 to 367 million m3 estimated for 2002, or a less than a 10%
cumulative increase over seven years). Tariff and bill collection levels below the ones established in the
base case [see para. 4.12] would significantly affect RGAB's financial performance and reduce its
capacity to generate sufficient internal cash resources for financing its share of the project or other
investments for maintenance and overhaul of infrastructure and/or equipment. The combination of
reduced tariffs and reduced collection ratio would result in a debt service coverage less than 1.0 in 1999
and beyond. The agreement of MOF, the Bucharest municipality and RGAB to maintain tariffs at August
1995 level in real terms and the various actions included in the STAP to improve collection are key for
sustaining the financial viability of the project. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that RGAB will
consult with the Bank before incurring additional debt if RGAB's debt coverage ratio falls or is proiected
to fall below 1.3 for any year throughout the loan repavment period [see para. 6. 1(h).
4.16           A financial sensitivity analysis shows that the lowest tariff level that would allow RGAB
to generate enough cash to make its contribution to the proposed project without reducing the quality level
of operation and maintenance below acceptable levels or running up payment arrears to its suppliers is
5% below the base case level (assuming bill collection stays at the base case level). The lowest
acceptable bill collection index would be about 68% (with tariffs staying at the base case level) [see
details in Annex 21. The actions included in the STAP [see para 4.12.] should reduce the risk that
RGAB's performance falls below the base case level, and [as noted in para. 4.14] the Bank will monitor
progress closely.
4.17          Clarification of Institutional Framework.  An important obstacle to a sustainable
improvement in RGAB's technical, financial and commercial management performance is the lack of a
precisely defined framework for its legal and financial relationships with the Bucharest municipality,
under whose supervision it now operates. While a certain number of the prevailing ambiguities stem
from the absence of an appropriate national legal framework and can only be resolved by legal action
taken at that level (e.g. the issue of legal ownership of RGAB assets), other issues fall in the competence
of the Bucharest municipality. The latter include (a) the scope and extent of regulatory functions
performed by the municipal authorities (i.e. the mayor and/or the municipal council), in regard to tariff
setting, and fixing conditions and standards of service provision, (b) the autonomy granted to RGAB to
make decisions in investment and operational management matters, (c) the nature of the financial
obligations assumed by either the Bucharest municipality or RGAB and the delimitation of the
corresponding accountabilities. As spelled out in a policy statement presented to the Bank during
negotiations, the Bucharest municipality and RGAB have agreed to revise the existing legal framework
and service provision directives that currently govern RGAB's operations. The revised service provision
directives would precisely delimit the respective obligations, rights and responsibilities of the Bucharest
municipality and RGAB in matters of operational and financial management, and would define criteria
to be used for assessing the future performance of the company.
4.18          Medium-term  investment and financing program:  The expected improvement in
RGAB's financial position will not be sufficient to generate the resources needed for a broader
rehabilitation and modernization of the water supply and sewerage system in Bucharest. To complete on-



26
going projects with central government financing in a reasonable time would require public sector
resources in an amount that, given the macroeconomic constraints, is unlikely to be available in the near
future. A comprehensive review of the investment and operation and maintenance strategy for the water
supply and sewerage sector in Bucharest is therefore warranted. A comprehensive medium- and long-
term development program will be prepared by RGAB, in accordance with terms of reference to be
agreed with the Bank, in connection with the project implementation progress review [see para. 3.15].
The program will (a) define the measures to be taken to address the most critical problems (including
further rationalization of expenditures, revision of tariff structures and policies, and review of investment
policies and strategies), and (b) prepare an operational development and investment plan with
corresponding sources of financing [see para. 3.15].  The program  will be prepared with the
understanding that its satisfactory completion will allow the preparation of possible follow up projects to
be funded with Bank assistance.
4.19         Accounting and Auditing. According to the interim audit report for 1995 which was
prepared by independent external auditors, RGAB's accounting practices are comply with the instructions
of the Romanian National Accounting Plan adopted in 1994. RGAB has agreed to implement a specific
action plan to that effect. There are several areas such as inventory management, fixed asset accounting,
accounting of receivables, payables and cash where the auditors have recommended improved accounting
practices and controls to bring RGAB's accounts closer to internationally acceptable accounting standards.
It should be noted that differences between Romanian accounting practices and International Accounting
Standards (IAS) cannot be resolved through this project. However, the auditors' recommendations for
improving internal accounting practices in RGAB will be implemented in such a way that RGAB's
financial statements will be presented as closely as possible to internationally accepted accounting
standards and an accounting manual setting down RGAB's accounting policies and practices will be
prepared. The external audit will cover RGAB's financial statements, the Special Account, Statements
of Expenditure and compliance with loan covenants of a financial nature. The audit report will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year. Agreement on the arrangements
for the annual auditing of RGAB's financial statements was obtained during negotiations [see para.
6.1(i)l.



27
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1           The project will support the rehabilitation of infrastructure in a sector that faces a
significant backlog of unmet needs and where the potential for improvements in efficiency is very high.
This was identified as a priority in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was discussed at the Board
on March 14, 1994 in conjunction with the Petroleum Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3723-RO). The
project's position was further confirmed in the November 1995 CPPR discussions with the Romania
Government.
5.2           The project will complement the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL) by seeking to improve the issue of financial discipline in RGAB. Through the implementation
of a program of financial and operational measures that are necessary to ensure the sustainability of the
proposed investment program, the project will lay the giound for the future expansion of the rehabilitation
of the water supply and sewerage system in Bucharest which could be supported by a series of follow-up
projects. The policy measures which are included in the STAP and which were agreed and confirmed
at negotiations will lead to improved financial viability of RGAB and the sustainability of its operations
in the medium- and longer term. They are also expected to create the basis for a possible future private
sector involvement in the delivery of water supply services.  The project also will support the
Government's policy of decentralizing the responsibility for the provision of local services to local
authorities. By introducing the concepts of cost-recovery and consumer contribution to the financing of
sector investments it would have a beneficial development impact.
5.3           The project will bring significant policy changes to the management of the water sector
in Bucharest. First, it will support RGAB's efforts to shift from a system of billing for a notional water
consumption to one based on actual consumption. Second, it will introduce the concept of cost recovery
into RGAB's investment planning, and concurrently, initiate a financial management reform that should
lead to a gradual decrease in RGAB's dependence on central government funding for future infrastructure
investment.
5.4          It must not be overlooked, however, that the project will represent only a first and modest
step in a long-term effort to rehabilitate the entire Bucharest water supply system and upgrade it into a
financially sustainable operation. Given the limited scope of the project in comparison to the needs for
a full rehabilitation of the entire water supply and sewerage system, the direct and immediate effects on
problems such as water losses should not be overestimated. Indeed, the project's objective is not to solve
all of RGAB's problems at once, but to launch a rehabilitation process that could be progressively
expanded as the operational and financial performance of RGAB will improve. Of special importance
in this respect will be RGAB's efforts - supported by the project -to raise community awareness of the
need for water conservation through public education and information programs and the creation of
corresponding financial incentives.
5.5           Rehabilitation and repair of existing infrastructure and facilities are the least-cost and only
practical alternative for the improvement of water supply conditions in Bucharest. Further deferment of
the critically needed investments funded under the project is expected to result in an annual increase of
water losses at an annual rate of about 10% in the neighborhoods whose networks will be rehabilitated
under the project and a corresponding rise in water distribution costs. Postponement of the proposed
rehabilitation and repair works would lead to a rapid reduction of water availability and quality with



28
important negative economic and social effects and, although not quantifiable with the data available,
rising health risks [see para. 1.14], or request likely emergency repair works whose cost would be
significantly above those of the proposed project. Attempting to maintain current levels of water
availability, in a context of high, and increasing losses, by constructing new additional production
capacity without previously addressing the issue of water loss causes would represent the economically
least efficient alternative.
5.6           The principal quantifiable benefits that will accrue to RGAB from the project will be a
decrease in RGAB's operating costs as a result of increased production efficiency (i.e. reduced energy
consumption) and reduction of water losses (which will lead to a reduction of the total volume of water
to be produced). In the medium- and longer-term, the implementation of the Short-Term Action Program
(STAP) will bring about important improvements in RGAB's operational, financial and commercial
management performance. The combined effects of the above will-bring about a reduction in the total
cost of water supply and thereby allow RGAB to significantly expand its financial contribution to future
sector investments, including in environmentally important but thus far ill-attended areas such as waste
water treatment.
5.7           Specific benefits of the project will include:
(a)    increase in the hours of availability of adequate water supply service in various areas of
the city gradually passing from the current average of twelve hours per day to
approximately seventeen hours per day as a result of improved flow management in the
primary distribution network and higher water pressure;
(b)    improvements in water quality through the upgrading of water treatment plants and, in
particular, filtering and chlorination equipment, as well as through repairs of the
distribution network. These repairs will also contribute to prevent contamination of
drinking water by groundwater and, therefore, would help reduce the incidence of water-
borne diseases;
(c!    gradual reduction of unaccounted-for-water, currently estimated at over 60 %, due to both
the elimination of physical losses in the distribution network, and the improvement of
RGAB's commercial management as well as the extension of metering and the
development of water conservation programs;
(d)    improvement in RGAB's maintenance, control, and operational functions through the
provision of spare parts, meters, operational equipment and training;
(e)    reduction in RGAB's operating costs as a result of decreasing energy consumption
through the provision of new, and rehabilitation of existing pumping equipment as well
gradual reduction in unaccounted-for-water.
5.8           An internal rate of return (IRR) has been calculated for the components of the project that
will have a measurable effect on RGAB's cost of water production and distribution (76% of total base
cost) [see Annex 31. No rate of return has been calculated for the components addressing the issues of
water quality (15% of total base cost) and strengthening of RGAB's management (9% of total base cost)
because their benefits are largely unquantifiable, thougii clearly very significant. The project is predicated
on the assumption that on average the aggregate demand being met (albeit with the deficiencies noted



29
above) and that no additional water will be made available to consumers. Rather, as a result of more
balanced distribution and increase in service reliability the project is expected to bring about a decrease
of household consumption owing to the elimination of the need for 'coping strategies' [see para. 1.13].
However, these latter benefits cannot be evaluated ex-ante and, therefore, have not been taken into
account. Future evolution of water production and consumption will be closely monitored under the
project [see monitoring indicators in Annex 5.51 and terms of reference for operational technical
assistance in Annex 5.7(c)l in order to provide, among other things, a data base for the evaluation of
future projects.
5.9           The IRR calculations are based on very conservative estimates for the projected operating
cost savings that would derive from (a) the decrease in water losses, (b) the reduction of energy
consumption, and (c) the reduction of maintenance and repair costs in comparison to the situation that
could be expected to result without the project. Separate calculations were made for the four sub-
components: (1) 'Primary Network Repair', (2) 'Secondary Network Repair', (3) 'Pumping Station
Rehabilitation', and (4) 'Metering'. The combined IRR calculated for the target implementation scenario
(see para. 3.3) which assumes a three-year project implementation according to schedule, no cost overrun,
and water and energy savings as expected, is 19% (weighted average of the IRR for the above four sub-
components: 22%, 12%, 15%, and 48%, respectively).
5.10          In view of RGAB's lack of experience with the implementation of projects of this nature,
it seems reasonable, however, to set the expected IRR at a lower level which reflects possible slippage.
To assess the impact of various possible negative developments sensitivity analyses were carried out
comparing the above case to four less favorable alternative scenarios: (a) assuming a 50% lower than
anticipated customer response to the extension of metering and water conservation incentives and loss
reduction benefits therefore primarily derived from reduced physical losses, the IRR would drop from
19% to 15%; (b) assuming that, because of higher than expected costs of the secondary distribution
network rehabilitation, only 75% of the initial project area could be covered and water losses reduced
accordingly, the IRR would decrease from 19% to 18%; the effects of (c) a possible one year delay in
project start up and (d) a longer than anticipated implementation period of five (instead of three) years
were also analyzed but turned out to be marginal, primarily because the type of works included in the
project generates a stream of discrete benefits and costs that occur in tandem and are proportional.
5.11          Taking the various analyses into account, the base case against which actual results will
be monitored assumes a cost overrun of 20% on all four components mentioned in para. 5.9 above, and
a corresponding reduction of 20% of all project benefits. The resulting IRR is 12%.
B. Project Risks
5.12          In addition to the political risks typical for any project dealing with local authorities and
local utilities, the project faces two main categories of risks: financial and technical. The financial risks
are twofold. First, given the high proportion of local counterpart funding required for the project there
is a risk that the project's implementation performance could be adversely affected by the lack or
insufficiency of counterpart funding due to (a) unforeseen macro-economic constraints and a resulting
downturn of the economy or (b) financial difficulties at the level of the Bucharest municipality. However,
this risk is country- and not project-specific, however, and would affect the Bank's project portfolio as
a whole. Because of its very nature it cannot be assessed on an ex-ante basis and can only be dealt with
on a case by case basis including a project restructuring should the need for it arise. Additionally, it must



30
be taken into account that the funding requirements are relatively small. The annual contribution of US$
5.0 million from the central government budget represents only about 2% of the 1995 total annual
investment transfers to local governments, while the annual contribution of US$ 2.5 million from the
Bucharest municipality amnounts to about 4% of its 1995 investment budget.
5.13          Second, a financial risk could arise from RGAB's weak financial position and are
described above (see para 4.15). RGAB's financial viability depends, to a large extent, on a timely
collection of bills. To date, collection rates remain unsatisfactory, primarily, due to the poor payment
behavior of large industrial and institutional customers. A persistence of lack of financial discipline at
the level of public sector enterprises, a problem which is addressed under the FESAL, could jeopardize
the financial recovery of RGAB. The seriousness of these risks is mitigated by (a) the implementation
of the measures adopted under the FESAL; (b) the Governmnent and the Bucharest municipality's
commitment to implement and enforce the measures included in the STAP; and (c) the continuation,
under the project, , of the restructuring program for RGAB's customer account management system
which was initiated in early 1996 with French bilateral technical assistance and can be expected to
significantly strengthen the company's financial and commercial management 'muscle'.
5.14          The technical risks of the project are inherent to the implementation of any first-time
project by a new beneficiary who lacks the necessary familiarity with the World Bank procedures
associated with this type of activity. These risks are compounded by (a) the novelty of the type of
operations funded by the project in Romania, the ensuing lack of reference price framework and,
therefore, some uncertainty about costs, and (b) the complexity of the approval procedures required by
the Romania Government for all investments funded totally or partially with government resources and
which could lead to substantial delays in the start-up of the project. The possible effects of (a) a delay
of up to one year in the project and a longer than anticipated implementation period of five years instead
of three and (b) a significant cost overrun have been assessed in the sensitivity analyses presented above,
[see para. 5.101. The risks are mitigated by (i) the pruvision (under already ongoing technical assistance
programs) of extensive technical support and training to RGAB prior to loan effectiveness and during the
start-up phase of project implementation [see para. 3.1]; (ii) the early completion of all bidding documents
and the completion by the Romanian authorities of the prequalification documents which was set as a
condition for negotiation, and the completion of the bidding packages for at least four ICB procured
contracts which was set as a condition for Board presentation; and (iii) the provision of necessary
technical assistance for project supervision under the project and a thorough monitoring of implementation
by the Bank [see para. 3.1 and para. 3.15].



31
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1          During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)    On-lending arrangements [see para. 2.10];
(b)    RGAB internal management procedures for project-related environmental issues
and appointment of RGAB environmental advisor [see para. 2.13];
(c)    Operating aiid staffing conditions for RGAB's Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
[see para. 3.2];
(d)    Procedures for project implementation monitoring, monitoring criteria, and
reporting [see para. 3.2];
(e)    Procedures for Special Account management and disbursement arrangements
including disbursements against SOEs, as well as annual auditing of SOE
documentation by independent auditors [see para. 3.11, para. 3.13, and para.
4.19];
(f)    Project implementation plan and scope and timing of project implementation
progress review [see para. 3.15 and para. 4.18];
(g)    Short-Term Action Program (STAP) including monitoring criteria and procedures
for annual review in consultation with the Bank [see para. 4.12, para. 4.13 and
para. 4.14]; and
(h)    Prior consultation by RGAB with the Bank before incurring additional debt in the
event that such debt would lower the debt-service coverage ratio below 1.3, (see
para. 4.15]; and
(i)    Annual Auditing of RGAB's financial statements [para. 4.19];
6.2          The following are conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a)    Signing of On-lending and Guarantee Agreement [see para. 2.10]; and
(b)    Approval of the STAP by the Romanian authorities [see para. 4.12].
6.3          With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US Dollar 25 million to Romania, repayable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar Single Currency loans.






33
Annex 1
(page 1 of 3i
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Environmental Review
1.            Environmental Screening
1.1           The Bucharest Water Supply Project is assigned in Category B for the purposes of
environmental screening, required for World Bank lending operations. Following the guidelines of
Operational Directive (OD) 4.01 of the Bank, a review of the environmental problems associated with
water supply operations in Bucharest has been carried out by a team of RGAB and Bank environmental
experts to (a) determine the potential negative environmental impacts of the project and identify
appropriaEe mitigaEion measures (if needed); (b) identify opportunities for environmental enhancement;
and (c) assess environmental monitoring and management capacity. The environmental review confirmed
that the project will have no major negative environmental impact, and that minor negative environmental
effects that ma) result from construction activities will be adequately monitored and mitigated by RGAB
in collaboration with the contractors concerned.
1.2           The review also confirmed that the environmental permit for the Bucharest Water Supply
Project. obtained by RGAB, complied with the Romnanian legal requirements of the current Romanian
environmental impact assessment regulation, and, more specifically, the regulations for environmental
permits for invesrment projects, issued by the Ministry of Water, Forests and Environment (MOWFEN) -
that is. Ordinances nos. 170/90; 113/90, and 619/92. The current Romanian environmental impact
assessment regulation will be revised in line with the new Law on Environment promulgated beginning
of January, 1996. Due to the verv limited environmental impacts of the project, however, no additional
environmnental impact assessment will be necessary.
2.            Project objectives and expected environmental benefits
2.1           The Bucharest Water Supply Project is a first step in the World Bank assistance to
Romania's water supply and sanitation sector. As such it is designed as a relatively simple operation,
financing rehabilitation/replacement of critical equipment and parts of the water supply network, and
assisting RGAB  in achieving financial and instirutional improvements.  Concrete environmental
enhancement opportunities identified through the project are linked to the rehabilitation of the drinking
water treatment plants (water filtering and treatrnent, and sludge management). In both the Arcuda and
the Ro,u plants, the project would improve filtering, filter washing and chlorination. In the Rosu plant,
the project would also finance repairs of the sludge removal system and improvements in aluminum
sulphate dosing, and silicate and sulfuric acid stocking (see Annex 5. 1). In addition, the project will
promote better environmental management through the assignment of environmental advisory task to an
appropriate senior company staff, who will report directly to the General Manager.
2.2           More specifically, the proposed project is expected to bring environmental and health
benefits in the following areas:
(i)    rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance of the rwo (Arcade and
Race) drinking water treatment plants will assure better drinking water quality,
as well as better handling of water treatment residuals;



34
Annex 1
(page 2 of 3)
(ii)   rehabilitation of parts of the water supply network, complemented with a
metering program, and public awareness campaign will reduce water losses and
encourage water conservation;
(iii)   pumping station rehabilitation will increase the energy efficiency of RGAB's
operations; and
(iv)   improvements in the operational management will also contribute to a better day-
to-day environmental management (treatment plants waste management;
handling of chemicals and toxic substances; improvements in the operation and
maintenance of the sewerage network, including improved emergency response;
more efficient use of information from the existing water quality monitoring
networks; better compliance with environmental regulations).
3.            Environmental pmoblems associated with water supply operations in Bucharest
3.1           RC-AB is facing a number of problems related to quality of raw, drinking and waste
water.  Raw  water quality is influenced by irregularities in upstream  water use and treatment.
Reportedly, water in the Arges and Dimbovita rivers is often polluted above category I permissible levels
in the vicinity of Bucharest. During the summer period the level of coliform is said to exceed up to 6-7
times the standard levels. In the Arges river, explosive development of phyto-plankton biomass causes
raw water quality problems from February-March onward. The low quality of raw water results in (i)
higher costs of operations and maintenance of drinking water treatment plants; (ii) a need for excessive
use of chemicals (chlorine and aluminum sulphate in particular) in the treatment process; and (iii) a
comparatively poor quality of the drinking water supplied by RGAB. Although the level of pollution
resulting from industrial activities has decreased significantly in the past few years due to the economic
downturn, lax enforcement of environmental regulations and financial constraints have contributed to
maintaining industrial water pollution at a level above acceptable standards. The project would contribute
to a significant improvement in the quality of drinking water, but will not be able to address the problems
of upstream pollution, an issue that is not in its area of competence.
3.2           Current water quality standards are defined by two key regulations: STAS 4706-88 of
November 1, 1988 for surface water categories and conditions, and STAS 1342-91 of June 1, 1992 for
standards for drinking water quality. In addition, Decrees nos. 414/79 and 14/83 specify the admissible
pollution limits and technical rules for discharge of waste water into open water bodies and for discharges
into public sewer systems. A permitting and contracting system is in place, requiring a permit for waste
water discharge, specifying the permissible substances and emission levels, and a contract with the
authority in charge of the receiving body (open water body or a municipal sewer). A new water law is
under consideration in the Parliament and will provide the basis for revisions and updating of the existing
water quality regulations. The new law will also introduce a compliance schedule for water companies
and other point source polluters.
4.            Monitoring capacity
4.1           Monitoring of water quality, a responsibility of the water department in MOFWEN is well
developed. There are, countrywide, 3,070 water quality monitoring stations (divided among 11 river
basins). In addition, RGAB has its own well-established system (a central laboratory with a number



35
Annex 1
(page 3 of 3)
of check points, drinking water plant laboratories, pumping station check points, waste water laboratory
and check points) for monitoring the quality of raw water, drinking water and waste water. The RGAB's
laboratory provides physical, chemical, biological, and bacteriological analysis of both raw and drinking
water. Moreover, drinking water quality is also monitored and controlled by the Center for Preventive
Medicine of the Ministry of Health (MOH). While RGAB envisages further developing its capacity to
monitor and control water quality, the review concluded that for the purpose of the project the existing
capacity and perforrnance can be considered adequate. As an immediate first step towards improving its
capacity to manage environmental issues, RGAB will establish the position of an environmental advisor
to the general director with a view to improve coordination of environmental monitoring and compliance,
(see para. 6.1 below).
5.            Sewer system and waste water treatment.
5.1           Bucharest has a relatively well developed sewer system, which serves approximately 85 %
of the population as well as a significant share of the industries located in the city. Currently there is no
municipal waste water treatment facility. The waste water is discharged directly in Dimbovila river near
Glina. Downstream from Bucharest both Dimbovila and Arges rivers are heavily polluted, with a
negative impact on agricultural production and on the ecology of the Danube, and the Danube delta. A
waste water treatment plant, designed in the late 70s/early 80s, has been under construction since 1985.
The plant has two lines at different stage of completion. Line 1 is almost completed -- the primary
treatment is ready for a trial start, the secondary treatment is 85-90% completed, and the sludge treatment
is about 80% completed. Line 2 is only 35-40% completed (so far only basic infrastructure construction
is finished). Since the time the treatment plant was designed, significant changes have occurred in the
financial position of the central government budget (which funds the construction), as well as in the
environmental regulations conditions. Additional changes are expected. For example, in the original
design, reference is made only to BODS (12 or less mg/I) and suspended solids (20 or less mg/I), and
neither nitrogen nor phosphorus removal were considered. To comply with current requirements and
treatment needs, a study to determine the feasibility of updating the design of the plant is under
preparation.
6.            Recommendations
6.1           RGAB's performance in environmental monitoring should be strengthened by the creation
of a Environmental Advisory position. The environmental advisor should monitor environmental
compliance, fo!low up on changes in the environmental regulations which may affect RGAB and propose
appropriate actions, serve as a RGAB internal focal point on environmental issues and corresponding staff
training, and liaise with the relevant Romanian authorities and with other agencies on environmental
matters. The detailed terms of reference for this task have been discussed during the negotiations.
6.2           Generally, RGAB should develop a more proactive attitude toward issues that are of
concern for the company but are primarily under control of other entities such as MOWFEN, APELE
ROMANE, and others and relate to matters such as the implementation of regulations governing industrial
waste water discharge into the sewerage network (enforcement of pre-treatment standards; fines for non-
compliance, billing and collection procedures, etc.); negotiation of a compliance schedule for waste water
discharges by RGAB and harmonization across sectors of compliance requirements.



36
Annex 2
[pag. 1 of 1W
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Financial Analysis
Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company - RGAB
Historical and Projected Financial Statements
1.           This annex includes:
(a)          RGAB Balance Statements 1992-1995
(b)          RGAB Income Statements 1992-1995
(c)          RGAB Projected Connections and Metering 1995-2002
(d)          RGAB Projected Tariffs and Sales 1995-2002
(e)          RGAB Projected Balance Sheets 1995-2002
(f)          RGAB Projected Income Statements 1995-2002
(g)          RGAB Projected Cash Flow Statements 1995-2002
(h)          Financial Projections - Sensitivity Analysis
2.           The main assumptions on which the financial projections are based, are the following:
A.    Connections and Metering
(a)          the number of connections remains constant since no significant urban
growth is expected in the coming years; and
(b)          the number of metered connections is based on the program agreed at
appraisal.
B.    Tariffs. Sales and Bill Collection Index
(a)          the volume of water sold experiences modest increases as a result of
improvements in RGAB's commercial management, including the
expansion of metering;
(b)          the tariff level remains constant in real terms at the August 1995 level;
the tariff level will be adjusted within thirty days of an increase of 10%
in operating costs over previous levels and a coverage equal to full costs
(as defined in the Short-Term Action Program (STAP); and



37
Annex 2
4pm. 2 of 101
(c)          the expected evolution of the ratios of total bill collection (current year
bills + accounts receicvable at the beginning of the year) in relation to
amounts billed each year + accounts receivable is as follows:
1996:                      70%;
1997:                      72%;
1998 and beyond:           75%;
C.    Inetnnts
(a)           the RGAB investment program  is comprised of the Bank-financed
project, the completion of the Crivina-Ogrezeni Water Treatment Plant,
and complementary own-source financed rehabilitation projects, but does
not include the completion of the Glina waste water treatment plant; and
(b)          the investment plan is based central government and Bucharest
municipality contributions to the Bank-financed project; central
government financing of 100% of the investments for the Crivina-
Ogrezeni and Glina plants; and internal cash generation for
complementary rehabilitation projects.
D.    QDeraing Costs, and Depreciation
(a)          the operating costs increase with inflation. They also include a provision
fur the funding of a gradual improvement of operation and maintenance
activities as well for additional costs incurred by RGAB from the
operation of the Crivina-Ogrezeni Water Treatment plant as of 1999;
(b)          the losses on accounts receivable are estimated to be the equivalent of
7% of sales in 1996 in order to take into account the expected losses
from accumulated receivables, and to represent about 5% to 6% of sales
in 1997 and thereafter; and
(c)          the depreciation charges are estimated at 2.5% of revalued fixed assets.
E.    InmeTaxes
the income taxes are estimated on the basis of 'income before taxes plus
losses on receivables' to reflect the fact that RGAB currently is not
allowed to make any provision for losses on receivables. [According to
Romanian practices RAs cannot make provisions for losses on
receivables. Losses on receivables are accounted-for on a case by case
basis upon prior demonstration that the bill in question cannot be
collected].



38
Annex 2
(pws 3ot 10)
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Prolect
Bucharet Water and Sewerge Company - RGAB
Balance Statementf 1992 -05
(as o December 31 )1/
Year       1992           1993           1994          1995
- -urment ROL biolln)
ASSETS
Revalued Fixed Assets                           86.0            91.1          700.6         681.9
Revalued Depreciation                            3.6             3.9            8.1          11.5
Net Fixed Assets                              82.4           87.2          692.5         670.4
Work in Progress                                55.7            66.9           98.4         138.0
Cash and Banks                                    1.6            1.3            4.0           3.7
Accounts Receivable                               1.7            4.9           12.2          33.8
Inventories                                      2.0             4.1            8.4          25.8
Other                                            0.0             2.0            9.7          10.8
Total Current Assets                            5.2           12.3           34.3          74.1
TOTAL ASSETS                               143.3          1W.4            825.2        862.5
EQUITY AND LUABILMES
Paid-in Capital                                126.1           126.1          126.1         126.1
Central Govemment Grants                        14.8            33.3           78.4         119.1
Revaluation Surplus                              0.0             0.0          602.1         847.3
Cumulative Profits (Losses)                      0.0             0.6           -6.5         -12.8
Total Equity                                 141.0           159.9          800.1         830.3
Suppliers                                         1.8            5.3           20.3          36.9
Other                                            0.6             1.1            4.8          15.3
Total Current Uabilities                       2.4             6.4           25.1          52.2
TOTAL EQUITY AND LUABILMES                 143.4          166.4           825.2        882.5
1/ The Inandal stamnut ae not fuly compable from yea to yea
becau  of canes In US wcoountn systwn hipemetd In 1993.
The 1995 figures are prov1ln anid unaudied



39                                           Annex 2
(page 4 f 10)
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company - RGAB
Income Statements 1992-95   /i
Year            1992            1993            1994            1995
-(current ROL billion)                   -
Operating  Revenues
Potable Water                                     7.8            21.3            47.5            82.2
Industrial Water 2/                                                               4.2             4.2
Sewerage 21                                                                       5.6             9.6
Other                                             1.0             0.1             0.0             2.7
Total Operating  Revenues                        8.8            21.4            57.3            98.7
Operating  Costs
Personnel                                        2.0              7.4            24.6            38.4
Energy                                            1.7             8.0            22.0            27.0
Raw Water                                                         1.3             5.2             9.0
Contracted Services                               0.9             1.5             3.3             6.8
Chemicals and O&M Materlals                       2.8             2.8             8.4            12.5
Total Operating Costs                            7.5            21.0            63.5            93.7
Income Before Depreciation                       1.3             0.3            -6.2             5.0
Depreciatlon                                      0.2             0.3             1.8             5.4
Operating Income                                  1.1             0.0            -8.0            -0.4
Interest Eamed                                   0.0              0.1             0.4             0.4
Interest Expenses                                0.0             0.0             0.0              0.0
Other Income and Expenses                        -0.2             0.0             1.0             0.6
Income Before Taxes                              1.0             0.1            -6.6            -0.6
Extra-ordinary Proftts i3                        0.0             0.0              0.0             1.2
Income Tax                                       0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0
Net Income                                       0.0             0.1            -6.6             0.6
1/ The finnrcil statements are not tily wmparable from year to year because of
danrgm hI the accoufflng system rnolemented In 1993.
2/ RGABs acoountng system does not cortain a breakdown of revenues by Mype o
service In 1992 and 1993.
3/ Exta-ordinary Pfts are dedved from sale od pubikc fountains to Buchart MunicipalIty



Year       1995 1     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002
(in '000) 
C)
Total Water Connections              69.1     69.1      69.1     69.1     69.1      69.1     69.1     69.1
Metered                             6.8       7.3      8.8      16.2     16.2     16.2      16.2     16.2
Unrnetered                         62.3      61.8     60.3      52.9     52.9     52.9     52.9      52.5                           c W
Large Users Metered (%)            42.2      45.3     54.2    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                            0 S 
*3~~~=
Individual Hous (unmetered)          52.5     52.5      52.5     52.5     52.5      52.5     52.5     62.5
Apwrtment Blocks                     11.4      11.4     11.4     11.4      11.4     11.4     11.4      11.4              0     2
Metered                            5.7      6.2       7.2     11.4      11.4     11.4     11.4     11.4               3          u X 
Unmetered                          5.7      5.2       4.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                              C)
Economic Agents                       3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2      3.2                               Z i  Z
Metered                            0.1      0.1       0.1      3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2      3.2                    e          >
Unmetered                          3.1      3.1       3.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                    CD
i 0       0
Standposte (unmetered)                0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4                    3 0
District Heating Boilers              1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2                    7 1     .
Metered                            0.8      0.8       1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2       1.2             3 
Unmetered                          0.4      0.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                    i
0
Booster Stations                      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4                     @
Metered                            0.2      0.2       0.2      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4                    a
Unmetered                          0.2      0.2       0.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
1 /Actual figures for 1995



Year       1995          1996          1997          199            1999          2000          2001          2002
War B9bd, Tobl (mI81n m3)                      358.3         344.5         349 0         352.3         355.7         3593           359.3         367.1
ndirviduel HoLuee arn BIok3                  152.0          89.9          65 6           88.9          72.3          75.9          75.9          83.7            0
Econonc Agwft                                 111.2         111.2         1112          111.2         111.2         1112          111.2         111.2      
RADET                                         19.2           86.4         1152          115.2         1152          115.2         115.2         115.2
Irndhl.   Raw Water                             57            57            57            57            57            57             57            57            !
Taritfs (ROL par m3 at mIdk   prie)                                                                                                                                      0
War                                            355           355           355           355           355            355           355           355
Induotial Raw Water Cerrca                     120           120           120           120           120            120           120           120        1!
Induearia RawWaterArgos                         52            52            52            52            52            52             52            52            06
Tairnb (ROL per ma at eunwit pricm)                                                                                                                                         
Water                                          355           400           459           506           549            594           644           C98        3t            n>
SeWage                                          41            55            63            70            76            82             89            9e         U         DX
Induria Raw Water Car- sa                      120           135           155           171           185           201            218           236        &              > 0
Ind-uaria Ra WaterArges                         52            59            67            74            80            87            94            102
Talis (USt par m3 el cunwa  pric)                                                                                                                             -          -'
Water                                         0 17           013           0.13          014           014           0.14          014           0.14            1      g
Sewerage                                      0.02           0.02          0.02          0.02          0 02          0.02          0 02          0.02                   -
Irdustrial Raw Water Cerrmca                  0 06           0 04         0.04           0 05          0 05          0.05          0 05          0.05
Indurial Raw Water Arges                      0 03          0.02          0.02           0 02          0 02          0.02          0 02          0.02            D
_____   _____                    ______                               ~~~~~~~~~~~C)
memo  _e,                                                                                                                                                          W
IrfIlaon Farlnr, Year                           131           1.20          1.15          1.10          1 10           1 10          1 10          1.10
Irflaon Factor, Arna Average                   1000          1255          1 175         1.125         1.100         1 100          1 100         1 100
Prn; Deflator (1995=Baae) m&yoar prce          1.000         0.797         0.678         0 603         0.548         0.498          0 453         0 412
Average Ea0hange Rate (ROL per USS)            2,033         3,077         3,447         3,694         3,956         4.236          4,529         4,845
Erd--period Ertange Rate (ROL per USS)         2,555         3,262         3,571         3,825         4,098         4,383          4,887         5,015



Year       1995          1996          1997          1998    f    1999            2000          2001          2002
. . . ..            * j.    u n.n.R        OL.. . . .n         . . . .................... .... . ... . . . . . . . . . , . , .,, .. .........
ASSETS
Revalued Fixed Assets                      682           828          1,003         1,193         1,583          1,783         1,944         2,144
Revalued Depreciabon                        11            33            60             94           138           194           259           336
Net Fixed Assets                          670           795           943          1,099         1,445         1,569         1,685         1,807
Work in Progress                           138           239           340            446           261           288           316           348
Cash and Banks                               4            11             9              7             5             8             3             3
Accounts Receivable                         34            41            50             47            51            59            68            76                     3
Inventory                                   26            32            38             43            47            52            57            63                            w
Other                                       11              1             1             1             1             1             1             1                            C
Total Current Assets                       74            86            99            98            105           120           129           142               8    U
TOTAL ASSETS                            883          1,120         1,382         1,643         1,812          1,977         2,131         2,298              -*
UABLMES                                                                                                                                                      I0
Long-term Debt, Revalued Ending Balarce      0             5            32             73            94           110           109           108               IL>
Long-term Debt, Current Portion              0             0             0              0             0             7             8            10                            C 3
Long-term Debt Long-termn                   0             5            32            73            94           102            101            98               8     ,
Suppliers                                   37            35             32            29            28            28            26            25                     o     <
Other                                       15             19            23            26            29            33            37            41               m          o 
Long-term Debt Current Porbon                0             0             0              0             0             7             8            10               f    3 
Total Current Liabilities                  52            54            55            55            57            67             71            75                           CD
TOTAL LIABIUTIES                          52            59            87           128           152            170           172           174                           -
Paid-in Capital                            126            126           126           126           126           126           126           126
Central and Municipal Government Grants    147           224            313           418           432           440           440           440                     C)
Revaluabon Surplue                         563           725            880         1,008         1,163         1,334          1,519         1,719                    >
Cumulative Profts (Losses)                  -6           -15            -24           -37           -61           -92          -126           -162                    W
Total Equity                              830          1,060         1,295         1,515         1,660         1,807         1,959         2,124
TOTAL EOUITY AND LIABILITIES           883          1,120         1,382         1,643         1,812         1,977         2,131         2,298
Debtl (Debt + Equity) %                   0.0YO         0.5%          2.6%/6         5.0YO         5.9%/         6.3%          5.8%          5.3%
Current Rato                                1.4           1.6           1.8           1.8           1.8            1.8           1.8           1.9
Acid Rabo                                   0.9           1.0           1.1           1.0           1.0           1.0            1.0           1.1



Year      1996 1l         1996          1997          1998           1999          2000          2001           2002
(Current ROL billion)
Opwtbg Reynue
Potable Water (Excluding RADET)             61 7          805            811           91.2         100.7          111.2         122.9         135.9
Potable Water to RADET                      20 6          34 6           52.8          58 3          83 2          68.5           74 2          80.4
Sewerage Revenues (12% o water billed)       9 6          138            161           17 9           19 7          21 6          23 7          26.0               W
lnrduktial Water and Other Ircome            6 9           8 7           10.2          11 4          12 6           13 9          15.2          16.8
OpwsMgRewnueu                              987          1375          160.2          1789          1961          2151          2360           259.0               i
Opeiting Cobt.
PereDnnel                                   38 4          45 7           52.4          59.0          64.9           713           78.5          86.3 
Energy                                      27 0          32 2           36.8          41.5          45 6           50.2          55.2          80.7         __           a
Raw Water                                    90           107            12.3          139           152            1e.8          184           20.3
CortratedServices                            6.8           81             93           10 4          11 5           12 6          13i9           15a3
Chemicals                                    3 9           4 6            5.3           6 0           6 6            7 2           8.0           8.8
Mateuial for Operation anr Mairtenarce 2I    7 4           8 8           10.1          11 4          12.5           13 7          15.1          16.6
Material for Opration and Mairtanarce 3/     0.0           1.8          2ao             4 5           7 5           9 6           13 6          183 
Lomeea on Receivables                        0.0          101            10.3          10 1           9.4           7 7            5 9           6 1          0                             Z.
Other Cas                                    1.2                                                                                                              3A
Tal Ope-rig Coaf                          93.7          126.4         143.4         156 7          173.2         189.2         208.6          227.8          t          g"
IncomeBefo reDepreiabton                     5.0          11 2           16 7          22 3          22.9          25 8           27.4          313                O
Depreciation                                 5 4          189           22 9           27 4          34 7          41.8           46.3          s1 13                  T
Opatkhcom                                   -04            -77           -62           -52           -118          -160          -190           -19.8         3
Irtered Earned                               04 44
Irnlrest and Fee on Bark Loan                0 0           0 3            1.5           4.1           e.6           81             7.9           7.9
Foreign Exiche  Looss                        0.0           0.3            1 4           3.6           517           6.9            7.3           7.3
Oter Ioarne and Expenses                    -0.6           0.0            00            0.0            00 0o0                      0.0           0.                C
Irnome Befbre Taxes                         -0.6          -8.3          -9.0          -12 9         -24.1         -30.9          -34.2         -35.0 
Etr-odi_ry Pfits (Losse4                     1 2
lrrme Tame  (38%)                            0.0           0.7           0.5            0.0           0.0           0.0            00            0.0
Ms baa1I                                     0.6          -9.0           -9 5         -12.9         -24.1         -30.9          -34.2         -35.0
YIkdng Rabo                                 95%           92%           92%           88%            88%           88%            88%           88%
1/ The 1 9N  figures are uwiatdd
21 Based on 199 standarda                                                                                                                                                        a
31 Addroael aods froa  CtvInea wabr besment pait and improved afndarda.                                                                                                          o



Year       1995    |    1996           1997          1998           1999          2000          2001          2002
___ _________        --__ -      (Current ROL billion)
Ircome Before Depreciabon                       5.0          11.2           16.7         22.3           22.9          25.8          27.4          31.3
Plus Other Inrcome                                     -             -             -             -              -                    -             -
Less Ircome Taxes                                             0.7           0.5           -              -             -             -             -
Gra. Intenal Cuh Generation                    5.0          10.5          16.2          22.3          22.9          25.8           27.4          31.3              c
Loan Repayment (Ptircipal)                             -             -                    -              -             -             7.6           8.7
Interest and Fees Expense                                     0.3            1.5          4.1            6.6           8.1           7.9           7.9
Total DebtOService                                           0.3           1.5           4.1           6.6           8.1           15.5          16.6              f
Working Capital Needs                          13 0           2.3            4.9           0.2           5.2           8.2          10 5           8.9          O   *   2
Not lntTl Cah Genewatlon                      (8so)          7.9           9.8          17.9          11.2           9.6            1.4           5.8           ,
InvestmentCost(IBRD Project)                                  9 2          51.7           739           316           16.9           -                              C B      D
Cnvirna Water TreatmerntPlant                  29 3          57.2          65.5           72.0           -             -                                                 D  O 
Glina Sewage Treatment Plant (First Line)      14.6           16.0          -              -             -                    -             -                   g                           4>
RGAB-finariced Network Rehabilitabon            -150                                                    100            5.0           5.0           5C0                    '>                 >
Totallnv.stmenbe                              439           82.5         117.2         160.9          41.6          21.9            5.0           5.0          21   }   c-
Required Finarcing                            51.9          74.6         107.4         143.0          30.5           12.4          3.6           (0.8)        o   O0
Disbursements IBRD Loan                                       4.6          25.9           36.9          15.8           8.5                                           3   o
Govemment Grants IBRD Project                   -             2.8           15.5          22.2           9.5           5.1                                      ; -
Govemment Grants Cnvina and Glina              43.9          73.2           65.5          72.0           -             -             -5
Municipal and other Grants                     24.5
Municipal Grant IBRD Project                   23.2           1.4           7.8           11.1           4.7           2.5                                      li;
Ttal Lon and Gr.n.                             -            82.0         114.6         142.2          30.1          16.1                         .                 C)
Clug. hI C_h                                  16.4           7.4           7.2          (0.7)         (0.4)          3.7           (3.6)          0.8              w
Debt Service Rato                                            31.1           10.9           5.5          3a5            3.2           1.8           1.9
Year-b-Year Contribubon to Investmet (%)         0%           10%            8%           11%           27%           4-4%          28%e          90%
Three-Year Averag. Corirb. to Invetment(%) 11    0%            4%           10%           12%           17%           32%            53%           73%
1/ Baoed on ebtal net irtenl cash generaton and total investment dLring the current and previous years and
and planned investment tor following year



A             B              C             D      j      E
ITEM                    BASE                         ALTERNATIVES 1/
CASE 
C  Collection t   Combined    Deprecation
-5%           85%         (B - C)      (25% of A)                   w
current ROL billion
Income Before Depredation               157.5         64.6           133.5         42.4          157.3       
Taxes                                    1.2           0.0            1.2           0.0           33.5
Gross Intemal Cash Generation           156.0          64.6          132.4         42.2          124.3                0  
In~~~~~~~4
Debt Service                            52.5          52.5           52.5          52.5           52.5                     3       Z  c        n      b
Working Capital Needs                   40.2          33.7           125.3         111.8         40.2                 t
Net Intemal Cash Generation             63.6          -21.6          -45.4        -122.1         31.6                                  0 0
Contribution to Bank-financed Project    9.1           0.0            0.0           0.0           9.1
RGAB-financed Investmnrts               30.9           0.0            0.0           0.0          30.9
1 / Base Case and varulons around the bass cm dunrng the period 1996 to 2002
2/ A colection raIo d 85% each year, sarting In 1996 to 2002, compared to the Ba  Case of 88% In 1996 and higher
in subsequent yeas.
3/ Combined Impect o tarfs lower by 5% to base case assumption plus lower bIll collecthon o 85% each year.
4/ Depreciation assumed at 25% of the level projeced In the base case (which Is 2..5% of assets).



46
Annex 3
pge I of 41
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Economic Evaluation
1.               The principal quantifiable benefits that will accrue from  the project will consist in a
reduction of RGAB's operating cost as a result of a reduction in water losses ' and increased production
efficiency (in the form of reduced energy consumption for distribution). As noted in the SAR (see para.
1.13) RGAB currently produces about 80%  more water than it would need to do under normal operating
conditions (i.e. with a water loss rate similar to that of Western European utilities) or, in other words,
it could maintain the same level of service by reducing its daily production from about 1.7 million m'
to about 0.9 million ml.
Water production  Current situation and long-term objective
1.7 ads as
network louse. C       A/*
hou ek  looses
'~~~~  household' losses
oon. tion                                                     Lonsumption
current               longierm objective
2.               Without the rehabilitation strategy initiated under the project, losses in the network are
expected to continue to rise annually, on average, at a rate of 5%, based on surveys carried out by the
consultant and data provided by RGAB. (They are assumed to rise at, at least, 10% in the neighborhoods
selected for rehabilitation under the proposed project). Assuming conservatively that 'household' losses
would remain at their current level, this would result in total losses reaching a proportion of 75% of total
production in a period of about ten years. Given that the two treatment plants of Arcuda and Rosu are
already operating at, respectively, 20% and 40%, above their nominal capacity, a rapid decrease in
service levels will be unavoidable.
3.               A cost-benefit analysis was made for the four project components that address the problem
of loss reduction and operating efficiency and whose benefits can be identified and estimated separately:
(a)     repair of the primary network;
(b)     repair of the secondary network
(c)     rehabilitation of pumping stations;
(d)     program  of meter installation.
1       Water losses include (a) losses in the network (25 X of total production) due to leaks, and (b) 'household' loues (35 %
of total production) due to, on one hand, defective appliances and building internal leakage and, on the other hand,
wasteful consumption practices ('coping strategies') intended at mitigating the 'rationing' effects of unreliable, only
intermittently available service. Net household consumption is 40% of total production. The sum of 'household
losses' and net household consumption is referred to as 'gross household consumption (demand)' and equals 75 % of
total production (i.e. 1.3 million m'Iday).



47
Annex 3
(page 2 of 41
The investments related to these four components represent 76% of the total base cost of
the project. Health benefits derived from the improvement of water quality cannot be quantified with
available data, but are expected to add substantially to the economic merits of the project. Additionally,
the proposed project will also strengthen the operational, customer accounts and financial management
of RGAB and improve the prospects for any future private sector involvement.
4.                The following general assumptions were made for the economic evaluations:
(a)      the economic rates of return are not sensitive to changes in economic conditions since:
(i) increases in wages will reflect increases in productivity (basically through shedding
excess labor in RGAB); 2/
(ii) changes in the inflation rate will not affect relative prices, which are expressed as
constant mid 1995 prices; tradeables have been priced at their border prices;
(iii) the exchange rates will follow  changes in the international and domestic   inflation
rates, so that real exchange rates will remain constant;
(b)      Financial prices were converted to economic prices by subtracting taxes and duties.
Distortions in the domestic labor market, characterized by binding minimum wages and
unemployment, have not been taken into account. There is no sufficient information to
shadow price labor, an exercise that would have increased the returns of the proposed
projects by reducing the cost of the investments. The same would be true for the
calculation of conversion factors to account for the foreign exchange component of labor.
Analogically, the price of electricity which has been somewhat subsidized has not been
corrected for this distortion, (an omission that results in a more conservative estimate of
the benefits of the project).
(c)      Although RGAB has increased tariffs by 400 %  in real terms during the last four years,
the present tariff still is about 35% below the long-run marginal cost 3/ of providing
water to the consumers; the ensuing excess production results in costs that are higher than
the benefits derived from  wastage, (welfare losses). 4/
2        Although the number of employees per 1,000 people served is high in comparison to Western European countries (1.7
for RGAB versus an average of 0.5), and the number of employees per 1,000 connection even higher (46 for RGAB
versus an average of 1.5), labor costs of RGAB, because of low wages, currently represent 33 % of operating costs
(maintenanice and depreciation excluded), which is in line with levels observed in Germany, Great Britain and other
countries. Besides, given the high frequency of breaks experienced by RGAB (about ten times higher than by utilities
in Western countries) employment of a relatively large workforce of unskilled laborers is justified.
3        See AtLachment no.1 for estimates of the marginal cost of water supply produced.
4        Nomninal tariffs are 355 Lei/m3 (USS 0. 14) for water supply and 41 Lei/m3 (USS 0.02) for sewerage services. Because
of absenee of metering and the use of normative consumptions (170 I/p/d for cold water plus 110 I/p/d for hot water),
water consumption is invoiced as a defaco flat fee. Because of this, it cannot be contended that an increase in tariffs
to reduce demand would achieve some of the objectives pursued under the project. Metering is a precondition to
implementatii-n of a pricing policy that eeks to moderate customer demand, (see, however, footnote 6).



48
Annex 3
[Pe 3 of 4)
(d)    Net household consumption will not be affected. As demonstrated by the experience of
similar projects in other countries, the increased reliability of water supply services which
will result in a reduction of need to resort to 'coping strategies' together with the
introduction of metering which will result in pricing the 'excess' consumption at its cost
(instead at zero cost at present) are expected to reduce the 'household losses' and result
in a reduction of 'gross household consumption'.
5.             The paragraphs below describe the cost-benefit analysis for each project component:
5.1            Costs and benefits for the rehabilitation of the primary and secondary networks were
calculated, in both cases, based on recent unit prices for similar civil works in Romania. Annual
maintenance costs for the existing network ('without project' case) were calculated on the basis of
estimates for the average unit cost of break repair. Maintenance costs for the networks after rehabilitation
('with project' case) were assumed at 1 % of the investment value for the primary network (because of
the more complex nature and material involved) and 0.5% for the secondary networks. In both cases
maintenance costs were assumed to increase over time to take into account normal wear and tear. Water
production cost per unit (i.e. ex-treatment plant cost) was assumed to remain the same with and without
the project. Benefits accruing to RGAB were measured on the basis of (a) a decrease in overall
production costs due to a reduction in the total volume of water to be produced as a result of loss
reduction; and (b) a decrease in distribution (pumping) costs due to a reduction of energy consumption
as result of the replacement of existing pumps by more energy-efficient units. All benefits were valued
at the short-run marginal cost of water produced which is US$ 0.04/m3. Energy consumption of pumps
was estimated on the basis of available data for existing technologies and valued at a cost of US$ 0.55
kwh (see Attachment I for calculation details).
5.2            Repair of primary network, The proposed investments of US$ 2.19 million (excluding
taxes) are expected to cause water losses to decrease from 62,000 m3/day to 25,000 m3/day. The resulting
IRR which was calculated taking into account both water savings and reduced maintenance costs, is 22%
(see Attachment 2). A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the affects of (a) possible cost
overrun by 25%, (b) a 25% reduction in expected savings from water loss reduction, (c) an
implementation start up delayed by one year; and (d) a longer than anticipated implementation period of
five instead of three years. The results show that the IRR is robust. In the cases (a) and (b) it would
decrease from 22% to 17%, whereas in the cases (c) and (d) it would remain unaffected. 5/
5.3            Repair of secondary network . Investments in the repair of the secondary network, with
an estimated total cost of US$ 14.0 million (excluding taxes), will result in a reduction of water losses
from an actual 522 m3l/km/day (based on surveys carried out by the consultant) to about 50 m3/km/day
for the net 84 km of network section that will be repaired and/or replaced. The IRR for this component
which was is calculated taking into account both water savings and reduced maintenance costs is 129% (see
Attachment 3). The sensitivity analyses shows that (a) a cost overrun of 25% would reduce the IRR to
10%, and that like in the case of the primary network, the IRR would not be affected by a delayed start
up and/or longer than anticipated duration of implementation.
5      Trhe reason for this is that the network rehabilitation works carried out under the project generate cost and benefits that
are diacrete and strictly proportional and accrue simultaneously on a 'as it goes' basis.



49
Annex 3
page 4 of 41
5.4             Rehabilitation of pumping stations.  The main benefits of this component whose
estimated total cost is US$ 6.1 million (excluding taxes), derive from the reduction of the energy costs
of water distribution. These benefits were calculated taking into account the amount of water that would
be necessary to satisfy the demand that would exist if water were priced at its long term marginal cost.
In that case, based on the experience of other countries, it can be assumed that gross water consumption
in Bucharest would be about 370 I/capita/day with a corresponding water production of 480 I/capita/day.
The benefits represent the difference between the energy costs of existing pumping equipment estimated
at US$ 0.021/m3 and those of new equipment provided under the project which are estimated at US$
0.017/m3. The resulting IRR would be 15%. The sensitivity analysis shows that (a) a cost overrun of
25 %  would reduce the IRR  to 11 % but that a longer than expected execution period would not affect
it significantly (see Attachment 4). 6/
5.5             Metering. The project would finance the installation of about 6,000 meters which are
expected to affect the demand for water of about 700,000 consumers. Based on the effects of metering
observed in other countries, it has been conservatively assumed that the demand for water would be
reduced by 10%. u The total cost of this component has been estimated at US$ 4.71 million (excluding
taxes). Given the limited lifetime of water meters (estimated at ten years) the investment effort would
have to be repeated every ten years to maintain benefits at their initial level. Benefits were calculated
as the difference between the production cost of the foregone water and the utility generated to the
consumer. The IRR of this component is 48% (see Attachment 5). The sensitivity analysis shows that
a cost overrun of 25% (and proportional reduction of the number of meters installed) would reduce the
IRR to 37%, whereas it would remain unaffected by a delay in project implementation start up and/or
a longer than anticipated duration of implementation. 4/ The IRR of this component is, however,
extremely sensitive to consumer response. It would drop to 19% if the expected savings in water
consumption would be only 5% instead of 10%, as assumed in the base case.
6       Most of the meters will not be installed to individual households but to groups of consumers within apartment
buildings (staircase units), hence the high number of consumers affected by the program. The rationale for this is that,
for technical reasons, the installation of individual household meters in apartment buildings is, in most cases,
impossible. Under these circumstance, a consumption reduction by about 10% seemed more realistic an assumption
than one of about 30% which has been observed in countries that d not have this sort of constraint.



50
Annex 3
ATTACHMENT 1
Marginal Cost of Water Supply
A. Short Run Marginal Cost
The short run marginal cost of water produced was estmated by dividing the current daily operating costs by the total
number of daily produced m3 of water.
Daily operating costs for 1995 (in US$) were estimated as follows (using the 1995 average exchange rate):
Energy                                                 40,600
Raw water abstraction fees                             9,600
Chemicals and O.& M. expenses                           9,100
Total                               US$/day            59,300
With a current production of 1,690,000 m3/day the resulting short run marginal cost of water produced is:
Short Run Maralnal Cost of Water Produced  (US$/m3)              0.04   (excluding taxes)
B. Long Term Marainal Cost
The long term marginal cost of water produced was calculated by taking into account the costs of the new Crivina
Ogrezeni Treatment Plant, and the operating costs above.
-        Costs of Crivina-Ogrezeni Treatment Plant: US$ 100 million (including taxes)
Economic Life: 30 years for civil works (60%), 15 years for mechanical parts (40%)
Capacity : 6 m3/s
Discount Rate used: 10%
Costs of Crivina-Ogrezeni - South Reservoir Aqueduct: US$ 30 million
Economic Life : 50 years
Capacity : 6 m3/s
Discount Rate used: 10%
Total Capital Costs (US$ million/year)       =         6.4   (treatment plant: civil works)
6.5   (treatment plant: mechanical parts)
3.0   (aqueduct)
Total                      =        15.9
Capital Cost/m3 produced (US$)               =         0.08  (including taxes)
Operating Costs/m3 produced (US$)            =         0.07  (including taxes)
With a water distribution 'of 1,300,000 m3/day the long term marginal cost of water distributed is:
Long Term Marginal Cost of Water Distributed (US$/m3)    0.17  (excluding taxes)
* waler distributed = total volume of water produced (treated) minus losses in the network = total voluma d watfe consumad by households oplus household
wastage [see SAR para. 1 121



51
Annex 3
ATTACHMENT 2
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Component: Primary Network Repair
Losses          Losses           Water         Investnrent     Mairnrtance      Maintenance       Benefits         Beneit
without          with           Savings           Cost            Cost             Cost            linked          Losses
Pro)rsst        Projea           With             with            without          with           tothe
Years                                            Project         Project         Project          Projec          Project
(m31day)        (ma/day)        (3mMay)           (USS)            (USS)           (USS)           (US S)
1997           62,000           62,000            0             700,000                                             0             -700,000
1998           62,310           77,500          -15,190         700.000         -90,000           -7,000         -304,774         -997,774
1999           62,622           37,200          25,422          791.139         -90,900          -14,000         371,155          -405,984
2000           82,935           24.800          38,135                          -91,809          -21,911          556,766         578,677
2001           83,249           24,800          38,449                           -92,727         -22,021          561,360         583,381
2002           63,566           24,800          38,766                          -93,654          -22,131          5665,977        588,108
2003           63,883           24,800          39,083                          -94,591          -22,242          570.618         592,859
2004           64,203           24,800          39.403                          -95,537          -22,353         575,281          597,834
2005           64,524           24,800          39,724                          -96,492          -22,465         579,968          802,433
2006           64,846           24,800          40.048                          -97,457          -22,577          584,678         607,255
2007           65,171           24,800          40,371                           -96,432         -22,690          589,412         61 2 102
2008           65,497           24,800          40,697                          -99,416          -22,803          594.170         616,973
2009           65,824           24,800          41,024                          -100,410         -22,917         596,951          621,868
2010           66.153           24,800          41,353                          -101,414         -23,032         603,756          626,788
2011           66,484           24,800          41,684                          -102,428         -23,147         608,585          631,732
2012           66.816           24,800          42,016                          -103,453         -23,263         613,438          636,701
2013           67,150           24,800          42,350                          -104,487         -23,379         618,316          641,895
2014           67,486           24,800          42,688                          -105,532         -23,496          623,218         646,714
2015           67,824           24,800          43,024                          -108,587         -23,614          628,144         651,758
2018           68,163           24,800          43,383                          -107,653         -23,732          633,096         656,827
Tobl Investment Cost (USS milon) .   2.19                                                                            MR.              22%
Swe t Anaiyee
If invesnmern osts are 25% higher, the IRR decreases to 17%                                                                                   ]
I the minierrwrtiton takes pice ovw five yerws, the IRR decreases to 21%
Dot al CicuLdioan
Invee_nt Coae             Costs taken into  count are those siown in the SAR net of taxes and dutes, buit inclusive of physcas and finencalD roningenoes
Invesntcost - ( (1.223d21)+((1.41115)'(23.6/22.6)))/1.18
lMafin_  Coet            in the without projecr case: based on repair costs for currern everage rate to 0.9 breaksftm increasng at 0.5% per year
in the with psjed case:   1% of investment most, slrtig with one yea delay end increasing at 0 5% per yeer
Wal   lng                 Water saved u valued at the shor run marginal oDst (US3 0.0401m3)
Beneft - waer saved (m3MayrW 365 days * USS 0,040rn3
Csrent loses in the pnmary network are estmated to be 62,000 mV/day, based on masaures caerd oLt by the oDnsufsant
They are assumed to increase atO.5% pr year
M*JiOMAPA%GREYSAR\ANN-31 X&S



52
Annex 3
ATTACHMENT 3
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Component: Secondary Network Repair
Losses          Losses           Water          Investment      Maintenance      Maintenance        Bnefits         Beit/
Without           With           Savings           Cost             Cost            Cost            linked          Lasses
Project         Project           With             With           Without           With            to the
Years                                            Project          Project          Project         Project          Project
(toSday)        (m3lday)         (m3/day)          (USS)            (US$)           (US$)            (US$)
1997           44,026           44,026             0            4,500,000        -128,606            0             128,606        4,242,788
1998           48,429           32,285           16,144         4,500,000        -135,375         -22,500          393,572        -3,971,053
1999           53,271           17,757           35,514         4,998,049        -142,500          45,000          706,011        4,149,537
2000            58,599           4,150           54,449                          -149,625          -69,990         1,014,565       1,164,190
2001           64,458            4,150           60,308                           -157,106        -70,690          1,108,300       1,265,406
2002           70,904            4,150           66,754                          -164,962         -71,397          1,210,972       1,375,933
2003           77,995            4,150           73,845                          -173,210         -72,111          1,323,454       1,496,684
2004           85,794            4,150           81,644                          -181 ,870         -72,832         1,446,708       1,628,578
2005           94,374            4,150           90,224                          -190,964         -73,580          1,581,789       1,77Z753
2006           103,811           4,150           99,661                           -200,512        -75,767          1,731,330       1,931,842
2007           114,192           4,150           110,042                          -210,537         -78,040         1,895, 1 92     2,105,730
2008           125,611           4,150           121,461                         -221,064         -80,381          2,074,781       2,295,845
2009           138,172           4,150           134,022                          -2321z17         -82,793         2,271,638       2,503,756
2010           151,990           4,150           147,840                          -243,723         -85,277         2,487,460       2,731,183
2011           167,189           4.150           163,039                          -255,910        -89,541          2,725,815       2,981,724
2012           183,908           4,150           179,758                          -268,705        -94,018          2,987,182       3,255,887
2013           202,298           4,150           198,148                          -282,140        -98,718          3,273,824       3,555,964
2014           222,528           4,150          218,378                           -296,247        -103,654         3,588,222       3,884,469
2015           244,781           4,150          240,631                           -311,060        -108,837         3,933,108       4,244,168
2016           269,259           4,150           265,109                          -326,613        -114,279         4,311,483       4,638,096
Total Investment Cost (US$ million) =   14.00                                                                          IRR              12%
Sonadvity Analyae
It investment costs are 25% higher and benefits reduced in the same proportion, the IRA decreases to 10%
If the implementation start up is delayed by one year or takes place over 5 years, the IRR is not affected
Dil of Calculatons
tnvesadmnt Coat  Costs taken into acount are those shown in the SAR net of taWes and duties, but unclusive of physical and financial contingencies.
Investment cost = ( (8.2-23/21 )+((8.3/1 .15)'(23.6/22.6)))/1 .18
Malnteinnce Cost in the 'without project' case based on repair cost for current average rate of 1.7 breaksA/m increasing at 5% per year
in the 'with project' case: 0.5% of the investnent, starting with one year delay and increasing at 1 % per year over the first five years, at 3% over
the fotowing five years, and at 5% thereafter
Wor srings    Water saved is valued at the shod term marginal cost (USS 0.04/mi3)
Benefit = water saved with project (m3/oay)' 365 days * USS 0,04/Tr3
Current losses in the secondary network, for the neighborhoods to be rehabilitaed, are estimated, according to measures canied out by the consultant,
at about 500 m3Akm/day
In the without project case water losses are assumed to increase at 10% per annum in the project neighborhoods
In the 'with project case network losses expected to decrease 5orm3/m/day (as oDmpared to an average of 30 m3lkm/day in networks with maintenance
acoDrding to Westem Eumpean standards
FJPDRO"APA%GREYSAR'ANN-32.XLS



53
Annex 3
ATTACHMENT 4
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Component: Pumping Station Rehabilitation
Energy                   Energy                  Investentr                 Baenefih
Waler                 Consumpbon                Consumpoon                  Coss                      Losses
Production                Without                    With
Envisaged                  Project                  Pro)ect
Years                   (m= 0day)                (US0611r)                (US/YeW)                    (USS)
1997                    960,000                  8,069,770                1009,770                  2,000,000                -2,000,000
1998                    960.000                  8,069,770                7.735,520                 2,000,000                -1.85,.750
1999                    960,000                  8,069,770                7,401,270                 2,071,804                -1,403,304
2000                    960.000                  8.069,770                 7.067.021                                          1,002,750
2001                    960,o0o                  8,069,770                 7,067,021                                          1,002,750
2002                    960.000                  8.069,770                7,067,021                                           1,002,750
2003                    960,000                  8,069,770                 7,067,021                                          1.02,750
2004                    960,0O0                  8,069,770                 7,087,021                                          1,002,750
2005                    960.Q00                  8,069,770                 7,067,021                                          1,0o02750
2006                    960.000                  8,069,770                 7,067,021                                          1,002,750
2007                    960.0o0                  8,069.770                7,067,021                                           1,002,750
2008                    960.000                  8,069,770                7,067,021                                           1.002,750
2009                    960.000                  8.069,770                7,087,021                                           1,002,750
2010                    960O.DO                  8,069.770                 7,087,021                                          1,002,750
2011                    960.000                  8,069.770                 7,087,021                                          1,002,750
2012                    960,000                  8,069,770                 7.067,021                                          1,002 750
2013                    960,000                  8,069,770                 7,067,021                                          1,002,750
2014                    960,000                  8.069,770                 7,067,021                                          1,0o0a750
2015                    960.000                  8,069,770                 7,067,021                                          1,002,750
2016                    960,000                  8,089,770                 7,067,021                                          1,002,750
Investment Cost (USS millbon)=       6.07                                                                   IRR.                      16%
Sneldvltty Anemia
It invesment ousts are 25% higher, the IRR decreases to11%
If impoemlManon staM up is delayed by one yew or d the program is implemented over five yewsr the IRR is not afected
Dali of Citone-
hlnwrtw Coase       Costs taken into asoourt are those  own in the SAS net of lame snd duee but enusive of physical mld finanid oontirngenoies.
Invstment oost = ( (3.3-2312)F(5.1/1.15'(23.62Z6)))/1.18
amlnonce Cost    Maklanarwwe otsts are assuffied lo be the ssme with end without prect
Benria              Energy savings were valued at US$ 0 55KWh
The energy savings resuh ftrm the replacemet of old dd ing punips with new anergy-efidiint unks,
M'fJVA0PAVAEYARWANN-33.XtS



54
Annex 3
ATTACHMENT 5
Economic Rate of Return COculation
Component: Metering
Investnent                      Operating                      Benefits                      BliU
Cost                           Cost                          linked
With                           With                          tD 1the
Yewrs                        Project                        Project                        Prowt
(US$)                         (USs)                           (US$)
1997                       1,500.000                                                         0                        -1,500,000
1998                       1,500,000                        15,000                        786,500                      -749500
1999                       1,706,979                        30.000                        1,533,000                    -203,979
2000                                                        47.070                        2,299,500                    2,25Z430
2001                                                        47,070                        2,299,500                    2,252430
2002                                                        47,070                        2,299,500                    2,252,430
2003                                                        47.070                        2,299,500                    2,252430
2004                                                        47,070                        2,299,500                    2,25z430
2005                                                        47,070                        2,299.500                    2,252,430
2006                                                        47,070                        2,299.500                    225sz430
2007                        1,500,000                       47,070                       2,299,500                     752430
2008                        1,500,000                       47,070                       2,299,500                     752,430
2009                        1,706,979                       47,070                       2,299,500                     545,461
2010                                                        47,070                       2,299,500                     2,25Z430
2011                                                        47,070                       2,299,500                    2,25Z430
0112                                                        47,070                       2,299,500                    2,252430
2013                                                        47,070                       2,299,500                    2,25Z430
201.1                                                       47,070                       2,299,500                    2,252430
2015                                                        47,070                       2,299,500                     2,252430
2016                                                        47,070                       2,299,500                    2,252t430
Tota Investment Cost (US$ million) =       4.71                                                  IR *                         411
SeIqwt Andyde
if irnwsuren roas are 25% hi , tse IRR decr   lo 37%
f the project is imnplmented in fie yenm the IRR decreases to 45%
i project impsementaton start up is delayed by one yer. the IRR is not affected
N the prqect austes water consumption to dcreaese by 5% inalead of 10%, the IRA decreases to 19%
Dee of Cssuldon
hnvasbnnt Case        Cots taken kit coDurnt are those shzon in the SAR net of taxes and duties but incdusvm of phydcamad financial ornringenes
Invstment cost . ( (3.8-/21)+((2.0I1.15)'(23.6122.6)))/1 18
Average htirmfne of invesfents (meters) is easttnted el ten yers.
Opeatng Cost          1% of the investment, staring with one year delay. No additlDni personnel wouid be required.
B_fl    -             Benehfts have been ajcated ax the eznomc value of mth difference between current gross per capita household oonstunpbon
(610 htwersd) at a marginl prie of US$0 and en expected future onsnmpion (550 e#arsday) tS albng-n.m rgin prid of USb 0.17
Benefit -316 days700,000 pers"on' reduction of grossoonsumptlono z10% (60 Iiterstay) US$0.1511000
Reduction in grass household oonsumpion has been onservatvely assumed at 10% . (dithh es ence with stier progrwrin otr
counties (e.g. Canada) suggest a possibility of higher rates of up to 30%)
M'nJ(MAPAGAEYSAfrAN184 XLS



55
Annex 4
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATES
Bank Fiscal Year  Date End Quarter      Quarterly         Cumulative       - Cumulative
Disbursement       Dlsbursement      Disbursement
(US$ million)      (USS million)        (in %/6)
FY 97             September 30            1.0                 1.0               4%
December 31             0.5                1.5                6%
March 31                0.5                2.0                8%
June 30                 2.0                4.0               16%
FY 98             September 30            2.0                6.0               24%
December 31             2.0                8.0               36%
March 31                3.0               11.0               48%
June 30                 2.5               13.5               58%
FY 99             September 30            2.5               16.0               68%
December 31             2.0               18.0               76%
March 31                2.0               20.0               84%
June 30                 1.0               21.0               88%
FY 00             September 30            1.0               22.0               90%
December 31             1.0               23.0               92%
March 31                0.5               23.5               94%
June 30                 0.5               24.0               96%
FY 01             September 30            0.5               24.5               98%
December 31             0.3               24.8               99%
March 31                0.1               24.9               99%
June 30                 0.1               25.0              100%
Initial Deposit In Special Account



56
Annex 5
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Regia Generala de Apa Bucure,ti
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.    Proiect Obiectives:        The primary objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the
reliability and quality of water supply in Bucharest; (b)
progressively reduce water losses both physical and
commercial; and (c) improve RGAB's operational, commercial
and financial management.
2.    Proiect Descriotion:        The project would include the following components:
A.    Improvement of water supplv reliability and quality
water treatment plant rehabilitation
. aqueduct flow control improvement and reservoir
upgrading
. pumping station rehabilitation
B.    Reduction of water losses
. primary network repair
. secondary network repair
. metering program
C.    Strengthening of RGAB management
. public awareness and water wastage reduction
campaign
. customer accounts management improvement
. training for operational management improvement
. implementation supervision support
3.    Proiect Implementation
Plan (PIP)                 The PIP includes all essential documents prepared with
RGAB, the project beneficiary and implementing agency that
are necessary for following up on, and monitoring progress
in, project implementation. The PIP includes:
Detailed project description
Procurement plan
Implementation plan
Disbursement plan
RGAB Performance targets and monitoring criteria
Reporting plan
Terms of Reference



57
Annex 5.1
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Comoonents                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Description
A   Water Treabment Planrt        Project activibes indude the emergency rehabilitation of water filtering and treatmrent equipment
Rehablltatlon                 at the treatment plants of Arcuda and Rosu. Specwlkally, the project wil finance:
Arcuda rian
.  rehablitation of filter beds including the repair of filtering floors
re>rAement of filters and filtering sand
replaoement of pumps and filter washing equipment
.  replacement of chlorination equipment
Rosu plarn
rehabilitation of filter beds including the repair of filtering floors and aeration equipnent
replaenmeat of filtering sand
. replacement of chlorination equipment and repair of chbionation fity building
repair of sludge removal system
replacement of aluminum sulphate dosing and injection equipment
repair of silicate and suluric acd stocking facility
installation of new polyelectrolyte injtion equipment
. raplacement of filter washing equipment
R    Aquedhft Flow Cotrol and      Project activities Include the supply and installation of flow control equipment on the main
Reservoir Upgrading           aqueducts, as well as det supply and installation of flow control equipmernt on the Cotrceni
reservoir complex Specifically, the project will finance:
Arcuida pEn
. Installation of (4) manually operated and (2) motorized flow control valves on aqueducts
no.1, 2,3, and 5;
Rosu nde
. installation of (4) manually operated and (2) motorized flow control valves on aqueducts no.
1,2, and 3;
. constiuction of flow measuring station on aqueduct no. 3
.  installation of (2) manualy operated and (2) motorized flow control vahems on aqueduct no.
7,9, 10and11;
.  consndicuon of flow measuring station
Uverturi pumping station
.  installation of (2) manually operated flow control valves
Grivita node and pumping staton
.  installation of (3) manually operated flw control valves
Cotroceni reservoirs
. installation of (8) motorized flow control valves on reservoirs 1, 2a, 2b, and 3
C.   Pumpig Station Rehbtation    Projec acIvWes include the supply and Instalation of new pumping equipment in key pumpig
stations. Spedfically, the project wiN finance:
* installation of (6) variable speed pumps in three groups in the pumping stationsNord,
'Sud' and 'Grivita'
*  instllation of (10) pumps In various pumping stations
rehabilation and repair of electrical and automated contd equipment



58
Annex 5.1
D.   Primary Network Repair        Project awtvJties incdude the emergency repair of deterrorated sections of the primary dstbution
network as well as the reorganizatlon of the periodic network maintenance system. Speodaly,
the project will finance:
systematic leak detection survey for the entire primary network (450 kms) and creation of a
computerized network Information and data base
repair of leaks and replaemernt of deteriorated sections and/or parts
resupply of stock of spare parts inuchdng pipes of various dcameters, valves, etc.
rehabiliation of spare stocking facility inciuding installation of a oDmputerized inventory
management system
E    Seoondary Network Repair      Works include the systematic rehabilitation and repair of the secondary distribution network in
sewen neigborhoods with a total population of about 190,000:
-   Aviatei           14,328 inhabitants
-   Beller             2,596 inhabitarns
-    Berceni-Oltenitel   38,182 inhabitants
-   Crangasi          40,125 inhabiants
-   Dristor-Tomis     52,832 inhabitans
-   Major Bacila      18,042 inhabitants
-   Tineterulul       24,792 inhabitakns
Specifctally the works consist of:
. systematic survey of Vie network and identicicalion of sections and pails to be replaced
. supply of pipes of various diameters and network accessories
removal and replacement of deteriorated network secbons and/or elements
Instllation of meters (supplied under component F below)
F.   Metenng                       Project awties include the supply and instlation of about 6,000 meters of various diameters
Specifically, the project will finance:
. supply of about 1,000 meters and accessories for 'residential-type oonsumption to be
Instlled in the secondary network rehabilitation areas included in Component E.
.  supply and Insalation of about 5,000 meters for lindustrial-type consumption for large
housing comples and feeder points for the hotwater and district heating system.
. supply and installation of meter testing and tuning equtpment
G.   Technical Assistance          Technical assistance included in the project consist of the folowing four sub-components:
G-1 Public Awwreness and Wastage   support to RGAB for the implementation of a water wastage reduction campaign
Reducion Campraign
.  preparation and implemenation of public information and education programs for tirough
media (TV, radio, press).
deveopment of a program of financial incentives and compensations for consumers
achieving significant wastage reduction
G-2 Commercial Management          support to RGAB for pursueing the restructuring of its commercia management department
Improvement                   initiated with French bilateral technical assistance as of January 1996 and improving the
management of:
customer registration
meter reading
Invoicing
collection
G-3 Technical Training             suppoxt to RGAB for improving the performance of its technical operations
professional training for plarnt and network maintenance and operation stalf
traming in inventory management for spares and equJpment supplies
t raining in managemernt techniques for flow control
. preparation of training modules for equipmernt maintenance
G-4 knpmwntatlon Supwvilon         support to RGABs Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the ooordination and control of project
Jmplementaton



Component                  Contract             Nature          Number                                                           Deadlines
of               of       Procurement    Document            Invitation       Invitation        Contract         Contract
Package         Contracts      Method        Preparation    Prequalfbication    Tendening         Signature        Completion
A         Treatment Plant Rehabilitation          A    I         civil works               1             ICB         06/30/96         07/01/96          11/01/96         04/30/97          12/31/98
A    2        goods                     I             NCB         06/30/96                           12/01/96         05/31/97          08/31/97
A    3        goods                     I                        06/30/96                           12/01/96         05/31/97          07/30/97
B         Aqueduct Repair                         B    1         supply/install            1             Cs          06/30/96                           11/01/96         04/30/97          12/31/98
C         Pumping Station Rehabilitation          C    1         supply/,nstall            1             ICB         06/30/96          07/01/96         11/01/96         05/31/97          03/31/99
D          Pnmary Network Repair                  D    1         civil works               1             CB          07/31/96         08/01/96          01/01/97         06/30/97          09/30/98
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _                                                                                                                           -
E         Seconday Network Repair                 E    1         civil works               1             ICB         06/30/96         07/01/96          01/01/97         06/30/97          12/31/99
E   2         civil wo-ks               I             ICB         06/30/96         07/01/96          01/01/97         06/30/97          09/30/99
E   3      * cimil works                I             ICB         06/30/96         07/01/96          01/01/97         06/30/97          06/30/99
E   4         civil works               1             ICB         06/30/96         07/01/96          01/01/97         06/30/97          12/31/99                             m
I_n
F         iMetering                               F    1         civl aras                 I            NCB          09/30/96              _            11/01/96         05/31/97          1Z/31/98
F   2         civil works               I            NCB          09/30/96              _            11/01/96         OS/31/97          06/30/99                             Z
F   3         civ7l works               I            NCR          09/30/96              _            01/01/97         07/31/97          03/31/99 
F   4         civil works               I            NCB          09/30/96              _            01/01/97         07/31/97          09/30/99
F   S         goods                     I             ICR         09/30/96                           10/01/96         03/31/97          08/31/9?
F   6         goods                     1             ICB         09/30/96                           10/01/96         03/31/97          08/31/97
G         Technical Assistance
Public Awareness Campaign             0-1   I         consultant services       1            NBF          09/30/96                           10/01/96         02/28/97         09/30/99
Commercial Serinces Improvement       G-2   1         consultant services       I             SL          06/30/96                          07/01/96          09/30/96         03/31/99
Operational Assistance and Training   C-3   1         consultant services       1             SL          06/30/96                           10/01/96         02/28/97         09/31/99
Implementation Supervision            G-4   1         consultant services       1             SL          06/30/96                          07/01/96          09/30/96          12/31/99
G-4   2        consultant ser,vces        1            SL          06/30/96                           07/01/96         09/30/96          12/31/97
Totals                                                          21
contracts to be vrocured on si.ce-and-package basis
ICB - international Con etilwve Bidding
NCB - National Cor-peti -r Bidding
IS   Irternatlonal Shopoing
SL - Shortist tfor G,s,ltant Services
NBF = Nol Bank Financed (sole source)
Ps



60
Annex 5.2 (b)
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Procurement by Category and Type of work
|  contract |                 Type of Works                      |    Type of    1         Total
n_o                                                              jProcurement             Amount
Civil Works
A 1         Repair works on filtering and treatment  facilities          ICB
D I         Repair of primary network                                    ICB
E 1     *  Repair and replacement of secondary network                   ICe
E 2     *  Repair and replacement of secondary network                   ICB
E 3     *  Repair and replacement of secondary network                   ICB
E 4     t  Repair and replacement of secondary network                   ICB
F 1         Installation of meters and accessories                       NCB
F 2         Installation of meters and accessories                       NCB
F 3         Installation of meters and accessories                       NCB
F 4         Installation of meters and accessories                       NC8
Subtotal -2.5
Goods
A 2         supply of filtering sand                                     NCB
A 3         supply of filter nozzles                                     IS
F 2         supply of meters                                             ICB
F 3         supply of installation accessories                           ICB
|                               $ei~~~~~~Sbtotal   :______ :  :     __: 5.5:    |
Supply andI
Install             B 1         supply and installation of valves and accessories            ICB
C 1         supply and installation of pumps and accessories     j       ICB
Subtotal
Consultant
Services        {
G 1         preparation of media campaign                                NBF
G 2         customer account management                                  SL
G 3         operational assistance and training                          SL
G 4-1       iniplementation supervision                                  SL
G 4-2      implementation supervision                                    SL
Subtotal                              4.4
Total                  :          s.:
all costs include contingencies  taxes and duties
contracts to be procuxd on slice-and-package basis
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
NCB * National Competitive Bidding
I S * InternationalShopping
SL * Shortlist for Consultant Services
NBF * Not Bank Financed (sole source)



Contracting
Item                                           Obective                               Possble Prouder                 Method
Public Awaraness Campaign                     (a)  Preparatton and rmprementaeon of             Media consultant wtn experence in       Soe source
Financia Incenfives Studiles                      media carnpaigns on water use                 Romania                              (not Bank ttnanced)
issues                                                                                                                    I
(t) Preparabon of study on tarftts and            Consulting ftrm                           Shortlist                         rn
financia incentives for RGAB
cistomers
(c) Compenientary sociological. etc studies       Individual consultants                    Shortlist                         Q
Customer Account Management Improvement           Asst RGAB in the reorganization               Consulting firm with spedcic              Shortlist                          O
of is commercial management                   experience in instutonalt/crmmercial                                        Z
smevces end procedures                        assistance to water utilites                                                ti
Operational Service Assstance and Training   (a) Assist RGAB in the monitonrig of               Consulting tim wnth specilic experoise    Shortist 
resuts ot the network rehabhiltation         or water utitty operator                                                     Z
program and prugrammrng of                                                                                                 )
tollow up operations
(b)  Asswst RGAB in the management                Consulting firm wMth specihc experfse     Shortirst
Improvement of ts technical                   or water utility operator
department
Implementatlon Supervision                    (a)  Assst RGAB,PCU in the supervrson             Consultirg firm wih experence in          shaodis!
if proect execution                           TA for Bank prqect Implementation
supervison
(b) Assist RGABPCU in the supervison              Irdivicual consultants                    Shortirst
of project executlon
I,
tJ
"I
N3
3.



62
IMPLEMENTATION PLANAnx5.
ll_     _ __ __         _      _    
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         -
_~~~~~ _                    
c albd  
lAh~~~~~~~~ D              i  
*~~~~~~~~~ *             a . X



Calendar Year        Date End                                                             Quarterly Disbursements
Quarter                                                           (in USS million and ROL bIlion)
World Bank          Govemment             Bucharest             RGAB                   Total            Total
Municipality                                                Cumulative
ROL     USS          ROL     USS         ROL      USS         ROL      USS         ROL     USS       ROL     USS
1996            09/30/97          3,010   1.00                                                                        3,010   1.00   I  3,010    1.00
12/31/96           602   0.20           361  0.12            181   0.06            60   0.02         1,204  0.40   I  4,214    1.40
1997            03/31/97            602   0.20           361  0.12            181   0.06            60   0.02         1,204  0.40   I  5,418    1.80              0
06/30/97          5,418   1.80         3,251   1.08         1.625   0.54          542   0.18        10,836   3.60   i 16,254   5.40               _
09/30/97         10,535   3.50         6,321   2.10        3,161   1.05          1,054  0.35        21,070   7.00   i 37,324   12.40              W
12/31/97         8,428   2.80          5,057   1.68        2,528   0.84           843   0.28        16,856   5.60     54,180   18.00             c
Uj)
1998            03/31/98          8,428   2.80         5,057  1.68          2,528   0.84           843   0.28        16,856   5.60     71,036   23.60             m
06/30/98          8,428   2.80         5,057  1.68         2,528   0.84           843   0.28        16,856   5.60     87,892   29.20              c
09/30/98          8,428   2.80         5,057  1.68         2,528   0.84           843   0.28        16,856   5.60     104,748  34.80             m
z
12/31/98         7,826   2.60         4,696  1.56          2,348   0.78           783   0.26        15,652   5.20   I 120,400  40.00              4
1999            03/31/99          6,020   2.00         4,064  1.35          2,032   0.68           677   0.23        12,793   4.25   I 133,193  44.25
06/30/99          3,010   1.00         2,258  0.75          1,129   0.38          376   0.13         6,773   2.25   I 139.965  46.50
09/30/99          3,010   1.00         2,258  0.75          1.129   0.38          376   0.13         6,773   2.25   , 146,738  48.75
12/31/99          1,505  0.50          1,355  0.45           677   0.23           226   0.08         3,763   1.25   i 150,500  50.00
Totals      r  71,250  25.00        45,150  15.00        22,575   7.50         7,525   2.50       146,500  50.00
exchange rate used: USD 1 - ROL 3,020 (end june 1996)
note: quarterly disbursements rates may differ from those in Annex 4
because of more conservative assumptions used in the latter
U'
Ja



64
Annex 5.5
OPERATING PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti
Key Performance Indlcators
indicators                         1995            1996          1997         1998          1999
(a)  total water produced at treatment plants (million m3/day)  1.69        1.69          1.63         1.57          1.50
(b)  large customer metering ratio                          41%             44%          52%           75%           97%
(c)  total water sold (million m3/day)                      0.93            0.94         0.95          0.96          1.00
(d)  total loss coefficient [(c)l(a)])                      55%             56%          58%           61%           67%
(e)  annual breaks per km of primary network                0.9             0.9           0.8           0.7          0.5
(t)  annual breaks per km of secondary network              1.7             1.7           1.6           1.5          1.2
(g)  number of employees                                   4,949           4,718         4,498         4,288        4,096
(h)  personnel cost / operating cost                        0.43            0.42         0.41          0.40          0.40
(i)  energy consumpton / ml produced (in kwh)               0               0.45         0.45          0.45          0.40
fi)  energy cost / operating cost                           34%             31%          29%           27%           25%
Operational Monitorlng Data
(k)  total metered water produced (million m3/day)
(I)   macrometering ratio [(k)/((a)
(m)  metered water sold (million m3/day)
(n)  micrometering ratio [(m)/(c)]



65
Annex 5.6
REPORTING PLAN
Outline of RGAB Implementation Reports
1.      Quarteuly Project Implementation Reports
1.1     Summary of implementation status:
overall progress in project implementation
signiftant developments in implementation of specific components
major problems encountered
1.2     Project management
changes in project management arrangements (if any)
1.3     Details on project implementation durng past three months
progress in implementabon of individual contracts, including physical results
(e.g. number of kms of network rehablitated, number of meters installed, etc..)
.       explanation of differences with previous implementation schedules and update of implementation schedule
progresS in procurement (tender documents completed, prequalitication biddings launched, contracts negotiated
andcor signed, etc..) and update of procurement schedule
expenditures, including amount of billing per contract and paymients made
disbursement status, including financial statements on Special Account and tunds received from State budget,
municipal budget, and RGAB
.       compliance with loan covenants
1.4     Pertomance evaluation of contractors (including consultants)
1.5     Implementation forecast for next three months
contract implementabon
procurement
.Expenditures and disbursement
2       Semestnal Financial Reports
21       Financial results of RGAB (according to Romania accounting plan requirements), including selected financial indicators (as per
Annex 5.5)
2.2      Progress in implementation of Financial Improvement Plan (FIP)
23      Progress in commercial improvement program
a Annual Rewrts
31      Summary annual implementation report (synthesis of quarterly reports) including update of major indicators (as per Annex 5.5)
(to be made available to the World Bank no later than January 31)
32      RGAB Annual Report
a3      Audit report (to be made available to the World Bank before June 30)
a4      RGAB Budget proposals for following year
4        lImplementabon Completion Reort



66
Annex 5.7 (a)
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT (PCU)
Terms of Reference
The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) set up in RGAB will report directly to the Director General. It will be
staffed with adequately skilled RGAB staff including at least two engineers and one financial (accounting) specialist, as well as
with necessary support staff, including multi-lingual secretaries and personnel familiar with computer operations.
The responsibilities of the PCU will include:
1.               preparing a Project Implementation Plan (PIP), detailed annual implementation programs, and costs schedules
for project execution, and following up on their results;
2.               coordinating all RGAB units that will intervene and/or participate at different times in the execution of the
project (financing, engineering, contracting and construction supervision, etc);
3.               coordinating engineering and construction activities of the investment components of the project with the
corresponding technical units of RGAB and/or other entities of the State or local public administration:
4.               carrying out all procurement activities;
5.              following-up on the timely availability of counterpart funding for the proposed project;
6.               overseeing management of Special Account by the entities designated to that effect and ensuring timeliness
of disbursements to contractors/suppliers as well as periodic Special Account replenishments;
7.               preparing quarterly project progress reports to be submitted, in accordance with an agreed schedule, the
Bucharest municipality, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank and which will form the basis for periodical
reviews of progress in project implementation by the Bank;
8.              identifying possible gaps in the project and corresponding actions to be taken to for their solution;
9.               coordinating project implementation with the restructuring program of the RGAB's Commercial Department
carried out with French bi-lateral technical assistance and/or other technical assistance programs possibly
made available to RGAB;
10.              monitoring operational and financial targets and indicators included in the PIP and evaluation of overall
performance of the proposed project;
11.              maintaining up to date information on all aspects of the project (financing, construction, procurement,
expenditures, etc) and organizing required document and data recording system; and
12.              maintaining contacts with executing agencies for similar projects being implemented in Romania with the
assistance of other bi- or multilateral organizations.



67
Annex 5.7(b)
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Regia GeneraI6 de Ap6 Bucure,ti
PUBLIC AWARENESS AND WATER WASTAGE REDUCTION CAMPAIGN
FINANCIAL INCENTIVES AND TARIFF STUDIES
Terms of Reference
1.      Introduction: A major part of the water losses that occur in Bucharest originate at the household level. Because water
is billed on the basis of a normative consumption regardless of the quantity actually consumed households have no incentive
to reduce consumption or repair leaks or defective appliances. The issue of wasteful household behavior has been aggravated
by the necessity for many people to resort, in the context of only intermittent availability of water, to 'coping strategies', that
is to devise solutions to catch and store as much water as possible during periods of availability. The permanence of these
problems for an extended period of time has created a series of behavioral reflexes that are difficult to change and will, together
with the provision of material/monetary incentives and changes in the tariff regime, require an important educational effort.
2.      Scope of Proposed Work: RGAB with the support of consultants will develop a three-pronged approach to raise public
awareness for water conservation needs and introduce changes into the water use practices of Bucharest households:
(a)     education and information
(I)     preparation of advertising campaigns in different media (written press, radio, TV, billboard posters, etc) to
inform population on water conservation issues;
(ii)    development of educational programs for kindergartens and primary schools;
(iii)   association of newspapers for the diffusion of information articles on general water and sewerage issuies,
technical and financial aspects of water supply and waste water management, and other related issues
(including progress on the implementation of the proposed project);
(b)     incentives
(i)     identification of possible financial incentives for RGAB customers taking into account the particular fact that
for technical reasons the installation of individual household meters is impossible for a majority of consumers
and water billing can only be done at the level of apartment groups (staircase units) or entire buildings. Since
these groups often show a great social and economic heterogeneity, socio-psychological aspects will need
to be paid careful attention in identifying possible solutions.
(specific terms of reference to be prepared in association with consultants providing assistance for cusromner
account management improvement).
lii)   study and development of pilot programs for repair and appliance replacement promotion programs.
(specific terms of reference to be prepared in association with consultants providing assistance for customer
account management improvement).
(c)     tariff regime
(l)     study on possible modifications of the current tariff structure, based on (a) an accurate assessment of the
current and expected future water production and distribution costs (taking into account the actions included
in the FIP); and (b) an evaluation of the customers' affordability and ability to pay for public utility services
(including, in addition to water supply, district heating and transport).
(ii)    development of proposals for a new tariff structure with a view to equate prices with the long run marginal
cost.
(specific terms of reference to be prepared in association with consultants providing assistance for customer
account management improvement and upon completion of the studies under para. 2 (b) above).



68
Annex 5.7(c)
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Regia Generala de Apa Bucure,ti
OPERATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Terms of Reference
1.              Objectives: At present, owing to the lack of flow metering and automated flow control devices, production
and distribution of water in Bucharest is not operated in with adequate efficiency. Statistical information on production and
consumption is virtually non existent and, in most cases, treated manually. Data on existing networks, especially at the
secondary network level, are unreliable. There are no mechanisms to monitor changes in consumer behavior in reaction to the
introduction of metering under the project. Such mechanisms will have to be set up to enable RGAB to (a) oversee the
implementation of the project; (b) assess the effects on production and consumption produced by the project; {c) draw the
lessons from the implementation experience and make changes where necessary; and (d) acquire the data basis for the
preparation of follow up operations.
2.               Scope of Proposed Work: The technical assistance will include the following two components:
tat     Improvement of water production and distribution management
training of RGAB personnel in the operation of the flow control systems implemented under the project,
as well as new water treatment equipment;
preparation, and assistance in the implementation of, new operating programs for production and
distribution, including the use of computerized dispatching programs;
creation of computerized data acquisition and data management programs for operation-related
information, including the monitoring of production and consumption pattern changes in connection with
the introduction of metering; and
creation of a model for demand analysis and forecasting based on (i) the information and social
experience gained from the implementation of the metering program; and (ii) the data on customer
behavior generated under the technical assistance program for the improvement of RGAB's customer
account management system.
(b)     Monitoring of the effects of the rehabilitation programs
installation of flow meters allowing the measuring of flow regimes and consumption (demand) changes
in the areas to be rehabilitated;
comprehensive survey (including mapping and record of technical data on materials, etc..) of all RGAB
infrastructure and service connections identified within the areas;
continuous monitoring of changes in the flow regime during the implementation of the rehabilitation;
preparation of monitoring programs for the period following the implementation of the rehabilitation; and
analysis of work implementation experience including detailed evaluation of technical, time and, possibly,
legal or regulatory constraints, population reaction, costs Iper type and material of pipes and
connections,..etc).



69
Annex 6
(page I of 2)
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti
SHORT TERM ACTION PROGRAM (STAP)
no.                          Action                        Timetable   Responsible          Expected Results / Effects        Montoring &
Enttles                                               Evaluatlon
1.   REVENUE INCREASE MEASURES
A    Billing Efficiency Improvement
1   Reduction of timelag for issuance of invoices 1o 30 days  1996 -  RGAB-Comm    cashflow Improvement                 quarterly financial results
after meter reading
2   Increase in perodicity of invoicing using consumption  1997 -    RGAB-Comm   cashtlow improvement                   quarterly financial results
estimates which will be adjusted semestrially
according to actual metered consumption
3   Identification and elimination of illegal connections through  1996 -  RGAB-Comm    Increase In billing amounts     billing amount
regulatlzation of legal status of connections                                                                       quarterly activty reports
4   Shtn to billing ot metered consumption In             [1997-991   RGAB-ProJect  increase In billing amounts         bitling amount
connection with meter installation financed under
the proposed project
5   Renegotiation of contracts with RADET and other customers    1996 -  RGAB-Comm    Increase in billing amounts       biling amount
with a provision that will allow legal enforcement of late
payments due by customers
6   Incorporation into contracts ot provisions allowing the  1996-   RGAB-Comm    bill colection improvement            bill collection ratio
enforcement of service suspension to defaulting customers                                                           quarterly activIty reports
a    Cutomer Account Management Improvement
I   Implementation of computerized system of billing      [1996-981   RGAB-Comm   improved oontrol of customer account
and bill colledion management                                                   management
2   tmplerentation of computerized system of              (1996-981    RGAB-Ftn    improved management infommation
accounting management
C    Tarff
1   Tariff adjustments to be carried out by RGA according to the    1996 -  RGAB tCLMB/  operating revenue increase    income statement
following rules In agreement with Bucharest Municipality and         MOF
Ministry ot Finance
(a) water and sewerage tariffs will be adjusted as soon as
possible but not later than 30 days after RGAB's operating
costs have increased by a minimum ot 10% or more over the
operating costs noted at the date of the previous increase
(b) water and sewerage tarIffs will be increased to such
levels as will allow RGAB to cover its full costs and achieve
a resonable profit.
For the purpose of the foregoing
- the reference level of taritfs tor future adjustments Is the
level of tariffs of August 1995
- operating costs are detined as the totaJ expendlture tor
salaries and wages, energy, materials (including raw
water), and maintenance
- tull costs are defined including operating costs.
non-operating costs, depreciation and provision for bad
I   debts.
D    Reduction of Receivables and Payables
1   Compensation agreements between RGAB,                 1996 -     RGAB / MOF   Improved accuracy In financial reporting   balance statement
suppliers and pubic sector customers for senting
inter-enterprise arrears
2   ReschedulIng or write-off of non-recovered receivables  1997-      RGAB-Fln   Improved accuracy In financial reporting   balance statement
overdue tor more than a year In accordance wtth the annual
budget provisions for exceptlonal losses
3   Swap of RADET debt with RENEL and other economic      1996-     RGAB / RENEL  Improved accUracy in finandal reporting   balance statemfent
agents' at a discount to be negotiated between RADET and             etc.
the respectve 'economic agents'.
E    New Revenues
1   Within a resonable period of time after start up of operations  [19981   RGAB I CLMB   operating cost decrease     income statement
of Glina waste water treatment plant (first treatment units)
prepare draft legislatIon amending local taxation laws or
estabilsh other mechanism allowing adequate operational
management of the plant
2   Request and collect cash guarantee deposit equal to the  1996-    RGAB-Comm   operating cost decrease              income statement
average cost of consumptlon between payments
inciusive of VAT



70
Annex 6
(paep 2 of 2)
i.   COST REDUCTION  MEASURES
F     Reduction of Water Production Cost
1   Reduction of aluminium sulphate consumptIon             1997 -      RGAB-Tech    operating cost decrease                Income statement
2   Reduction of chlor consumption                          1997 -      RGAB-Tech    operating cost decrease                income statement
3   Purchase ol raw water from boreholes at non-            1997 -     RGAB / APELE   operating cost decrease               income statement
industrial APELE ROMANE tarifs                                       ROMANE
4   Purchase of raw water from APELE ROMANE                 1997-      RGAB / APELE   operating cost decrease               income statement
according to actually supplied (metered) volume                      ROMANE
G     Reduction of Labour Costs
I   Non-replacement of retirement departures except when    1996 -      RGAB-Pers   operating cost decrease                 payroll
inavoidable for operational reasons
2   Non-replacement of voluntary departures                 1996 -       RGAB-Pers    operating cost decrease               payroll
3   Non-replacement ot redundancies                         1996 -       RGAB-Pers   operating cost decrease                payroll
4   Elimimiatioi ot unnecessary positions at Dimbovita intake  [1996]    RGAB-Pers   operating cost decrease                payroll
s   Reduction ot oiverstatfing at Rosu treatment plant        [1996]    RGAB-Pers   operating cost decrease                 payroll
H     Inventories
1   Eiimination ol obsolete inventories                       [1996)    RGAD-Tech   improved accuracy in financial reporting   balance staterment
2   Reduction of aluminium sulphate security reserves to two  1996 -    RGAB-Tech   improved accuracy in financial reporting   balance statenment
months ol average consumption
I     Elimination of non-essential activitfs
1   Transter ot water supply obligatlons in suburban          11997]    RGAB / PMB    operating cost decrease               Income statement
villages to local authorities
2   Transter of management of lakes and other public water    [19971   RGAB / CLMB   operating cost decrease                income statement
bodies to Bucharest municipality
3   Privatization at septic tank emptying services,           [1997]       RGAB        operating cost decrease              Income statement
including sale ot corresponding assets                                            payroll reduction                    payroll
t966i!  one-time actions
1966- = ontinuing action
Acronym
RGAB/Comm  = RGAB/Customer Account Department
RGAB/Fin      = RGABAFinancial & Accounting Department
RGAB/Tech    = RGAB/Technical Department
RGAB/Pers    = RGAB/Personnei Department
CLMB          = Bucharest municipality
PMB            =Prefecture of Bucharest
MOF           = Ministry ot Finance
Key Orlentative Performance Indicators
Indicators                                                    1995                1996           1997           1998           1999
Bill Collection ratio /1                                       69%                 70%            72%            75%            75%
Working ratio '2                                               95%                 92%            90%            88%            88%
1 = Collections against Bills (current year) + Accounts Receivable (beginning of year) / Bills (current year) + Accounts Recelvable (beginning of year)
2/ = Total Operating Expenses (including Losses on Receivables and excluding Depredabon) / Total Operating Revenues



71
Annex 7
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Year            Purpose of Supervision Missions                 Staff Designation Staff Weeks
CY 1996         Launching Seminar                               Task Manager            10
Review Procurement Documents                    Water/Civil Engineer
Review Implementation Arrangements              Financial Analyst
Review 1997 Investment Program
Monitor RGAB Performance
Review Commercial Management Performance
CY 1997         Review Implementation Progress                  Task Manager            8
Review Disbursement Progress                    Water/Civil Engineer
Review Procurement Documents                    Financial Analyst
Review 1998 Investment Program
Monitor RGAB Performance
Review Commercial Management Performance
Review Financial Situation
CY 1998         Review Implementation Progress                  Task Manager            6
Monitor RGAB Performance                        Financial Analyst
Review Commercial Management Performance
CY 1999         Review Implementation Progress                  Task Manager            6
Monitor RGAB Performance                        Financial Analyst
Agree on ICR



72
Annex 8
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     Project Approval by RGAB Board of Administration dated June 6, 1 995
IHotararea No. 8,'95 a Consilu/ui de Administra tie RGAB din 22/06/95)
2.     Project Approval by Bucharest Municipal Council dated October 10, 1 995
IHotar,irea no. 81/95 a Consiliului Local al Municipiului Bucure,stt]
3.     Bucharest Water and Sewerage Rehabiliation Study, SAGEGE/LOTTI, 1995
lEtudes de Rehabilitation et d'Extension des Reseaux d'Eau Potable et d'Assainissement de Bucarest]
4.     Financial lmprovement Plan, RGAB, December 1995
IPlan de Redressement et de Developpement Financier]
5.     Bucharest Municipal Council Decision no. 11 98 dated December 10, 1990 creating RGAB
/Decizia no. 1198 a Consiliului Local at Municipiulut Bucure$til
6.     Romania Government Decision no. 181 dated March 21, 1996
IHotarare no. 181/96 a Guvernului Romanieil.
7.     RGAB Board of Administration Decision dated January 25, 1996 creating Project Coordination Unit
IHotararea No. 1/96 a Consiliului de Administratie RGAB din 25/01/96]
8.     RGAB Board of Administration Decision dated May 30, 1 996 creating position of environmental
advisor. /Hotarlrea No.5/96 a Consiliului de Administratie RGAB din 30/05/961
9.     Statement on the development of the institutional and legal framework of RGAB including proposal for
service contract between Bucharest Municipality and RGAB, May 1 996
[Proiectie de evolutie institutionala a serviciilor de alimentare cu apa ,i canalizare din Municipiul
Bucuresti inclusiv proiect de contract de prestare de servicii intre Primaria Municipiului Bucures ti si
Regia Generalj de Apa Bucurestil
1 0.    RGAB Investment Plan 1 996-2000
11.    Preliminary external audit report for RGAB 1995 financial statements, Arthur Andersen, May 1996.



73
CHART A
ROMANIA
Bucharest Water Supply Project
Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti
Organizational Structure
Bucharest
Muntcipal'ty
|  RGAB
Administration
Board
E----------- GeneralDrco
DepafMieM  Depar erdI   D eepartn                                                lenl  D e t
OWB >01/07/96






IS   \                            2 2\-                                   26'  ,/2
J2                                24
0          so3         TOIO MlIIE5 s   \ULR                                      IN. 'S                                                       ROMAN  IA
o          Io   60-E                           ,                 )                                                     \S,         BUCHAREST WATER
418 
J8                                  >J'+f  \v<__e42_Sa                        [~~~~'~' >S             OTOSANI                SUPPLY    PROJECT
H U N  G  A  R Y*    PROJECT EOCATION
0   SELECTED CITIES
| D \ 1 c. ,< > , r filGrRlrA P ] A r~~~~~~-V\                                                        COUNTY IJUDETI
sIdYRITA jjfi -  <     v f9 S S    A                  SroxhnreCENTERS
Ta Radapo,l  (                                                                                        * ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
Z.1- ~ ~         ~         ~ ~ NEM                                                             EXPRESSWAY
MAJOR ROADS
k                                                                               . . . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al ROADS
( /   \  ClulNL        !.[       i,    <      - -       T                   ;    Hus$           i- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS
lo 80dp-ZX  T  (J 0  ;   o s     T     u l d            ,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~P' HA RGH -- ' -'        p                               COUNTY (JUDET
11     BOUNDARIES
T.a                                                                  '.                   r     CO,a     )               \       N                         INTERNATIONAL
TL.
-    a a  U X . A                     V. ?,a
_n~ g0ai. \" K5J/lol                                                                               heortke   5*p4;95 is  ~iA\S_t T-F I Ai           UKRAINE
R    7.             B     U      L     G -      A                                             7
R O,rgo.a~ M0'*0 A N                                                             I   'A   I
FEDERAL REPUBLIC                      ILI>                              Jr  _                         B PM ATEON                   AOADJ IS         A
OF YUGOSLAVIA                    ,)                                                                                                    . C'L
(SERBIA  /MONTENEGRO)                           aaa                                                                                          .j        Maa,         SEA
2            B2 IA                              R      I    A
704                                          25 50                                        26 00                                         2, 01
R 0  M  A  N I A                                -    DAMS                               U   INTERCONNECTIONS
PRIZA  ~       BUCHAREST   W ATER                                          .!2LB WAELL FIELDS        ~-- - AOUADIJ':TS--POTARLE WATER
~REEZOAEIF                                                                               EXISTING TREATMENT PLANTS              F JTUEE AQIIA,lTJCT, POTABLE WATEP
*SUPPLY   PROJECT                                                          M,  PUM ING STATIONS              ArUDU TS _RW WE.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,Fa . a   r.                                                            -'/\ Rdo d   ,4
atK 1 w x rt . Vlilr o/ / D~~~-                                 ogaol ou Dombwlo 8 udn
OdoTld                                                   I,.,
1 f P . x o // ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4                                                             C re/rlala, />T7,Et D ao
*ARCUDA       Chd
D--,                         Ls P GRIV UtTAfiEREI              ) lf1 a
Domnrol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D I+ Z-c. 
I'AAi INTAKE                                                                            ZAVE5'A
/llrs+ ./ -      >L     PUDRTUMURIABRE
I I {-e   (l  p,3.           >'3>5 ~~P SOUTH
z   5   X E       1 G       ?L W tuIA~~~~ ~ ~~~~~FT[lj  4G D RU          frgdl
. II                                 WEIT IAFIF4 ID        V6p  I                                                         LIMIT OF BUCHAREST
'               C    u                            I      e l,TPUC TIC)TMUNICIPALITY
Alunsu                             ~~~~~~~~~BUILT-UP AREAS
0,11,1                                       -.,    SMerre r.a#n.x .IP f.rS nndanar aOUTH  2.
o Ih.s _#.IS. x  mlf os rLe pc f c IL rWofid Ect  <itoul}*r ogad,no
0^s_z  0]                             'ITI Ir4116                 RRAGADIRU .o.s nloamets 
_______________________                                            WElL FIElD .o        VOl Ca                                                                                  C7II  F  UHRS
1 10                                        2i' '                                         2dRR0                                        2'*                                      v









IMAGING
Report No:      15307 RO
Type: SAR



