                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No.: 26002




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE           ASSESSMENT  REPORT


                                   ROMANIA




                    BUCHAREST     WATER    SUPPLY PROJECT

                                 (LOAN 4079-RO)




                                   June 9,2003




Sector dnd Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency      Equivalents (Effective November 25,2002)
Currency Unit: Leu (ROL)

ROL 1,OOO,OOO= US$30.0
US$l = ROL 33,300

Abbreviations        and Acronyms

ANB              Apk Nova Bucuresti (Bucharest water supply private concessionaire)
                 Romanian Water Association
ARBAC            Agency for Regulating Water Supply and Seweragein Bucharest
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CPI              Consumer price index
EBRD             European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR              Economic rate of return
EU               European Union
GDP              Gross domestic product
GNP              Gross national product
GOB              Government of Romania
ICB              International competitive bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IFC              International Finance Corporation
MOF              Ministry of Finance
NCB              National competitive bidding
PHRD             Policy and Human ResourcesDevelopment Program
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
RADET            Bucharest District Heating Company (Regia Autono&        de Distribufie a
                 Energiei Termice)
RENEL            Romania Power Company
RGAB              Bucharest Water and SewerageCompany (Regia Autonomd de Aph
                 Bucure$i - Bucharest Municipal Water Company)
STAP              Short-term Action Program
UNDP              United Nations Development Program



Fiscal Year

Government of Romania: January l-December         31

Director-General, Operations Evaluation           : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department        : Mr. Nils Fostvedt (Acting)
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation           : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                      : Mr. Klas Ringskog

Summary

        The Bulgaria Water Supply Project (Loan 4079-RO) was approved on August 1,
1996 and made effective on November 25,1996. The loan was closed on December 31,
2001 with a delay of one and a half years.During the courseof project implementation a
private concession was preparedand bid and a private concessionaire,Apanova, took
over management from the public operator,RGAB, on November 17,200O. At closing
$6.1 million of the original loan of $25.0 million was canceled. The cost savings were
possible due to efficient procurement that resulted in lower prices than those estimated at
appraisal.

      The OED project performance assessmentratesthe outcome of the project as
"satisfactory", its sustainability as "likely", its institutional development impact as
"substantial", Bank performance as "satisfactory" and Borrower performance as "highly
satisfactory". The project is an example of successful assistanceby the World Bank
Group where the Bank helped prepare and finance much neededrehabilitation
investments which facilitated the private concessionfor which the Government of
Romania was assistedby the International Finance Corporation. Once a private
concession became a possibility the Bank vigorously supported it.

      There are four valuable lessonsfrom the project. The first lesson is that it may be
preferable in some circumstances to opt for a simple and quick project that focuses on the
most urgent rehabilitation needsrather than aim for more comprehensive but time-
consuming alternatives. In the particular caseof the Bucharest Water Supply Project most
of the rehabilitation works were of such a nature that they would benefit either continued
operations by a public operator or operations by a private concessionaire.

      The secondlesson is that it is advisable to defer large and costly investments ( in
this particular casea water treatment plant and a wastewater treatment plant) when there
is potential scopefor demand management alternatives to meet a city's consumption.
Bucharest had excessive water production and consumption Ievels due to ineffective
metering and high leakage in the distribution system. The project rightly concentrated
onresolving these weaknessesas a cheaperway of balancing supply and demand and
improving quality as compared to the alternative of increasing treatment capacity.

      The third lesson is the importance of investing early in a better data base through a
project focusing on expandedmetering and the modernization of the public operator's
commercial system. Ideally, a set of baseline data should be createdprior to project
inception and performance indicators monitored through the project implementation
period.

       The fourth lesson is the importance of reliable regulation of both the quality and
efficiency of service under either public or private operations. However, the successof
regulation is contingent upon the timely submission of accuratedata from the private
concessionaire. Given the information asymmetry inherent in such arrangements, it may
be necessaryto strengthenthe monitoring of the performance of the concessionaire,
including possibly the commissioning of periodic consumer satisfaction surveys.




                                                              Gregory K. Ingram
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

  OED Mission:        Enhancing       development       effectiveness     through     excellence     and independence         in evaluation.


About    this Report
      The Operations      Evaluation      Department     assesses the programs        and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes:    first, to ensure the integrity of the Banks self-evaluation            process and to verify that the Banks work is
producing    the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures                         through
the dissemination      of lessons drawn from experience.           As part of this work, OED annually         assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations.         Assessments       are conducted one to seven years after a project has closed. In selecting
operations    for assessment,      preference     is given to those that are innovative,       large, or complex; those that are relevant
to upcoming     country evaluations;       those for which Executive Directors or Bank management                  have requested
assessments        and those that am likely to generate         important lessons. The projects          topics, and analytical approaches
selected for assessment         support larger evaluation      studies.
      A Project Performance          Assessment       Report (PPAR)      is based on a review of the Implementation              Completion
Report (a self-evaluation       by the responsible       Bank department)        and fieldwork     conducted     by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine             project files and other documents,          interview operational      staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing      country for onsite discussions        with project staff and beneficiaries.         The PPAR thereby         seeks to
validate   and augment       the information      provided   in the ICR, as well as examine          issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management                            approval.    Once cleared      internally,  the
PPAR is reviewed        by the responsible        Bank department      and amended       as necessary.       The completed       PPAR is then
sent to the borrower      for review; the borrowers'        comments      are incorporated      into the document       that is sent to the
Banks     Board. When       an assessment        report is released   to the Board, it is also widely distributed          within the Bank
and to concerned       authorities    in member countries.


About    the OED Rating         System
      The time-tested      evaluation     methods     used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Banks                     work.
The methods       offer both rigor and a necessary          level of flexibility to adapt to lending      instrument,     project design     or
sectoral   approach.     OED evaluators        all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following                  is
the definition    and rating scale used for each evaluation            criterion  (complete     definitions  and descriptions       of factors
considered     are available    on the OED website:         http://wblnlO23.worldbank.org/oed/oeddoclib.nsf/
232d43ae09e&7ac985256986007cc257/acaeb95358e99e578525698c005190da?OpenDocument).
      Relevance       of Objectives:       The extent to which the project's objectives           are consistent with the country's
current devekpment         priorities   and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance                strategies    and corporate
goals (expressed       in Poverty Reduction         Strategy Papers, Country Assistance            Strategies,    Sector Strategy     Papers,
Operational     Policies).   Possible     ratings: High, Substantial,     Modest, Negligible.
      Ef%acy:      The extent to which the project's          objectives   were achieved,       or expected    to be achieved,      taking into
account their relative importance.           Possible   ratings: High, Substantial,      Modest, Negligible.
      EffWertcy:      The extent to which the project achieved,            or is expected     to achieve,    a return higher than the
opportunity    cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared               to alternatives.    Possible   ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.
      Sustainability:      The resilience      to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings:            Highly Likely, Likety,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      Institutional     Develapment         Impact:   The extent to which a project improves             the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable           and sustainable      use of its human, financial,      and natural resources        through:    (a)
better definition,    stability. transparency,      enforceability,   and predictability     of institutional  arrangements       and/or (b)
better alignment      of the mission and capacity of an organization              with its mandate,      which derives from these
institutional  arrangements.        Institutional   Development     tmpact includes both intended           and unintended       effects of a
project.   Possible   ratings: High, Substantial,        Modest, Negligible.
      Oufcorrre:     The extent to which the projects          major relevant objectives        were achieved,      or are expected      to be
achieved,    efficiently.  Possible ratings: Highty Satisfactory,          Satisfactory,   Moderately      Satisfactory,    Moderately
Unsatisfactory,      Unsatisfactory,      Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance:           The extent to which services provided             by the Bank ensured       quality at entry and
supported     implementation       through    appropriate    supervision    (including   ensuring     adequate    transitin    arrangements
for regular    operation   of the project).     Possible   ratings: Highly Satisfactory,      Satisfactory.    Unsatisfactory,     Highty
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower       Performance:       The extent to which the borrower           assumed     ownership     and responsibility     to ensure
quality of preparation       and implementation,        and complied     with covenants      and agreements,        toward the achievement
of development       objectives    and sustainability.     Possible   ratings: Highly Satisfactory,        Satisfactory,   Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings ........~~...........~......~.....~~................~~~.~..........................~~.~..............~........111
                                                                                                                                  ...


Key Staff Responsible .........~~...............................................~..~~~..................~..~............~.~~      *..
                                                                                                                                  Ill


Preface ....~.~...~...........~.......~.................~...~...~....`..~~~~~.....................................~~...................~.
                                                                                                                                    V


Introduction ....~..~......~.~......~~...................................~..~.....~....~.~~~~.~........~....~..~..~.~~...............1

         Country and Sector Background..............................................................................I
         Project Objectives and Components........................................................................I

         Outcome...................................................................................................................2

         Relevance.................................................................................................................2

         EfSlcacy ....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                     3

         Efficiency ..................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                     4

         Overall Outcome......................................................................................................4

Institutional   Development Impact .~.~.~........~~.....~.....~~..~.....~....~............~.....~~......~.......~......5

         IDI in the Public Utility, RGAB, during First Phase of the Project, 1996-2000 ....5
         IDI in the Private Concessionaire, Apanova, during Phase Two of the Project,
             2000-2001 .........................................................................................................   .5

         Regulation Of The Bucharest Water Supply And WastewaterServices ..................7

Sustainability .....................~................................~........~.~......~.~.~~.......~...........~..~..~.............*8

Bank Performance .............~~.~~....~~~~........~...........~.........~......~...........~...~~...................~.~~...10

Borrower Performance ~..~.~.......~.~.~........~.~....~.~....~~...~~...~~.~~.....................~....................~..11

Lessons .~~.~...............~..........................................................~~~.~~..~~.......~..........~~.................
                                                                                                                                  11

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet`.r..~......................,.......................~...*...*...*................*....*.*.....13

Annex B. Comments from the Borrower ...~.~...........~~....~...................~.~~....~...........~~.~...15


Tables

Table 1.Efficacy of theThreeProjectObjectivesasMeasuredby PerformanceIndicators...........3
Table 2. PopulationConnectedto Public WaterSupplyandSewerage...........................................7


This report was preparedby Klas Ringskog (Consultant), who assessedthe project in
December 2002. William B. Hurlbut edited the report. Helen Pbillip provided
administrative support.


                                                       . ..
                                                       111



Principal         Ratings

Bucharest    Water        Outcome       Sustainability     Institutional          Bank               Borrower
Supply   Project  (Loan                                    Development            Performance        Performance
4079-RO)

  ICR                     Satisfactory  Likely             Substantial            Satisfactory       Satisfactory

  Audit                   Satisfactory  Likely             Substantial            Satisfactory       Highly
                                                                                                     Satisfactory


Key Staff Responsible

Bucharest    Water  Supply Project         Task Manager              Division Chief           Country  Dimctor
(Loan  4079-RO)
  Appraisal                                Felix A. Jakob            Ricardo  Halperin        Kenneth   Lay
  Comoletion                               Sudipto    Sarkar         Motoo   Konishi          Andrew   N. Vorkink


                                              V




Preface

        This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) evaluatesthe Bucharest
Water Supply project (Loan 4079-ROM), which financed rehabilitation and upgrading of
the Bucharest water supply system. Loan 4079-ROM, in the amount of US$25.0 million
equivalent, was approved on August 1, 1996,became effective on November 25, 1996,
and closed on December 31,2001, 18 months after the original closing date of June 30,
2000. The closing date was extendedto allow the concessionairethe use of a portion of
the cost savings resulting from the first three years of efficient project implementation.
Despite the combined support of the Government of Romania and the Bank, the
concessionaire ultimately was unable to usethe cost savings and the undisbursed balance
of $6.1 million was canceled at the closing of the loan. The main reasonwas the fact that
in the early years of the contract the concessionaireApanova focused on reducing staff
(which could not be financed from the loan) and all investment programs were delayed.
As a result, Apanova could not use the entire savings from the loan which closed before
the company fully developed and financed an investment program.

        During implementation of the project the RGAB, the public operator and project
implementing authority, was successfully replacedby a private concessionaire,Apanova.
The preparation and actual bidding processwas assistedby the International Finance
Corporation, with the ml1 support of the World Bank. The PPAR focuses on the
performance of the World Bank-assistedproject and does not purport to assessthe
effectiveness and quality of the assistanceextendedby the IFC. However, the World
Bank support and the IFC technical advice and assistanceare intertwined. In particular,
becauseApanova's performance has a bearing on the sustainability and institutional
development impact (IDI) of the Bank project, discussions were held during the PPAR
mission with the private concessionaire.In addition to the customary analysis and ratings
of the relevance, efficiency, efficacy, sustainability, and institutional development impact
of the Bank project, the PPAR paid particular attention to three specific issues: (i) the
evolution of water consumption during Romania's transition from a command economy
to a market economy; (ii) the adequacyand performance of the regulation put in place for
the Apanova concession contract; and (iii) the generalperformance of the private
concessionaire compared to that of the former public water supply and sewerage
company, RGAB.

        The Bucharest Water Supply project was selectedfor an OED assessmentbecause
it representsa well-designed rehabilitation project in a transition economy and could
provide a demonstration effect for similar projects in other transition economies. The
experience from the contracting and the first years of a private concession could also
guide the large number of countries and prospective borrowers who are considering
private sector participation for managing their water supply and wastewater systems.

        The PPAR is basedon the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 15307, July 8,
1996), Implementation Completion Report (Report No. 23912, June 24,2002), loan
agreement,project documents, and discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited
Romania in December 2002 to discuss the loan with the borrower, project executing
agencies,direct beneficiaries, and other stakeholders.

                                           vi


       Following customary procedures,copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the
relevant government officials and agenciesfor review and comments. The comments are
attachedas Annex B.

                                                1


Introduction

1.      The assessmentof the project ratesproject performance basedon OED's five
evaluation criteria: outcome, institutional development impact (IDI), sustainability, Bank
performance, and borrower performance. (For definitions seethe explanatory note at the
front of this report.) In turn, the project outcome rating is the composite of the ratings of
project relevance, efficacy, and efficiency.


Country and Sector Background

2.      Romania has an areaof 283,000 squarekilometers and, in 2001, had a population
of about 22 million that was contracting at 0.3 percent per annum. The population was 56
percent urban and 44 percentrural. Bucharest, the capital, had a population of 1.95
million in 2002, and it was slowly decreasing.Per capita GNP reachedUS$ 1,710 in
2001. Nationwide, about 50 percent of the population is connectedto potable water, with
urban coverage at 80 percent and rural water supply coverageat 20 percent. The
corresponding seweragecoveragewas 40 percent in urban areasand negligible in rural
areas.Infant mortality was estimated at 29 per thousand live births in 1980 and had
dropped to 19 per thousand live births by the year 2000. Over the sameperiod, under-five
child mortality declined from 36 per thousandto 23 per thousand live births.

3.      The water supply and sanitation sector is formally under the Ministry of Public
Administration, which was createdin 1999. The Water Law of 1996organizes the sector
along lines of the French water sector with 14 river basin authorities. According to the
law, municipalities are obliged to provide water supply and sanitation services for their
populations. The Ministry of Health is responsible for monitoring the safety of public
water supplies and the Ministry of Water, Forestry and Environment (MOWFEN) for
monitoring the environmental stateof the country's water resources.Law # 2 19 of 1998
is also relevant for the sector as it lays down the conditions for concessionsof public
services. It specifies that concessionsshould be contracted through international
competitive bidding (ICB); that the ownership of public assetsshould remain public; and
that sector regulation is required when the services are contractedout with private
concessionaires.The quality, efficiency, and cost of water supply and wastewater
services are regulated by the National Regulating Authority for Local Public Services,
which is attachedto the Ministry of Public Administration.


Project Objectives and Components

4.      The objectives of the Bucharest Water Supply Project were to:


     l  Improve the reliability and quality of water supply in Bucharest;

     l  Start to reduce water losses(both physical and commercial); and

     l  Strengthen the public municipal company, RGAB's, operational, commercial, and
        financial management and help it acquire the expertise necessaryfor the
        preparation and implementation of future operations.

                                               2


 5.      To meet the three objectives, a simple three-year investment program was
 designedthat allocated (i) 33 percent of basecost to improving the reliability and quality
 of the water supply, mostly through rehabilitation of one of the water treatment plants
 and of pumping stations, and through controlling and metering the flows in the
 distribution system through the installation of macro water meters; (ii) 57 percent of base
 cost to repairing the primary distribution system, to rehabilitation of parts of the
 secondarydistribution system, and to the installation of meters for large consumers, such
as housing associations and commercial enterprises;and (iii) 9 percent to strengthen
 RGAB through a public awarenesscampaign to educateconsumers to reduce wastage, to
 improving the management of customer accounts (with French bilateral assistance),to
training of RGAB staff, and to consulting services to superviseproject implementation.

6.       The project objectives were clear and correspondedto the most pressing needsof
the Bucharest water supply system where yearsof deferred maintenance had produced a
situation with high levels of unaccountedwater and intermittent service. Production
levels were estimated in excessof 800 led. Considering that West European consumption
levels are less than 200 led the suspicion was that leakagein the Bucharest water supply
system was very high and that absenceof metering and deteriorating infrastructure were
the reasonsfor the high production levels. To remedy this the project focused on
rehabiiitation and efficiency improvements. . The project components were consistent
with the project objectives. Although rural areasin Romania had both lower income and
service levels the decision was taken to select Bucharest asthe first Bank-financed
project in the sector in the expectation that the project would provide important
demonstration effects that could benefit subsequentprojects in the sector.


OUTCOME

7.      The rating of project outcome is computed as a composite rating of eachof the
individual ratings for the project's relevance, efficacy, and efficiency.


Relevance

8.      Relevance measureshow well the project was aligned with the current
development goals of the government and with the Bank's current assistancestrategy to
the country. By that token, OED rates tbe relevance of the project as "substantial"
since the objectives and the components were highly consistent with the country's
needs and project objectives. The project was designed in the mid- 1990swhen the
expansion of the European Union eastwardsemerged asa possibility and for which
Romania and Bucharest had to prepare.It might be arguedthat the rural water supply
would have beenmore relevant becauseboth income and service levels are lower there
than in Bucharest. However, the modernization of the inefficient Bucharest water supply
system ranked high among the priorities becauseits quality and reliabihty were perceived
by the Romanian authorities and by the Bank as inadequateand becauseit was expected
that the project would have an important demonstration effect and possibly be followed
by projects to rehabilitate other deterioratedsystems. The design of the project was in
line with the prevailing lending paradigm at the time that stressedthe centrality of
improving the operating financial situation and database.Many projects at the time did

                                                                                  3


 attempt private sectorparticipation, but the Bucharest water supply did not consider this
 option viable in the short term, only a possibility in the long term. However, there was no
 explicit Bank water supply sector strategy at the time that mandatedprivate sector
 participation.


 Efficacy

 9.               The efficacy rating measuresthe project's successin meeting its stated objectives,
 irrespective of the costs. The degreeto which the project actually achieved its triple
 objective can be measuredby the performance indicators collected during the assessment
 mission, which are summarized in Table 1.


 Table 1. Effkacy of the Three Project Objectives as Measured by Performance
 Indicators

 Project         Objective           and Indicator                                                                               Before         After
                                                                                                                                Project,      Project,
"_...^_,...""._~~_,._,,,"ll.-.--._ -__.---_ -._._--._.--..- _~_.~-"II---..--.--       _...........^__._..._..........._. -" I .    1995          2001
 Improve          Reliability           and Quality       of Supply:
 Share         of population           with continuous,       24-hour   service                                                    92%           93%
 Share         of water   samples           testing  bacteriologically      safe                                                  100%          100%
 Reduce          Water     Losses
 Percentage           unaccounted             water    (metered    production-metered      consumption)/                           55%           48%
 metered          production                                                                                                   (Estimated)   (Estimated)
 Strengthen            operational,           commercial,        and financial     management              of
 utility

 Utility staff productivity                (no of staff per thousand        households   connected              to                  12             7
 piped        water   system           and well served
 Working          ratio (cash operating             expenditure/cash       operating  revenue)                                     95%           94%
 A number          of other          performance       indicators  would    have been desirable              to                     N.A.          N.A.
 obtain,        such as the ratio between                 total number    of reliably metered
 connections           as a share           of total connections:     the ratio between      collections
 and billings         etc, However,           the concessionaire,        Apanova,    was less than
 forthcoming          with data and the technical                regulator,   ARBAC,   reported           similar
 difficulties      with receiving            real-time     performance     data from the private
 concessionaire.


  10.            Based on the performance indicators obtained, OED rates the efficacy of the
 project "substantial."                           Out of the three project objectives, progresswas made in reducing
 unaccounted water and in improving staff productivity and presumably the quality of
 management. Following the project and the take-over by the private concessionaire,
 Apanova the reliability and quality of supply seemto have improved slightly judging by
 the performance indicators. More important perhapsis that there are practically no
 complaints to the technical regulator, ARBAC, from consumersbecauseof inadequate
 service quality. Similarly, the opinion of the municipal authorities, interpreted by the
 Mayor of Bucharest, is that the concessionhas been successful in improving what was
 described as poor quality service before the Bank project. The rehabilitation of the
 pumping stations was successfully completed and resulted in better operating economy
 and greater security. The major project shortcoming is the failure to expand metering, for

                                               4


which clear objectives had been set under the project, but where neither the public
operator, RGAB, nor the private operator Apanova have made much headway. The
failure to increasemetering is the major shortcoming of Apanova and has several
consequences:(i) it makes it difficult to track lossesin the system and therefore
perpetuatesinefficiency; and (ii) it is the sourceof widespread consumer complaints.
About 80 percent of all complaints that consumers file with the technical regulator,
ARBAC, concern Apanova's failure to install a meter and allow consumers the option of
saving on payments by reducing their level of consumption. The hesitant early start of the
concession is illustrated by the fact that Apanova has invested mainly in the voluntary
retirement program and relatively little in physical investment. Apanova's slow start is
underlined by its inability to make use of the cost savings under the Bank loan despite
agreement from the Bank and from the Guarantor, the Ministry of Public Finance, that
would have enabledApanova to borrow the balanceof $6 million for physical
investment.

Effkiency

11.     The project efficiency comparesthe benefits achieved under the project with the
costs expended. Where such a comparison is difficult to make, project efficiency exists
when it can be judged that the benefits were met more cheaply than any other alternative.
Project data are so scarcethat rigorous cost-benefit analysis is impossible. For instance,
without good metering data on production and consumption, it is not possible to compute
the economic returns on the investments in demand managementthat were made.
Ordinarily, the economically most attractive investments would be in metering that
should reduce consumption and permit production to be reduced. However, until recently,
neither RGAB nor Apanova have had reliable consumption readings. Remarkably, even
production has not beenreliably metered until very recently.

12.     The expendedinvestment costs do provide some indications that project
efficiency has been satisfactory. Eighty percent of the investments financed were for
rehabilitation that will typically generatehigher returns than replacement investments.
The large investments in rehabilitation of the pumping stations were successful and have
resulted in halving the energy consumption per cubic meter produced from 0.45 kWh to
0.24 kWh. Furthermore, good procurement resulted in actual unit prices substantially
lower than appraisal forecastswith overall savings of about $6 million, or 13 percent
below appraisal estimates. By this token it can be estimated that the project efficiency
was higher than forecast and OED rates the overall efficiency as `%atisfactory."


Overall Outcome

13.     As a consequenceof a rating for project relevance of "substantial," for project
efficacy as "substantial" and for project efficiency as "satisfactory" OED rates the
overall project outcome as "satisfactory."

                                              5


Institutional       Development Impact

14.     The institutional development impact (IDI) of the Bucharest Water Supply project
must be analyzed in two stages:


    l   The ID1 that the project produced in the publicly managedutility, RGAB, during
        the period November 25, 1996November 17,2000, at which date the private
        concessionaire, Apanova, took over operations; and

    l   The ItDI that resulted from the takeover on November 17,2000, until today under
        the private concession. A private concession was not within the original project
        objectives, but once it had become the option preferred by the Bucharest
        municipal council and by the national government, the Bank vigorously supported
        the concept.


ID1 in the Public Utility, RGAB, during First Phase of the Project, 1996-2000

15.     Institutional strengtheningwas one of three objectives in the original project
design. To this end, a Short Term Action Program, STAP, was planned to finance (i) a
campaign to increasepublic awarenessof water use and help consumersreduce their high
consumption and (ii) the development of a new commercial system to build on the effort
that had begun with French bilateral assistance;and (iii) staff training. In addition, the
RGAB's own budget financed the budget of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that
received technical support financed by the Bank loan. The STAP was well conceived and
addressedthe priority needsthat would make it possible to achieve a more efficient
production and consumption pattern. It was implemented close to the original plan with a
total of $5.1 million expendedcompared to the appraisal estimate of $4.5 million. Its
impact was overtaken by events through the concessionbidding process,and the
subsequenttake-over of operations by Apanova. It is difficult to judge how much of the
STAP impact was supersededby Apanova's installation of its own proprietary
management systems. Half of the STAP expenditure was for the implementation of a new
commercial system by the French company LYSA. The choice of system was dictated by
LYSA's    parent, the SuezKyonnaise des Eaux group of companies. However, the
winning bid for the concessionwas that of the rival French operator,Vivendi, which
proceededto replace the LYSA system with its own proprietary system. Under the
circumstances, much of the LYSA effort must be rated as having only "negligible" IDI.
Furthermore, a portion of the training financed under PhaseOne was lost, at least to the
Bucharest water supply operation, when some 1,800 staff acceptedvoluntary retirement
package offered by Apanova. However, the trained staff who left RGAB, were not
necessarily lost to the sector or to Romania. For the abovereasonsOED rates the
overall IDI of Phase One as "xuodest."


IDI in the Private Concessionaire, Apanova, during Phase Two of the Project, 2000-
2001

16.     The idea to consider a concessionwith a private operator originated in April
1997, less than one year after the Bank had approved the loan . The decision to explore
the option of a private concession was made when RGAB management realized that the

                                                6


Bank project of $50 million (of which the Bank loan financed half, or $25 million) was
proving to be very much below the estimated investment needs.A study by the
consulting company SAFEGE had estimated the investment needsat $600 million. The
Bank project was going to resolve 80 percent of the rehabilitation of pumping stations,
the upgrading of the Arcuda water treatment plants, and some of the metering needs.
However, it would addresslittle of the distribution network rehabilitation , none of the
termination of the ongoing construction of the Crivina water treatment plant, and none of
the termination of the Glina wastewater treatment plant that had been initiated a number
of years before the Bank loan. There were no prospects for a subsequentBank loan that
would be large enough to make a significant difference in meeting theseinvestment
needsand certainly not soon after the first one had been approved. As a result, the
decision was made within the RGAB management and subsequentlywithin parts of the
Bucharest municipal administration to pursuethe path of a concession.

17.      The International Finance Corporation (IFC) had offered its advisory services in
the fall of 1997 to assist RGAB in preparing and bidding for a concession and in
negotiating a contract. ( It is clear that the Bank was not involved as an advisor and
consequently the Bank's role on this matter cannot be judged.) The actual preparations
for a concession startedin early 1998 and were concluded successfully in the spring of
2000. The IFC chose a bidding model that dependedon frequent contacts with pre-
qualified bidders, with the contract pre-negotiatedwith all bidders who subsequently
participated in the bid, and with only one bid evaluation and award criterion: the average
tariff that each bidder demandedover the 25-year concession period in return for
agreeing to operate and expand the system. Six large operators with international
experience were pre-qualified: (Anglian Water, Azurix, International Water,
Suez/Lyonnaise des Eaux, Thames Water, and Vivendi.) Anglian Water and Thames
Water opted not to participate in the final bid. The other four remained in the bidding
process,but Azurix dropped out, Ieaving three bidders for the final round of financial
bids.

18.      The final bid was a two-envelope process.Envelope A contained the signed
concession contract that had beenpre-negotiated,the Bid Bond, and various certificates
of compiiance. Envelope B contained the tariff bid, indicating seven tariffs corresponding
to years 1,2, 3,4, and 5, 6 through 10,ll     through IS, and 16 through 25, respectively.
The tariffs were indicated in constant Romanian lei with the assumption that the actual
tariff was going to be adjusted for inflation on a yearly basis. The bid award was on the
basis of the weighted averagetariff over the 25-year concession period. The winning bid
proved to be Vivendi's with an averagetariff of $0.111 per cubic meter, followed by
International Water with $0.145 per cubic meter, and Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux with
$0.189 per cubic meter. The bids could be compared with the tariff of $0.171 per cubic
meter prevailing at the time of the bid.

19.      The whole bidding process required two years until bid award in March 2000.
Following a six-month period to allow the winning bidder to comply with the conditions
precedent,Apanova took over operations on November 17,200O. The first two years of
operation have comprised a mutual learning process. Apanova's main effort has beento
reduce staff through an voluntary incentive program. The number of employees in late
2002 was slightly less than 3,000, down from 4,800 in 1994.. Another indicator of the

                                                  7


slow start is the delay in expanding metering in responseto consumer demand. Apanova
claims to have detecteda total of 6,000 unregisteredconnections (compared to a total of
some 77,000 registered connections) but has so far beenunable to incorporate them in its
consumer database.Excluding theseunregistered connections, the water supply and
sewerageconnections rates have changedonly slightly over the first two years of the
concession as shown in Table 2.


Table 2. Population Connected to Public Water Supply and Sewerage

indicator                    Before Bank project,         First year of       Second    year of
                                    1995               concession,   2001    concession,    2002

Water    supply  coverage
(percent   of total                 85%                        84%                   66%
households)

Sewerage     coverage
(percent   of total                 89%                        84%                   86%
households)                                                                                       I
Share    of wastewater
treated                              0%                        0%                    0%


20.        Based on thesefacts and on a number of visits to various departments of Apanova
OED nevertheless rates the institutional          development impact under the Apanova
concession so far as "substantial,"       mostly becausethe process to contract with a
private operator proved successful. However, even if there had been no private
concessionaire it is likely that there would have been a positive IDI from the Bank project
alone, given that it was well-designed by very experienced sector professionals.


Regulation Of The Bucharest Water Supply And Wastewater Services

21.        The regulation of the Bucharest concessionfollows the Concession Law No. 219
of 1998 that requires all private concessionsto be explicitly regulated. Until now, the
quality and efficiency regulation hasbeenthe duty of a Technical Regulator, ARBAC,
that was established by the Municipal Council of Bucharestand became effective in May
2002. The economic regulation of the concessioncontract has beenmanaged by the
Romanian Office of Competition. In practice, the economic regulation has been limited to
verifying that each of Apanova's tariff adjustment requestshas beenformally correct,
including the arithmetical calculations. This arrangementis "contract regulation" and is
possible becauseof the explicit tariffs contained in the concessioncontract, specified for
each year of the concessionperiod. The Bank was not involved in either the creation of
the technical regulator or in the arrangementsfor economic regulation.

22.         The quality and efficiency regulation doneby ARBAC hasnot been as simple as
the economic regulation. ARBAC has had difficulties in obtaining real-time data from
Apanova in order to comply with the regulation of a seriesof performance indicators.
This is not rare under private sector participation where the private operators enjoy a
large advantage over the regulator since it controls the collection, analysis, and releaseof
information. The information asymmetry is illustrated by the difficulties of the OED
project assessmentmission to obtain simple financial data from Apanova. Apanova's

                                                8


reluctance to meet requestsfrom ARBAC for operating data may be due to the fact that
ARBAC is not the regulator that authorizestariff adjustments.

23.      Possibly in recognition that a regulator gains influence if it handles both economic
and quality regulation the Romanian authorities establishedthe National Regulating
Authority for Local PubIic Services. The National Regulator was established through a
Governmental Decision on December 6,2002, under the Ministry of Public
Administration. It is scheduledto assumethe economic regulation of the Bucharest
concession from the Offtce of Competition and is likely to play a more active role in the
regulation of the Bucharest concession.It is unclear how rapidly the National Regulating
Authority for Local Public Services will assumeits responsibility given that the
concession bid and contract specify another type of regulation that is akin to contract
regulation. The latitude of the economic regulation is circumscribed by the clear tariff
adjustment formula contained in the concessioncontract with Apanova. It is unclear at
presentwhat the relationship will be with the quality regulator, ARBAC. The
expectations arethat it will take some time for the amendedregulatory framework to
become fully effective.

24.      Summarizing, OED rates the institutional       development impact of the entire
Bank project as "substantial."      It might be arguedthat ID1 should only be rated for the
original Bank project given that the Bank had a limited role compared to the Romanian
authorities and the IFC in making the concession contract a reality. Moreover, once the
political will in favor of a private concessionwas confirmed, the Bank did support the
PSP vigorously and did amend the Loan Agreement through a formal Board decision to
permit a "novation" of the balanceof the loan in favor of the concessionaire.The Bank
played a highly supportive role to the IFC's lead in the successfulprivate sector
participation and in the establishment of the regulatory arrangementsfor the Bucharest
concession. . The Bucharest concession could serve asa blueprint for similar contracts
elsewhere in Romania. The extent to which this will happendependson the conditions
for the expected substantial financing from the European Union. If EU assistanceis ruled
out wherever private concessionairesoperate and invest, the demonstration effect of the
Bucharest concessionwill be limited. However, if a formula is found that will enable the
concessionary EU aid to be targetedat types of investment (such as wastewater treatment
or the like) where financial sustainability is difftcult to achieve, and will allow private
operators,future private contracts could benefit from the ID1 lessonsof the Bucharest
concession.

Sustainability

25.      The sustainability of the Bank-financed water supply project would ordinarily
refer to the sustainability of the original Bank project design or as it emerged after being
amended, either by a formal Bank Board decision or by a formal explicit agreement by
Bank management of a changein project design and objectives. The Bank agreedto the
processof the privatization and supportedit vigorously once the borrower decided to
pursue a concession. The sustainability of the project should be measuredby the
likelihood that the private concession, Apanova will be sustainable. Experience has
shown that the sustainability of private sector contracts dependson five conditions being
met:

                                              9


     l  Strong and sustainedpolitical support from the national and municipal
        governments and from the consumersof the concession;

     l  Competitive contracting in a transparentfashion;
     *  Financial feasibility of the operation itself;

     l  Regulation by results; and

     l  Incentives for improvement for the operator.

26.     Strong and sustainedpolitical support for the concession seemsassured.During
the preparatory and bidding phases,eachmajor decision was referred to the Municipal
Council for ratification. Currently, any changeto the Concession Contract would require
a two-thirds majority of the 65 votes of the Municipal Council and would seem to rule
out any far-reaching modifications that could adversely affect the sustainability of the
contract. In addition, the Bucharest Municipality has 14 percent of the sharesof Apanova
and createsan incentive to support the concession.The political support of the influential
Mayor of Bucharest is in favor of the concession.The Mayor is directly elected and the
present incumbent is of a different party than the majority of the Municipal Council.
Some of the Mayor's strong support could be explained by his plans to outsource or
concede the operations of the district heating company, RADET, to a private operator.
Given such plans, it would hardly be in his interest to endangerthe sustainability of the
water supply and wastewater concession. The political support of the Bucharest
population also seemsassured.The complaints to the quality regulator, ARBAC, consist
of matters relating to the failure of Apanova to install consumption meters (80 percent)
and to billing disputes (20 percent). There are practically no complaints about inadequate
service.

27.     The conditions of competitive contracting and of regulation by results were
similarly satisfied. The IFC-sponsored processpaid great attention to transparency in
each step. Similarly, both the economic and the quality regulation are clearly spelt out in
the concession contract and were known to the bidders at the time of the bid.

28.     The financial feasibility of the concessionand the incentives for improvement
concern the operator's continued interest in investing funds and employing qualified staff
in continuously improving coverage, quality, and efficiency of the operation. No recent
data on the financial working ratio were provided to the OED assessmentmission by
Apanova. ARBAC estimates that the operation doesgeneratea slight cash surplus since
the working ratio is 0.94. All debt service on debt guaranteedby the Ministry of Public
Finance has been paid by Apanova, which provides another indication that operations do
generatea cash surplus.

29.     The concessionaire's incentives for improvement are high since all efforts to raise
operational and investment efficiency will increaseprofits directly. So far, the major
shareholder,Vivendi (with 86 percent of the sharesin Apanova), has invested $35
million in the capitalization of Apanova. After the voluntary retirement program which
cost about $15 million, there should now be strong incentives for Apanova to continue
improving the cash flow to permit dividend payments on the investment within a few
years. The possible acceptanceof Romania into the EU also createsstrong incentives for
the operator to stay with the concession.

                                              10


30.     For the above reasons OED rates the sustainability of the Apanova
concession, and therefore of the Bank-financed investments as "likely."

Bank Performance
31.     Bank performance is measuredby the quality at entry of the project and by the
quality of supervision during project implementation. Both were "satisfactory." The
project was simple, but addressedthe priority needsat the time. It could be argued that
the Bank might have anticipated and capitalized on the political will to bring in a private
operator during the design stage.This would have delayed the project. In the event, the
existence of a Bank loan facilitated the subsequentconcessionthat was handled by the
IFC. The Bank did consider the possibility of private sector participation during
preparation. However, it judged there would not be sufficient interest from the private
sector because(i) the political commitment in favor of PSP did not exist at the time of
preparation; (ii) lack of a good databasewould have made a private bid risky and
therefore would have resulted in an expensive bid; and (iii) the uncertainty of the
prospects for the Romanian economy and the failure of other attempts to enlist the private
sector in other branchesof the economy. The Bank felt that a small project as proposed
would createthe conditions that could facilitate, in the longer-term, a possible
involvement of the private sector.

32.     The quality of supervision was similarly "satisfactory" and benefited from the
presenceof a relatively large Bank country offtce in Bucharest that provided some
supervision. The Bank insisted on international competitive bidding for as many project
components as possible. In the end, ICB was used for 17 out of the 21 components and
was likely a factor explaining the cost savings of the project. There was no.evidence of
misprocurement and all bid contracts developed normally. The prospectsfor private
sector participation were consideredduring preparation and deemedpremature. Once the
reality of a private concessionairewas a fact, the Bank and the borrower did agreeto
"novate" the remaining balance of the loan for useby the private concessionaire. The
loan agreementwas amended accordingly through a formal decision by the Board of the
World Bank. The support of the Bank of "novation" of the undisbursed balance of the
Bank loan would in effect have amounted to entrusting public funds for the use of the
private sector, while retaining Bank procurement rules to ensurecompetitive and
transparentbids. This pragmatic solution would have been a mechanism to improve
efficiency through the participation of the private sector as an operator.

33.     Given that both quality at entry and supervision quality are rated satisfactory,
OED rates the Bank performance "satisfactory."         The interaction between the Bank
and the IFC during the preparatory stagefor a private concessionairecould be described
as satisfactory. However, it must be recalled that the EFCperformed with the incentive of
a possible substantial successfee, which might have createdthe appearanceof a possible
loss of objectivity for the Bank in caseit had beenperceived as working too closely with
the IFC in an effort in obtaining a private concession.For this reason,the Bank opted to
promote a more efficient water suppiy and seweragesystem in general, which would be
of benefit for either a public or private operator. Once the private concessionaire had
been selected, the "novation" of the loan balance in favor of the concessionaire selected

                                               11


was an effort to support the concession. The Bank followed the principles of maintaining
a "fire wall" for transactions where parts of the Bank group (IFC) were advisors.

Borrower       Performance
34.     Borrower performance is rated on the borrower's contributions to the original
project design and during project implementation. Both were highly positive in this
project. The bulk of the bids were concluded largely asplanned during PhaseOne of the
project. PhaseTwo of the project createdmore difficulties since it proved impossible for
Apanova to make use of the cost savings of $6 million. However, this failure should not
be attributed to the borrower, the Ministry of Public Finance, who had declared its
willingness to allow Apanova to make use of the funding. The only condition was for
Apanova to provide the Ministry of Public Finance with an equivalent Bank guaranteeto
help offset the ministry's additional guaranteeexposure.The explanation is rather the
inexperience of the Apanova management and board that prevented them from taking
advantageof this financing opportunity. In particular, in the early years of the contract
Apanova focused on reducing staff costs (which could not be financed from the novated
Bank loan) and all investment plans were delayed. As a result, Apanova could not use the
entire savings from the loan which closed before the company fully developed and
financed an investment program that might have been eligible for Bank financing.

35.     In contrast, the actions and political ownership of the RGAB management and of
the Bucharest and national governments in favor of the private concession must be rated
"highly satisfactory." The strong ownership in favor of the concession did reduce
somewhat the commitment to the implementation of the Short-Term Action Program
(STAP), which became less of a priority given it was highly likely that a private
concessionaire would prefer to implement its own management systems and training
programs. The actions of the municipal and national governments to establish economic
and technical regulation arerated as "highly satisfactory." In summary, OED rates the
borrower performance "highiy satisfactory" for the reasonsprovided.

Lessons
Lesson One:

36.     It may be preferable in some circumstances to opt for a simple project that can be
rapidly preparedand implemented rather than aim for more comprehensive but time-
consuming alternatives. The Bank project was preparedand became effective in a little
over one year and enabled high-priority rehabilitation needsto be addressed.An
alternative might have been for the Bank to insist on a private concession from the very
beginning, but this would undoubtedly have delayed the rehabilitation investments by
three years or more. However, it is advisable to Iimit a simple intermediate project to
investments that would remain beneficial even though a private contractor would take
over and implement its own proprietary information systems.

Lesson Two:

37.     The Bank was correct to resist financing the completion of the Crivina water
treatment plant and of the Glina wastewater treatment plant, both of which had been

                                               12


initiated well before the Bank project. The Bank's decision was dictated by a conviction
that the consumption pattern of Bucharest was so inefficient that adding capacity would
not be a least cost solution until the effect of metering and rehabilitation and changed
incentives for producers and consumersto become more efficient had been allowed to
work. In the event, in December 2002, the concessionaire,Apanova, received a loan from
the EBRD to finance the completion of the Crivina water treatment plant. Similarly, there
are now good prospectsthat there will be EU-grants and financing from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) forthcoming to finish the Glina wastewatertreatment plant on
which work was initiated but then stopped.

Lesson Three:

34.     Given that the technical and commercial data of RGAB were of poor quality, the
Bank was justified in focusing on improving the databasethrough (i) financing
production and consumption meters; and (ii) financing a modernization of the RGAB
commercial system. Investing in more reliable data has high returns in the form of better
demand forecasting, a more economical project design and implementation where
capacity increments can be better fitted to the more reliable demand forecast, and in the
form of improved financial viability through strengthenedbillings and collections. In
such a situation it is essentialto set up a monitoring system basedon selected
performance indicators that would start out with a baseline set of data, immediately
before project initiation and then assign forecast levels on an annual basis.

Lesson Four:

35.     The quality regulation of private operator contracts is contingent on the
willingness of the private operator to report reliably and timely on the contractual
performance indicators. This createsan information asymmetry since the private operator
is able to control the releaseof data that are essential to determine whether the private
operator is in fact complying with the contract with regardsto service quality and
standards.It may be necessaryto strengthenthe monitoring of the performance of the
concessionaire, including possibly through the commissioning of periodic consumer
satisfaction surveys, in order to reducethe information asymmetry. One way to
strengthenthe hand of the regulator is to ensurethat both quality and tariffs be regulated
by the same body becausethis gives the regulator added leverage in demanding strict
compIiance with reporting requirements and compliance with quality and service
standards.

                                                                                     13


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

BUCHAREST                    WATER              SUPPLY            PROJECT             (LOAN            4079-ROM)

Key Project Data (Amounts in US8 million)
                                                               Appraisal                                 Actual       or                       Actual     as % of
                                                                Estimate                            current       estimate                 Appraisal        estimate
  Total project        costs                                      50.0                                        48.8                                      98%
  Of which
         .      physical                                          45.5                                        43.7                                      96%
                investments
         .      technical                                          4.5                                        5.1                                      128%
                assistance
  Loan amount                                                     25.0                                        18.9                                      76%




uxs-
Cumulative                    Estimate andActual                                  Disbursements

._."--_,,---___.._l.._".".l"-"_.___" ,-_...-..,.._....-x _^.....__. _^.,._._----l^
                                                    FY96            FY97           _.,..-..-,~-,,^""_^,...__,-_..,_.,,_,._-_- __,-- - _..",~...^..-.._.^_-_.-_."
                                                                                   FM8              FY99              FYOO

Appraisal      estimate                                  0           4.0            13.5             21.0              24.0            25.0           25.0
Actual     (US$M)                                        0           0.8             3.0             9.0               13.8            16.0            18.9
Actual     as % of estimate                              0           20              22               43                 58             64.w-,.-        76

Date of Final disbursement:                    December??,           2001




                                                                 .       ,..- --.- _...,--
                                                                                  Original   .._....-.._.._.......       . ._...."..__. -    Actual
                                                                                                                                                 ..__..___......,..__._ _ ." ,..
  Identification       (PCD)                                                       4195                                                       4195
 Appraisal                                                                         12195                                                      12195
  Board     Approval                                                               8f96                                                       8196
  Effectiveness                                                                    IO/Q6                                                      Ill96
  Mid-term       Review                                                            6/98                                                       2199
  Loan     Closing                                                                 6100                                                       12101

                                                Date             No. of        Specialization             ..-....^._,.....--. -... .._.
                                                                                                                Performance            rating*
                                         (monib/year)           persons        represented**                                            ,. ." ,,. .__
                                                                                                           Implementati              Develbpmen
   -.--.^-._I." _I..-.._^, _._._.,.._...._..,.._.,,_.. ,, ._ ____   __   .,. .___..__-....-,- . . .. _...__-- -
                                                                                                             on Status
                                                                                                                 ____^               t objectives
                                                                                                                                          -
  IdentificationlPreparati              01/95                 5          TM,P0,2     ME,FMS
  on                                    04195                 2          TM,PO
                                        06195                 6          TM.P0,3ME,FMS
                                        09195                 2          TM,FMS
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 12195                 6          TM,PO,ZME,
                                        06196                            ENV,FMS
                                                                         Bank negotiating        team
  Supervision        1                  02197                 2          TM,PO
  Supervision        2                  06197                 3          TM,PO,C
  Supervision        3                  05198                 3          TM,PO,C                                    S                       S
  Supervision        4                  02199                 4          TM,PO,2C                                   S                       S
  Supervision        5                  12/99                 4          TM,ME,FMS,C                                S                       S
  Supervision        6                  01100                 1          C                                         N/R                    N/R
  Supervision        7                  10100                 1          ME                                         S                       S
  Supervision        8                  03101                 3          PO,ME,C                                    S                       S
  Supervision        9                  04/01                 1          C                                          S                       S
 Supervision         IO                 05101                 2          ME&                                        S                       S
  ICR Preparation                       02102                 1          c
                                   ~-~-ILIM__~_~I*~~II~I~~--~~~-~
* S = Satisfactory        NIg=         Not rated
* * TM=Task         Manager; PO=Project             Officer; ME=Municipat  Engineer;      FMS = Financial Management                 Specialist;    ENV
= Environment        Specialist; C = Consultant

                                                      15


 Annex B. Comments from the Borrower


h4lNEXRY     OF PUBLIC AD%%IKISTRATtON
RURAL     DEVELOPMENT         PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT              UNlT

                                                                        May 20,2003
Mr.Alain  Barbu,
Manager
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operation Evahtation Department
The WORLD       BANK
1818 If Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Fax: 001 202 522 3123


Dear Mr. Barbu,

Re: Romania - Bucharest Water Supply Project (Loan 4079 RO)
                 Project Performance Assessment Mission


        I confirm the receipt of the Report concerning the above mentioned         mission and I
really appreciate the inclusion of my name within       the distribution list, among the other
persons which were deeply involved in the Bucharest Water Supply Project.
        It was really a great pIeasure to meet Mr. Klas Ringskog and to ha%%together an
overview on the implementation     and results of the Project.
        Personally, I consider the content and the conclusions of the report as reflecting
with accuracy the aspects raised during our long and fruitfui discussion. From this point of
view,  the ,,highly   satisfactory" Bonower's     perfhmance,     which   includes the Project
implementation    Unit performance,   awards my efforts along with the efforts of my team
colleagues.
        I think there is still one aspect to be mentioned,    as a secondary positive effect of
the Project. I am referring here at the creation and development        of a high professional
Implementation    Team within RGKB, as a result of a ,,leaming by doing" process under the
close but, in the same time, discreet supervision coming from the Bank side.
        As a positive    result of the Project, this Implementation      Team have now the
opportunity   to improve the local market of consultants working       in public/private system
within the projects financed by international  organisms.
        For this reason also, I wish to thank to the Bank Team for his continuous           and
helpful support.

        Hoping    to have the opportunity    to meet the OED staff on other World Bank
projects,

                                       Yours sincerely,

                                      Andrei Naumescu
                        PMU Director for Rural Development       Project.
           Former Head of Bucharest Water Supply Project Implementation          Unit




