Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23912
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-20515; SCL-40790)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 24, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 4, 2002)
Currency Unit = Leu (ROL)
ROL 1,000 = US$ 0.0298
US$ 1.0 = 33,505 ROL
Average Exchange Rate per US$ 1.0
1996   2,033
1997    3,083
1998    7,168
1999   15,333
2000   21,693
2001   29,061
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  Decembrer 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANB                   ApaNova Bucuresti
CPI                   Consumer Price Index
EBRD                  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
PHRD                  Policy and Human Resources Development Program
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
RADET                 Bucharest District Heating Company
RENEL                 Romania Power Company
RGAB                  Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company
STAP                  Short-term Action Program
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Manager/Director:   Motoo Konishi/Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Sudipto Sarkar, ECSIE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                              14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   25
Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution                                                         26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without 'World Bank authorization.



?ct ID: P008778                                     Project Name: BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY
T   Leader: Sudipto Sarkar                           TL Unit: ECSIE
I   Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY                        L/C/TFNumnber: TF-20515; SCL-40790
County/Department: ROMANIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: WY - Other Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/15/95                              Effective: 10/31/96           11/25/96
Appraisal:  12/04/95                                 MTR: 06/30/98            02/08/99
Alpproval:  08/01/96                              Closing: 06/30/2000         12/31/2001
lBorroii'er/Irnplemeniting Agency: ROMANIA/BUCHAREST WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                        Kenneth Lay
Sector Manager:      Motoo Konishi                            Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:  Sudipto Sarkar                           Felix A. Jakob
ICR .Primaiy Author:  Felix A. Jakob
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Otttcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Originial Objective:
The Bucharest Water Supply Project was the outcome of discussions that had started in 1991 between the
BaniL: and the Romania Government on assistance to the water and sewerage sector in Romania. The
development objectives of the Bucharest Water Supply Project, which was to be implemented by the
Bucharest Water and Sewerage Company (RGAB), were to:



*   improve the reliability and quality of water supply in Bucharest;
*   gradually reduce water losses both physical and commercial; and
*   strengthen RGAB's operational, commercial and financial management and help it acquire the expertise
necessary for the preparation and implementation of future operations.
To this effect, the project was to provide funding for:
*   improvement of water supply reliability and guality through the rehabilitation of water treatment plants
and pumping stations
*   reduction of water losses through the repair and replacement of deteriorated sections of the primary and
secondary distribution networks in several Bucharest neighborhoods
*   institutional strengthening of RGAB through technical assistance to improve the company's customer
account management and reorganize its billing and bill collection operations, develop the effectiveness
of its operational management, and prepare and implement public awareness and water conservation
programs.
A key longer-term objective of the project was, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, to help create the
conditions that would facilitate the involvement of private sector operators in the delivery of water and
sewerage services. Specific. targets to be achieved by RGAB as part of this institutional development
strategy were detailed in a Short-Term Action Plan (STAP) included in the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not. revised.
In Summer 1997, the Romanian authorities decided to accelerate privatization of water and sewerage
services in Bucharest. In August 1997, the Romanian authorities started discussions with IFC's Private
Sector Advisory Services about possible assistance for organizing the privatization of the water and
wastewater services. IFC's and the Romanian authorities' efforts were successfully completed in Spring
2000 with the award of a twenty-five year concession contract to ApaNova Bucuresti (ANB), a joint
venture of the Bucharest General Municipality and the French Vivendi Group, which took over the
responsibility for water supply and sewerage services in November 2000.
As part of the privatization process, RGAB was to be dismantled. At the request of the Romanian
Government, the Bank transferred ("novated"), in September 2000 to ANB (a) the responsibility for the
completion of works in progress; (b) the remaining uncommitted loan balance then estimated at about USD
6.5 million for a complementary investment program; and (c) all other rights and obligations pertaining to
the loan previously assumed by RGAB with exception of those of the institutional development program
outlined in the STAP (see Section 3.4, below). The rationale for the novation of the loan to ANB was that
(a) the privatization of water supply and sewerage services in Bucharest was a relevant outcome of the
project and would enhance its development objectives; and (b) the high visibility given to this venture in
Bucharest, the capital city, would make it a model for other similar undertakings on other cities of
Romania.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The original project (hereafter called "Phase I") included (a) rehabilitation of the two existing water
treatment plants including the supply and installation of new sand and filter nozzles, and chlorination and
chemical treatment equipment, (b) installation of flow control valves on main aqueducts; (c) rehabilitation
of four major pumping stations and replacement of pumping equipment in other locations; (d) leak survey
of the entire primary distribution network (about 450 km), repair of deteriorated sections, and acquisition
-2 -



of required spare parts; (e) repair and replacement of secondary networks in seven neighborhoods; (f)
acquisition and installation of about 6,000 water meters of various diameters for households and
commercial customers; (g) technical assistance to RGAB for (i) carrying out a public awareness and water
wastage reduction campaign; (ii) improving the customer account management system; (iii) improving
technical service operations; and (iv) providing advisory support to RGAB's Project Implementation Unit
(PI).
On ithe whole, the components were well designed to achieve the objectives of the project. Project
preparation was carried out by RGAB assisted by an international consultant who worked in Romania
fromr November 1993 to April 1996 under funding from a Japanese PHRD Grant (Bucharest Water Supply
and Sewerage Rehabilitation, TF 20515).
'Total rehabilitation needs for the water supply and sewerage systems were estimated by the Consultant to
be in excess of USD 500 million. However, because of affordability consideration and to reduce the
complexity of project implementation, a step-by-step approach towards the rehabilitation was agreed
between the Bank and Romania through this approach, would be designed. Instead, it agreed to opt a series
of sequential projects whose size and timing could be tailored to the pace of improvement of RGAB's
managerial and financial performance and the evolution of the country's economy and institutional
framework. In keeping with this principle, the project, as the first element in this chain, was designed as a
relatively modest operation that could be implemented in the time of about four years within RGAB's
existing financial capacity, would not require any tariff increase in real terms, and would help RGAB build
up its technical and financial management capacity. A folow-up operation was tentatively included in the
lending program for Romania for Fiscal 2002, but was dropped in Fall 1999 when the prospects for private
sector involvement in the delivery of water supply and sewerage services increased.
Implementation took longer than expected, for reasons explained in Section 5.3, below. As a result, the
Bankc agreed to follow the recommendations of the February 1999 Mid-Term Review, and on June 25,
1999 extended the closing date of the loan from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2001.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original design of the Phase I components underwent some minor changes. All changes were due to
unforeseen technical problems that emerged during implementation and were rooted either in inadequacies
in tde background documentation and surveys that had been at the disposal of the consultant during project
preparation or stemmed from the fact that, as normal in rehabilitation projects of this kind, problems could
not be identified or quantified with precision until, literally, trenches were dug.
The completion of the procurement process for the Phase I components at the time of the Mid-Term Review
in february 1999 showed that (as explained in detail in Section 5.4 -below) the introduction of fully
competitive procurement had led to significantly lower costs for several project components.and, as result,
a significantly lower need of loan resources. By end 1999, a balance of about USD 6.5 millions of loan
funcls was estimated to remain uncommitted. Instead of requesting their cancellation, the Govermment, on
advise of IFC, asked the Bank in Summer 2000 to transfer these loan savings to ANB as part of the loan
novation, (see Section 3.2 above). The restructuring and novation of the loan to ANB was approved by the
Board on September 15, 2000. Accordingly, the amount of USD 6.5 million was made available to ANB
for ihe financing of a program of additional investments that would be completed within the time remaining
to the closing date of December 31, 2001 (hereafter called "Phase H"). Effectiveness of the novation
amendment was delayed until February 16, 2001, due to extensive negotiations between ANB and the
Bucharest General Municipality on issues related to the concession agreement and not related to the project.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no QAG (Quality Assurance Group) review conducted for this project. The ICR rates the
quality at entry as satisfactory.
The project's objectives were clearly defined. They were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
for Romania (CAS) of April 1994 which identified rehabilitation of infrastructure as a priority for the
Romanian economry. The project was also in line with the Romanian Government's own development
strategy which saw improvement of the delivery of local services as an important element of its
decentralization and local government development policy. The Government's strategy was, in addition to
the Bank, also supported by EBRD (through its Municipal Development Programs I and II), the European
Union, USAID and other bilateral donors through various local service improvement programs for other
cities of Romania that were concurrently prepared and implemented.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconme/achievement qf objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The project had, and continues to have, a high
relevance as privatization and private sector development are at the core of the Bank's program for
Romania. On the institutional side, the main outcome of the project was that, in keeping with its
longer-term overall objectives, it opened the door to the privatization of water supply and sewerage services
which was carried out by the Romanian Government and the Bucharest General Municipality with the
assistance of IFC's Private Sector Advisory Services between August 1997 and March 2000. Project
implementation efficacy was substantial since, with the exception of the works for one water treatment
plant (see Section 4.2, below), all investments were executed as originally planned and completed by the
time of the loan closing. Efficiency was substantial as most of the project objectives could be achieved at
costs that were significantly lower than had been anticipated at the time of appraisal.
The project achieved most of its specific objectives early on as demonstrated below by data for the period
1996-1999. ANB maintained, and expanded on, the results achieved by RGAB. However, variations in
water production and consumption evaluation methodologies that appear to have been introduced by ANB
make reliable comparisons between Phases I and II data a little difficult in some cases.
Improve the reliability and quality of water supply in Bucharest: Prior to project implementation, water
supply in Bucharest suffered from frequent service interruptions and low pressure with water often
unavailable in upper floors of high-rise apartment buildings. On average water supply was available
citywide only for about twelve hours a day. Treatment quality was poor. Between 1996 and 1999, the
average number of reported pressure problems in Bucharest decreased by 30 percent from 1.14/day to
0.8/day, the average daily number of breaks reported decreased by 17 percent from 4.50/day to 3.72/day,
while the number of general consumer complaints on quality of water or services and/or corresponding
requests for interventions received by RGAB decreased by 20 percent from 5.64/day in 1997 to 4.52/day in
1999. Concurrently, water supply availability increased to close to twenty-four hours per day in most
areas of the city.
Under ANB management, water supply availability and quality have remained stable. Contrary to
expectations the number of breaks per km of primary and secondary network has not decreased. The reason
for this is that the state of deterioration of the networks was much more advanced that hat had been initially
thought. About 30 percent of the overall network has more than 50 years of age and most of the massive
network extensions carried out between 1970 and 1990 (about 40 percent) were made with extremely poor
materials.
-4 -



Pro=ressively reduce water losses both physical and commercial: Prior to project implementation, around
60 percent of total water production was estimated to be lost through either leaks, consumer wastage, or
uncontrolled connections. Between 1996 and 1999 RGAB's total annual production of drinking water (i.e.,
measured output of treatment plants) decreased by 9 percent from 627 million m3 (or 1.72 million m3/day)
to about 560 million m3 (or 1.54 million m3/day) and the volume of total traceable losses (i.e., water
produced minus water billed to specific customers) decreased from 45 percent to 35 percent.
Concurrently, RGAB's energy consumption decreased by 25 percent from 0.45 KWh to 0.24 KWh for
every m3 of water treated. At project start-up, actual household water consumption was difficult to
determine because, in a large proportion, water consumption was not metered but still assessed on the basis
of normative household consumption rates, (especially in apartment blocks). Between 1996 and 1999, the
number of metered connections increased by a factor of 2.0 for individual households from about 25,500
units to about 50,000 units. In 1996 about 50 percent of,commercial and industrial connections were
uninetered. Between 1996 and 1999 the number of metered such connections increased by a factor of 5.0
from about 1,300 to about 6,800, while in parallel, over 5,000 unrecorded connections were identified and
either closed or incorporated into RGAB's customer base.
Under ANB management, water production is reported to have stabilized. It evolves currently at about 560
m3/year with losses that remain high at about 40 percent and reflect the continuing rapid deterioration of
the distribution network in areas not covered by the project. Sales of water have decreased to about 0.90
million m3/day as a combined result of declining overall demand (especially in the industrial sector) and the
increase in consumption metering. The number of metered individual household connections reached about
60,000 by 2001 with only 9 percent of connections remaining unmetered, while the number of metered
commercial and industrial connections reached 7,900.
Strengthen RGAB's operational, commercial and financial management and help it acquire the expertise
necessary for the preparation and implementation of future operations: The project was successful in
helping RGAB reorganize its customer account department and improve the performance of billing and bill
recovery services. Between beginning of 1997 and end of 1999, the total volume of water billed to
customers increased by 9 percent from 356 million m3 to 392 million m3. By end of 1999, the bill
recovery rate rose to 92 percent in 1999, up from around 80 percent prior to project inception and, is
reported to have reached close to 100 percent in 2001. Likewise, by end of 1999, customer payment
arrears represented only about 1.7 months of billing as compared to about 3.5 months at the end of 1996.
Results of training programs for operational management of water treatment plants water distribution
system cannot be quantified, but have contributed substantially to the improvement of service quality and
reliability. Raising public awareness of water consumption problems and prompting changes in consumer
behavior requires a long-term effort and strategy. The project's merit was to initiate a process of rethinking
at the levels of RGAB management and local authorities to promote -a change in consumer behavior and to
involve the media to promote these changes.
RGAB's overall financial situation showed some improvement over the 1996-1999 period. However, these
improvements were relatively modest and, most likely, would have been insufficient to support a
sustainable development and capital improvement program in the medium- and longer term. Moreover, with
the prospects of privatization firming up in early 1999, RGAB management shifted its primary attention to
the successful completion of the transaction and the smoothness of the transfer of responsibilities from
RGAB to ANB was an achievement.
-5 -



4.2 Outpuets by components:
Phase I Program (1996-2000)
Generally, the design of the project was satisfactory for all Phase I components. Specific outputs are
evaluated below by objective and components:
*      Improve the reliability and quality of water supply in Bucharest:
The objective was supported by three components:
A. Rehabilitation of water treatment plants: (USD 5.00 million original estimate, USD 5.00 million actual
cost) The component is rated satisfactory. Originally, the project was to finance the rehabilitation of
RGAB's two major treatment plants, Arcuda (built in 1884) and Rosu (built 1970). Upon inception of
works at the Arcuda plant in 1998, the contractor discovered that the extent of works needed to bring the
plant in compliance with acceptable operating standards was much larger than estimated by the Consultant
and called for a revision of his contract. The proposed cost increase would have almost doubled the initial
contract value. The option of canceling the contract and calling for a new ICB on the basis of revised
technical studies was ruled out primarily because of time constraints. At the mid-term review in February
1999, it was therefore agreed to drop the rehabilitation works for the Rosu plant and implement, instead,
the revised program for Arcuda within the original resource amount allotted to the component. Deferring
the works at the Rosu plant was determined not to harm the project objectives because (a) water
consumption was beginning to decline likely as a result of better demand management; and (b)
Government-funded works on a third treatment plant (Grivina-Ogrezeni), which were expected to be
completed shortly, were to give RGAB the necessary additional supply capacity and allow it to maintain
and improve the overall quality and reliability of water supply.
B. Upgrading of aqueduct and reservoir flow control: (USD 1.90 million original estimate, USD 1.70
million actual cost). The component is rated satisfactory. The installation of pressure balancing valves,
flow meters and other control devices on various aqueducts, pumping stations and reservoirs helped to
better balance the pressure in different parts of the network, improve the management of reserves, and
ensure for most areas of the city a twenty-four hour availability of water.
C. Rehabilitation of pumping stations: (USD 9.70 million original estimate, USD 7.80 million actual cost).
The component is rated marginally satisfactory. It financed the rehabilitation of four key pumping stations
(including replacement of existing pumps by energy efficient variable speed pumps). While rehabilitation
works were completed - albeit with significant delays over the original implementation schedule - in
Summer of 2001, pumps could not be tested and put in operation, because ELECTRICA, the current
electric power supply company, refused to reconnect the plants. The reason for ELECTRICA's refusal
apparently stemmed from a dispute with ANB over the applicable tariff regime. At the time of project
completion the issue was still awaiting a satisfactory solution.
*      Progressively reduce water losses both physical and commercial:
The objective was supported by three components:
A. Repair of primary network: (USD 3.00 million original estimate, USD 4.00 million actual cost): The
component is rated satisfactory. It involved the inventory and close inspection of the primary network and,
in particular, the valves connecting the primary with the secondary network. In addition to the replacement
- 6 -



of deteriorated sections of primary mains, the project financed the replacement of over 80 main valves at
key nodes of the network.
B. Repair of secondary network: (USD 19.30 million original estimate, USD 13.80 million actual cost).
The component is rated satisfactory. It involved the repair and replacement of a total of about 80 km of
secondary network in seven Bucharest neighborhoods (with a total population of about 190,000) which had
been identified as among the most affected by leakage and breakdown problems.
C. Acquisition and installation of meters: (USD 6.60 million original loan estimate, USD 4.30 million
actaal cost). The component is rated satisfactory. Originally, the project was to finance the acquisition
and installation of about 5,000 large-diamneter and 1,000 small-diameter meters. Because of delays in the
procurement process, RGAB purchased the large-diameter meters from its own funds and requested the
Bank to allow it to increase instead the number of small-diameter meters to 16,000. The installation of
meters was a major contributing factor for the improvement of RGAB's customer account management
prior to its takeover by ANB.
0      Strengthen RGAB's operational, commercial andfinancial management
Th- objective was supported by four components:
A. Public awareness and water wastage reduction campaign: The component is rated satisfactory. It was
enlirely financed by a USD 160,000 Austria Government Grant (TF 035280) and a USD 96,000
contribution from UNDP through the Danube River Basin Environmental Program. It financed the
implementation of programs of direct mailing, opinion surveys, media encounters, and training of RGAB
staff in water issues. It also financed successful educational campaigns with drawing contests in
elementary schools that elicited considerable attention in the Romanian media.
B. Commercial management improvement: (USD 1.60 million original estimate, USD 2.40 million actual
cos;t).  The component is rated satisfactory.  The program for improvement of customer account
management system built up and expanded on reorganization efforts initiated, prior to project
implementation, by technical assistance provided by the French Government under a bilateral agreement.
The program was successful in reorganizing the customer management system along private business
principles including computerization, improving the interface with customers, and training the staff in the
water company. It focused on four main areas: (a) improvement of meter reading procedures; (b)
improvement of billing procedures; (c) improvement of bill recovery procedures including arrears; and (d)
establishing legal claim and disconnection procedures.
C. Operational training: (USD 0.70 million original estimate, USD 0.60 million actual cost). The
component is rated satisfactory. The program of operational training focused primarily on improving the
management of treatment plants (including more efficient use of chlorination and chemical treatment
procedures), pumping stations, and leak detection programs. Training was carried on-site by international
experts and through participation of RGAB staff in courses and workshops in Western Europe.
D. Technical support to PIU: (USD 1.50 million original estimate, USD 1.80 million actual cost). Given
the nature and diversity of services provided under this component, an outcome rating not meaningful. The
program, which had to be extended to make up for the longer than anticipated project implementation,
firtanced the support of various experts to assist the project PIU in management and technical supervision
of project implementation. The operation of the PIU itself was not financed from the project, but from
RGAB's general budget. Staff seconded to the PIU remained on RGAB's payroll and did not enjoy any
- 7 -



salary privileges or other special benefits.
Phase II Program (2000-2001):
From the USD 6.50 million balance of uncommitted funds made available to ANB, the Phase II program
was to finance a program of additional investments of about USD 13.00 million equivalent before the loan
closing date of December 31, 2001. The Bank advised against the program initially proposed by ANB
which in addition the acquisition of spare parts also included network rehabilitation works because, in light
of the ongoing experience with such works under the Phase I, it appeared unrealistic and unfeasible within
the time left to loan closing. Given the additional constraint provided by the delays in effectiveness of the
novation amendment, ANB agreed, in April 2001, to reduce the Phase II program to the acquisition, for a
total amount of about USD 5.00 million equivalent, of spare pipes, fittings and other accessories that could
be used by ANB for future rehabilitation works to be financed from its own resources.
The component is rated marginally satisfactory. As a result of delays in procurement only two thirds of the
(already reduced) program could only be implemented. Total loan disbursements amounted to USD 2.00
million.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economnic rate of return:
The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project calculated at appraisal was 19 percent. The ERR
calculation was based on the assumption that the main quantifiable benefits accruing from the project
would consist in a decrease of RGAB's operating costs as a result of a reduction in water losses and
increased production efficiency. The overall ERR was the weighted average of the ERRs for four key
components that contributed to loss reduction and improved operating efficiency: (a) repair of primary
network (22 percent); (b) repair of secondary network (12 percent); rehabilitation of pumping stations (15
percent); and (d) meter acquisition and installation (48 percent).
Data required to recalculate an actualized ERR for all four components could not be obtained for the ICR
for several reasons: Rehabilitation works for primary and secondary networks were for the most. part
completed only in 2001 and reliable data on water losses in project areas are, not yet available.
Rehabilitation of pumping stations, likewise, was completed in 2001, but the new equipment could not be
put into operation for the reasons explained above. However, an actualized ERR was calculated for the
meter acquisition and installation component. The recalculated ERR is 27 percent as compared to 48
percent at appraisal. The reason for this lower rate is that the effects on the ERR of lower than anticipated
implementation cost are offset by the use of more realistic assumptions on behavioral changes in water
consumption by households. The original assumption in the SAR was that gross water savings of 10
percent through reduction in household consumption would take place immediately. The revised calculation
assumes more conservatively that such a reduction would be achieved progressively over a period of ten
years.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal and has not been calculated for this ICR
4.5 Institttional development impact:
The project's main achievement in terms of institutional development is rated substantial as it opened the
door to the involvernent of a private sector operator in the delivery of water supply and sewerage services in
Bucharest. The successful completion of the privatization effort in 2000 more than offset what otherwise
could have resulted in a modest institutional development impact. One of the project's main goals was to
help RBAB improve its overall management performance and build up its medium- and longer-term
- 8 -



technical and financial capacity. An important element in this strategy was the implementation of the
three-year Short-Term Action Program (STAP).  STAP included a series of measures targeted at
impioving RGAB's performance in (a) billing efficiency; (b) customer account management; (c) tariff
adju3tments; (d) reduction of receivables and payables; (e) creation of new revenues; (f) reduction of water
production costs; (g) reduction of labor costs; (h) reduction of inventories; and (i) elimination of
non-essential activities (such as the management of Bucharest's recreational water bodies).
RGAB performance in STAP implementation was mixed.    Billing efficiency and customer account
manigement improved siglificantly due to the technical assistance provided under the project. Bill
recovery rose to over 90 percent. Tariff adjustments in line with CPI increases were implemented, though
for reasons outside RGAB's control, in some case with considerable delays over the 30 days limit agreed in
the STAP. Inter-enterprise arrears were reduced significantly, including with RADET, the Bucharest
district heating company and RENEL (the then power company). Creation of new revenue sources was
insignificant, (but was never thought to be of critical importance). Attempts to reduce operating costs were
not pursued as vigorously as they could have been. The most critical shortcoming was that RGAB did not
follcw up on its commitment to reduce staff by attrition to about 4,100 by end of 1999. Instead, it
increased its staff from 4,915 at the beginning of 1996 to 5,266 by end of 1999. None of the major
non-essential activities were eliminated. While from 1996 to 1999, the overall financial situation of RGAB
did improve, it did so at a lesser rate than expected and at the expense of a severe limitation of any capital
investment other than that included in the project. There was a non-negligible risk that in the medium- and
longer-term, the company's financial viability would not improve sufficiently to make it eligible for larger
follow-up loans from the Bank or other external sources.
It must be recognized, however, that RGAB's ability to implement the STAP in full was limited as the
several of the program's components depended on decisions by, or the good will of, other Government
authorities. The total elimination of inter-enterprise arrears, for instance, would have required a more
effective cooperation of RENEL and/or RADET, more regularity in the approval of tariff adjustments by
the Mqinistry of Finance, and the shedding of non-essential activities and creation of new revenue sources
that of the Bucharest General Municipality. Staff attrition encountered serious resistance on the part of the
unicns. On the other hand, it cannot be denied that with the prospects of privatization firming up in early
1999, RGAB management shifted its primary attention to the successful completion of that transaction and
relegated STAP compliance to a position of secondary importance in its corporate priorities.
It must be noted that ANB reduced-the payroll to 4,980 (fromn 5,266 in 1999) by end of 2000 and 3,058 by
end of 2001, with further reductions being reportedly contemplated.
5. M%1ajor Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of govern.ment or implementing agency:
There were no macro-economic or political factors outside the control of either the Romanian Government
andlor RGAB and ANB that would have affected the implementation and/or outcome of the project at any
time:.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Management of counterpart funds was an issue that, especially in the project's last two years, negatively
affected the pace of project implementation and hampered the timely completion of several contracts. The
issuz was not rooted in the unavailability of counterpart funds, but in a dispute over the sharing
arrangements between the three sources of funds. According to the agreements between the Bank and
Ronianian authorities, 50 percent of the project cost was to be funded from Romanian sources (30 percent
-9-



State budget, 15 percent Bucharest General Municipality, and 5 percent RGAB own resources). The
proportionality of these contributions was not respected and gave rise to protracted disputes between
RGAB and the Ministry of Public Finance over the amounts actually Which, in turn, led to substantial
delays in the payments for various contracts and affected their timely completion.
A key point at issue was the total amount of counterpart funding due by the three entities.  At
pre-appraisal, in June 1995, the total cost of the project had been estimated at USD 46.00 million. Later
that Summer, the amount was incorporated into a Government Decision authorizing the completion of
project preparation, including appraisal. At appraisal, in December 1995, the project cost was increased to
USD 50 million with the consent of the Ministry of Public Finance and agreed to by the Romanian
Govemment at negotiations. The Loan and Project Agreements, dated August 2, 1996 as well as the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Ministry of Public Finance and the Bucharest General
Municipality and RGAB were approved by the Government and ratified by the Romanian Parliament on
the samne basis. These officially ratified agreements notwithstanding, starting 1998, officials in the
Ministry of Finance in charge of counterpart budgeting, took the position that only the Summer 1995
Government Decision was binding on Romania for the amount of counterpart funding to be made available
for the project and that any increase beyond the limits set in that Decision would require the prior issuance
of a corresponding amendment.
The counterpart funding problems were compounded by RGAB's management of counterpart funds. State
budget contributions to the counterpart funding account were made by budgetary appropriations based on
ex-ante need estimates provided annually by RGAB. At the beginning of the project, these estimates used
to err on the optimistic side. As a result, State budget resources were in excess of actual needs, and since
they could neither be returned or rolled over, RGAB decided to use them up in priority and reduce the
drawings on the other sources accordingly. By beginning of 1999, the actual sharing proportions had
become noticeably distorted with contributions made to 40 percent from the State budget, but only 8
percent from Bucharest General Municipality, and from 2 percent RGAB.
Discussions on these issues with the Ministry of Finance went on until Fall of 2001 when a new
Government Decision setting the project cost at USD 50 million was issued and the original sharing
balance reestablished by the necessary contributions from the Bucharest General Municipality and ANB
thereby allowing ANB to settle the various overdue contract payments.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management of the project's investment components by the PIU was satisfactory and supported the
progress of project implementation. The PIU was not responsible for the implementation of STAP as well
as other actions aimed at improving the financial situation of RGAB. These measures were to be
implemented by the various departments of the RGAB General Directorate. As mentioned in Section 4.5,
starting early 1999, with the prospects for privatization firming up, RGAB management shifted its primary
attention to the successful completion of that venture, however, and made STAP compliance a more
secondary matter among its corporate priorities.
Although the issue had been identified and flagged by the Bank in the SAR as a potential risk for the
project, the procurement of works, goods and services tumed out to be much more complex and protracted
than initially anticipated. The time schedule for procurement and contract implementation prepared by
RGAB and its consultants was optimistic, and did not anticipate the time that it would take to procure and
execute activities under Phase I components. An equally important reason for the delay was the poor
response to intemational tenders received by the project.
-10-



Possibly because of the economic and political context of Romania during the first years of project
implementation, the nature of the works and goods to be provided, and the size of the proposed contracts,
response to intemational tenders, in general, was weak. In various cases, contracts had to be called for
rebidding or bidding periods extended because of inadequately prepared bid proposals or simple lack of
response from prospective bidders. In some other cases. the winning' firms seemed to have underestimated
the cost of doing business in Romania and to cut costs transferred the bulk of responsibility for works to
Romanian sub-contractors. In one such case, disputes between a firm and its sub-contractors led to court
action that was still pending at the date of loan closing.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As already noted in Section 3.4, based on the information available at the time of appraisal cost of various
components were expected to be higher than they resulted from actual implementation. The main reasons
for erring on the high side were that (a) the project was the first operation of this kind in Romania and no
market-based reference prices for works and goods were available; and (b) the financial participation of the
Romanian Government in the project required the adoption of Government unitary prices for works and
goods in order to get counterpart funding appropriated in the State budget. The need for loan resources
was further reduced by the combined effects of two other factors. First, a number of contracts were
denominated in Euro or other European currencies that depreciated against the US Dollar over the life of
the project. Second, RGAB, for internal reasons, decided to make any payments for contracts involving
Romanian firms or local expenditure of foreign firms in Romanian currency from the local counterpart
funds. As a result, the USD cost of contracts for components such as pumping station rehabilitation,
secoliidary network rehabilitation, and meter acquisition and installation, was significantly lower than
initially estimated.
Final cost of the project for Phase I was USD 43.60 million of which about USD 16.60 million (or 67
percent of the original loan amount) was financed from the loan. The balance of uncommitted funds which
at the beginning of 2000 was estimated at USD 6.5 million was made available in September 2000 to ANB
for additional investments to be made under the Phase II program before the closing date of December 31,
2001. However, because of time and intemal constraints, ANB was able to use only about USD 2.00
million of the resources at its disposal. As a result, an amount of about USD 6.10 million was cancelled
upol closing of the loan account on April 30, 2002.
6. 'Sustainability
6.1 R?ationale for ststainabilitv rating:
Even though RGAB's overall financial situation showed some improvement over the 1996-1999 period
there was a substantial risk that the company's financial viability would not improve sufficiently to ensure
the sustainability of its operations in the medium- and longer-term. These risks were significantly reduced
by the transfer of the responsibility for the water supply and sewerage services to ANB, a joint venture of
the Bucharest General Municipality and the French Vivendi Group, one of the largest international water
supply and sewerage service operators. Possible future difficulties cannot be ruled out for ANB, however.
They could result either from adverse political developments in Romania and poorer than anticipated
performance of the country's economy, or, given the prevailing trends in the intemational utility enterprise
sector, from sudden unexpected changes in the private operator's ownership structure, business strategies,
or management systems.
6.2 Transition arrangemnent to regular operations:
Not applicable as loan beneficiary and final operator are identical.
-11 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. Project identification, preparation and
appraisal were carried out in a timely fashion and responded expeditiously to the sometimes lengthy
decision-making process within the Government apparatus. However, together with RGAB and the
consultants, the Bank shares the responsibility for underestimating the difficulties of doing business in
Romania and going along with an overly optimistic procurement and implementation program which had
been prepared by RGAB and endorsed by the Ministry of Public Finance.
7.2 Supervision:
On the whole, Bank supervision is rated satisfactory.
Bank management consistently supported the move towards privatization. In particular, it agreed to make
an exception to OP/BP 13.25 and, acceding to the Government's request, to transfer the USD 6.50 million
balance of loan savings to ANB in support of the latter's contractual investment program. The team
preparing the novation amendment in Summer 2000 was given a "Performance Award" for its expeditious
processing of the matter.
No deviatiori from Bank policies and procedures was noted during supervision.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory. As noted in Section 3.3
above, RGAB prepared the project with the assistance of intemational consultants expeditiously and, given
the prevailing circumstances, with an adequate quality level. Procurement documents for all major
contracts were ready by Board approval and the first tenders were launched immediately upon
effectiveness. As mentioned above, both RGAB and the consultant underestimated the administrative
difficulties of doing business in Romania and were excessively optimistic in their assumptions on the time
required for procurement and contract implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Govemment performance was marginally satisfactory. Resolving the counterpart funding problems proved
to be more difficult and protracted than necessary. If the issue had been handled more aggressively by the
Ministry of Finance, it could have contributed to a more expeditious completion of a number of contracts.
On the other hand, it must be noted that the Government and the Bucharest General Municipality as of
1997 decided to opt for the privatization of the water supply and sewerage services and fully supported the
move until its completion in 2000.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation of the Phase I investment program under the responsibility of the PIU was satisfactory. As
explained in Section 5.3 above, the delays that occurred in the procurement and implementation were
largely due to factors beyond its direct control. Reporting on implementation progress was satisfactory and
generally timely.
- 12 -



The performance of RGAB management in the implementation of STAP and the institutional development
program in general was marginally satisfactory. While RGAB made significant progress in the
improvement of its customer account management as well as various technical indicators, it failed (or
lacked the ability) to address the more fundamental issues of the company's financial management. More
specii5cally it did not act on reducing the operating costs by reducing the number of staff or eliminating
non-essential activities.
The performance of ANB in the implementation of the Phase ll program is rated marginally satisfactory.
Although the Bank had made it clear from the outset and subsequently repeatedly alerted ANB to the fact
that the loan would be closed on December 31, 2001, the launching of the Phase II procurement process
was delayed for intemal reasons for several months and did not start until August 2001, five months before
loan closing.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the privatization of water supply and sewerage services as the main outcome of the project the
overall Borrower performance can be rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The Bank was right to resist engaging in the preparation of a large-scale and complex operation and to
focus on an operation with a relatively simple design given that the beneficiary had no prior experience in
the irmplementation of extemally financed projects. Even after this first step, however, the Bank should
have exercised more caution and more realistically assessed the difficulties of doing business in Romania in
the then prevailing macro-econornic and political context.
The B3ank insisted on using to the extent feasible international procurement although a majority of the
contracts were of a nature and size unlikely to attract serious intemational firms. The fact is that under the
international umbrella the bulk of contract work was provided by local contractors with the external firms
playing a mere role of coordinator. it cannot be precluded that a larger openness to the local contracting
industry (which would have required lowering some of pre-qualification standards) would have eliminated
some of the difficulties faced by the project and accelerated project execution.
While promoting the involvement of private sector operators in the delivery of local utility services is a
major strategic objective for the Bank it must be recognized that, as a provider of financial resources, it
lacks the flexibility of a commercial bank and cannot easily respond to the changing needs of a beneficiary
by adjusting terms and conditions of its loans. In hindsight due to the complexities of the transaction and
the application of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures it could be argued that acceding to the
Government's request and agreeing to the novation of the loan was not the best alternative, that the transfer
of the balance of uncommitted loan funds to ANB entailed substantial and unforeseen costs for both the
Borrcwer and the Bank, but brought limited benefits.
9. Psartner Comments
(a) Borrowi'er/implementing agency:
See Annex 8
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Oiherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
- 13-



10. Additional Information
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/MIGA
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:       November 22, 2000
TO:         Mr. Klaus Steiner, Abteilung VII-7, Ost-Forderprogramme
Bundesministerium fir auswartige Angelegenheiten der Republik Osterreich.
FROM:       Felix A. Jakob, ECSIN
EXT:        37073
SUBJECT:    ROMANIA: Bucharest Water Supply Project (Ln. 4079-RO)
Water Wastage Reduction and Public Awareness Campaign
Government of Austria Grant (TF 035280)
Completion Report
Introduction:
1.   In connection with the implementation of the Bucharest Water Supply Project, for which Loan
4079-RO (USD 25 million) was approved by the Board on August 1, 1996, the Government of Austria
agreed on December 23, 1996 to provide a Grant in the amount of USD 160,000 to contribute towards the
financing of a Water Wastage Reduction and Public Awareness Campaign in the city of Bucharest.
Complementary financing in the amount of USD 96,000 was provided by UNDP through the Danube River
Basin Environmental Program (DRBEP) in the Summer of 1996.
Grant Objectives:
.2.    The objective of the grant was to assist the Bucharest Water Supply and Sewerage Company
(Regia Generala de Apa Bucureti - RGAB), the beneficiary and project implementing agency of the World
Bank Loan in the preparation and implementation of a city-wide public awareness campaign to alert the
population to the importance of water wastage issues and prompt behavioral changes among consumers,
(see TORs attached).
Implementation
3      Although the Grant Agreement was signed at the end of 1996 an agreement on the detailed outline
of the campaign work to be financed from the grant could only be reached with RGAB in Spring 1998,
upon completion - almost one year behind schedule -of the work that was carried out by the Polish firm
PROEKO with DRBEP funding. A request for proposals was issued in May 1998 to four Austrian firms:
Oko Pr Agentur Irene Schwarz, Allplan GmbH, IC Consulenten, and Aces Group. Oko Pr Agentur Irene
Schwarz decided to make a joint proposal with IC-Consulenten. Evaluation of the three proposals received
took place in June 1998 at the Bank headquarters in Washington. The evaluation committee recommended
the contract be awarded to the firm AllPlan GmbH. The contract between the World Bank and Allplan was
signed on August 21, 1998.
- 14 -



4.     Implementation start up was delayed for another ten months due to differences in opinion between
A] Iplan GmbH and RGAB on the selection and contracting modalities of a local partner firm. As a result
Al]lplan was able to start working only in Spring of 1999. Activities were completed by end December
1999. A Completion Report was submitted to the World Bank by Allplan in January 2000. Disbursements
from the Grant totaled USD 158,200. The balance of USD 1,800 was returned to the Austrian CTF for
Central and Eastern Europe.
5.     The key activities carried out by Allplan under the Public Awareness Campaign included the
irrmplementation of Direct Mail Campaigns, Opinion Polls, Press Conferences, Training of RGAB Staff in
PRt and Customer Service skills, and educational campaigns and drawing contests in Public Schools. The
lalter, in particular, got extensive media coverage and were among the most successful achievements of the
campaign.
Sustainability of Achievements
6.     Bucharest has an extremely high level of water losses. At the time of project preparation, up to
between 60% and 70% of drinking water produced was estimated being lost. About half of these losses
were the result of leaks in the distribution networks, while another half could be attributed to wastage by
consumers. Indeed, because, under the socialist regime, water was billed on the basis of normative
household consumption regardless of the quantity of water actually consumed, RGAB customers had no
incentive whatsoever to reduce wasteful consumption, repair leaks, and/or replace defective appliances. The
cl allenge of the public awareness campaign was to initiate a change in the behavioral pattern of population,
*to make it recognize the value of water as a resource, and to encourage water conservation. The grant
supported a number of activities to that effect and was, at least partially, successful in meeting its
objectives. While individual programs, financed under the grant, were well received, a broad cultural
change in water conservation across the city could not be achieved. However, it is fair to mention that such
behavioral changes take time and the work financed under the grant was an important step in initiating the
process of educating the public on the matter. It also was instrnumental in helping RGAB acquire the
techniques to reach out to citizens for raising public awareness and receiving feedback.
7.     Public awareness campaigns are an expensive undertaking, since they entail extensive use of press
and mass media, i.e. radio and television. Cost of advertising space and/or time in these media has
skyrocketed in the past few years and has become inaccessible for a utility already struggling with financial
problems. A longer term educational program could only be sustained through programs of sponsorships
with private sector enterprises interested in supporting such efforts. However, as the experience has
shown, the number of such sponsors in a country like Romania remains'rather small to date.
8.     The issue of longer term sustainability of the awareness effort initiated under the Grant has found
anl unusual solution. RGAB is now in the process of being dismantled after the Bucharest Municipality
decided, at the end of 1999, to privatize the water supply and sewerage services and, in March 2000,
awarded a concession contract to the French Vivendi Group. The new operator, ApaNova, is expected to
take over full responsibility for the management of the services in Fall of 2000 and, operating on a
commercial basis, make a substantial effort to reduce losses to an acceptable level.
- 15 -



Lessons Learned
9.     To be successful any campaign to raise public awareness must have the support of local bodies
fully convinced of the necessity of the efforts to be made and willing and capable to mobilize local
resources and political interest. Identifying a local champion prior to launching any campaign work is
imperative if 'ownership' is to be achieved. Raising public awareness takes time and any program to that
effect should be long term in nature and become part of the regular operations of the water utility.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators                         1995    1996     1997    1998     1999    2000     2001
Total water produced at treatment plants  SAR     1.69     1.69     1.63    1.57     1.50
(in million m3/day)                      actual            1.66    1.61     1.50     1.54    1.60     1.50
Large customer metering rato (in %)      SAR      41%      44%     52%      75%     97%
actual                     77%     81%      90%     90%      92%
Total water sold (in million m3/day)     SAR      0.93     0.94    0.95     0.96     1.00
actual            1.10     1.09    1.07     1.04    0.95     0.90
Total loss coefficient (in %)             SAR     45%      44%     42%      39%      33%
actual            34%     32%      29%      32%     41%      40%
Annual breaks per km of primary network   SAR      0.9     0.9      0.8      0.7     0.5
actual            0.78     1.08    1.05     1.07     1.27    1.52
Annual breaks per km of secondary network  SAR     1.7     1.7      1.6      1.5     1.2
actual            3.68    3.73     3.65     3.65    3.88     3.58
Number of employees                      SAR      4,949   4,718    4,498   4,288    4,098
actual           5,098    5,194    5,333   5,266     4.980    3,058
Personnel cost/operating cost (In %)     SAR      43%      42%     41%      40%     40%
actual            42%     30%      41%      41%     36%      48%
Energy consumpton / m3 water produced    SAR      0.45     0.45    0.45     0.45     0.40
(in kwh)                                 actual            0.21    0.23     0.24    0.24     0.22     0.22
Energy consumption/operating cost (In %)  SAR     34%      31%     29%      27%      25%
actual            23%     23%      22%      19%      20%     18%
OTHER INDICATORS
Total number of connections                                67,858  72,357   73,051   72,061  73,869   77,434
% of unmetered connections                                15.80%   16.80%   14.90%  11.00%   10.30%   9.30%
Average residential tariff (in current ROL)                          1,137   1,475    2,140    3,385   5,042
Average residential tariff (in constant ROL)                          598      471     465      502      562
(Base CPI 01/01/97=100)
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in USD million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Phase I
Water Treatment Plant Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation Works                         4.5              4.7               104
Supply of Filter Sand                        0.3              0.2               56
Supply of Filter Nozzles                     0.2              0.1               31
Aqueduct Flow Control                             1.9             1.7               88
Pumping Station Rehabilitation                   9.7              7.8               81
Primary Network Rehabilitation                   3.0              4.0               133
Secondary Network Rehabilitation                 19.3             13.8              71
Meter and Accessories Acquisition                6.6              4.3               65
Technical Assistance
Public Awareness Campaign                    0.7              0.3               43
Commercial Management Improvement             1.6             2.4               149
Operational Training                          0.7             0.6               85
Implementation Assistance                     1.5             1.8               119
Miscellaneous"                                   0.0              2.1               n.a..
Total Phase I                                                  50.0             43.8               87
Phase II
Acquisition of Spare Parts'2                     13.0             5.0               39
Total Phase II                                                 13.0             5.0               39
ETotal Actual Project Cost3                                     n.a.             48.8              n.a.
Total Financing Required                                        n.a.            48.8              n.a.
Appraisal costs are inclusive of contingencies, taxes and duties.
Unforeseen expenditure for complementary surveys, studies, fees, etc.
Reappraisal amount based on balance of uncommitted loan resources estimated at USD 6.5 million as per 09/15/00
/3 Actual component costs as per 12/31/01 shown in Quarterly Report #20
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (USD million equivalent)
1. Works                        26.5       2.0                            28.5
(11.9)     (.)(12.8)
2. Goods                         4.9       0.3       0.2                  5.4
(3-4      (0.2)     (0.2)                (3.8)
3. Supply and Install            11.6                                     11.6
(7.5)                                     75
4. Services                                          3.8        0.7       4.5
(0.9)     (0.0)      (0.9)
Total                           43.0       2.3       4.0       0.7)       50.0
(22.8)     (1.1)     (1.1)     (0.0)     (25.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed from the Bank Loan.
All costs include contingencies, taxes and duties.
Other includes international shopping (USD 0.3 million) and consultant services.
NBF includes consultant services financed directly by RGAB (and/or Grants).
19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in USD million
equivalent)
Phase Il
1. Works                             22.3       1.1    .23.4
(9.1)      (0. 1)                          (9.2)
2. Goods                              3.1        0.4       0.1                   3.6
(2.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)                  (2.0)
3. Supply and Install                 9.4                                        9.4
(4.7)                                       (4.7)
4. Services                                                4.8        0.3        5.1
,________  _________    (0.9)      (0.0)      (0.9)
5. Miscellaneous                                                      2.1         2.1
.________     0.0)       (0.0)
Total Phase I                        34.8        1.5       4.9        2.4        43.6
(15.8)     (0.1)      (0.9)     (0.0)       (16.9)
Phase II
Goods                                 5.0                                         5.0
I   (2.0)  I         l          l          I   (2.0)
Total Phase I & Phase II             39.8   |    1.5   |   4.9    |   2.4        48.6
.                               I  (17.8)  I  (0.1)  I   (0.9)  I   (0.0)  I   (18.9)
*Figures may not add due to rounding.
Project Financing by Component (in USD million equivalent)
Phase I                    25.0    25.0  5.    16.7    26.9     43.6   66.8%   107.6Y%   87.2Y
Phase I1V                   6.5     6.5  13.0   2.0     3.0   5.0  30.8%   462%    38.5%
Arnountsrefled balance of uncommitted funds novated to ApaNova BuEwsti on Seplmb 15,2000.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Component: Metering
Investment             Operating             Benefits             Benefit/
Cost                   Cost               linked               Losses
with                   with               to the
Years                Project               Project              Project
__________               (US$)                  (US$)                (US$)
1997                   0                     0                    0                    0
1998               1,200,000                 0                    0               -1,200,000
1999               1,200,000               12,000              172,003            -1,039,997
2000               1,200,000               24,000              344,005             -879,995
2001                                       36,000              521,220              485,220
2002                                       36,000              781,830             745,830
2003                                       36,000             1,042,440            1,006,440
2004                                       36,000             1,303,050            1,267,050
2005                                       36,000             1,563,660            1,527,660
2006                                       36,000             1,641,843            1,605,843
2007                                       36,000             2,084,880            2,048,880
2008               1,200,000               36,000             2,345,490            1,109,490
2009               1,200,000               36,000             2,606,100            1,370,100
2010               1,200,000               36,000             2,606,100            1,370,100
2011                                       36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
2012                                       36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
2013                                       36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
2014                                       36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
2015                                       36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
2016                                       36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
2017        _      _       _               36,000             2,606,100            2,570,100
lotal Investment Cost (US$ million) = 3.60                     IRR= 27%
Estimated Benefit (US$/Year) = 2,606,100
Notes:
C'osts are actual component costs net of taxes and duties.
Average lifetime of investments is estimated at 10 years.
Annual operating costs are estimated at 1% of investments.
EBenefits are calculated as the economic value of the estimated average reduction of gross daily household consumption
(60 liters) valued at a long run marginal price of USD 0.17 for a beneficiary population of 700,000.
The original ERR calculation in the SAR assumed that the average reduction of gross daily household consumption by
60 liters would take place immediately upon installation of meters. The assumption can be considered unrealistic. The
m,vised ERR is based on a more conservative assumption of a gradual consumption adjustment to the average reduction
lcvel over a period of lO years. It must be noted, however, that at this point no relaible data to validate this or any other
assumption are available.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/30/95                  05    TM, PO, 2 ME, FMS,
04/14/95                  02    TM, PO
06/28/95                  06   TM, PO, 3 ME, FMS,
09/24/95                  02   TM, FMS
Appraisal/Negotdation
12/04/95                  06   TM, 2 ME, PO, ENV, FMS
06/10/96                        Bank Negotiation Team
Supervision
02/03/97                   02  TM,PO                             S            S
06/12/97                   03  TM, PO, C                         S            S
05/04/98                   03  TM, PO, C                         S            S
02/09/99                   04  TM, PO, 2 C                       S            S
12/05/99                  04   TM, ME, FMS, C                    S            S
01/17/00                  01    C
10/23/00                  03   ME                                S            S
03/05/01                   02   PO, ME, C
04/16/01                   01   C                                S             s
05/27/01                   02   ME, C                            S             S
ICR
02/14/02                  01    C                                S             S
TM = Task Manager; PO   Project Officer; ME = Municipal Engineer; FMS=Financial Management
Specialist; ENV = Environment Specialist; C = Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             N.A.                      N.A.
Appraisal/Negotiation                  N.A.                      N.A.
Supervision                           N.A.                       N.A.
ICR                                    N.A.                      N.A.
Total                                  N.A.                      N.A.
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L] Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
M Sector Policies                      OH    OSUOM      O N  O NA
D3 Physical                            O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Z Financial                            O H   OSU*M      O N  O NA
F3 Institutional Development           O H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
E] Environmental                       0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Z Gender                         O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)         OH    OSUOM     ON    * NA
F] Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
L] Other (Please specify)             0 H O SU O M     0 N  0 NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
? Lending                                           OHS*S       OLU    OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS      O  U   O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS * S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 24 -



Aninex 7. List of Supporting Documents
RGAB/PIU: Quarterly Implementation Reports I- XX
RGAB: Annual Reports [Raport Anual] 1997, 1998, 1999
ALLPLAN: Water Wastage Reduction and Public Awareness Campaign Completion Report, 1999
APANOVA BUCURESTI: Project Completion Report, May 2001
- 25 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution Loan No. 4079RO Bucharest Water Supply
Implementation Completion Report Summary
The summary was prepared by the Bank task team on the basis of the Borrower's Project Completion
Report (82 pages) prepared by ApaNova Bucuresti. The summary consists exclusively of excerpts from the
above Project Completion Report selected for their relevance. All excerpts are provided in their original
language and have not been edited or otherwise altered.
The full Project Completion Report is on file (see Annex 7)
A.     Water supply in Bucharest
1.     RGAB
... RGAB ( Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti -Water and Sewage Company of Bucharest) provide the
services like a local public autonomous company under the municipality' supervision. The importance of
this activity is related to the number of inhabitants of the city and also to the daily production of drinking
water (1.6 million cm average rate for 1996). Owing to the old equipment for treatment plants (Arcuda
water treatment built in 1884) and the average age of network (about 21.9% over 60years old) the water
supply conditions were unsatisfactory. Service interruptions were frequent, pressure was poor and in many
neighborhoods availability of reliable water supply service was only intermittent and limited. More than
half production of water was been lost either through leaks in network or as a result of building internal
leaks. It must be mentioned that the bulk of consumption was not metered and therefore the interest of
householders in repairing the internal installation was poor. Another aspect of the "leakage" could be
considered the illegal consumers ...... The institutional and financial problems similar to those of other local
similar companies - investments under government control, lack of revenues and high arrears, and the
necessity to improve the quality of services in the main city of Romania were the reasons for applying for a
Loan to IBRD. In 1997 the Romanian authorities decided to study the privatization of water and sewage
services in Bucharest, and after three years launched the bidding for concession contract. In spring 2000
the contract was awarded to Apa Nova Bucuresti.
2.     APA NOVA BUCURESTI
Taking part of Vivendi Group -Apa Nova Bucuresti enhanced the quality of services by own investment
plan, and also carried out projects started by RGAB. The company policies are strongly connected with
intemational rules and in conformity with the concession contract, that is based on the achievement of
specified levels of services. One of the first results of ANB's policies was the decrease of operational costs
of services, and the implementation of a restructuring program where leaving employees were proposed a
financial package that secured their social situation during their search for a new job. Another step was the
conclusion of long term contracts with the State owned Electricity Company and the National Company
that provides raw water to APA NOVA, and the settlement of all debts inherited from RGAB. APA NOVA
fulfilled all the suspensive conditions imposed before the concession contract could start, in eight months
after signature, among them the novation of the IBRD loan. As part of its obligations in the first Contract
year, APA NOVA has proposed a technical and financial solution to terminate the works on the future third
water treatment plant in Bucharest, which the Municipality accepted.
B.     Assessment of Project Objectives
.......... .Three main objectives have been established for the Project as a result of pre-feasibility study and
- 26 -



feasibility study. In line of Government policies for improving infrastructure development the project was
importantfor country and also taking into account the allocation from State Budget and Local Budget,
which are:
-      in 1999, 78 96 million lei from state budged and 40 000 million lei from local budget
-      in 2000, 25 000 million lei from state budged and 65 900 million lei from local budget
The Project's objectives were also related to the government policy to privatize the infrastructure sector by
increasing operational management. Objectives were clearly and realistically chosen taking into account
the needs of both company (RGAB) and Bucharest householders.
The components were reasonably related to proposed objectives, some details of components were
changed ... Generally there were problems linked to the design- some components meet different gaps
which caused changes in the solution; the experience showed that the theoretical -design did not fit the real
situation on the site, and taking into account daily problems it was chosen to cancel some works in the
benefit of others for the same purpose as the project but with direct results.
Regarding the objectives and the results it can be considered that the project design was satisfactory-
ap propriate to diagnosis of problems. Generally, the modifications of initially proposed solutions were
catised by lack of Technical Project Phase which was missing for a too short time provided in the schedule
for implementing the project. The novelty of such a Project for Romania was another reason for changing
sorne components.
Improvement of the reliability and quality of water supply (Project objective (a))
It includes water treatment plant rehabilitation, installation of flow control valves on main aqueducts and
main pump station rehabilitation. Objective was satisfactory achieved taking into account the new
equipment for chlorinating station Arcuda, rehabilitation or replacement of valves on aqueducts and energy
savings by pump replacement (or rehabilitation).
First component, water treatment plant rehabilitation had to perform works into Arcuda treatment plant and
Rosu, owing to the situation on site, after discussion and Bank approval, only one station was rehabilitated,
funds for rehabilitating the other station were insufficient. The works performed have been rehabilitation of
filter beds including the repair of filtering floors; replacement of filter gravel and sand; rehabilitation of
washing equipment; replacement of chlorination equipment. Rosu plant works have been canceled. Second
cormponent - aqueduct flow control - aiming at the flow management, provided installation of valves and
flow controls on the main aqueducts. Work condition and real situation on site influenced some project
modifications: the place of valves or flow meter was changed; some valves were partially rehabilitated and
new valves were installed to ensure the possibility of access to wet working areas. Thus, the realization of
the monitoring system of flow control had to be posponed.
Pump station rehabilitation - included the supply and installation of new pumping equipment in main
purmping station. New pumps were installed and some pumps were rehabilitated the result being the energy
saving. Some modifications have been performed to the initial project - a major problem is still ongoing
and is linked to the connection of two pumping stations on the new energy supply cables.
- 27 -



Reduce water losses (Project objective (b))
Three components have been implemented: repair of priiary network, repair of secondary network and
acquisition and installation of meters and the objective was satisfactory achieved.
Repair of primary network comprises initially the supply of a stock of spare parts including pipes of
various diameters, valves, etc, which was cancelled for the benefit of some urgent works to be performed.
The value of initial contract was 15% upgraded. Through this component a computerized information
network and database was created, 83 (Dn 30-1200mm) valves on the main network have been replaced
and several section of network were rehabilitated by replacing the old pipes with new ones (Ductil Cast
Iron Dn 300-800mm).
Repairs on the secondary network have been performed for seven neighborhoods of Bucharest and had been
initially estimate to comprise about 86Km of network to be replaced. No major modification has been made
during the work, about 80Km were replaced, to achieve the entirely provided quantity supplementary plans
were proposed to contractors. The contractors refused to carry out additional works due to the encountered
difficulties on execution, and because the inflation for Romanian Lei.
Metering component of this objective comprise supply and installation of about 6000 meters of various
diameters, supply of accessories for meter installation. After a new inventory on the network and the
Technical Economical Committee of RGAB approval it was submitted to the Bank the modified project to
be performed - acquisition and installation of 13000 meters. Meters have been installed for residential,
industrial - economic agent consumers.
Strengthen RGAB's operational, commercial and fmancial management (Project objective
(c))
This objective was satisfactory achieved. It had four components, first one component Public awareness
and wastage Reduction Campaign was aimed to support RGAB for implementation of water wastage
reduction campaign. High costs for implementation of media (press, radio and television) campaign led to
reducing the other activity costs. The costs of this component have been supported by a loan obtained from
Austrian Government. Commercial Management Improvement was the second component aimed to support
RGAB for pursuit the restructuring of its commercial management department - initiated with a French
bilateral technical assistance as of January 1996- and improving the management of: customer registration,
meter reading, invoicing and bill collection. The project suffered minor modifications and finally was
related to real needs of our company. Technical training to support RGAB for improving the performance
of its technical operations was the third component of this objecive and provided professional training for
plant and network maintenance and operation staff, training in inventory management for spares and
equipment supplies. Preparation of training modules for equipment maintenance was also implemented.
Reports on the activities performed were issued for the last two components.
Control of Project implementation and assistance for Project Coordination Unit were performed trough the
last component - Implementation Supervision. Due to the extension of works to be provided under Project
that last component have been prolonged too, some modification occurred in the initial contract and an
activity was canceled - Training for work supervision and maintenance- in the benefit of Project Technical
supervision.
- 28 -



C.     Major factors affecting implementation and outcome
During the implementation period some problems occurred and delayed the process. In fact administrative
and financial problems were linked with:
-      the delay in approval of state budget and other documents approval.
-      the delay in granting due authorization for construction, which have to be issued by Municipality
or other authorities, and implied another delays in opening work site.
These delays translated into operationnal difficulties for the. imnplenting agency and the constructors during
realization, although the subsidies and most of the authorizations were finally released. RGAB fund for a
while the entirely project till the problem was solved and the established percentage for each part was
balanced after receiving the provision from MOF and Municipality.
From the technical point of view, it is to mention that the missing phase of design namely: technical
projects, induced some deviation with respect to the project objective. In this case, there are the works on
aqueduct flow control which activity regarding the "remote controlled management implementation" was
cancelled. Another component which output was considerably affected was "water treatment rehabilitation"
where the quality of water was changed and produced damages to rehabilitated filter works. On pumping
sthtion component also the required outcome is not achieved taking into account the problems occurred in
energy supply approval.
Reasons for delays in implementation and developing the Project were attached in Quarterly Reports
stubmitted to the Bank and are related to: overoptimistic estimation of deadlines and duration of the
contracts initiation procedures (launching of ICB or NCB, tender evaluation, WB agreements,
negotiations), in the time required for mobilization of contractors (presentation of contractual guarantee
letters, legal formalities concerning organization of Romanian branches), in the time required to achieve a
good rate of work performance (lack of experience of local subcontractors), and others
D.     Evolution of future performance
Ir december 2001, the board of directors of ANB has approved the three years plan for the period
2002-2004 which relies on the following objectives:
* Continuous improvement of service through major overhaul and renewal of equipments for operations.
* Tariff policy that maintains affordability of services
Recovery of lost revenues linked to illegal connections and users.
* Finalize the restructuring plan to settle the organisation.
* Reach all the targets of the Bucharest Water Supply Project, launched in 1997
* Reach the targeted cash flow capacity with the adjusted structure of costs and revenues.
* Improve the level of investments that will reach 20 million Euros in 2002.
This investment plan does not include the finalisation of the third water treatment plant that will be
achieved by the year 2004, for an amount of 55 million Euros through an EBRD-DEG loan.
According to Section,2.03 (b) (i).of Project Agreement ANB is carrying out strategies for developing the
Project, and a first program was discussed by the Board of Directors of the company. Four lines for
developing works were established as follow:
-29 -



-      Projects to continue the works in order to achieve the initial aim or which's main activity was
cancelled (like Rosu treatment plant rehabilitation, remote control of flow on aqueducts, connection to
energy supply for the last two pumping station rehabilitated under lot 3, automatic operations in pumping
stations);
-      Projects for completion of some commenced works which put basis for developing some other
works;
-      Projects for amelioration of works provided in first stage of Project owing to the evolution of some
parameters over then provided the feasibility study;
-      Projects for increasing reliability of information: development of a geographical information
system, computerized readings, geographical surveys and connection surveys.
The Audit report performed by a local company (also implied in works development during the Project) has
emphasized some works being necessary to be executed complementary for first stage. In the same context
it is to mention that Technical supervision Bank mission concerning the Project on January-February 2000
summarize some core works to be performed on first stage of project the proposed works were included in
our QR no. 13.
E.     Evaluation of Borrower Performance
A risk connected to luck of funds was assumed at the very beginning of the Project. In fact Borrower
performance could not be appreciate without regarding the entirely financial situation of country. As it was
described in Part I local government have to carry out many problems linked to sustaining infrastructure
projects in different areas, Bucharest water supply project being one of the most important ones. As the
statistics show the funds allocated to our project were very important and some figures could strongly
sustain this affirmation: cost allocated from Romanian counterpart (without RGAB and ANB contribution)
was about $20 million and represents about 0.3% from average of Total Revenues (for 1996 - 2001) of
Execution of state. Budget". It is to appreciate the state efforts in sustaining the Project into an inflationary
medium, and also it is to appreciate that also after privatization of water supply and sewage government
continued to finance the works.
Ministry of Finance through Department for External Public Finance sustained all our approaches in order
to develop Project activities.
We can consider that for above mentioned reasons Borrower performance as satisfactory.
From the point of view of our activity in implementing and developing the project, with all the problems we
encountered (novelty of such a Project, problems linked to interpretation and management of international
contracts rules, novelties in technical solutions a.o) and solved it is to appreciate that the activity of
implementing agency was satisfactory.
Contractors and consultants results recommend themselves for different rates of performance. The refusal
of some company to perform additional works and also to find a solution for some amelioration of works
could recommend companies in this case to a marginally satisfactory rate of performance.
F.     Evaluation of Bank Performance
From the very beginning of Project, Bank support was assured by Resident Mission in Romania and also
by Bank headquarters staff. During the project several technical mission from the Bank surveyed the
works, and there was a good experience for our company. A link between RGAB/ANB and the Bank was
- 30 -



established and problems issued during the project execution were solved quickly. Payments were duly
rmade and all the support in this aim was received from Bank staff, taking into account the lack of
experience in this field of our company. However, some delay is necessary to carry out the operational
reception of all the works (see section F: Major factors affecting implementation and outcome) and full
completion of the works, as described in the project agreement. For reasons already mentionned, the
Irnplementation Completion Report does not reflect full completion of the project, and the degree of
completion can be estimated now at 90%. Further work is necessary, beyond that date, to achieve 100% of
the objectives set for the project.
During the privatization process Bank support was important, so that it was permitted to finance a project
of a private company.
The Bank performance in Project implementation and execution can be estimated as highly satisfactory.
- 31 -









I
I   Report No.:       23912
Type:    ICR



