Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4079 RO
                              Project Agreement
                       (Bucharest Water Supply Project)
                                   between
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
                        REGIA GENERALA DE APA BUCURESTI
                             Dated August 2, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4079 RO
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REGIA GENERALA DE APA
BUCURESTI (RGAB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Romania (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount equal to twenty five million
dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that RGAB agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan and guarantee agreement to be entered
into among the Borrower, RGAB and the General Council of the Bucharest
Municipality, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be relent to RGAB on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS RGAB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
Page  2
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. RGAB declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) RGAB shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, RGAB shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
               be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
               Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with RGAB on said plan.
     Section 2.04. RGAB shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, RGAB shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) RGAB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of  the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  RGAB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
RGAB of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreement.
     Section 2.06. RGAB shall maintain the PCU with a sufficient number
of qualified staff, adequate facilities, and terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank.
                               ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of RGAB
     Section 3.01. RGAB shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and in
accordance with the provisions of the STAP.
     Section 3.02. RGAB shall at all times operate and maintain its
Page  3
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
     Section 3.03. RGAB shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) RGAB shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  RGAB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
               related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. By January 1, 1997, RGAB shall appoint, and there-
after maintain in this position, an environmental advisor, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank,
to be responsible, inter alia, for advising on any environmental issues
arising out of the execution of the Project.
     Section 4.03. RGAB shall: (i) by September 30 of each year starting
in 1996, review with the Bank the progress achieved in the implementa-
tion of the STAP; and (ii) by November 30 of the same year, submit to
the Bank, for its approval, any proposed modifications to the STAP.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RGAB
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenditures of RGAB shows that the estimated net revenues of RGAB
for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall
be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt service requirements of RGAB
in such year on all debt of RGAB including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of RGAB maturing
               by its terms more than one year after the date on which
               it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
               such debt or for the modification of its terms of
               payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into.
Page  4
        (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
               operations and net non-operating income; and (B) the
               sum of all expenses related to operations including
               administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
               payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
               for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
               and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
               ference between: (A) revenues from all sources other
               than those related to operations; and (B) expenses,
               including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
               incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means the
               aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
               prepared by RGAB not earlier than twelve (12) months
               prior to the incidence of the debt in question,
               which both the Bank and RGAB accept as reasonable
               and as to which the Bank has notified RGAB of its
               acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
               since such notification which has, or may reason-
               ably be expected in the future to have, a material
               adverse effect on the financial condition or future
               operating results of RGAB.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
               the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevail-
               ing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
               currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
               able for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
               the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
               exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05. RGAB shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31, 1998, a report integrat-
ing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 30, 1998, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)
above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
                                ARTICLE V
                      Effective Date; Termination;
                      Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  5
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of RGAB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify RGAB thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                       Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688 (TRT)
     For RGAB:
          General Water Company Bucharest
          2, Aristide Demetriad Str.
          70448 Bucharest, 1 st. Sector
          Romania
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of RGAB, or by RGAB on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General Manager and President
of the Board or such other person or persons as the General Manager and
President of the Board shall designate in writing, and RGAB shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                         By /s/ Christiaan Poortman
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                Europe and Central Asia
                         REGIA GENERALA DE APA BUCURESTI
                         By /s/ Napoleon Pop
                                             Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Prequalification
     Bidders for works and the supply and installation of equipment shall
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and
2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix  2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (c)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Filtering sand estimated to cost a total amount not to exceed
$300,000 equivalent, and works for the installation of meters estimated
to cost a total amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   International Shopping
     Filter nozzles estimated to cost an amount not to exceed $300,000
equivalent may be procured under a contract awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
Page  7
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the  Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.
