Page  1
September 15, 2000 
His Excellency Decebal Traian Remes 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Bucharest, Romania
Re:
ROMANIA: Bucharest Water Supply Project (Loan No. 4079 RO)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement dated August 2, 1996, between the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Romania (the Borrower) and the 
Project Agreement of even date between the Bank and Regia Generala De Apa Bucuresti 
(RGAB) and your letter dated August 15, 2000, requesting reallocation of savings under 
the Loan and transfer of all obligations and responsibilities of RGAB under the 
Project Agreement to Apa Nova pursuant to the Concession Contract dated March 29, 
2000, between the City of Bucharest, in the form of the General Council of the 
Municipality of Bucharest, Apa Nova Bucuresti S.A.(Apa Nova) and RGAB.
We are pleased to inform you that we hereby agree to amend said agreements as 
follows:
Loan Agreement:
1.
In the Preamble, the word “and” is deleted after paragraph (A), paragraph (B) is 
amended to read as follows and the following paragraphs (C) and (D) are added:
“(B)  Parts A, B and C of the Project was being carried out by Regia 
Generala de Apa 
Bucuresti (RGAB) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the 
Borrower made available to RGAB the proceeds of the 
Loan;
(C)  by a Concession Contract dated March 29, 2000, between the City of 
Bucharest, in 
the form of the General Council of the Municipality of Bucharest, 
Apa Nova Bucuresti 
S.A.(Apa Nova) and RGAB, the provision of water supply and 
sewerage services in the city of  Bucharest is transferred to Apa Nova and Apa Nova 
assumed all financial and operational 
rights and obligations of RGAB under the 
Project;
(D)  the Project will continue to be carried out by Apa Nova with the 
Borrower’s 
assistance and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Apa Nova the  undisbursed amount of the Loan provided in this Agreement; 
and”
2.
Except the reference in Section 1.02(d), all references to “Regia Generala de 
Apa Bucuresti” are substituted by “Apa Nova Bucuresti S.A.” and to “RGAB” by “Apa 
Nova”.
3.
In Section 1.02, subparagraph (f) is deleted, the existing subparagraphs (g) and 
(h) are re-lettered as (f) and (g), subparagraph (f) is amended to read as follows and 
the following new subparagraphs (h), (i), and (j) are added:
“(f)
“Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement to 
be entered 
into between the Borrower, Apa Nova and General Council of Bucharest 
Municipality pursuant 
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; 
(h)
“Apa Nova” means Apa Nova Bucuresti S.A. a joint-stock company 
registered with 
the Bucharest Commerce Register number J40/9006/1999 dated October 
12,1999;
(i)
“Additional Investment” means an investment for water supply to be 
selected 
for financing from the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
Page  2
(j)
“Concession Contract” means the concession contract entered into 
between the 
City of Bucharest, in the form of the General Council of the Municipality 
of Bucharest, Apa 
Nova and RGAB dated March 29, 2000”, 
4.
References to the parties to the subsidiary loan and guarantee agreement in 
Sections 3.01(b), 6.01(a) and 6.02(b) should read as follows: “the Borrower, Apa Nova 
and the General Council of the Bucharest Municipality”.
5.
In Section 5.01, subparagraphs (c) and (d) are deleted, existing subparagraph 
(e) is re-lettered as (c) and the new subparagraph (d) is added:
“(d)
The Concession Contract shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of Apa Nova to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.” \0c
6.
Section 5.02(b) is amended to read as follows:
“(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of 
this 
Agreement shall occur.”
7.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is replaced with Attachment 1 to this 
amendment letter and the following paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 1:
“4.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; 
and (b) payments made for an Additional Investment 
under Categories (1)(b) and (2)(b) unless 
the Additional Investment has been 
selected and approved in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 2 of 
the Project Agreement.”
8.
The following new Part D is added to Schedule 2:
“Part D:  Additional Investments
Carrying out of Additional Investments to rehabilitate water systems and 
facilities in 
Bucharest.”
9.
Paragraph 1.(a) of Schedule 4 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) 
and (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;”
Project Agreement:
10.
Except the references in paragraph (A) in the preamble, the existing Sections 
4.02 and 4.05, all references in the Project Agreement to "Regia Generala de Apa 
Bucuresti" are substituted by "Apa Nova Bucuresti S.A." and to “RGAB” by “Apa Nova”.
11.
In the Preamble, paragraph (B) is amended to read as follows and the following 
paragraphs (C) and (D) are added:
“(B)  by a subsidiary loan and guarantee agreement entered into among the 
Borrower, 
RGAB and the General Council of the Bucharest Municipality, the proceeds 
of the Loan 
provided for under the Loan Agreement were relent to RGAB on the 
terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement;
(C)  by a Concession Contract dated March 29, 2000, between the City of 
Bucharest, in 
the form of the General Council of the Municipality of Bucharest, 
Apa Nova Bucuresti 
S.A.(Apa Nova) and RGAB ( the Concession Contract), the 
provision of water supply and 
sewerage services in the city of Bucharest is 
transferred to Apa Nova and Apa Nova assumed 
all financial and operational rights and 
obligations of RGAB under the Project, including 
but not limited to the Subsidiary 
Loan and Guarantee Agreement;
(D)  by a subsidiary loan and guarantee agreement to be entered into 
among the 
Borrower, Apa Nova and the General Council of the Bucharest 
Page  3
Municipality, the undisbursed 
amount of the Loan provided in the Loan Agreement 
will be relent to Apa Nova on terms and 
conditions set forth in said subsidiary 
loan and guarantee agreement and all rights and 
obligations of RGAB will 
be transferred to Apa Nova; and”
12.
The following subparagraph (c) is added to Section 2.05:
“(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) 
of this 
Section 2.05. Apa Nova shall promptly inform the Bank and the 
Borrower of any change in 
legal character, ownership or control of Apa Nova 
from that prevailing as of the date of 
effectiveness of the Concession Contract 
which may materially and adversely affect (i) the 
ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement or to 
achieve the 
objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of Apa Nova to perform any of its 
obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Loan Agreement, or to 
achieve 
the objectives of the Project.”
13.
The following new Section 2.07 is added:
“Apa Nova shall ensure that any Additional Investment shall be selected 
in agreement  with the Bank and in accordance with the procedures and selection 
criteria set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.”
14.
At the end of Section 3.01, the words “and in accordance with the provisions of 
the STAP.” are deleted and at the end of the sentence “,” is replaced with “.”.
15.
Section 4.03 is deleted, Section 4.04 is renumbered Section 4.03 and Section 
4.05 as referred to in paragraph 10 of this amended letter is renumbered Section 4.04 
and amended as follows:  the words “RGAB shall:” in the beginning of the Section shall 
be deleted; the words “RGAB and Apa Nova shall” shall be added to the beginning of 
subparagraph (a); and the words “RGAB shall” shall be added to the beginning of 
subparagraphs (b) and (c).
16.
A new paragraph 4.05. is added:  “Apa Nova shall inform the Borrower one month 
in advance or as soon as it becomes aware of the intentions of Apa Nova’s major 
shareholder to sell its shares in Apa Nova.”
17.
The address in Section 6.01 for Apa Nova is replaced with the following:
“For Apa Nova:
Muzeul Zambaccian Street
Number 34, Scara B, Ap. 6,
Sector 1,
Bucharest, Romania”
18.
A new Schedule 2 is added as set forth in Attachment 2 to this amendment letter. 
Please indicate your agreement to the above amendment to the Loan and Project 
Agreements by signing, dating and returning to us the attached copy of this letter.  
This amendment letter shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank: (a) that the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, Apa Nova and the General 
Council of Bucharest Municipality; (b) the Concession Contract has become effective; 
(c) a legal opinion has been furnished to the Bank showing on behalf of Borrower that 
the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms; (d) a legal opinion has been furnished to the 
Bank showing on behalf of Apa Nova that the amendment letter and the Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on beh
alf of, Apa Nova and is legally binding upon Apa Nova in accordance with its terms; 
and (e) a legal opinion has been furnished to the Bank showing on behalf of General 
Council of Bucharest Municipality that the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, General 
Page  4
Council of Bucharest Municipality and is legally binding upon General Council of 
Bucharest Municipality in accordance with its terms. 
Sincerely,
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region Attachments
AGREED AND CONFIRMED
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Minister of Finance
APA NOVA
By /s/ Stephane Ebalard, 
Administrator
Attachment 1
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Parts A,
  7,300,000
100% of foreign
B, and C of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local 
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Works under Parts A,
10,200,000
45%
B, and C of the Project
(3)
Consultants'
 1,000,000
25%
services 
(4)
Goods under Part D 
 3,500,000
50%
of the Project
(5)
Works under Part D 
 3,000,000
50%
of the Project
TOTAL
25,000,000
Attachment 2
SCHEDULE 2
Page  5
Procedures and Selection Criteria Applicable To Additional Investments
The following shall apply to the selection of any Additional Investment:
(a)
Apa Nova shall prepare and submit to the Bank not later than November 30, 
2000 for review and approval any proposed Additional Investment in the form and detail 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include: (i) a description of the proposed 
Additional Investment; (ii) estimate of projected costs and expenses; (iii) evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that counterpart financing is available for fifty percent 
(50%) of the cost of each Additional Investment; (iv) economic and financial analysis 
of the proposed Additional Investment; (v) environmental impact assessment thereof and 
mitigation plan; (vi) implementation plan; (vii) procurement schedule; and (viii) an 
analysis of the priority of the proposed Additional Investment in terms of its 
cost-effectiveness and social impact. 
(b)
After the Bank approves the Additional Investment, it shall be deemed to 
be eligible for financing under Part D of the Project.
