Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4079 RO
                               Loan Agreement
                     (Bucharest Water Supply Project)
                                 between
                                 ROMANIA
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated August 2, 1996
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4079 RO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  August 2, 1996, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     (B)  The Project will be carried out by Regia Generala de Apa
Bucuresti (RGAB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to RGAB the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and RGAB;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
Page  2
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Lei" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (b)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, established within RGAB;
     (c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and RGAB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
     (d)  "RGAB" means Regia Generala de Apa Bucuresti, a local Regia
Autonoma established by decision of the Bucharest Municipal Council No.
1198, dated December 10, 1990;
     (e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "STAP" means the Short-Term Action Program, agreed with the
Bank, referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into among the Borrower, RGAB and the General Council of
the Bucharest Municipality pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement;
and
     (h)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
Page  3
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
          (ii) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
         (iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
               in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest
               Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring
               on or next preceding the first day of such Interest
               Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
               expressed as a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its obligation thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause RGAB to perform
all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
RGAB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to RGAB
under a subsidiary loan and guarantee agreement to be entered into
among the Borrower, RGAB and the General Council of the Bucharest
Page  4
Municipality under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank, which shall include the following principal terms: (i) the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in lei in
amounts equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of
repayment, according to Schedule 3 to this Agreement) to the amounts
withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account on
account of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a
period of no more than twenty (20) years,  including a grace period of
no more than five (5) years; and (iii) RGAB shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time at a rate equal to the rate applicable to the Loan pursuant
to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be
carried out by RGAB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall or shall cause RGAB to:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Bank has received the audit report for the
               fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
               Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall or shall cause RGAB to:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested, including a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
               of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
Page  5
               support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                   ARTICLE V
                              Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  RGAB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that RGAB will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (c)   The decision of the Bucharest Municipal Council No. 1198,
dated December 10, 1990, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of RGAB to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The STAP shall have been amended, suspended, or repealed
without the Bank's consent.
     (e)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RGAB
or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower, RGAB and the General Council of the Bucharest
Municipality; and
     (b)  the Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank
that the STAP has been approved in accordance with the Borrower's law.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by RGAB, and is legally binding upon RGAB in accordance with
its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, RGAB and the General Council of
the Bucharest Municipality and is legally binding upon the Borrower,
RGAB and the General Council of the Bucharest Municipality in accordance
with its terms.
Page  6
     Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          17, Apolodor Street
          Bucharest
          Romania
                                        Telex:
                                        11239
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
               Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    ROMANIA
                    By /s/ Napoleon Pop
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Christiaan Poortman
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                               Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  7
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the           % of
                            Loan Allocated      Expenditures
                            (Expressed in           to be
Category                        Dollars)           Financed
(1)  Goods                    10,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local expend-
                                                itures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(2)  Works                    11,700,000        45%
(3)  Consultants' Services       800,000        25%
(4)  Unallocated               2,500,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    25,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a)
contracts for goods and works costing less than $250,000 equivalent
each; and (b) contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for
the employment of consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each for
the employment of individual consultants, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project (known, in the Borrower's territory,
as "Modernizarea Sistemului de Alimentare cu Apa din Municipiul
Bucuresti") are to: (i) improve the reliability and quality of water
supply in Bucharest; (ii) contribute to the reduction of water losses
(both physical and commercial); and (iii) strengthen RGAB's operational,
customer account and financial management, and help it acquire expertise
necessary for the preparation and implementation of future operations.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.     Improvement of Water Reliability and Quality
1.   Carrying out of water treatment plant rehabilitation, including (i)
the repair of filters and/or replacement of filtering equipment, and (ii)
the installation of new chlorination and chemical treatment equipment.
Page  8
2.   Carrying out of aqueduct flow control improvement and reservoir
upgrading, including the installation of (i) flow control valves, and
(ii) flow meters.
3.   Carrying out of pumping station rehabilitation, including (i) the
purchase and installation of new high energy efficiency pumps, (ii) the
rehabilitation of existing pumps, (iii) the replacement of electrical
equipment, and (iv) the installation of control and metering equipment
for several pumping stations.
Part B.     Reduction of Water Losses
1.   Carrying out of primary network repair, including (i) the replace-
ment of deteriorated network sections, (ii) the survey, repair and/or
replacement of valves, and (iii) the reconstitution of a minimum stock
of spare parts.
2.   Carrying out of secondary network repair, including the replacement
of (i) deteriorated network sections, and (ii) house connections in
several city neighborhoods.
3.   Carrying out of a meter renewal program through the purchase,
installation and/or replacement of meters of different sizes, for
consumers including inter alia housing development authorities and
commercial enterprises.
Part C.     RGAB Institutional Strengthening
1.   Conducting a public awareness campaign on the reduction of losses
incurred by consumers, including the preparation and implementation of
(i) a media campaign (press, radio, television) to sensitize the con-
sumers on water conservation issues, and (ii) measures to provide
incentives to consumers to reduce excessive water consumption.
2.   Improvement of RGAB's commercial management system, including
technical assistance to pursue the reorganization efforts initiated
with technical assistance from other donors.
3.   Training and other technical assistance to RGAB to develop manage-
ment skills in the areas of (i) finance and accounting, (ii) human
resources, and (iii) technical operations.
4.   Implementation supervision, including consultants' services to
assist the PCU in the management of Project execution.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in Dollars)1
March 15, 2002                                 535,000
September 15, 2002                             550,000
March 15, 2003                                 570,000
September 15, 2003                             585,000
March 15, 2004                                 600,000
September 15, 2004                             620,000
March 15, 2005                                 635,000
September 15, 2005                             655,000
March 15, 2006                                 675,000
September 15, 2006                             690,000
March 15, 2007                                 710,000
September 15, 2007                             735,000
March 15, 2008                                 755,000
September 15, 2008                             775,000
March 15, 2009                                 795,000
September 15, 2009                             820,000
Page  9
March 15, 2010                                 845,000
September 15, 2010                             870,000
March 15, 2011                                 895,000
September 15, 2011                             920,000
March 15, 2012                                 945,000
September 15, 2012                             970,000
March 15, 2013                               1,000,000
September 15, 2013                           1,030,000
March 15, 2014                               1,060,000
September 15, 2014                           1,090,000
March 15, 2015                               1,120,000
September 15, 2015                           1,150,000
March 15, 2016                               1,185,000
September 15, 2016                           1,215,000
________________
1  The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
   repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
   Conditions.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
 1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (3) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
Page  10
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. There-
after, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  11
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
