Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4069 
Operation Name 
BI - Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (75%);General 
education sector (15%);Central government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P113438 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY, FINANCE, AND DEVELOPMENT 
COOPERATION 
Date PID Prepared 
August 5, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 13, 2008 
1. Background 
Burundi is in the midst of a food crisis: it is one of the hardest hit countries in sub-Saharan Africa by the 
recent increase in international food and fuel prices. The global rise in food prices is having a disastrous 
effect on the welfare of the population, especially the poorest. Faced with the combined impacts of the 
poor rainy season, the oil price shock, and the food crisis, the Burundian authorities have taken a number 
of measures aimed at, on the one hand, reducing the impact of fuel and food prices on the most 
vulnerable segments of the population, and on the other hand, stimulating domestic food supply in the 
medium term. The Government’s strategic response, contained in the revised 2008 budget, relies on a 
combination of actions ranging from fiscal measures designed to alleviate the fiscal burden on food and 
oil imports to mitigate the impact of higher food and oil prices on the poor by enhancing social safety 
nets (e.g., food security programs and school feeding programs), in the short term, to investments 
designed to boost domestic food production in the medium to longer term. The Government has asked 
the World Bank to provide further support to the revised budget and fill the residual financing needs. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The proposed grant is being undertaken under the Global Food Crisis Response (GFCR) Program, which 
was endorsed by the Board on May 29, 2008, and will be financed out of the Food Price Crisis Response 
Trust Fund.  The proposed Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant (DPG) of US$10 million 
supports the Government’s program to mitigate the impact of increased food prices on the poor, while 
maintaining fiscal stability. This in turn will help reduce the risk of worsened food insecurity, increased 
poverty, social unrest, and will help foster social and economic development. This Grant helps to 
finance the revised 2008 budget which includes a number of measures, notably: (i) suspension of custom 
duties and domestic transaction taxes on thirteen basic food items; (ii) sustaining and/or extending 
school feeding programs (including for girls) in primary schools of vulnerable provinces; and (iii) 
adding more resources to the budget for the emergency humanitarian relief to cope with a threat of 
famine in the country following the drought. Other components of the revised budget attempt to address 
the fuel price increases and limit increases in transport costs, to which the poor are particularly 
vulnerable.  
3.  Rationale for Proposed Development Policy Grant/ Bank Involvement 
The severity of the Burundi’s situation calls for a rapid response by the Bank. Without additional 
assistance, the food crisis may result in increased hardship on the population. The Government has been 
Page  2
quick in responding to the food crisis but it needs further financial support. The Government has revised 
the 2008 budget to address among other issues the impact of oil and food prices on the economy of 
Burundi.  Short term interventions in Burundi have included the temporary removal of all tariffs and 
taxes on basic food items and the reduction of the tariffs on diesel to further ease up transportation costs 
of food imports. These measures are reducing government revenue and increasing spending pressures. 
The Government has asked the World Bank to provide further support to the revised budget and fill the 
residual financing needs. 
4.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Economy, Finance and Development Cooperation will monitor the overall 
implementation of the Grant. It will ensure that the funds are used for their intended purpose in the 
context of the budget and Government’s response to the food crisis.  Concurrently, the Bank is providing 
support in this regard through a resident poverty economist (i.e., through PETS, CWIQ, and support of 
household surveys), as well as through spot checks, and parent associations feedback, performed during 
the supervision of the ongoing Bank’s education project (Burundi’s Education Sector Rehabilitation 
Support Project, PARSEB). Bank staff will also continue the policy dialogue in the field with the 
institutions involved in the implementation of the policies and programs, as well as to coordinate 
effectively with donors and agencies, especially those involved in the delivery of emergency assistance. 
5.  Benefits and Risks 
The provision of budget financing will enable the Government to maintain the gains in macroeconomic 
stability, sustain the critical reforms under the Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG) program, and 
undertake critical expenditures to respond to the food price shock.  The proposed food response grant 
financing will complement other support from bilateral and multilateral agencies for mitigating the risks 
to the overall Burundi’s program.  It will also support the Government’s medium-term reform agenda 
for putting in place a better safety net system that improves Burundi’s resilience and response to shocks. 
 
While important risks to this operation exist, the Bank will work closely with Government to ensure that 
necessary measures are put in place to mitigate the risk.
 
Burundi remains vulnerable to commodity price 
changes and droughts.  A further rise in the prices of food and energy could undermine the impact of the 
Government’s program for the poor and may require additional measures to sustain the fiscal balance 
and macroeconomic stability. There are also moderate institutional weaknesses which could result in 
delays in the implementation of the Government’s program. In addition, fiduciary risks are significant. 
These risks are currently being tackled by the Government, in collaboration with the Bank, mainly 
through technical assistance which addresses budget management, procurement and transparency issues. 
 
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
A
rapid assessment following the recent Bank - IMF mission confirms that the set of measures 
undertaken by the Government are the most feasible given the circumstances and will have fast and 
positive impact on Burundi's poor population. They will be adequately targeted to the poorest groups in 
Burundi based on the following considerations: (i) the suspension of the taxes on thirteen basic food 
prices is directly improving the situation of the poor; (ii) school feeding programs will help meet the 
caloric requirements of the poor and vulnerable households. 
The possibility of adverse environmental impacts is minimal. The specific policies support by this 
operation are targeted to the food crisis response by government, and are not likely to have significant 
effects on the environment, natural resources, and forests. In particular, the potentially most sensitive 
measure as regards the environment, the financing of diesel subsidies under the revised budget, is 
expected to be temporary. It therefore should not affect consumption patterns in the long run, with a 
potential small effect in the short term. 
Page  3
7. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Jean-Pascal N. Nganou 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: 202-458-8054 
Fax: 202-473-8466 
Email: jnganou@worldbank.org
 
