                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                          Report No: ICR00001379



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (TF-92552)




                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                                       FOR A

             FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT




                                   January 31, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Country Department AFCE1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 30, 2009)

                            Currency Unit = FBu
                           US$ 1.00 = 1240.0 FBu

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB       African Development Bank
BOP        Balance of Payment
BRB        Bank of the Republic of Burundi
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CSLP       Cadre Stratégique de Croissance et de Lutte contre la Pauvreté
           (Strategic Framework for Growth and Fight against Poverty)
CWIQ       Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
DPG        Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant
DPL        Development Policy Lending
DPOs       Development Policy Operations
EAC        East African Community
EERC       Emergency Economic Reform Credit
ERC        Economic Reform Credit
ERSG       Economic Reform Support Grant
ERSG II    Second Economic Reform Support Grant
ERSG III   Third Economic Reform Support Grant
EMSP       Economic Management Support Project
EU         European Union
GDP        Gross Domestic Production
GEF        Global Environmental Fund
GFRP       Global Food Crisis Response Program
GNI        Gross National Income
IDA        International Development Association
IMF        International Monetary Fund
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
NGOs       Non Governmental Organizations
PARSEB     Burundi's Education Sector Rehabilitation Support Project
PEMFAR     Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PFM        Public Financial Management
PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SFNP       School Feeding and Nutrition Program
TT    Transaction Tax
WFP   World Food Program


                  Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekewesili
               Country Director: John M. McIntire
               Country Manager: Mercy M. Tembon
                 Sector Director: Sudhir Shetty
                Sector Manager: Jan Walliser
              Task Team Leader: Jean-Pascal N. Nganou
            ICR Primary Author: Xavier De La Renaudiere
                                   BURUNDI
                      FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE TRUST FUND
               FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT


                                                            CONTENTS




     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................................ 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................................. 4
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................................ 8
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................................ 8
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................ 10
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............................ 11

Annex I. Analysis of the 2008 Budget (Original and Revised) ..................................................... 12
Annex II. Impact of Duty/Tax Exemption on Food Prices & Food Consumption ........................ 16
Annex III. The School Feeding Program....................................................................................... 19
Annex IV. Burundi MAP............................................................................................................... 24
A. Basic Information
                                                                          BI - Food Crisis
Country:                Burundi                 Program Name:             Response Development
                                                                          Policy Grant
Program ID:             P113438                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92552
ICR Date:               02/15/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BURUNDI
Original Total
                        USD 10.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 10.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 10.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 African Development Bank (AfDB)
 World Food Program (WFP)
 Government of the Netherlands
 Norway

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/25/2008     Effectiveness:
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:             08/13/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   07/31/2009       07/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory        Government:          Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural marketing and trade                                      34                   34
Other social services                                                 66                   66


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          John McIntire                        John McIntire
Sector Manager:            Jan Walliser                         Jan Walliser
Program Team Leader:       Jean-Pascal Nganou                   Jean-Pascal Nganou
ICR Team Leader:           Jean-Pascal Nganou
ICR Primary Author:        Xavier F. De La Renaudiere


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the grant is to help the Government of Burundi in reducing hunger,
preventing an increase in poverty and social unrest, and ensuring the fiscal stability
needed to foster medium-term social and economic development. The supported policy
measures include suspension of custom duties and taxes on basic food items and
expansion of food aid, social assistance and related programs.




                                                ii
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval         Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)        Values         Target Years
                   Import and transaction taxes on bean, banana, cassava flour, cassava roots,
Indicator 1 :      fish, fresh meat, fruits and vegetables, maize, maize flour, onion, peanuts,
                   potato, and sweet potato.
                                              Until May 31,
                                              2009, these
                                              products were still
                                              exempted (i.e.
                                              0%). But as of
Value
                                              July1, 2009, in the
(quantitative or   17 percent
                                              context of the
Qualitative)
                                              instauration of the
                                              VAT, the above-
                                              mentioned food
                                              imports are no
                                              more tax exempt.
Date achieved      12/31/2007                 08/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Actual allocation of the spending amount as indicated in the revised 2008
Indicator 2 :
                   budget to school feeding program extension is US$3 million.
                   Prior to the Food Crisis
                                            US$3 million. The
                   Response DPG, there
Value                                       2009 budget
                   was no allocation in the
(quantitative or                            allocated about $5
                   national budget aimed
Qualitative)                                million to this
                   at the School Feeding
                                            program.
                   Program. US$0.
Date achieved      07/31/2008               07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Number of additional schools in which feeding is being implemented.
                   Prior to Food Crisis
                   Response DPG, the
Value
                   WFP school meal
(quantitative or                          60
                   program was
Qualitative)
                   implemented in 269
                   primary schools.


                                                iii
Date achieved      07/31/2008              07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Number of additional hot meals distributed in schools.
                   Prior to Food Crisis
Value              Response DPG,
(quantitative or   238,873 children were 120,000
Qualitative)       covered by the WFP
                   school meal program.
Date achieved      07/31/2008             07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
                   A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on October 4, 2008 between the
Indicator 1 :      Ministry of Education and WFP for the implementation of the School Feeding
                   Program. An amendment was signed on July 9, 2009.
Value
                                           MOU is fully
(quantitative or   No MOU
                                           implemented
Qualitative)
Date achieved      07/31/2008              07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1      05/15/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            10.00
  2      07/30/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            10.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/
sector background, rationale for Bank assistance).

Background.

In 2008, when the Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant (DPG) was prepared
and approved, Burundi not only was a very poor post-conflict country recovering from
twelve years of civil war, but also was viewed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
and the donor community as one of the African countries hardest hit by the sharp increase
in international food and fuel prices that started during the summer of 2007. As a
landlocked country and a net importer of food, Burundi was strongly affected by the
rising cost of food imports and higher transportation costs (caused by higher fuel prices),
which in turn exacerbated the food price crisis. Between July 2007 and July 2008, food
prices increased by 39 percent while the consumer price index rose by 27 percent.

The country used to be food self-sufficient in the early 1990s, but food production
stagnated for about fifteen years. As a result, the country's agricultural system is now
unable to meet the needs of a population whose annual growth rate approaches 3 percent.
Even in more favorable circumstances, when weather conditions are good and food and
fuel prices are lower, about 82 percent of the country's inhabitants live on a highly
inadequate diet and 45 percent of children under 5 suffer from malnutrition.

In this context, the government and the international community recognized that the food
crisis could have a devastating impact on living conditions in the poorest regions of the
country, and might also trigger renewed political unrest. A group of multilateral and
bilateral donors (the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the World Bank, Belgium,
the Netherlands and Norway) agreed on the need for prompt action to provide emergency
relief to the country's poorest regions and to the most vulnerable groups.

The overall program envisaged by the government and the donor community included: (i)
the suspension of duties and taxes on thirteen basic food products; (ii) reduced tariffs on
imports of diesel fuel (to reduce transportation costs), partly offset by increased taxes on
gasoline; (iii) a variety of primary and secondary school feeding programs; (iv)
assistance to returning refugees and displaced persons; and (v) a series of measures aimed
at increasing food production in food-insecure areas, including distribution of agricultural
inputs and rehabilitation of irrigation systems in the Imbo plain. The government
program was also expected to finance the additional cost of food and fuel consumption by
government institutions, including defense and police.

The total cost of the proposed measures in the revised 2008 budget was estimated at
$54.9 million to be financed by the government ($15 million) and foreign grants ($39.4
million), including $2.4 million from the African Development Bank; $10 million from
the World Bank; and $27 million from other donors. AfDB and bilateral donors were
expected to finance the diesel subsidy, agricultural inputs, rehabilitation of irrigation



                                             1
systems and the increased cost of food and fuel to the budget (for secondary boarding
schools, university, prisons and security forces).

Eager to respond quickly to an emergency situation, in full cooperation with other
donors, the World Bank took only a few weeks to prepare a stand-alone DPG which was
approved by the Regional Vice President eight days following approval by the Board of a
larger development policy operation (the Second Economic Reform Support Grant,
ERSG II).

The new DPG would help the government implement its overall macroeconomic and
public finance management program supported by ERSG II. It was expected to fill the
residual budget gap in the program envisaged by the government in response to the food
crisis (discussed with major development stakeholders), and to support a variety of
revenue and spending measures, including: (i) the budget cost of suspending duties and
taxes on thirteen basic food items; (ii) the extension of primary school feeding programs
in vulnerable provinces; and (iii) additional humanitarian assistance. The World Bank
grant would be disbursed in a single tranche as soon as the Council of Ministers had
adopted and submitted to the Parliament a revised 2008 budget including appropriations
to finance these measures.

Rationale for Bank assistance.

Three main considerations justified the grant:

   ·   First, the country was particularly vulnerable to the ongoing food crisis and
       therefore was a good candidate for assistance under the recently created Global
       Food Crisis Response Program approved by the Board on May 19, 2008.
   ·   Second, financing the food crisis response program in cooperation with other
       multilateral and bilateral donors was a good opportunity for the Bank to provide
       special assistance to the poorest regions of the country and to some of the most
       vulnerable groups, in line with the objectives of the first PRSP.
   ·   The third and perhaps most important justification for the grant was to maintain
       recent gains in macroeconomic stability and to sustain critical macroeconomic
       and PFM reforms launched by the government in cooperation with the World
       Bank and other donors.

Since the early 2000s, the government has embarked on a series of reform programs
supported by three previous World Bank-financed development policy operations and the
second Economic Reform Support Grant under preparation when the food crisis started
(see box below). The government, the World Bank and all major donors operating in
Burundi felt that the successful completion of these reforms was essential to improve the
long-term economic performance of the country. There was indeed a risk that the duty/tax
exemption measures, the higher cost of food and fuel, and the cost of specific public
expenditures aimed at minimizing the social impact of the food crisis would increase the
budget deficit to the point that it might derail the reform process. All the institutions




                                            2
concerned concurred that special efforts should be made to protect ongoing reforms
against the possible budget and social repercussions of the food crisis.




                                           3
                   Objectives and performance of three earlier DPOs
          Objectives of the second Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG II)
Before approving the Food Crisis Response DPG, the World Bank had already financed three other
development policy operations: EERC in 2000, ERC in 2002, and ERSG I in 2006. The main objectives
of these programs were to improve public finance management, create a better business environment and
restructure the coffee sector. The same objectives were at the center of the second Economic Reform
Support Grant (ERSG II) approved by the Board in August 2008.

The performance of EERC, ERC and ERSG 1 was rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory.
    · The most successful component of the three programs was the public finance management
        reform that improved budget planning and execution procedures, increased the share of priority
        economic and social development sectors in voted budgets and actual public spending,
        simplified ex ante controls, strengthened audit institutions, and introduced a computerized
        financial management information system. Progress in all these areas was expected to continue
        in the context of ERSG II and other follow up operations (ERSG II was viewed as the first of a
        programmatic series of two grants supporting the same policy objectives: ERSG II and III).
    · Implementation of the two other components of the government program ­ private sector
        development and reform of the coffee sector ­ was less successful. In 2008, however, significant
        progress was anticipated, as the government had launched a major study of the coffee sector
        aimed at identifying alternative options for the disengagement of the State. The study was
        expected to be completed before the end of 2008 and the World Bank hoped that the government
        would use the conclusions and recommendations of the study to select and implement the most
        appropriate approach. In December 2008, the government did approve one of the options
        proposed by the study and began, in 2009, to implement a partial privatization of coffee
        processing facilities. That decision is one of the factors that justified approval by the Board in
        October 2009 of ERSG III, the second grant of the series that started with ERSG II.

1.2. Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Undertaken under the Global Food Crisis Response (GFCR) Program, the Food Crisis
Response Grant (DPG) was expected to be financed out of the Food Price Crisis
Response Trust Fund. The objectives of the GFCR and the Trust Fund were to: (i) reduce
the negative impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of the poor; (ii) support
governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of
high and volatile food prices on poverty, while minimizing the creation of long-term
market distortions; and (iii) support broad-based growth in productivity and market
participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply response.

The specific objectives of the DPG Program ­ in line with those of the GFCR ­ were to
assist the Government of Burundi in mitigating the impact of increased food prices on the
poor and to maintain fiscal stability, thus reducing the risk of food insecurity, increased
poverty and social unrest, and helping to foster social and economic development. The
supported policy measures included: (i) suspension of custom duties and taxes on basic
food items; (ii) sustaining/extending school feeding programs (including for girls) in
primary schools in vulnerable provinces; and (iii) expanding emergency humanitarian
relief.

The Actions Matrix in the Program Document selected four key indicators:




                                                    4
   ·   Suspension of import and transaction taxes on beans, bananas, cassava flour,
       cassava roots, fish, fresh meat, fruits and vegetables, maize, maize flour, onions,
       peanuts, potatoes and sweet potatoes;
    · Actual spending of the budget allocation to the school feeding program;
    · Number of additional schools in which school feeding is actually implemented;
       and
    · Number of additional hot meals distributed in schools.
1.3. Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/ Justification

PDOs and indicators remained unchanged during program implementation.

1.4. Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The main policy areas supported by the DPG program were: (i) poverty alleviation; (ii)
improved nutrition; and (iii) improved primary education, with a gender bias:

   ·   Poverty alleviation. The program aimed at protecting the purchasing power of the
       poor by suspending the collection of duties and taxes on thirteen basic food
       products that accounted for about 80 percent of total food expenditures and 55
       percent of total consumption of (poor) rural households.
   ·   Improved nutrition. The program aimed at improving nutrition of primary school
       children, particularly in food insecure areas that in the past had not benefited from
       school feeding activities financed by the World Food Program (WFP).
   ·   Primary education/gender bias. The school feeding program was expected to
       encourage parents to send their children to primary schools; and to improve the
       learning capacity of these children. Girls were expected to be among the main
       beneficiaries of increased primary school enrollments and reduced dropout rates.

In addition, the DPG supported ongoing macroeconomic and public finance management
reforms potentially threatened by growing public finance deficits caused by new
measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the food crisis.

1.5. Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

No change.

1.6. Other significant changes

No change.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Program Performance




                                             5
Meeting disbursement conditions. Disbursement of the grant depended on approval by
the Council of Ministers and submission to the Parliament of a revised 2008 budget
including three measures identified in the Schedule to the Grant Agreement: (i) duty/tax
exemption of basic food items; (ii) school feeding programs in vulnerable provinces; and
(iii) activities aimed at addressing the risk of famine in drought affected areas. In line
with the guidelines of Bank development policy operations, the new DPG was not
financing these three specific activities. It was just providing additional budget support to
help the government implement a wide variety of revenue and spending measures aimed
at mitigating the impact of the food crisis. The duty/tax exemption, the school feeding
program and the additional humanitarian assistance were examples of policy measures
envisaged by the government in this context.

The revised 2008 budget was approved by the government on July 15, 2008 and
submitted to the Parliament. It did include the three measures listed in the Schedule. The
duty/tax exemption (already implemented) was creating a revenue shortfall estimated at
FBu 13.3 billion (about 1 percent of GDP); and the additional cost of humanitarian
assistance was estimated at FBu 3.4 billion. The revised budget allocated FBu 3 billion to
a new WFP-sponsored primary school feeding program (on top of other ongoing WFP-
financed school feeding activities). This allocation was lower by close to US$600,000
than the US$3 million mentioned in the Letter of Development Policy and the Policy
Actions Matrix (Annex 7 of the Program Document). The government attributes the
reduction of its contribution to frequent changes in exchange rates. During preparation of
the original and the revised 2008 budget, the authorities based all their estimates on an
exchange rate of US$1 = FBu 1000 (in effect, the value of the US$ was US$1 = FBu
1087 when the crisis started in 2007 and when the first 2008 budget was prepared, but the
FBu depreciated to close to US$1 = FBu 1160 when the revised budget was approved in
July 2008 and when the government transferred FBu 3 billion to WFP).

The reduction of the dollar value of the government contribution was not seen by the
World Bank as a failure to comply with one of the disbursement conditions of the grant,
since the DPG helped support the overall government program, but was not expected to
finance specific goods and services and did not provide for earmarking of its proceeds to
specific expenditures. Consequently, the single-tranched grant was declared effective on
August 19, 2008. Nevertheless, protracted discussions between the government and WFP
on the level of the government contribution to the school feeding program are one of the
factors that delayed implementation of the school feeding program.

                     Food Crisis Response DPG ­ Tranche Releases
       Tranche                Amount              Expected Release Date        Release
      Tranche 1             US$ 10 million             8.29.2008              8.21.2008




Implementation performance. As a stand-alone development policy operation, the DPG
did not include triggers for future Bank-financed policy lending but the Actions Matrix in
Annex 7 of the Program Document listed four performance indicators directly related to
two program components: the taxation of food products and the school feeding program.


                                              6
As shown in the table below, these two components were implemented, but the school
feeding program started much later than expected and the number of school children
involved was lower than initially envisaged.




                                          7
                                             Indicators of progress
List of indicators from Matrix of                                       Status
 Actions in Program Document
Import and transaction taxes on      Duty/tax exemption of thirteen food items listed in the left column ­ a
thirteen food items (beans,          measure initiated by the government at the beginning of the food crisis ­
bananas, cassava flour, cassava      continued to be implemented until July 2009 when an 18 percent value
roots, fish, fresh meat, fruits &    added tax was introduced and Burundi began to apply the common
vegetables, maize, maize flour,      external tariff of the East African Community.
onions, peanuts, potatoes and
sweet potatoes) kept at zero until
end of December 2008.
Actual spending of the allocation    Although the revised 2008 budget allocated only FBu 3 billion (i.e. $2.4
to the school feeding program        million) to the school feeding program, an MOU signed on October 4,
indicated in the revised 2008        2008 by the government and the World Food Program envisaged the
budget ($3 million).                 transfer of $3 million to WFP. The government, however, could only
                                     transfer (in November 2008) the $2.4 million included in the budget. This
                                     misunderstanding about the government contribution is one of the factors
                                     that delayed the launching of the program until March 2009.

                                     The 2009 budget allocates FBu 6 billion to a follow-up school feeding
                                     program. This allocation includes FBu 698 million corresponding to the
                                     $600,000 missing in the 2008 budget and a new FBu 5,302 million
                                     contribution. A total of FBu 6 billion was effectively transferred to WFP in
                                     September and November 2009 and implementation of the new program
                                     started in October 2009.
School feeding program               The volume of food purchased by WFP (2786 tons) was significantly
implemented in sixty additional      higher than envisaged in the MOU of October 4, 2008 (2251 tons), and the
schools and to benefit 120,000       number of schools served (106) was also significantly higher than the
school children.                     number envisaged in Annex 7 of the Program Document (60). However,
                                     the number of children who received hot meals (88,164) was 27 percent
                                     lower than foreseen in both Annex 7 and the MOU (120,000). According to
                                     the Ministry of Education, this is due to: (i) unrealistic estimates of actual
                                     school enrollments by school principals and local inspectors; and (ii) a
                                     school selection process that gave priority to small rural schools with
                                     particularly low school enrollment rates

                                     The food surplus was stored in WFP storage facilities and is being
                                     distributed in the context of the ongoing 2009 school feeding program.

  The humanitarian assistance component ­ for which no specific indicator was mentioned
  in the Actions Matrix ­ was implemented as planned. Special assistance was provided to
  95,997 beneficiaries (returning refugees, displaced people and other vulnerable groups) in
  the form of cash (FBu 50,000 each), food, blankets, pagnes and hoes.

  In addition, the government continued to implement its macroeconomic and PFM reform
  program (a major objective of the DPG grant), reached the HIPC completion point and
  initiated the reform of the coffee sector. A new development policy operation (ERSG III)
  was approved in October 2009.

  2.2. Major Factors Affecting Implementation

  a) Macroeconomic program ­ PFM reform ­ Duty and tax exemption of basic food
  products. Having been involved in the execution of a number of World Bank/IMF-


                                                        1
supported public finance and development policy operations, the Ministry of Finance and
other government institutions were able to implement ­ slowly but rather effectively ­ an
increasingly comprehensive program of macroeconomic and PFM reforms. The
combination of revenue measures and additional budget support helped the government
finance the cost of the duty/tax exemption of basic food products and increased spending
on a variety of activities aimed at mitigating the impact of the food crisis. Government
revenue (excluding grants) remained at the fairly high level of 18 percent of GDP in 2008
and 2009 and current expenditures were stabilized around 25 percent of GDP. Special
programs and capital expenditures (mostly externally-financed) increased from 14
percent of GDP in 2007 to 18 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2009, but foreign grants
increased massively from 21 percent of GDP in 2007 to 25 percent in 2008 and 90
percent in 2009, mainly in the form of debt relief as the country was able to reach the
completion point of the HIPC initiative in January 2009. In the context of the program
supported by ERSG II, the government continued to improve its public finance
management procedures and practices, increased the share of priority economic and
social sectors in total public expenditures (planned and actual) and defined a new PFM
strategy in line with the recommendations of the 2008 PEMFAR report jointly prepared
by the World Bank and the government. For several years, political considerations and
the lack of institutional capacity in the sector had blocked the progress of the coffee
sector reform. Following a sound assessment of the situation and prospects of the coffee
filière prepared by international consultants in the context of a Bank-financed Economic
Management Support Project (EMSP), the government recognized that the sector had to
be restructured. A partial privatization of coffee processing facilities was decided in
December 2008 and initiated in 2009. The duty/tax exemption of basic food products was
easy to implement as the government accorded a high priority to the measure and donor
financing was available.

b) The school feeding program (see Annex III). Poor coordination of financing decisions
made by the Ministry of Finance and implementation measures taken by the Ministry of
Education was the main factor that affected the performance of this component. It is
difficult to understand why having signed a Letter of Development Policy that estimated
the government contribution to the school feeding program at US$3 million, and then
negotiated with WFP an MOU that also envisaged a US$3 million contribution, the
government would ultimately allocate less in the revised budget.

Another factor was the slow response of all the institutions concerned to the funding
problem caused by the lower budget allocation. In this context, one could question the
decision made by the World Food Program to purchase 535 tons more than initially
envisaged when it knew that the size of the program was likely to be reduced following
the reduction in the government's contribution. The cost of the 535 additional tons would
have financed the gap caused by the lower government contribution thus avoiding long
delays in implementing the program.

For WFP, managing a program funded by the government and implemented by
government agencies was a new experience. In the past WFP was the sole financier of
school feeding programs in Burundi, did not require any government contribution and
delegated implementation to NGOs. Direct implementation by the Ministry of Education,


                                            2
local officials and school managers required special efforts to brief and train Burundian
staff. This took time but reduced substantially unit costs. At the beginning of the
program, cooperation between WFP and government institutions was not at its best. It
improved considerably as the two parties learned to understand their respective
institutional objectives and constraints, intensified their dialogue and organized two joint
supervision missions.

Another cause of delays was the time required to select schools, inform communities,
develop the required infrastructure and train participants. School selection was based on
proposals made by the provincial directorates of the Ministry of Education (186
comparatively small schools with low school enrollment rates located in food-insecure
areas). However, close to 50 percent of the pre-selected schools had to be eliminated
because they did not have all the required infrastructure facilities (water supply, storage,
and latrines). Although parents were able to build some of these facilities, the number of
schools finally selected for the program was reduced to 106.

The school feeding program started in March 2009, when food prices were still
exceptionally high, though slightly below the peak of December 2008. A positive
development was the strong interest of families, local authorities and the central
government, which ­ based on what it considered a successful experience ­ decided to
include in the 2009 budget an allocation of FBu 6 billion for a follow-up operation.

A number of other factors also affected the efficiency of program delivery and
monitoring.

   ·   Comités de Gestion have been created in all the schools involved in the school
       feeding program. These comités include representatives of parents, students and
       school management. Although creating these comités and organizing their work
       was not always an easy task, they played a significant role not only in the
       management of the school feeding programs but also in other aspects of school
       management, including permanent consultations between parents, teachers and
       school principals on educational objectives and school performance.
   ·   At the very beginning of program implementation, the government created a
       central Steering and Monitoring Committee (Comité de pilotage et de suivi)
       within the Ministry of Education. The committee also included representatives of
       the provincial education directorates. It played a useful role in terms of
       participation in the planning of the program (notably the selection of schools), but
       was less involved in monitoring implementation. Members of the committee
       argue that they had no budget and means of transportation to visit schools and
       review the performance of the program.

c) Humanitarian assistance. . Helping returning refugees ­ whose number is increasing
­ has always been a priority for the government. Special assistance (in cash and in kind)
was provided to refugees and other vulnerable groups. The government estimates that the
number of beneficiaries was close to 96,000.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


                                              3
As described in paragraph 52 of the Program Document, program monitoring was
expected to be performed: (i) by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (overall
monitoring of the program); and (ii) through WFP reports and monthly reports from
school district authorities (monitoring of the school feeding program).

The Ministry of Finance focused its attention on major macroeconomic, taxation and
other public finance management issues and delegated to sector ministries
implementation and monitoring of specific emergency relief programs (school feeding
and humanitarian assistance).

With respect to the school feeding program, most of the monitoring was performed by
WFP moniteurs and by a central Steering/Monitoring Committee created on September
17, 2008 within the Ministry of Education. The Steering/Monitoring Committee
discussed with WFP important implementation issues (school selection and program
planning) but did not have the resources necessary for systematic monitoring of program
performance. However, two joint WFP/ Ministry of Education missions reviewed
progress made and provided a fair evaluation of results obtained.

The humanitarian assistance component of the overall government program was
supervised by a Steering/Monitoring Committee created within the Ministry of Solidarity.

2.4 Expected next phase/Follow up Operation (if any)

The grant was a stand-alone operation aimed at responding to an emergency crisis. No
follow-up operation was envisaged when the program was prepared and appraised.
However, as mentioned earlier, the government, encouraged by the positive results of the
school feeding program, decided to include in the 2009 budget a contribution of FBu 6
billion to a new government-funded/WFP-sponsored program, which was started in
October 2009. The government had a similar response to the need for humanitarian
assistance: additional funds were allocated to that type of assistance in the 2009 budget.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the DPG operation were consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (approved by the Board in August 2008), which gave a high priority to policy-
based budget support operations, broad-based economic growth and improved access to
basic social services. The DPG was a small operation with a wide variety of objectives.
By providing budget support in times of crisis, it supported the overall macroeconomic
and public finance management objectives of ERSG I and II. It aimed at improving
nutrition and living conditions in poor, food-insecure (rural) areas, as well as improving
access to primary education, particularly for girls, and enhancing the efficiency of the
primary education system by reducing dropout rates.

The DPG was essentially an emergency relief operation designed to mitigate the impact
of sharp increases in international and local food prices. As an emergency relief program,
the DPG had to be prepared rapidly (in one month) and was not based on a detailed


                                             4
appraisal of individual program components envisaged by the government to cope with
the ongoing food crisis. However, the selection of most of the components seemed to be
appropriate.

   ·   Curbing the growth of rising international prices through tax reduction probably
       was the most effective way to achieve the program's objectives.
   ·   Extending to other food-insecure areas a successful WFP-funded school feeding
       program seemed to make sense. However, the design of that component should
       have clarified the respective obligations of the government and the World Food
       Program in terms of financial contribution and actual implementation.
   ·   Humanitarian assistance to a growing number of returning refugees and other
       vulnerable groups was essential to facilitate the reinsertion of refugees and
       displaced citizens and restore peace and security.

3.2. Achievement of Program Objectives

Although no specific data are available to support an evaluation of the overall impact of
the duty and tax exemption component of the program, there is no doubt that a 32 percent
reduction in the total cost of thirteen basic food items must have had a substantial
positive impact on living conditions and food consumption in the poorest rural areas of
the country. Moreover, the analysis provided in Annex II ­ based on the results of a 2006
household survey (Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire) ­ shows that the specific food
products selected for duty and tax exemption: (i) were mostly consumed by rural poor;
(ii) accounted for about 80 percent of their food consumption; and (iii) accounted for 55
percent of total consumption of these rural poor. Local food prices continued to increase
until the end of 2008, but would probably have reached a much higher level without the
exemption.

Although the monitoring of the school feeding program did not include a statistical
analysis of school enrollments and student performance, WFP reports (see Annex III) that
the program had a positive impact on school attendance: a number of children (notably
girls) who had dropped out of school returned to school when the school feeding program
began its operations (the Ministry of Education is currently assembling statistical data
showing school attendance before and after the beginning of the program). Parents and
teachers also claim that the program had a most positive impact not only on school
enrollments but on the health and learning capacity of the children. As already mentioned
in this report, this encouraged the government to continue the operation and double its
budget allocation to WFP-sponsored school feeding programs in 2009.

Both the government and the donor community consider that the provision of additional
humanitarian assistance was essential to help address a major social and political
problem, including the gradual reinsertion of a growing number of returning refugees.

Combined with the larger budget support element of ERSG II (US$30 million), the
US$10 million Food Crisis Response DPG provided additional fiscal space and
encouraged the government to continue ongoing efforts to improve its macroeconomic
performance and to reform its public finance management procedures and practices. As


                                            5
mentioned earlier, the share of priority economic and social sectors in actual public
spending continued to increase, a new public finance management strategy was adopted
and a major breakthrough was the decision of the government to initiate state divestiture
in the coffee sector.

3.3. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

As shown in section 3.2 and in the following paragraphs, the DPG generally achieved its
objective of supporting the government's efforts to restructure its 2008 budget in order to
mitigate the impact of rising food prices on the poor, while maintaining fiscal stability.
The performance of the school feeding program was more problematic but showed that it
was possible to reduce unit costs by delegating implementation to local authorities, and
motivated the government to pursue the experience and to allocate more resources to the
activity.


Main program components:

Component 1: Mitigating the impact of rising food prices on the poor, while maintaining
fiscal stability and encouraging the government to pursue vigorously ongoing
macroeconomic, PFM and sector reforms: Satisfactory

The duty and tax exemption component was fully implemented and probably achieved its
objective. Reducing by close to one third the cost of food imports probably was the best
way to moderate the rapid increase in the local prices of thirteen basic food products. The
selection of these products was appropriate as it corresponded to goods mostly consumed
by the rural poor (see the more detailed analysis of Annex II, based on available
household data).

The combination of measures taken by the government to improve revenue collection and
reduce lower priority public spending with additional budget support from the World
Bank and other donors helped the country meet its obligations in the context of the
ongoing IMF/PRGF program (see the conclusions of the second review approved in July
2009), while pursuing implementation of the macroeconomic and PFM reforms
supported by three successive ERSGs. Burundi reached the completion point under the
HIPC initiative.

Component 2: Provide hot meals to children attending primary schools in some of the
poorest and most food-insecure provinces: Moderately satisfactory

Viewed in the context of an emergency relief program, the school feeding program
missed its initial objective of providing nutritious hot meals to poor children in food-
insecure provinces when the food crisis reached its peak, i.e. by the end of 2008. Because
of misunderstandings about the size of the program (FBu 3 billion vs. US$3 million) and
other factors, implementation of the program started in March 2009 when local food



                                             6
prices had begun to decline (but remained very high). It should be noted, however, that
the program demonstrated to the government and the public that effective school feeding
programs in the poorest regions of Burundi could be executed by local officials (not
NGOs) and could fight child malnutrition and improve the efficiency of primary school
systems by increasing school enrollments, reducing dropout rates and, in particular,
promoting girls education.

Component 3: Humanitarian assistance to cope with the threat of famine: Satisfactory.

It is difficult to evaluate the impact of assistance in cash and in kind provided to returning
refugees and other vulnerable groups. The government and the donor community believe
that this assistance was critical and was performed adequately.

3.4. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Although the overall impact of the DPG was probably modest, most of the beneficiaries
were poor people living in underprivileged rural areas and young children in some of the
most food-insecure provinces of the North. The program also had a significant gender
impact as the provision of hot meals in primary schools encouraged parents to send back
their children to school: according to WFP moniteurs, the school feeding program had a
significant impact on the number of girls attending schools.

The school feeding program also helped improve the efficiency of the primary education
system by reducing dropout rates in the schools receiving hot meals, and ­ it is hoped ­
by improving the learning capacity of undernourished children.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The program was managed by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with WFP and the
Ministry of Education for the school feeding program, and the Ministry of National
Solidarity for assistance to vulnerable groups A major achievement of the DPG program
is the fact that the school feeding program was fully implemented by government
agencies and did not involve NGOs as in the context of previous WFP-funded programs.
WFP recognizes that the operating cost of the government-managed school feeding
program was much lower than that of a program run by an international NGO.

The main institutional issues the program had to face were: (i) poor coordination of
initiatives taken by the Ministries of Finance and Education with respect to the school
feeding program; and (ii) inadequate involvement of the Steering/Monitoring Committee
in the monitoring of the program. The most positive change in the institutional set up was
the creation of comités de gestion, and the development of their role not only in the
planning of the school feeding program but also in other aspects of school management,
thanks to the dedication of parents, who strongly supported the school feeding program
and contributed to the provision of infrastructure facilities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


                                              7
No other significant outcome.

3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop has been organized to discuss the impact
of DPG.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

Each specific program component was vulnerable to specific risks. The impact of the
duty and tax exemption component could be offset by continued increases in international
and local food prices as was the case until December 2008. The efficiency of the school
feeding program depended on a rapid response of the government and WFP, which was
difficult to organize, and will continue to depend on additional budget allocations and
sound management of the program.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The DPG was a sensible program which ­ together with the contribution of other donors
­ would: (i) help the Ministry of Finance manage a difficult public finance situation
caused by sharp increases in food and fuel prices during most of 2008; and (ii) encourage
the government to take measures aimed at protecting the poor and other vulnerable
groups against the impact of rising food prices. Macroeconomic stability, improved
public finance management and poverty reduction were among the main objectives of the
first PRSP and the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.

The selection of specific components supported by the DPG (duty/tax exemption and
school feeding program) was sound. The analysis provided in Annex II shows that the
overall program and its components were well designed to support the poverty reduction
objectives of the PRSP.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

As described in paragraph 52 of the Program Document, the World Bank was expected to
assist government agencies: (i) through the sustained analytical support provided by a
resident poverty economist funded under the Belgian Poverty Reduction Program; and
(ii) through spot checks and parents associations feedback during supervision of the


                                            8
World Bank-financed education project. The World Bank would also continue the
ongoing policy dialogue and coordinate with other donors, especially those involved in
the delivery of emergency assistance.

The World Bank helped the Ministry of Finance monitor implementation of
macroeconomic and PFM reforms in the context of the supervision of ERSG II and the
preparation of ERSG III. The resident poverty economist played a significant role in
helping the government supervise the school feeding program. The World Bank,
however, was not very successful at persuading WFP and the government to react more
rapidly and find a practical solution to the funding problem caused by the reduction of the
government contribution to the school feeding program.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The program was basically sound and in line with the World Bank's strategic objectives
for Burundi. More intensive supervision might have helped accelerate implementation of
the school feeding program.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The government responded rapidly and effectively ­ before the donor community ­ to the
food crisis. The duty/tax exemption was decided before approval of the DPG and other
donor-financed budget support operations. It remained in place beyond the deadline set
up in the program document. Most of the other program and program-related components
were eventually implemented, although with delays. The school feeding program started
late for reasons already mentioned in this report. However, the experience showed that
local government agencies had the capacity to replace NGOs and to provide the same
services at a significantly lower cost. Humanitarian assistance was provided to returning
refugees and other vulnerable groups.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Ministry of Finance put together a revised 2008 budget that was consistent with the
objectives of the DPG and ERSG II programs but the Ministry was also unable to adopt a
coherent approach to the financing of the school feeding program in the Letter of
Development Policy, in the revised 2008 budget and in the October MOU. The planning
and coordination of the school feeding program by Finance and Education was
inadequate.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


                                            9
Rating: Satisfactory

The government should be credited for a positive attitude in terms of rapid response to
the crisis caused by rising food and fuel prices. It made appropriate efforts to adjust
budget revenue and expenditures to achieve its two main objectives of: (i) sound public
finance management; and (ii) protecting the poor. Inadequate attention to details and poor
coordination of activities initiated by different ministries reduced the effectiveness of the
school feeding program. However, as mentioned earlier, local government agencies
demonstrated their capacity to implement at a lower cost activities previously performed
by NGOs. Funds allocated to humanitarian assistance were mainly used to facilitate the
reinsertion of returning refugees.

6. Lessons Learned

Three main lessons can be derived from the experience of the Food crisis response DPG.

The first lesson concerns the role of budget support in emergency assistance programs. In
this case, budget support was particularly successful. It should probably occupy a major
place in that type of emergency assistance program, notably when the two following
conditions are met: (i) the government did not wait for donor assistance to design and
begin to implement activities aimed at mitigating the impact of the crisis (for instance,
the duty/tax exemption component was in place months before approval of the DPG;
consequently, one of the objectives of the DPG was to help the government finance and
implement that particular measure); and (ii) the emergency assistance operation is not an
isolated development policy operation; it is integrated into larger budget support
activities supporting a comprehensive policy reform package (in this case the ERSG II
and III program) adequately prepared and supervised by the government and the World
Bank.

The second lesson concerns the involvement of third parties in the implementation of
agreed programs. In this particular case, it made sense to involve the World Food
Program, which has a long experience of emergency relief. WFP, however, did not
discuss with the World Bank and the government the implications of new implementation
mechanisms (by government agencies instead of NGOs as in previous WFP-financed
school feeding activities in Burundi). The respective obligations of the government and
WFP should have been more clearly defined in a tripartite document also involving the
World Bank. The negotiation of these documents might have delayed the initial response
to the emergency situation but would probably have facilitated the eventual solution of
other funding and implementation problems and ­ perhaps more importantly ­ would
have created opportunities for long-term collaboration.

The third lesson complements the second. The respective obligations of the government
and the WFP should have been more clearly defined. Ideally, an MOU specifying what
should be done might have provided the legal framework and the incentive for a more
expeditious treatment of school feeding activities and quick adoption of practical




                                             10
measures to handle unforeseen operational problems (in this case the financing gap
caused by the lower government contribution).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

The main findings and recommendations of the ICR were discussed with the government
and with World Food Program officials in the field. The Bank team also solicited written
feedback from the authorities on the DPG program and the ICR. However, no written
feedback was received.



(a) Borrower and implementing agencies

The government considers that the DPG program was a sound program, which however
was approved and disbursed during the second half of 2008, not when liquidity problems
caused by the crisis were at their peak.

The Ministry of Education emphasizes the fact that, in contrast with previous WFP-
funded school feeding projects, the DPG-financed school feeding program was
implemented by the government through the Provincial Education Departments and not
by international NGOs. This reduced considerably the administrative and management
costs of the program.

The Ministry of Education recognizes that initial estimates of future beneficiaries of the
school feeding program (120,000 children from 60 primary schools) were unrealistic. A
major factor was the fact that the school selection process gave priority to small rural
primary schools where school enrollment rates were particularly low. As a result the
average population of selected schools was not 2,000 children, as implicitly envisaged in
the program document, but about 830.

The Ministry of National Solidarity believes that humanitarian relief and special
assistance to returning refugees played a major role in helping restore peace and security.

(b) External Partners (WFP)

The World Food Program recognizes that the initiation of a school feeding program
managed by the government was an experiment that turned out to be successful as it
persuaded government officials to extend the program with a much larger budget
contribution. A major positive aspect of the program is the fact that it was implemented
by government agencies and not by NGOs as previous WFP-funded programs. The
introduction of a new management mechanism is partly responsible for implementation
delays but it proved to be far more economical.




                                            11
                           Annex I. Analysis of the 2008 Budget (Original and Revised)

     Impact on revenue and expenditures of measures taken to mitigate the impact of the food
                                            crisis

          A. Lost Revenue

    The principal measure included in the 2008 budget to mitigate the impact of rising food
    prices was the continued suspension of duties and taxes on thirteen basic food products.

    To evaluate the cost of the measure in the form of lost revenue, the Ministry of Finance
    analyzed the volume and the value of annual imports of ten of these thirteen food
    products. As shown in Table 1 below, the total cost to the 2008 budget of the exemption
    is estimated at about FBu 13.3 billion, equivalent to US$11.1 million.

    Together customs duties and other taxes, if collected, would have accounted for 48
    percent of the estimated value of these goods. Although we have no data evaluating the
    direct impact of the exemptions, there is no doubt that a 32 percent reduction in the total
    cost of these food products must have had a substantial positive impact on living
    conditions and total food consumption of the poor.


              Table 1. Impact of the exemption of duties and taxes on ten basic food items
                                       (in thousands of Francs Bu)

    Product          Imported          Estimated value      Customs duties   Administrative   Transaction   Total duties & taxes
                     Quantities      (in 1,000s of FBu)         (30%)            taxes            taxes      (in 1,000s of FBu)
                      (in tons)                                                 (0.5%)           (17%)
Maize                   7,846             2,403,438            721,031          12,017          408,584         1,141,633
Cassava                 7,048             2,285,925            685,778          11,430          388,607         1,085,814
Peanuts                 1,839              771,926             231,578           3,860          131,227          366,665
Onions                   152                70,065              21,020            350            11,911           33,281
Fish                   16,285             7,856,750           2,357,025         39,284         1,335,648        3,731,956
Fresh meat             15,246             6,985,123           2,095,537         34,926         1,187,471        3,317,933
Beans                  10,241             3,137,400            941,220          15,687          533,358         1,490,265
Potato                 16,245             4,285,000           1,285,500         21,425          728,450         2,035,375
Cassava flour            30                 86,100              25,830            431            14,637           40,898
Maize flour              250                93,900              28,170            470            15,963           44,603
Total                  75,181            27,975,627           8,392,687        139,880         4,755,846        13,288,423
     Source: Ministry of Finance, Directorate General of Revenue


          B. Additional Expenditures Specified in the Grant Agreement

    Table 2 shows the additional cost of measures included in the revised 2008 budget to
    implement the school feeding program and to address the threat of famine in drought-
    affected areas as specified in the Schedule to the Grant Agreement of August 19, 2008.
    On top of an allocation of FBu 3 billion to the school feeding program, the revised budget
    provided for an additional FBu 3.4 billion allocation to humanitarian assistance.




                                                                    12
      Table 2. Cost of primary school feeding program and additional humanitarian
               assistance included in the revised 2008 budget (in Francs Bu)
    Page      Ministry/              Type of Expenditure              Original Budget   Revised Budget     Additional Cost
             Directorate
    Primary education                                                                   3,000,000,000
     46    Primary             School feeding                               0             3,000,000,000    3,000,000,000
           Education
    Humanitarian assistance                                                             3,387,350,932
     60    National             Assistance to returning refugees       0                 1,000,000,000      1,000,000,000
           Solidarity           (roofs)
     61                         Subsidies to returning refugees, 1,700,000,000           3,237,350,932      1,537,350,932
                                internally displaced and other
                                victims
     62                         Emergency humanitarian            320,649.530            1,170,649,530       850,000,000
                                assistance
    Total primary school feeding program and additional humanitarian assistance                             6,387,350,932
   Source: Ministry of Finance, Directorate General of Revenue


       C. Budget cost of other measures


 Table 3 shows the impact of other measures included in the revised 2008 budget to
 mitigate the impact of the food crisis and promote the recovery of food crop production
 in food-insecure areas.



     Table 3. Cost of other measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the food crisis
                                      (in Francs Bu)
     Page               Ministry/          Type of Expenditure           Original         Revised Budget      Additional Cost
                       Directorate                                       Budget
Secondary education
        71          Secondary             Food& Subsistence for              0             2,000,000,000       2,000,000,000
                    Education             Boarders
Diesel subsidy
        82          Commerce,             Fuel subsidy                       0             4,400,000,000       4,400,000,000
                    Industry & Tourism
Agricultural development expenditures                                                     3,799,999,936
        71          Agriculture and       Stock of fertilizers          559,000,064        1,559,000,000         999,999,936
                    Livestock
        71                                Rehabilitating Imbo                0             2,800,000,000        2,800,000,000
                                          irrigation system
Total other activities                                                                                         8,599.999,936
 Source: Ministry of Finance, Directorate General of Revenue


       D. Impact of increased fuel and food prices on the budget cost of specific
          allocations

 Tables 4 and 5 show the direct impact of increased fuel and food prices on other specific
 budget allocations.




                                                                 13
        Table 4. Direct impact of higher fuel prices on specific budget allocations (in Francs Bu)
 Page      Ministry/ Directorate       Type of Expenditure        Original Budget   Revised Budget     Difference
                                                                      In FBu            In FBu           In FBu
   1       President's Office       Fuel & lubricants              315,360,000       355,360,000       40,000,000
   2       Secretariat General      Fuel & lubricants              160,300,000       209,225,953       48,925,953
           Government
   3       First Vice Presidency    Fuel & lubricants              130,000,000       169,677,940       39,677,940
   3       Second Vice              Fuel & lubricants              130,000,000       169,677,940       39,677,940
           Presidency
   4       National Assembly        Fuel & lubricants              299,472,000       390,875,324      91,403,324
   5       National Assembly        Fuel for missions in the       502,824,000       656,423,911      153,499,911
                                    country
    5     National Assembly         Fuel                            23,296,000        30,406,287       7,110,287
    5     National Assembly         Fuel                           396,480,000       517,491,614      121,011,614
    6     Senate                    Fuel & lubricants              180,777,360       235,953,308       55,175,948
    6     Senate                    Fuel                           206,955,840       270,121,851       63,166,011
    6     Senate                    Fuel                            19,467,200        25,408,619       5,941,619
    6     Senate                    Fuel                           142,679,000       192,752,835       45,073,835
    7     Court of Accounts         Fuel & vehicle maintenance      30,000,000        37,325,158       7,325,158
    8     Interior                  Fuel & vehicle maintenance     361,613,079       448,908,846      88,295,767
   11     Community                 Fuel & vehicle maintenance     50,000,000         62,208,597       12,208,597
          Development
   13     National Police            Fuel & vehicle maintenance     47,585,377        57,585,377       10,000,000
          Inspectorate
   14     National Protection        Fuel & vehicle maintenance     61,144,000       101,144,000       40,000,000
          Services
   14     External Relations         Fuel & vehicle maintenance     33,600,000       41,804,177        8,204,177
   20     Economy, Finance &         Fuel & vehicle maintenance    278,057,990       383,163,805      105,105,815
          Development
          Cooperation
   30     Supreme Court/             Fuel & vehicle maintenance     43,112,080        52,611,839       9,499,759
          Attorney General
   31     Governance &               Fuel & vehicle maintenance     25,177,106        31,324,649       6,147,543
          Privatization
   33     Civil Service, Labor       Fuel & vehicle maintenance     36,551,956        45,476,918       6,924,962
          &Social Security
   38     Regional Integration       Fuel & vehicle maintenance     24,816,000        30,875,371       6,059,371
   41     East African               Fuel & vehicle maintenance     20,000,000        24,883,439       4,883,439
          Community
   41     Education & Scientific     Fuel & vehicle maintenance     80,629,377       125,184,242       44,554,865
          Research
   47     Secondary Education        Fuel                          208,965,120       255,010,544       46,045,524
   47     Secondary Education        Fuel for generators            66,000,000        80,543,119       14,543,119
   52     The Fight against          Fuel & vehicle maintenance    200,000,000       245,634,388       40,834,388
          AIDS
   58     The Fight against          Fuel & vehicle maintenance     37,776,000        46,999,839       9,223,839
          AIDS
   61     National Solidarity        Fuel & vehicle maintenance    100,000,000       124,417,194       24,417,194
   64     Human Rights &             Fuel & vehicle maintenance    100,000,000       124,417,194       24,417,194
          Gender Issues
   67     Youth, Sports &            Fuel & vehicle maintenance     42,352,000        52,693,170       10,341,170
          Culture
   74     Agriculture &              Fuel & vehicle maintenance    286,560,000       356,529,911       69,969,911
          Livestock
   82     Trade, Industry            Fuel & vehicle maintenance     64,920,000        80,771,642       15,851,642
          Tourism
   86     Water, Energy, Mining Fuel & vehicle maintenance          21,796,295        27,118,339       5,322,044
   88     Transport, Post &          Fuel & vehicle maintenance     51,737,037        64,369,770       12,632,733
          Telecom.
   90     Environment,               Fuel & vehicle maintenance     53,536,000        66,607,989       13,071,989
          Territorial
          development, Public
          Works
   93     Equipment & Public         Fuel & vehicle maintenance     80,759,910       100,479,214       19,719,304
          Works
 Total impact of increased fuel costs                                                                1,358,915,886
Source: Ministry of Finance, Directorate General of Revenue




                                                            14
        Table 5. Direct impact of higher food prices on specific budget allocations (in Francs Bu)
  Page     Ministry/             Type of                 Original Budget    Revised Budget     Difference
           Directorate           Expenditure                 In FBu             In FBu          In FBu
   13      National Police       Food & Clothing          6,914,389,527      8,824,389,727   1,910,000,000
                                 for Police
                                 Personnel
   19      Defense               Food & Clothing          11,900,000,000    14,345,834,637   2,455,834,637
                                 for Military
                                 Personnel
   47     Secondary              Food & Subsistence         4,537,255,000   5,577,255,000    1,040,000,000
          Education              for boarders
   48     Technical and          Food & Subsistence         1,384,531,000   2,174,531,000    790,000,000
          Professional           for boarders
          Education
 Total Food & Clothing for Personnel and Students                                            6,195,834,637
Source: Ministry of Finance, Directorate General of Revenue




                                                            15
          Annex II. Impact of Duty/Tax Exemption on Food Prices & Food Consumption
                    (The same issue is also discussed in Annex 3 of the Program Document)

Annex I shows that custom duties and taxes on ten of the thirteen basic food products
selected by the government for duty/tax exemption would have increased the cost of
importing these products by about 48 percent. In other words, the exemption reduced the
cost of these imports by about 32 percent.

Although no data are available to evaluate ex post the impact of this exemption measure
on poverty and food consumption, there is no doubt, in the context of a partial
equilibrium analysis, that a price reduction of that magnitude must have had a major
influence on the overall consumption of these products. In addition, a Core Welfare
Indicator Questionnaire (CWIQ) survey conducted in 2006 also gives some indications:
(i) on the share of the poor (at that time) in the consumption of the food products that
were exempted of duties and taxes in 2008 and at the beginning of 2009, and (ii) on the
share of these products in total food consumption and total consumption of the poor.

    A. Share of the poor in the consumption of the basic food products selected for
       duty/tax exemption

This point is illustrated by the following figure entitled "Cumulative CD Curve" for
Selected Food Products.

                Cumulative CD Curve for selected food items- Order 2, Burundi 2006

        0.8



        0.7                                                                         Bean



        0.6                                                     Vegetables                                                             Cooking oil

                                                                                                                Banana
        0.5                                                                                                                               Rice
                                                    Maize
  (%)




        0.4                                                                           Petroleum
                                        Cassava


        0.3
                                                                                                                                Meat

                                                                             Fish
        0.2


                                                                                                                         Milk
        0.1
                                                                                       Bread


         0
              0.3                 0.5         0.7                 0.9                1.1             1.3                 1.5                     1.7
                                                     Normalized per equivalent adult consumption (yi/z)

                     bean                           banana                             cassava                            rice
                     maize                          cooking oil                        ndagala and other fish             meat
                     vegetables                     petroleum                          bread                              milk




                                                                             16
Note: The consumption dominance curves of order 2 represent the cumulative share of
the poor in the total consumption of a given good. The horizontal axis represents the level
of consumption per equivalent adult normalized by the poverty line (a value of one
corresponds to the poverty line actually used in the country). In the above figure, for
example, at a value of one on the horizontal axis (i.e. when we are looking at the share of
all the poor in the consumption of a given product), the value of the horizontal axis for
maize consumption is about 50 percent. This means that poor households as a whole
(more than the totality of the three lower quintiles) consume about half of total maize
consumption in the country. The figure also shows that poor households account for a
high percentage of total consumption of vegetables, cassava and beans, which are on the
list of duty/tax exempted products. In contrast with these high percentages, the shares of
milk and bread consumed by the poor are low for any poverty line. Rice has a
consumption dominance curve that is located higher but still below maize and cassava.
The above figure indicates that if policy makers are willing to use indirect taxes for
poverty reduction objectives, the products mostly consumed by the poor (represented by
curves on the top) are those to be exempted. It can be concluded that the tax exemption of
the 13 basic food items was well targeted as the above consumption dominance curve of
order two indicates.

   B. Share of basic food products selected for duty/tax exemption in total food
      consumption and total consumption of the poor

                 Table 6. Structure of consumption of poor rural households
       Product                              Total monetary value of rural       Share of product in total
                                           household spending on product    consumption of rural households
                                                   (in FBu million)                       (%)
       Basic food products (selected for               615,073.2                          55.6
       duty/tax exemption)
       Beans                                         123,058.9                           11.1
       Bananas                                        68,506.5                            6.2
       Cassava flour                                  83,752.7                            7.6
       Cassava roots                                  24,934.7                            2.3
       Fish                                           21,403.1                            1.9
       Fresh meat                                     11,522.6                            1.0
       Fruits & vegetable                            132,518.3                           11.9
       Maize                                          71,033.0                            6.4
       Potatoes                                       24,339.4                            2.2
       Sweet potatoes                                 54,004.0                            4.9
       Onions                                           N/A
       Peanuts                                          N/A
       Other food products (not                      150,832.2                           13.7
       exempted)
       Rice                                           29,533.9                           2.7
       Cooking oil                                    24,849.2                            2.2
       Beverages                                      40,551.4                           3.7
       Other foods                                    55,897.7                           5.1
       Total food products                           765,905.4                           69.3
       Non-food expenditures                         341,659.4                           30.7
       Education                                      6,909.1                            0.6
       Health                                         64,123.3                           5.8
       Clothing                                       45,962.2                           4.1
       Leisure                                        13,254.5                           1.2
       Transport & communication                      10,196.7                           0.9
       Housing                                       188,766.0                           17.0
       Other expenditures                             12,447.6                           1.1
       Total spending rural households              1,107,564.8                          100




                                                         17
Note: As shown in the above table, the basic food products selected for duty and tax
exemption accounted for about 55 percent of total spending by rural households. They
also accounted for 80 percent of total food consumption of rural households. Clearly the
duty/tax exemption measure must have had a significant impact on living conditions and
food consumption by the poor. This is another indication that the duty/tax exemption had
the right target.




                                           18
                               Annex III. The School Feeding Program

In 2007 the World Food Program initiated a school feeding program involving the
distribution of hot meals to primary school children in four poor communes of the
Muyinga province. Organized with the support of the Ministry of Education, the program
was executed by an NGO but also called for active participation of parents who were
expected to prepare the hot meals served to the children.

A major objective of the DPG grant approved by the Board in August 2008 was to help
the government implement a number of measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the
food crisis. The disbursement of the US$10 million grant depended on the inclusion in
the revised 2008 budget of three specific measures listed in the Schedule to the Grant
Agreement: (i) duty/tax exemption of thirteen basic food products; (jj) humanitarian
assistance to cope with a threat of famine following a drought; and: (iii) extending to
other areas the ongoing WFP-sponsored school feeding program. The new program was
expected to be additional as WFP planned to continue implementing the ongoing
Muyinga project.

The DPG became effective on August 19, 2008 and the US$ 10 million grant was fully
disbursed on August 21, 2008 after verification that the three measures specified in the
Schedule to the Grant Agreement were included in the revised 2008 budget submitted to
the Parliament. Although the Letter of Development Policy and the Actions Matrix
(Annex 7 to the Program Document) assumed that the government contribution to the
school feeding program would amount to US$3 million, the revised budget allocated only
FBu 3 billion (US$2,4 million equivalent) to the program. This is largely due to the fact
that the Franc Bu./US dollar exchange rate was close to 1 US$ - 1,000 FBu when the
original 2008 budget was approved and when preparation of the revised budget was
initiated. The World Bank did not consider the reduction of the dollar value of the
government's contribution as a failure to comply with disbursement conditions for three
reasons: (i) the Grant Agreement itself did not specify how much should be allocated to
each measure; (ii) the total cost of the three food crisis mitigating measures exceeded by
far the amount of the grant; and (iii) the DPG was an emergency relief program whose
implementation should not be further delayed.

On October 4, 2008, following discussions between the Ministry of Education and WFP,
the government signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) which provided for a
US$3 million government contribution to a primary school feeding program. The
objective was to distribute daily hot meals to 120,000 children during 63 days. The MOU
specified that the selection of schools and other implementation conditions would be
those applicable to the ongoing WFP intervention in the Muyinga province. Page 5 of the
MOU provided detailed estimates of the cost of the program as:



         Table 7. Cost of the school feeding program as envisaged in the October 4th MOU
                                     (in thousands of US dollars)
      Food/    International         Local         Other       Support costs      Contingencies   Total cost
     Quality     transport      transport and    operationa   direct   Indirect
     control       costs         storage costs     l costs



                                                      19
1,217.4   355.8   650.3   58.5   213.9   174.7   329.3   3,000.0




                            20
Before the actual transfer of the government contribution to WFP, the government and
WFP took a number of measures aimed at preparing implementation of the program:

   ·   In September 2008, the Ministry of Education set up a Steering/Monitoring
       Committee including 8 representatives of central government departments.
   ·   In October 2008, a meeting with the Steering/Monitoring Committee selected
       three poor, food-insecure provinces (Muyinga, Ngozi and Kayanza) for the
       location of the program.
   ·   The government and WFP then selected the schools to be included in the
       program: essentially primary schools with low school enrollment ratios located in
       poor rural areas, which were the principal victims of the ongoing food crisis.
       Provincial education directors proposed a first list of 186 schools, which were
       inspected to verify availability of appropriate facilities (water supply, latrines,
       storage). Parents helped put in place some of the required facilities. Finally 106
       schools were selected (46 more than envisaged in the Actions Matrix of the
       Program Document).
   ·   On October 16 and 17, the government and WFP organized orientation seminars
       for members of the Steering/Monitoring Committee, including provincial
       education directors and local inspectors responsible for the schools that had been
       selected,

On November 20, 2008, the government transferred to WFP the Francs Bu. 3 billion
included in the budget, i.e. US$2,432,000 or US$568,000 less that the amount envisaged
in the MOU. Following extensive discussions between the two parties, WFP and the
government agreed to start the program with the reduced amount available. On December
18, the Ministry of Education officially proposed to work on the basis of the $2.432
million available, while restating its intention to mobilize the totality of the US$3 million
specified in the MOU. In February 2009, the government confirmed that it would transfer
the remainder of the agreed contribution at a later date.

This led to a sudden acceleration of the program preparation process. In February,
information sessions (journées de sensibilisation) were organized in 12 communes and
Comités de gestion including representatives of parents (men and women), teachers and
students were put in place. Their role was not only to manage the school feeding
programs but also to advise school management on a wide variety of educational and
other issues. WFP purchased food and kitchen equipment and parents completed
preparation of required facilities.

Actual distribution of daily hot meals started on March 20, 2009 ­ when local food prices
were still very high but had begun to decline ­ and ended in June. WFP had purchased
2,786 tons of food, i.e. 534 tons more than the 2252 envisaged in the October MOU, but
only about 88,000 children benefited from the program (over a period of about 55 days).
On the basis of a daily ration of 270 grams/child, i.e. 23.76 tons/day for 88,000 children,
the program must have used about 1,307 tons. The unused 1,479 tons (equivalent to
US$566,000 on the basis of the initial purchase price of US$2300/ton) were placed in
WFP storage facilities and are being used in the context of the new school feeding
program that started in October this year.


                                             21
The government believes that despite long delays, the program produced good results.
The comités de gestion function and parents participate actively in program
implementation. WFP moniteurs report that many children (including girls) who had
dropped out of school are coming back and that school attendance improved
substantially. This is an important achievement since high dropout rates are one of the
main deficiencies of the primary school system in Burundi. Teachers and parents also
claim that the school feeding program had a significant impact on the health and the
learning capacity of the children. Another important achievement is the demonstration
that local authorities had the capacity to replace NGOs in the execution of the program.

In July 2009, the government and WFP signed an amendment to the October 2008 MOU
providing for a FBu 6 billion contribution (in the 2009 budget) to a follow-up school
feeding programs. This amount includes FBu 697.5 million to close the financing gap of
the 2008 program and FBu 5.3 billion for a new 2009 program. The new program will
enable WFP to purchase and distribute 5,811 tons of food to 100,000 children during 215
school days, for the most part in the same communes as the Muyinga, Ngozi and Kayanza
program.

In September 2009, the government transferred US$562,205 (to supplement its initial
contribution) and US$2,661,901 for the 2009 program. The remainder of its contribution
was transferred in November. A civil service strike delayed the launching of the new
program which started in October.

Conclusion

   ·   The school feeding program did not achieve its initial objective of improving the
       diet of primary school children in poor food-insecure provinces when the food
       crisis was at its peak. Implementation started seven months after Work Bank's
       Board approval of the grant. At that time local food prices remained very high but
       had begun to decline.
   ·   Implementation was complicated and delayed by misunderstandings concerning
       the amount to be contributed by the government. It is difficult to understand why
       the government could promise US$3 million in the Letter of Development Policy
       and again in the October MOU and include only the equivalent of US$2.4 million
       in the revised budget. The mistake seems to be due to the fact that the exchange
       rate was close to 1US$ - 1,000 Francs Bu. when preparation of the revised 2008
       budget was initiated. Nevertheless, the reduction in the dollar value of the
       government contribution delayed program implementation which lasted only 55
       days (against 60 envisaged in the Actions Matrix).
   ·   Unrealistic estimates of average school enrollments and the selection of
       comparatively small schools with low school enrollment ratios in poor rural areas
       led to a reduction in the number of beneficiaries (88,000 children instead of
       120,000). Less than half of the food purchased by WFP was actually consumed
       during the program.
   ·   It is difficult to understand the decision of WFP to purchase 2786 tons of food,
       about 24 percent more than initially envisaged, when it knew that the size of the



                                            22
       program would probably be reduced. Fortunately the excess food was stored and
       will be used in the context of the new 2009 program.
   ·   The Steering/Monitoring Committee established by the Ministry of Education
       played a useful role at the planning stage (selection of schools) but was less
       effective at performing its monitoring function. Program monitoring relied on
       local WFP moniteurs who were able to verify that the food was delivered and
       distributed adequately but did not produce detailed statistical data on school
       attendance before and during program implementation. These data are being
       prepared by the Ministry of Education for a number of program schools.
   ·   Despite all these implementation problems, the program achieved an important
       long-term objective: testing the capacity of WFP and the government to mobilize
       the full support of poor families in food-insecure provinces for a reasonably well-
       managed program, which increased school enrollments, reduced dropout rates and
       improved school attendance in a country where dropout rates are viewed as one of
       the main weaknesses of the primary school system.
   ·   The best argument in support of the program is the fact that an initially reluctant
       government decided to use its own resources and double its contribution to the
       program in the context of the 2009 budget.

On balance one can conclude that the program financed with the proceeds of the DPG
grant was an effective pilot program that helped design the most appropriate structure for
future school feeding operations and replaced NGO-managed by government-managed
programs. Effective school feeding programs are of high priority in Burundi considering
the level of food insecurity in rural areas and the magnitude of the child malnutrition
problem in most of the country.




                                            23
Annex IV. Burundi MAP




         24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33380


                                                                                             BURUNDI
                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                               RIVERS


           29°E                                                                                                                30°E                                                                                                                  31°E

      Lake                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                          Kigali
      Kivu                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                           To
                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                           Gitarama
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kagera
                                                                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                                                Lake                                        Rweru
                                                                                                                               Cohoha

                                                                     R WANDA                                                                    KIRUNDO
           To
        Cyangugu                                                                                                                             Kirundo

                                                                                     To
                                                                                    Butare                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rulenge
                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                ar
                                                                                                                y                                                                                     u
                                                                                                           an                                                                                       uv
                                                                                                                                                                                                  uv
                                                                                                   K




                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                   CIBITOKE                                                                                                                            MUYINGA
                                                                                                       NGOZI                                                        Muyinga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                           Cibitoke                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nyakanura
                                                                                                       Ngozi
                                                                     Kayanza
                                      Rusiba
3°S                                   Musada                                  Ruvuvu                                                                                                                                                                        3°S
                                                                                                                                                   Buhiga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                Bubanza
                                                                        AYA
                                                                        AY
                                                                      K AYA N Z A                                                              Karuzi                                                                            si        Kakonko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M w eru
                                          BUBANZA
                                izi




                                                                                                                                     KARUZI                                                   CANKUZO
                            Rus




                                                                                                                                                                       vu                 Cankuzo
                                                                                                                                                                     vu
                                                                          Muramvya
                                                                                     V       YA                                                                    Ru


                                                                              R   AM
                                                                     MU
                    To
                   Uvira
                                                   BUJUMBURA
                                                                                                   L uvironza




                                                                                                                         Gitega
                                                                            WA
                                                                          M WA R O
                                                               RA




                                                                                                                                                            Ruyiga
 DEM. REP.                                                                           Mwaro
                                                                                                                                                              RUYIGI
                                                           BU




OF CONGO                                                                                                GITEGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kibondo
                                                           M




                                                                                                                                                                                         gu
                                                    JU




                                                                                                                                                                                     p un




                                                            Mt. Heha
                                                       U
                                                                                                                                                                                    Rum




                                                            (2,670 m)                                           Bukirasazi
                                                   B
                                                                         Matana
                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA NZA NIA
                                                               BURURI                            Mutangaro
                                                                                                                                 R U TA N A
                                                                     Bururi         Most distant                                  Rutana
                                                           Rumonge                headwater of
                                                                                  the Nile River
4°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4°S




                                                                                   Makamba

                                                                                                                                                                                              BURUNDI
                                                                                   MAKAMBA                                           z   i
                                                                                                                                 ara
                                                                                             Mabanda                         r ag
                                                                                                                        Mu
                                         Lake                              Nyanza-Lac
                                      Tanganyika

                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Kasulu                      0        10               20        30           40 Kilometers


                                                                                                                    0               10                      20               30 Miles


           29°E                                                                                                                30°E                                                                                                                  31°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEPTEMBER 2004
