                                         Documentof
                                       The World Bank


                                FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                      ReportNo. 44797- BI



                       FOOD PRICE CRISISRESPONSETRUST FUND


                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSEDGRANT




                          INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$10MILLIONTO


                               THE REPUBLICOFBURUNDI

                                            FORA

               FOOD CRISISRESPONSEDEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT


                                         July 31,2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Country Department AFCE1
Africa Region




This document has a restricteddistribution andmaybe usedby recipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.                                                                              *

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective as o f June 30,2008)

                  Currency Unit = BurundiFranc
                         US$l.OO = 1174.40FBu


                             FISCAL   YEAR
                       January 1to December 31


                 ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS


AfDB           African Development Bank
BOP            Balance o f Payments
BRB            Bank o f the Republic o f Burundi
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CNDD FDD
      -        National Council for the Defense o f Democracy -Forces for the
               Defense o f Democracy
CPI            Consumer Price Index
CPIA           Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CSLP           CadreStratbgique de Croissance et de Lutte contre la Pauvrete'
               (Strategic Framework for Growth and Fightagainst Poverty)
CWIQ           Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
DFCDA          DedicatedForeign Currency Deposit Account
DPG            Food Crisis Response DevelopmentPolicy Grant
EAC            East African Community
EMSP           Economic Management Support Project
ERSG           Economic Reform Support Grant
ERSG 11        Second Economic Reform Support Grant
EU             European Union
FNL            Front National deLibiration (National Liberation Front)
FNL-PALIPEHUTU Front national de Libbration -Parti de Libbration du Peuple Hutu
               (National LiberationForces -Party for the Liberation o f the Hutu
               People)
GDP            Gross Domestic Production
GEF            Global Environmental Fund
GFRP           Global Food Crisis Response Program
GNI            GrossNational Income
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            InternationalMonetary Fund
I S N          Interim Strategy Note
MOE            MinistryofEducation
MOU            Memorandum o f Understanding
NGOs           Non Governmental Organizations
PARSEB         Burundi'sEducation Sector Rehabilitation Support Project



                                      i

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

              PEMFAR                Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
                                    Review
              PRASAB                Agriculture Rehabilitation and Sustainable Land Management
              PRGF                  Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
              PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
              SFNP                  School Feedingand NutritionProgram
              TT                    Transaction Tax
              WFP                   World FoodProgram




                                  Country Director: John Murray McIntire
                                    Sector Manager: Jan Walliser
                                   Lead Economist: HinhT. Dinh




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                         ..
                                                         11


                                          REPUBLICOFBURUNDI

              FOOD CRISISRESPONSEDEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT


                                             TABLEOFCONTENTS


1    INTRODUCTION           .................................................................................................................      3
2    POLITICALAND SOCIAL CONTEXT                                    ...........................................................................    3
3                                                                                                                                                   5
4    FOOD CRISIS                                                                                                                                    9
5..
 ... ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
                       .......................................................................................................................
                                                                                            .....................................................
                                                                                                                                                  10
6    BANKSUPPORTFOR THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY                                                                 ...................................  12
7..  GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSETO THE CRISIS                                               .........................................................
     THE PROPOSEDOPERATION                            ......................................................................................       13
8    OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION                                ...............................................................................       14
9..  BENEFITS AND RISKS                ....................................................................................................        17

ListofAnnexes
Annex 1:Burundiat a glance........................................................................................................                 19
                                                                                                                                                   22
Annex 3: Burundi- Which goods to taxhbsidize under indirect tax reforms?...........................
Annex 2: Key Economic Indicators.............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                   24
Annex 4: Letter o fDevelopment Policy .......................................................................................                      25
Annex 5: School FeedingandNutrition                                                                                                                32
Annex 6: Burundi-IMF Staffs Assessment o fRecent Economic Performance ........................
                                                     .......................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                   34
Annex 7:Food Crisis Response DPG-Actions Matrix ..............................................................                                     36

ListofTables
Table 1:Burundi. Macroeconomic Indicators. 2004-2011....................................................
                     Key                                                                                                                            8
Table 2: Sources o f Financing for the Revised2008 Budget........................................................                                  11

Listof Fimres
Figure 1:Real Output Growth. 2001-06 .........................................................................................                      6



    This project was prepared by Jean-Pascal N. Nganou (Country Economist. TTL. AFTP3) and

    Nielsen (Economist. AFTP3). Ephraim Kebede (Consultant. AFTP3). Aurelien S. Beko (Poverty
    Eric Mabushi (Resident Economist. AFTP3) . The other team members include: Hannah S.

    Economist. AFTPM). Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo (Sr. Public Health Specialist. AFTH3). Leila
    Hanafi (JPA. AFTP3). and Mariama Daifour Bb (Program Assistant. AFTP3) . Valuable
    comments were received from Renaud Seligmann (Sr. FM Specialist. AFTFM). Prosper
    Nindorera (Sr. Procurement Specialist. AFTPC). Sameena Dost (Sr . Counsel. LEGAF). and
    Aissatou Diallo (Finance Officer. LOAFC). Jan Walliser (Sector Manager. AFTP3). Kathryn A.

    provided to the team valuable advice and overall guidance.
    Funk (Country Program Coordinator. AFCTZ). and Hinh Dinh (Lead Economist. AFTP3)



                                                                  ...
                                                                  111


                           REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

     PROPOSEDFOOD CRISIS RESPONSEDEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT
                                AFRICA REGION


                    GRANT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

Recipient           Republic o fBurundi
Implementing Agency Ministrv o f Economv. Finance and DeveloDment CooDeration
Amount              US$lO million
Terms               Grant amount o fUS$lO million
Trenching           Single tranche to be disbursed upon effectiveness
Description         The proposed grant is being undertaken under the Global Food Crisis
                    Response (GFCR) Program, which was endorsed bythe Board on May
                    29, 2008, and will be financed out o f the Food Price Crisis Response
                    Trust Fund. The proposed Food Crisis Response Development Policy
                    Grant (DPG) o f US$10 million supports the Government's program to
                    mitigate the impact o f increased food prices on the poor, while
                    maintaining fiscal stability. This in turn will help reduce the risk of
                    worsened food insecurity, increased poverty, social unrest, and will
                    help foster social and economic development. This Grant helps to
                    finance the revised2008 budget which includes a number o f measures,
                    notably: (i)suspension o f custom duties and domestic transaction
                    taxes on thirteen basic food items; (ii)    sustaining and/or extending
                    school feeding programs (including for girls) in primary schools o f
                    vulnerable provinces; and (iii)adding more resources to the budget for
                    the emergency humanitarian relief to cope with a threat o f famine in
                    the country following the drought. Other components o f the revised
                    budget attempt to address the fuel price increases and limit increases
                    intransport costs, to whichthe poor areparticularlyvulnerable.
Benefits            The provision o f budget financing will enable the Government to
                    maintain the gains in macroeconomic stability, sustain the critical
                    reforms under the Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG) program,
                    and undertake critical expenditures to respond to the food price shock.
                    The development community is supporting Burundi's medium term
                    poverty reduction strategy, and it is critical that the momentum o f the
                    reform program be maintained. The proposed food response grant
                    financing will complement other support              from bilateral and
                    multilateral agencies for mitigating the risks to Burundi's overall
                    program. It will also support the Government's medium-term reform
                    agenda for putting in place a better safety net system that improves
                    Burundi's resilience andresDonseto shocks.
Risks               There are a number o f risks associated with the proposed Grant.
                    Burundiremains vulnerable to commodity price changes anddroughts.

                    A further rise in the prices o f food and energy could undermine the

I                   impact o f the Government's program on the poor and may require
                    additional measures to sustain the fiscal balance and macroeconomic
                    stability. However, the Government recently negotiated a new PRGF
                    facility with the IMF and a new ERSG with the World Bank (to be
                    presented to the Bank's Board on August 5, 2008) which includes a
                    number o f measures to maintain fiscal stability and debt sustainability
                    even under stronger exogenous shocks. There are also moderate
                    institutional weaknesses which could result in delays in the
                    implementation of the Government's program. In addition, fiduciary
                    risks are significant. These risks are currently being tackled by the
                    Government, incollaboration with the Bank, mainly through technical
                    assistance which addresses budget management, procurement and
                    transparency issues.
                    The proposed grant will be disbursed in a single tranche against
 Disbursements      actions that have been met prior to Board distribution.
 Oueration IDNumber P113438




                                       2

                                         REPUBLIC OFBURUNDI
                FOOD CRISIS RESPONSEDEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT


                                            1. INTRODUCTION

1.      Burundi inthe midst o f a food crisis: it is one o fthe hardest hit countries insub-Saharan
Africa by the recent increase in international food and fuel prices. Burundi is a net importer o f
food, and its agricultural output is vulnerable to weather variations. The global rise infood prices
i s having a disastrous effect on the welfare o f the population, especially the poorest. According to
the World Food Program, 82 percent o f households survive on between 1400 and 1900
kilocalories per day, against the World Health Organization's recommended 2100 kilo-calories
required to live a normal and healthy life. This situation-in                   which only 18 percent o f the
population has food security--could be exacerbated by continuing rising food and fuel prices.

2.       The Government has been quick in responding to the food crisis but it needs further
financial support. Short term interventions inBurundihave included the temporary removal o f all
tariffs and taxes on basic food items and the reduction o f the tariffs on diesel to further ease up
transportation costs o f food imports. These measures are reducing government revenue and
increasing spending pressures. The Government has revised the 2008 budget to address among
other issues the impact o f oil and food prices on the economy o f Burundi.' Several donors
(AfDB, Belgium, Netherland, andNorway) are expected to provide additional financing to cover
the increased cost o f fuel and food to the budget (secondary boarding schools, university,prisons,
andsecurity forces). The Government has asked the World Bank to provide further support to the
revisedbudget and fill the residual financing needs.


                               2. POLITICAL AND SOCIAL                   CONTEXT^

3.       Burundi has a history of conflict since independencein 1962. It has several classic
risk factors for conflict: deep poverty, low economic growth, dependence on a single commodity
export, and ethnic d~minance.~The country i s small and landlocked. It has one o f the highest
population densities in Africa, close to 300 people per square kilometer, and one o f the world's
lowest per capita incomes-US$lO9              in2006.

4.       The most recent full war began in 1993, when the Tutsi-dominated army assassinated
the first democratically elected President, a Hutu. The ensuing violence caused over 300,000
deaths and displaced 1.2 million people-16               percent o f the population. In 1996, a military coup


  The revisedbudget presentedhere supersedes earlier information onthe macro-fiscal framework available at
negotiation and approval o f the Second Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG II),       see Report No. 44245-BI. The
earlier macro-fiscal framework did not reflect the full budgetary response to the unfolding crisis.
2 Section 2 and 3 o f this document are taken from the CAS and the Development Policy Operation (DPO) which will
be presentedto the Board o f Executive Directors o n August 5, 2008.
  Where one ethnic group i s numerically dominant, so that majority rule could leadto the marginalization o f other
groups.


                                                         3

took place, leading the international community to impose an economic embargo. Hostilities
continued until a peace accord was reached in Arusha, Tanzania, in August 2000. Seventeen
political organizations signed the Arusha Agreement; but several rebel groups, including the
CNDD-FDD, the largest rebel group at the time, andthe FNL-PALIPEHUTU, did not participate
inthe talks.

5.      From2000 to 2005, Burundimade a successfultransition to a multi-partysystemof
government.A Transitional Government, based onpower sharingamongthe country's two main
ethnic groups, took office inJanuary 2002 for a 36 month term. A Tutsi president and Hutuvice
president ledthe Transitional Government for the first eighteen months, with a smooth handover
to a Hutupresident and Tutsi vice president for the second eighteen months. Bythe end o f 2003,
the Transitional Government had signed new peace and cease-fire agreements with all armed
political parties and movements, including the CNDD-FDD, with the exception o f the FNL-
PALIPEHUTU faction. InDecember 2004 the Government launched a demobilization program
targeting the army and combatants from former rebel groups. In February 2005, the country
approved by referendum a new constitution emphasizing power sharing and protection o f
minority and women's rights. Parliamentary elections in August 2005 went relatively smoothly.
The CNDD-FDD, led by Pierre Nkurunziza, won over 58 percent of the vote. Parliament elected
himthe following month as the new president.

6.      Since 2005, political progress has been mixed. The country has experienced several
political power struggles, including alleged coups, imprisonment o fpolitical figures, and grenade
attacks on the residences o fpolitical figures. In2007, internal divisions within the rulingCNDD-
FDD party triggered a political crisis that paralyzed the government and parliament. The main
political parties eventually reached an agreement, and in November 2007 a broad coalition
cabinet took office that included both major ethnic groups and key political parties in full
compliance with the constitution.

7.      Security has been mixed. In September 2006, the government and the FNL-
PALIPEHUTU, the one remaining active rebel movement, signed a cease-fire agreement, but it
was not implemented and sporadic fighting continued in areas near Bujumbura. Despite strong
regional support since early 2008 to revive the peace process, renewed fighting broke out
between the FNL and the government in April 2008, resulting in more than 100 deaths. Inmid-
May 2008, key FNL leaders returned to Bujumbura, the first significant move to implement the
2006 cease-fire agreement. On May 26, 2008, the government and the FNL signed a joint
statement ending hostilities, and resumednegotiationsto implement the cease-fire.

8.      Corruption is widespread and entrenched after decades of conflict, hindering
politicaland economic development.According to a recent diagnostic studyon governance and
corruption, households, public officials, private enterprises, and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) perceive a high level of corruption involving police, customs, tax collection, the justice
system, public procurement, and access to basic services. There have been two high-level
corruption scandals under the current government: in January 2006, a minister was dismissed for
his handling o f the sale o f the presidential plane, and in July 2007 another minister authorized
irregular payments o f US$17 million to a petroleum trading company (Interpetrol).            The
government has since taken action to close public financial management loopholes, but has not


                                                 4

started judiciary processes against the perpetrators. Various surveys and seminars have identified
impunityas akeygovernance weakness.

9.       Burundiis a small countrywith a highpopulationdensity. While Burundi's economy
i s dominated by agriculture (both in terms o f its share in GDP and employment), there i s strong
competition for resources, especially for cultivated land in rural areas where 90 percent o f the
population lives. This i s exacerbated by a growing population and at times ethnic differences.
Furthermore, the peace era i s seeing the return o f large numbers o f internal and external refugees
to land that has been cultivated by others in their absence. This i s leading to tensions about
resource ownership and use and affects earning potential o f both existing and new users o f the
land.

10.      There is an opportunityto strengthendemocracy,increaseeconomic growth, reduce
poverty, and exit the conflict trap, but the challenges are formidable. The risk o f relapse to
conflict is high-research   has shown that about half o f the countries will fall back into conflict
within ten years. Inthe short term, Burundifaces the challenge o fmaintaining stability before the
2010 elections. The political crises and difficult peace process underscore the fragility o f the
political and security situation. Institutional capacity i s weak, hindered by cronyism and
corruption. To consolidate peace and minimize the risk o f future conflict, the country needs to
diversify its economy and generate pro-poor economic growth; and it also needs to build more
effective, accountable, and inclusive state institutions to improve governance, rule o f law, and
delivery o fbasic services.


                   3. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTSAND PROSPECTS4

RecentEconomicDevelopments

11.      Since 2000, economic performance has improved, but real GDP growth still
averaged only 2.7 percent from 2001-2006. Real GDP growth reached 4.8 percent in 2004,
falling to 0.9 percent in 2005 due to a severe drought, and then bounced back to 5.1 percent in
2006. The economic growth rate in2007 i s estimated at 3.6 percent, reflecting a poor agricultural
harvest, and growth i s projected to reach 4.5 percent in2008. (See Table 1: Key Macroeconomic
Indicators; Annex 1:Burundi at a Glance; and Annex 2: Key Economic Indicators.)




4 See footnote 2.


                                                5

12.     Economic      growth      depends
mainly on the volatile agricultural                 Figure 1: RealOutput Growth, 2001-06

sector, which accounts for about half                                      (inpercent)

of GDP (see Figure 1). Agriculture           I
accounts for 94 percent o f employment.
Commercial agriculture, mainly coffee,
contributes less than 5 percent to GDP,
but generates more than 70 percent of
export revenues. Agricultural production
is dependent on climatic conditions and        4 0 .
affected by fragmented land ownership,         4 0 .
                                               4 0 .
declining      soil   productivity,   and     .O.O.         --RealGDPgrohih       -Agkulluraloutput  gmhih
insufficient inputs. Coffee production
has been particularly volatile,       with   Source:CentralBank.

production falling by 84 percent in 2005 and rising by 386 percent in2006, partlydue to the old
age o f trees that cannot carry two consecutive years o fhighproduction.

13.      The private sector is small and faces one of the most unfavorable business
environments in Africa. The formal private sector consists o f about 3,000 registered enterprises,
mainly small and mediumenterprises employing some 37,000 workers (2004). Firms surveyed in
2006 as part o f a recent Investment Climate Assessment reported low performance due to poor
infrastructure, especially electricity; lack o f access to financing; political and economic
instability; and hightaxation.

14.      Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, has averaged 7.2 percent from
2001 to 2006, with large fluctuations. Average inflation topped 13.4 percent in 2005, dropped
to 2.8 percent in 2006 due to tighter monetary policy, and rose to 8.3 percent ih 2007, attributed
to increases in food and petrol prices. GDP deflator inflation also shows a similar pattern (Table
 1).Inthe first four months o f 2008, domestic prices o f he1andbasic staples rose on average by
23 percent, pushingthe overall inflation rate over the same period to 11.7 percent.

 15.     Fiscal performance was satisfactory in 2005-06, but somewhat mixed in 2007. The
2007 Budget Law was set to continue the reorientation o f expenditure toward poverty reduction
and demobilization while containing the budget deficit (excluding grants). The 2007 outlook was
affected by a slower than expected demobilization and the payment o f US$17 million made to
Interpetrol outside the proper budget procedures. The breakdown o f the peace talks with the last
rebel group (FNL) slowed the demobilization process, contributing to larger than expected wage
bill, which amounted to about 10.8 percent o f GDP in 2007. The Government took mitigating
measures, increasing some taxes, cutting expenditures and postponing increases in benefits
payments to the civil service to 2008. The budget deficit (excluding grants) i s expected to reach
20.1 percent o f GDP in2007 (compared to 19.3 percent o f GDP in2006), as a result o f a decline
intotal revenue to 18.7 percent of GDP and an increase ofpublic spending from 38.2 percent of
GDP in2006 to 38.7 percent in 2007. Nonetheless, the overall fiscal position improved from -
 1.8 percent o f GDP in 2006 to 0.8 percent o f GDP in 2007 due to a slight increase in external
grants.



                                                 6

16.     There has been a sharp rise in the governmentexpenditurepattern, mainly focused
on capital expenditures. Total expenditures rose from 27.2 percent o f GDP in 2001 to 38.2
percent in 2006, which i s considerably higher than many Sub-Saharan African countries. The
increase i s largely due to the fact that capital expenditure has doubled from 6.4 percent o f GDP in
2001 to 14.8 percent in2006 (including special programs for demobilization andreintegration of
ex-combatants) due to foreign grants. Inthe meantime, while recurrent expenditure accounts for
60 percent o f total expenditure, it has risen only slightly over the last six years. One o f its main
components has been the wage bill, which rose to nearly 10 percent o f GDP in 2006, reflecting
the hiringo fnew teachers in2005 and a 15 percent salary increase in2006, the first since 2001.

17.     Aid flow, especially budget support from multilateral and bilateral donors, has
proven to be vital to the sustainability of the national budget and the stability of the
economy. Budget support from international partners covered about half o f the overall budget
deficit o f 19.3 percent o f GDP in 2006, and i s expected to cover almost half o f the estimated
deficit o f 20.1 percent o f GDP in2007.

18.     Burundi has consistently run large current account deficits, reflecting the country's
narrow export base, consisting almost entirely o f tea and coffee, and its dependence on the
import o f capital goods and fuel. The current account deficit (including grants) increased from
14.5 percent o f GDP in 2006, to an estimated 16.0 percent in 2007, owing to a decrease in
exports coupled with an increase inimports.

19.     Monetary policy has remainedprudent.Inflation (CPI), which topped 13.4percent in
2005, dropped to 2.8 percent in2006 due to tighter monetary policy. It is estimated at 8.3 percent
in 2007 and projected to rise to 19.1 percent in 2008. The estimated and projected rise in
inflation in 2007 and 2008 can be attributed to increases in food and petrol prices. Monetary
aggregates have increased in a sustainable manner, with M 3 increasing by 18.3 percent in 2006
and an estimated 15.8 percent in2007.

Medium-TermProspects

20.      Despitethe recent food and fuel price increases,economic growthprospects remain
positive. The medium-term economic framework assumes an acceleration o f real GDP growth
from 3.6 in2007 to 4.5 percent in2008 and to 5 percent until2011. Growth i s likelyto fluctuate
giventhe economy's susceptibility to weather conditions. The main driving force behindthe real
GDP growth rate remains the primary sector (of which food crops constitute about 80 percent),
which contributes about 49 percent to GDP. There i s a slow shift to secondary and tertiary
sectors.

21.     The food crisis is expected to have inflationaryand budgetary implications. Annual
average inflation (measured by the GDP deflator) i s projected to decline from a high o f 18.5
percent in 2008 to 6.6 percent in 2011. This assumes improved Central Bank liquidity
management, limited financing o f government activities by the Central Bank, and a modest
medium-term decline infood and energy prices, although not to their initial levels.




                                                   7

22.      The fiscal deficitis expected to average 2.0 percentof GDP, includinggrants. Wages
and salaries are projected to peak in 2008 at 11.0 percent o f GDP, mainly due to delays in
demobilization and the need to hire teachers. Assuming continued demobilization and wage
restraint, they will then progressively decline by 2011to the previous level o f around 10 percent
o f GDP. Total revenue as a percentage o f GDP i s expected to remain at about 19.0 percent. The
fiscal deficit excluding grants, declines from 24 percent o f GDP in2007 to 19.8 percent in 2011,
while the deficit including grants increases slightly, reflecting a shift from external to domestic
financing.

                    Table 1: Burundi-Key Macroeconomic Indicators,2004-2011

                                     2004    2005  2006   2007     2008      2009   2010     2011



 Population (million)                 7.3     7.5   7.6    7.8      8.1       8.3    8.6      8.8
 Nominal GDP (inUS$                   0.7     0.8   0.9    1.o      1.1       1.4     1.5      1.6
 billion)

 Real GDP Growth Rate (%)             4.8     0.9   5.1    3.6      4.5       5.O    5.0      5.0

 Per Capita GDP Growth                2.8    -1.1   3.1    0.6      1.5       1.9     1.9      1.9
 Rate (%)

 Nominal GNIPer Capita                 90    100   100     110                          ..
 (Atlas Method)

 Consumer Price Inflation             8.0    13.4   2.8    8.3     19.1       9.4    8.2      6.8
 (annual average)

 GDP Deflator Inflation               8.3    16.6   4.4    8.2     18.5      10.0    8.7      6.6
 (annual average)

 Exports (fob, US$ million)          47.9   57.2   58.6  50.2      70.6     80.6    92.6     103.4

     of which coffee                 29.4   40.5   39.7    30      50.3     51.6    52.2     53.2
 Imports (fob, US$ million)        148.8    189.7 245.0 295.0    374.0      406.0   422.0    437.0

     of which petroleum              26.5   38.3   57.5  58.6      86.0     89.7    88.8     88.8
Source: World Bank and IMF staff estimates.



23.      The current account deficit, excluding official transfers, narrows from 2008
onwards,but remains substantial, decreasing from 36.3 percent of GDP in2006 to 31.9 percent
in 2008 and further to 30.3 percent in 2011. Exports, especially coffee and minerals, should
increase andreconstruction-related imports should slow.

24.      These projections depend on sustained macroeconomic,public finance, and sector
policy reforms. Primary sector growth depends on reforms and investments to increase food
crop productivity. Secondary sector growth depends on increased mining, petroleum sector
reforms, and higher value-added from agro-processing, including a more efficient coffee sector
leading to higher coffee output and quality. Service sector growth will accompany primary and
secondary sector growth, and will also depend on increased dynamismo f the financial sector and


                                                  8

on investment in telecommunications following the expected privatization o f the state
telecommunications company. Small and medium enterprises are expected to play an important
role in future growth. Strong public expenditure in priority economic and social sectors will
further stimulate growth. Medium-term growth prospects also depend on increased political
stability, improved security, successful integration into the EAC, and continued technical and
financial support from the donor community.


                                          4. FOODCRISIS

25.      Burundiis one of the hardest hit countries in Africa by recent food and fuel price
increases. The IMF listed Burundi among the 18 countries in the world most vulnerable to
balance o f payments (BOP) shocks arising from food and oil price increase^.^ It i s a net importer
o f food and oil products, and its position as a landlocked country raises significantly import
costs. Indeed, the food price increase inBurundi mainly reflects higher petroleum and transport
costs. Together, food and fuel imports represent an estimated 43 percent o f total imports.

26.      Because o f rising food prices, inflation has risen sharply since mid-2007, reaching 27.2
percent year-on-year inApril. From December 2007 to April 2008, prices o fbasic staples rose on
average by 23 percent. Given the current food crisis, which has led to a chronic inflation,
households face difficulties to purchase basic food items.

27.      The surge in food prices has negatively impacted the Burundian economy. The
original 2008 budget was under increasing strain, mostly due to the fiscal impact o f higher food
and fuel prices. Moreover, the expected return o f a large number o f Burundian refugees as a
result of the recent ceasefire agreement and the end o f armed hostilities could exacerbate the
fiscal impact o f the two price shocks. The immediate annual fiscal impact o f these two shocks
was initially estimated at about 1.5 percent o f GDP (equivalent to US$16 million) but was
subsequently substantially revised upwards to about 4.4 percent o f GDP. While a number o f
donors (AfDB,Belgium, Netherland, and Norway) will provide financing to cover the increased
cost o f fuel and food to the budget (secondary boarding schools, university, prisons, and security
forces), part o f the fiscal adjustment will be through measures to mobilize more domestic
resources including the rationalization of customs and tax administration. In terms o f external
balance, Burundi's 2008 BOP has been affected by oil and food price increases, with the former
o f a much larger magnitude (-4.3 percent o f GDP inpercent o f 2007 GDP, that i s about US$50
million). Burundi's terms o f trade have also worsened significantly.

28.      Over time, and with appropriate policies, the few food producers may benefit from higher
food prices, provided that these higher prices are not offset by higher prices for fertilizer and
other inputs.But net consumers o f food will lose purchasing power, irrespective of whether they
are located inrural or urbanareas.




  IMF:"The Balance ofPayments ofthe FuelandFoodPrice ShocksonLow income Sub-African Countries -A
Country -by- Country Assessment", July 2008.


                                                 9

                        5. GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSETO THE CRISIS

29.      Facedwith the combinedimpacts of the poor rainy season, the oil price shock, and
the food crisis, the Burundianauthoritieshavetaken a number of measuresaimed at, on the
one hand, reducing the impact o f fuel and food prices on the most vulnerable segments o f the
population, and on the other hand, stimulating domestic food supply in the medium term. The
authorities have revised the budget to include new measures for coping with these shocks and
mitigating their impact on the poor. The community o f development partners in Burundi was
involved in the preparation o f a coordinated response to the crisis. Early on, a participatory
process was used by a multi-donor task force to prepare a template for a strategic response to the
food crisis. As a result, a new revised budget, which not only was consistent with boththe PRGF
and the second ERSG, but also incorporated new and additional measures and budget support
from donors, was approved by the Cabinet on July 15, 2008 and has been submitted to the
Parliament. The proposed Grant helps to meet the additional financing needs o f the revised 2008
budget.

30.      The Government's strategic response, contained in the revised 2008 budget, relies on a
combination o f actions ranging from fiscal measures designed to alleviate the fiscal burden on
food and oil imports to mitigate the impact o f higher food and oil prices on the poor by
enhancing social safety nets (e.g., food security programs and school feeding programs), in the
short term, to investments designed to boost domestic food production in the medium to longer
term. The proposedactions can be classified into three broad categories:

           0     Alleviating the fiscal burden. The Government reinstated a measure suspending,
                 from February to December 2008, duties and domestic transaction taxes on thirteen
                 basic food products, including beans, maize, and potatoes. The majority o f these
                 products are mostly consumed by the poor (see Annex 3).6 Moreover, since April
                 2008 tariffs on diesel imports (which in turn affect the poor the most) have been
                 reduced from 12 percent to 9 percent. In addition, the 17 percent transaction tax
                 (TT) leviedon diesel was temporarily suspended untilthe end o f the year leading to
                 revenue losses for the Government. There is also a corresponding subsidy (on
                 diesel) o f about $4 million targeting pro-poor sectors. At the same time, tariffs on
                 gasoline imports were raised from 12percent to 16 percent to curb consumption and
                 to preserve overall tax collection levels.

            0    Strengthening targeted programs.' The authorities have also sought to mitigate the
                 impact o f higher food and oil prices on the poor by enhancing social safety nets
                 (e.g., food security programs and school feeding and nutrition programs). In line
                 with their PRSP the authorities are, in their 2008 revised budget, allocating
                 additional resources to targeted programs (see Letter o f Development Policy in
                 Annex 4).


 This measure has beenineffect since 2005, but is reinstated each year by the authorities depending onthe situation
o f food security. Consequently there was no need to estimate the fiscal impact o f the measure.
7Annex 5 provides a comprehensive presentation of the school feeding program, including the extension supported
by the proposed grant.


                                                       10

          0   Designing supply side measures to increase agricultural production. The supply
              side constraints have to be addressed by increasing investments in agriculture,
              especially in food crops. An improvement in agricultural production and
              productivity i s essential and can be addressed by higher investments in agricultural
              research, extension, infrastructure, market access and overall trade facilitation, with
              the aim o f making Burundi a net exporter over the medium term. As stated in the
              Letter o f Development Policy requesting this additional support, the Government
              highlighteda number o f measures for agriculture supply to be financed under the
              revised 2008 budget.

31.     The Government revised its 2008 budget to address more effectively among other
things the impact of the food and fuelpriceincreases on the economy. Among other reasons
that motivated the revision o f the 2008 budget' are an increase in import revenue (due to higher
import values), an improvement inthe collection o f tax arrears, and an increase inbudget support
by the donor community to help the Government deal with the food crisis (see Table 2). The
revised 2008 budget shows a total increase o f about US$ 54.9 million compared with the initial
budget for 2008, projected to be financed by an increase in projected domestic revenue (by
US$15.5 million) and external grants (by about US$39.4 million). Table 2 below presents the
sources o f additional financing for the revised 2008 budget.

                    Table2: Sources of Financingfor the Revised2008 Budget
                                             (inUS$millions)
         Totaladditionalfinancingneeded                                        54.9

          Sourcesof Financing                                                  54.9
          o Domestic                                                            15.5
          o Foreigngrants                                                       39.4
                      o AfDB                                                    2.4
                      o WorldBank                                               10.0
                      o Netherland                                              7.0
                      o Norway                                                  8.0
                      o Belgium                                                 7.0
                      o Other                                                   5.0
            Source: Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Development Cooperation.



32.     The revised budget will serve to reduce the impact of food and fuel crisis on the
economy and help to finance many activitiesin agriculture, basic infrastructure, as well as
the return of former refugees displaced by the several years of civil conflict. More
specifically, the new budget will accommodate the financing of: (i)                 the suspension o f custom
duties and domestic transaction taxes on thirteen basic food items (beans, cassava, potatoes,
banana, maize, meat, etc.); (ii)    sustaining andor extending school feeding programs (including
for girls) inprimary schools o f vulnerable provinces; (iii)the constitution o f a strategic stock o f
fertilizers and adding more resources to the budget for emergency humanitarian relief to cope

8The revised budget has been approved by the Council of Ministers and i s awaiting the Parliament's approval.


                                                   11

with a threat o f famine inthe country following the drought; (iv) the potential flows o frefugees
displaced by the civil war; (v) the procurement o f medicines to public health centers to improve
coverage for poor inrural areas; (vi) the allocation o f additional resources to the construction o f
primary schools inrural areas where the education level is the lowest; (vii) the rehabilitation o f
the irrigation system o f the Imbo plain; (viii) the intensification o f food crops agriculture; and
(ix) rural microcredit programs.


              6. BANK SUPPORT FORTHE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY

Linkageto the CAS

33.     The current operation is an integral part o f the CAS to be presented to the Board
alongside the ERSG 11. The new CAS explicitly states that the Bank will seek financing for
Burundi under the new Food Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCR). The CAS aims to support
Burundi inits transition from a post-conflict to a development economy by selectively assisting
the Government inthe implementation o f the PRSP. The strategic objectives o f the CAS are: (i)
to promote sustainable and broad-based economic growth; (ii)      improve access to social services
and consolidate social stability. Governance i s a cross-cutting CAS objective.


Collaborationwith the IMFandother Donors

34.     There has been close collaboration between the Bank, the IMF, the World FoodProgram
(WFP), the EU, and bilateral partners, to analyze the implications o f rising food prices and
support actions to mitigate their effect. The expansion o f the school feeding program will be
implemented by WFP through a memorandum o f understanding (MOU) between the
Government and WFP. Many donor programs emphasize agriculture and social protection. The
proposed grant was prepared in close consultation with the IMF, and co-financiers o f the ESRG
II.

Relationshipto Other BankOperations

35.     The proposed grant is inline with the ERSGoperation approved by the Boardin2006 as
well as the Second Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG 11), which will be presented to the
Board on August 5, 2008. It was developed in close coordination with the Economic
Management Support Project (EMSP), an IDA financed project, which provides technical
assistance andcapacity buildinginall areas o f economic reforms to the authorities.

36.     IDA has prepared a budget support operation, the Second Economic Reform Support
Grant (ERSG 11), of $30 million for Board consideration on August 5, 2008. At the time ERSG
11andthe PRGFwere prepared, the Government had not finalized their assessment o f the fiscal
impact o f the food crisis, their detailed response, nor the possible contribution o f the donors. As
a result, the ERSG 11and the PRGF did not incorporate the revised 2008 budget as this proposed
operationdoes.




                                                12

AnalyticalUnderpinnings

37.     Analytical underpinnings were provided by a recently completed Public Expenditure
Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR, FY08), and the 2007 study on the
Sources o f RuralGrowth study intendedto highlight key priority areas with potential to generate
a rapid increase in agricultural production in the short- to medium-term. An assessment o f the
impact o f food and fuel prices usingthe 2006 CWIQ survey was undertaken by the poverty team
o f the Africa region (see Annex 3).

38.     The IMF and Bank teams, in the preparation o f IMF's new PRGF for Burundi, took the
opportunity to prepare, with the authorities, a note on the possible impact o f the food and fuel
crisis on households, the budget, and the economy. They also took stock o f all policies and
measures which the Government enacted to counter both crises. They advised that the authorities
take on further feasible and cost-effective short and medium term measures to mitigate the
impact o f the food crisis on the poor.


                                 7. THE PROPOSEDOPERATION


39.     Burundi's fragility and the severity of the impact of the food crisis calls for a rapid
responseby the Bank.Without additionalassistance, the food crisis may resultin increased
hardship on the population. Rising social discontent could trigger unrest with considerable
negative consequences even inthe neighboring countries. This is particularly true inthe context
o f a post-conflict, fragile state such as Burundi. The additional support promisedby other donors
would not be enough to address the critical issues o f social safety nets ina country where only 18
percent o f the populationhave food security.

40.     The proposed Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant (DPG) o f US$10 million
i s a development policy operation intended to support the implementation o f the Government's
program to mitigate the impact o f the rising food prices on the poor through the revised 2008
budget, while maintaining fiscal stability. The proposed grant is being undertaken under the
Global Food Crisis Response (GFCR) Program, which was endorsed by the Board on May 29,
2008, and will be financed out o f the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund. The objectives of
the GFCR are to: (i)reduce the negative impact o f high and volatile food prices on the lives o f
the poor in a timely way; (ii)support Government in the design o f sustainable policies that
mitigate the adverse impacts o f high and more volatile food prices on poverty while minimizing
the creation o f long-term market distortions; and (iii) broad-based growth inproductivity
                                                        support
and market participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply
response.

41.     Objective.The objective of the proposed Grant is to help the Government of Burundi in
reducing hunger, preventing an increase in poverty and social unrest, and ensuring the fiscal
stability neededto foster medium-term social and economic development. The supported policy
measures include suspension o f custom duties and taxes on basic food items and expansion o f
food aid, social assistance andrelated programs.



                                                13

42.    More specifically, proceeds from the Grant will be used to support the Government
budget infinancing among others, the following items inthe revised2008 budget:

   0   Suspension o f custom duties and domestic transaction taxes on thirteen basic food items
       (beans, cassava, potatoes, banana, maize, meat, etc.);

    0  Sustaining and/or extending school feeding programs (including for girls) in primary
       schools o fvulnerable provinces; and

    0  Adding more resources to the budget for emergency humanitarian relief to cope with a
       threat o f famine inthe country following the drought.

43.    The school feeding and nutrition program for primary schools (SFNP) is described in
Annex 5. This program will help meet the caloric requirements o f the poorest and most
vulnerable households. Ultimately this program will have a positive effect on the educational
abilityo fthe children. IDA'Sproposed operationwill cover the financing gap to maintaidexpand
this program, especially for the provinces of Ngozi and Kayanza which are currently considered
food-insecure. The Government i s negotiating a Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) with
WFP to implement the program.

44.     Other components o f the revised budget attempt to ensure that food distribution i s
secured for population groups critical for peace and security; to reduce the tax burden on food
items consumed by the poor; and to limit increases in transport costs, to which the poor are
particularly vulnerable.

45.     The Grant will be disbursed ina single tranche based on the prior action o f the Council o f
Ministers adopting and submitting to the Parliament a revised 2008 budget law, including the
three above food-crisis related actions.


                             8. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

Poverty andSocialImpact

46.     The proposed grant i s expected to have likely and significant positive impact on poverty
as it contributes to the food security objective o f the CSLP, which i s the Government national
poverty reduction strategy. Dueto the urgency o freacting to the crisis, there was insufficient time
to analyze the poverty and social impact o f the Government's measures on poverty. A rapid
assessment following the recent Bank - IMF mission confirms that the set o f measures
undertaken by the Government are the most feasible given the circumstances and will have fast
and positive impact on Burundi'spoor population. These measures will be adequately targeted to
the poorest groups inBurundibased on the following considerations:


        (i)     The suspension o f the taxes on thirteen basic food prices will directly improve the
                situation o f the poor. The cost share o f these thirteen basic items comprises about




                                                14

                  80 percent o f total food expendituresg for rural households most o f which are
                  extremely poor. For instance, h i t s and vegetables and beans comprise the largest
                  share o f rural households food consumption combining about 33 percent o f their
                  total food expenditures, followed by cassava (manioc) (14 percent), maize (9
                  percent), and banana (9 percent). The tax reduction targets food items that
                  comprise a large share o f food expenditures for poorer households. With 68.8
                  percent o f the population in rural areas living in relative poverty and reaching
                  above 80 percent insome provinces, the suspension o f the taxes canprovide some
                  immediate reliefto these households. Moreover, the analysis provided inAnnex 4
                  suggests that the goods targeted by this measure are well-targeted for poverty
                  reduction purpose.

         (ii)     School feeding and nutrition programs will help meet the caloric requirements o f
                  the poor and vulnerable households in a country where malnutrition is one o f the
                  highest in the world and about 80 percent o f the population does not have food
                  security. These programs will have positive effects on the educational ability o f
                  the children (see Annex 5 for a detailed presentation o f the school feeding
                  program).



EnvironmentalAspects

47.       The specific policies supported by this operation are related to the food crisis response by
the Government, and are not likely to have significant effects on the environment, natural
resources, and forests. In particular, the potentially most sensitive measure as regards the
environment, the financing o f diesel subsidies under the revised budget, i s expected to be
temporary. It therefore should not affect consumption patterns in the long run, with a potential
small effect on additional consumption and pollution inthe short term.

FiduciaryAspects

48.       Public Finance Management System. Like many low-income countries, Burundi's
financial management systems suffer from serious weaknesses in budget formulation and
execution, financial reporting, procurement and oversight systems. However, the authorities have
made significant progress in the past few years to improve management o f the public resources
and to mitigate fiduciary risks. These mitigating measures include measures to improve
transparency o f the budget process (revision o f the organic finance law, adoption o f a new budget
classification, adoption o f new procurement code and institutional framework, the creation o f an
interim computerized financial management information system (SIGEFI) for the 2006 budget
and subsequent years, production o f quarterly budget execution results) and to control
expenditures and expenditure processes (establishment o f an audit court, publication o f the first
audit o fbudget execution, audits o f the treasury). The Government is committed to implementing
additional reforms and i s preparing an integrated medium-termreform action plan, on the basis


9 This is 55 percent oftotal consumptionofrural households.


                                                    15

o f the recently completed (2008) joint Government - Bank PEMFAR report, covering the legal
framework, budget formulation, budget execution, public procurement, financial management
and reporting, internal control and audit, external oversight, and control over the wage bill.

49.       Foreignexchange system. An IMF safeguards assessment o f the BurundiCentralBank
(BRB) was completed inJanuary 2006, and reportedthat the BRBwas committed to improving
financial reporting procedures and strengthening its system o f internal control. However, since
the issuance o f this report, the governor o f the BRB appointed in February 2007 was accused o f
beinginvolved ina financial scandal, which evidenced weak controls over payments made by the
BRB. The ex-governor, who is currently under arrest awaiting further legal proceedings, was
replaced in August 2007. Given these circumstances, IDA requested that the Recipient set-up a
dedicated account inthe BRBto be usedfor IDA disbursements related to the ERSG11operation.
Therefore, the same dedicated foreign currency account that will be set-up for the ERSG11will
be utilized for the Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant. IDA reserves the right to
request an annual audit o f the dedicated account.

FundsFlows andAuditing Requirements


50.      The proposed grant will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for
development policy support. The proposed financing, amounting to US$lO million, will be
providedas a grant. Itwill be disbursed inone tranche to support the revised 2008 budget. Grant
proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation o f the development policy
program. The single tranche will be released upon effectiveness.

51.      Once th'e Grant i s approved and becomes effective, the proceeds o f the Grant will be
deposited at the request o f the Recipient by IDA in a Dedicated Foreign Currency Deposit
Account (DFCDA) designated bythe Recipient at the Central Bank (Banque de la Rkpublique du
Burundi, BRB) and forming part o f the official reserves o f Burundi. Within a week, the BRB
will credit the local currency (Burundi Franc) equivalent o f the Grant proceeds to the
Government's Treasury account. The BRB will not impose any charges or commissions on the
Government for these transactions. The conversion from UnitedStates Dollar to BurundiFranc
will be based on the prevailing exchange rate on the date that the funds are credited to the
Treasury Account. The Government will be required to provide confirmation to IDA that an
amount equivalent to the grant proceeds from the IDA has been credited to the Treasury Account,
with an indicationo fthe exchange rate applied andthe date o fthe transfer. IDAreserves the right
to request an annual audit o f the DFCDA.

ProgramMonitoring

52.      Given the nature of the grant, the monitoringof the programwill be carried out as
part of the Government's own activities.The MinistryofEconomy, Finance and Development
Cooperation will therefore monitor the overall implementation o f the Grant. It will ensure that
the funds are used for their intended purpose in the context o f the budget and Government's
response to the food crisis. Concurrently, the Bank i s providing support inthis regard through a
resident poverty economist (Le., through PETS, CWIQ, and support o f household surveys), as



                                                 16

well as through spot checks, and parent associations feedback, performed duringthe supervision
o f the ongoing Bank's education project (Burundi's Education Sector Rehabilitation Support
Project, PARSEB). Bank staff will also continue the policy dialogue in the field with the
institutions involved inthe implementationo f the policies and programs, as well as to coordinate
effectively with donors and agencies, especially those involved in the delivery o f emergency
assistance.

53.     Program implementation will be monitored through WFP report and monthly reports
from school district authorities complementedbyreports from parents associations which will be
presented regularly to the existing education coordinating group. Those reports would indicate
the number of schools under the program, their names and locations and the number o f pupils
receiving the feeding.


                                     9. BENEFITS AND RISKS

Benefits

54.        The provisionof timely, flexiblesupport to the Governmentof Burundiwill enable
the Government to respond quickly to the socio-economic and political crisis that it is
facing. The provision o f quick disbursing financing will enable the Government to maintain the
gains in macroeconomic stability, sustain the critical reforms under the ERSG program, and
undertake critical expenditures to respond to the food price shock. The development community
is supporting Burundi's medium term poverty reduction strategy, and it i s critical that the
momentum o f the reform program i s maintained. The proposed food crisis response grant
financing will complement other support from bilateral and multilateral agencies for mitigating
the risks to Burundi's overall program. It will also support the Government's medium-term
reform agenda for putting in place a better safety net system that improves Burundi's resilience
andresponse to shocks.


Risks

55.      The implementation of the growth and poverty reduction strategy in Burundi
continues to be exposed to risks, many of which were already identified in ERSG
operations and the CAS. In addition to those risks, the expected outcomes o f the proposed
operation are also subject to the following risks:

     0   First, with a combined impact o f recent increases in fuel and food prices on the 2008
         budget estimated to lead to an additional financial needo fup to 4.4 percent o f GDP, there
         i s the risk o f the macroeconomic program going off track. A further rise in the prices o f
         food and energy could undermine the impact o f the Government's program for the poor
         and may require additional measures to sustain the fiscal balance and macroeconomic
         stability. These impacts are expected to be mitigatedby recent government policies, such
         as reducing tariffs on diesel imports which has a higher direct impact on poorer
         households and many other fiscal measures provided in the revised 2008 budget (see


                                               17

  paragraphs 42-44 above). To reduce the risk, IDA, the Fund and other development
  partners will work closely with the Government to help in monitoring macroeconomic
  performance and taking corrective actions in a timely manner.

0 Second, there are also moderate institutional weaknesses which could result in delays in
  the implementation of the Government's program. In addition, fiduciary risks are
  significant. These risks are currently being tackled by the Government, in collaboration
  with the Bank and the IMF, mainly through technical assistance which addresses budget
  management, procurement and transparency issues (see subsection on Fiduciary Aspects,
  above).




                                        18

                                                        Annex 1:Burundiat a glance

 Burundi at a glance                                                                                                                         9/26/07

                                                                                    Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                                                                    I
                                                                                Saharan          LOW
                                                                   Burundi         Africa     income            Age distribution, 2006
(2006)                                                                                                                      Male               Female

Population,mid-year (millions)                                          7.6           770       2,403          70-74
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                             26       24,265       29,215          SO64
Populationgrowth (%)                                                    3 7           2.3         1.6
Urban population (%of total population)                                  10            36         30           50 54
                                                                                                               4044

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                        0.6           646       1,562          30-34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                     100            642         650          20-24

GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                   710         2,032        2,698           10-14
                                                                                                                 0-4
Real GDP growth (%)                                                     5.1           5.6         6.0                30    20     $0      0      10     20
Real GDP per capita growth (%)                                          3.1           3.2         6.1                              percent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2006)

Povertyheadcountratio at $1 a day (PPP, %)                               55 a          41
Povertyheadcountratio at $2 a day (PPP, %)                               66                                     Jnderd mortality rate (per 1,000)
                                                                            a          72
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          49            47          59
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live birlhs)                                109             96          75           200

Child malnutrition ("A of childrenunder 5)                               45            29
                                                                                                                150

Adult literacy,male (% of ages 15and older)                              67            69          72
Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15and older)                            52            50          50           100
Gross primaryenrollment,male (% of age group)                            91            96         106
Gross primaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                          76            66          96            50


Access to an improvedwater source      ( O hof population)               79            56          75             0

Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                 36            37          36                     1990   1995    2000   2005


                                                                                                                     UBurundi      C1Sub-Saharan Africa


Net Aid Flows                                              1980       1990         2000          2006

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and ofticial aid                                    116        263             93         365           3rowth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2005)'
  UnitedStates                                                4          16              1         55
  Netherlands                                                  1          1              4         23             1
  Belgium                                                    26          40              6         21

Aid (% of GNI)                                             12.6        23.5          12.6        47.0
Aid per capita (US$)                                         26          46            14          46


Long-Term EconomicTrends
                                                                                                                     90         95          00         05
Consumerprices (annual average% change)                      9.5        7.0          24.3         2.6
GDP implicit deflator (annual% change)                     16.4         6.0          13.2         4.4               -4--GDP         -GDPper        capita

Exchangerate (annualaverage, local per US$)                90.0       171.3        720.7      1,026.4
Terms of trade index(2000 = 100)                            225         146           100         102
                                                                                                                  1980-90    1990-2000       2000-06
                                                                                                                        (averageannual growth %)
Population,mid-year(millions)                                4.1        5.7           6.5         7.6                   3.2          1.3          3.1
GDP (US$millions)                                           920       1,132           709         916                   4.4         -2.9          2.5
                                                                        (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                62.2        55.9          40.4        34.6                   3.1         -1.9        -1.5
Industry                                                   12.6        19.0          16.6        20.0                   4.5         4 . 3       -6.2
  Manufacturing                                              7.4       12.9           6.7         8.8                   5.7        -8.7
Services                                                   25.1        25.2          40.6        45.1                   5.6         -2 8        10.4

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                      91.4        94.5          86.5        90.9                   3.4        -4.8
Generalgov't final ConsumDtionexDenditure                    9.2       10.8          17.5        29.3                   3.2        -2.6
Grosscapital formation                                     13.9        14.5           6.I        16.7                   6.9        -0.5

Exports of goods and services                                6.6        7.9           7.6         6.4                   3.4        -1.2
Importsof goods and sewices                                23 3        27.6          19.9        26.6                   1.5        -1.6
Grosssavings                                                           -5.4           0.5         1.7

Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. 2006 data are actual. ..indicatesdata are not available,
a. Countrypovertyestimate is for 1998. b. Aid data are for 2005.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).




                                                                           19

                                                                                                                                                   Burundi

Balance of Payments and Trade                             2000        2006
                                                                                        Governance indlcators, 2000 and 2008
(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                              49          59
Total merchandise imports (cif)                             127        234                Vace ard accountability
Net tade in goods and services                              -96       -245
                                                                                                 Pdihcal sfability
Workers' remittances and
   compensation of employees (receipts)                                                         Regulatayquality

Current account balance                                     -50        -134                             Rule d law
   as a % of GDP                                           -7.0       -14.5                   Controld ccrruptim

Reserves, including gold                                     38         131

Central Government Finance                                                                                            Country9 wrcentie rank(0100)
                                                                                                                        hokr v   d rnplyknerrafhg
                                                                                                                                     ~

(%of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                         19.2       36.8
   Tax revenue                                             18.3        17.8
Current expenditure                                        18.8        27.1
                                                                                     Technology and Infrastructure                            2000    2005
Overallsurpluddeficit                                      -1.8      -10.4
                                                                                     Pavedroads    ( O hof total)                               7 1    104
Highestmarginal tax rate (Oh)                                                        Fixedlineandmobilephone
   lndlvidual                                                                          subsaibers (per 1,000 people)                              6     18
   Corporate                                                                         High technology exports
                                                                                       (% of manufachredexports)                                0 0     5 9
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                     Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      1,108       1516          Agriculbral land (% of land area)                           E8      91
Total debt servica                                           22          50          Forest area (% of land area)                               7 1     5 9
Debt relief (HiPC. MDRi)                                    826                      Nationally protected areas (% of land area)                        5 7

Total debt (% of GDP)                                     156.3      165.1           Freshwater resources per capita (cu meters)                      1,338
Total debt service (% of exports)                          39.0       56.8           Freshwater withdrawal (% of internal resources)            2 9

Foreigndirect investment (net Inflows)                       12           1          C02 emissions per capita (mt)                             004    003
Portfolioequity (net inflows)                                 0           0
                                                                                     GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                       (2000 PPP $per kg of oil equivalent)
    Composition of total external debt, 2005
                                                                                     Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)




                                                                                      (US$ millions)


                                                      IOh 751                         IBRD
                                                                                       Total debt Outstanding and disbursed                       0       0
                                                                                       Disbursements                                              0       0
                                                                                       Prindpal repayments                                        0       0
                                                                                       Interest payments                                          0       0

    US$ milims             MF.58                                                      IDA
                                                                                       Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    600     797
                                                                                       Disbursements                                            36       29
Private Sector Development                                2000        2006             Total debt service                                       13       22

lime required tostarta business (days)                        -          43           iFC (fisca,year)
Costtostart a business (Oh of GNI percapita)                         222.4             Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                  0       0
Time requiredto register property (days)                      --         94             ofwhich IFC own account                                   0       0
                                                                                       Disbursements for IFC own account                          0       0
Ranked as a major constraintto business                                                Portfolio sales, prepayments and
   (%of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                   repaymentsfor IFCown account                              0       0
     Eiectridty                                                       40.7
     Access tolcost of financing                              ....    16.0            MIGA
                                                                                       Gross exposure                                             0       1
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                                                                                                                    0
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)


Note:Figures in italics are for years otherthan those specified. 2006 data are actual.
.. indicates data are not available. - indicates observation is not applicable.                                                                     9/28/07



                                                                             20

  Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                         Burundi




t Goal 1: halue the rates for $1 a day povertgand malnutrition                                   1990       1995           2000           2005

@  Poverty headcountratio at $1a day (PPP.X of population]                                       452                         *w6
  Poverty headcountratio at nationalpoverty line[ X of population]                                36.4
   Share of incomeor consumptionto the poorest qunitile [XI                                       ,?.Q                        51
   Prevalenceof malnutrition[X of childrenunder 51                                                                            45.1

  Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primargschooling

,  Primaryschool enrollment [net,z)                                                               d.?                          43            60
                                                                                                     41        5.?             25            36
   Secondary school enrollment [gross,z]
   Primary completionrate [x of relevantage group]
                                                                                                     d                                        13
   Youthliteracyrate [X of peopleages 15-24]                                                         54                        73

  Goal 3: eliminate gender disparitg in education and empower women
   Ratio of girlsto boys inprimaryandsecondaryeducation[A]                                        &'                                         84
                                                                                                     13
   Proportion of seats heldby women innationalparliament[z]
   Women employedinthe nonagriculturalsector [zof nonagriculturalemployment]
                                                                                                                                 6            31

  Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
   Under-5mortalityrate(per 1,000)                                                                190          190            190           190
   Infant mortalityrate[per 1,000live births]                                                      114         114             114           114
   Measles immunization[proportionof one-year oldsimmunized.Z]                                       74        80              75            75

  Goal 5: reduce maternalmortalitg bg three-fourths
   Maternalmortality ratio[modeledestimate,per 100,000livebirths]                                                            1,000
   Birthsattendedby skilledhealthstaff [zof total]                                                                             25

  Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HlYlAlOS and other major diseases
   Prevalence of HIV [X of populationages 15-49]                                                                                            3.3
   Contraceptiveprevalence[zof women ages15-49]                                                                                 16

   Tuberculosiscases detectedunderDOTS( X I
   Incidenceof tuberculosis [per 100,000people]                                                   125         218             298           334
                                                                                                               19             .?4            30

  Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
   Access to an improvedwater source [zof population]                                                69        73              77
, Access to improvedsanitationfacilities        [zof population]                                     44        40              38
   Forest area [A of totallandarea]                                                               113                          7.7
   Nationally protectedareas [A of total landarea]
   C02 emissions[metrictons per capita]                                                            0.0         0.0             0.0
   GDP per unit of energy use[constant 2000 PPP $ per kg of oilequivalent]

  Goal 8: develop a global partnership for deuelopment
   Fixedline andmobilephonesubscribers[per 1,000people]                                               1         3                6           xp
   Internetusers [per 1,000 people]                                                                   0         0                1            5
   Personal computers[per 1,000 people]                                                                                          1            5
  Youth unemployment[X of total labor force ages 15-24]
     i:E
    Education indicators [%I                              Measles immunization [% of 1-                ICT indicators [per 1.000 people]
                                                          gear olds]
                                                                                                         1




      25    2000       2002              2005


        -                                                          1440 1495  2000   2005                    2000       2002          2005
        -0-Primarynetenrollmentratio

              Ratio of qirlr to boyr in primary 8;                                                                      mobile Subicribcrs
                                                              0 Burundi                                       0 Fixed
                                                                            Sub-Saharan Africa
              recondarv education                                                                               Internet urcri



1 Note:Figuresinitalicsare for years other thanthose specified. ..indicatesdataare not available.                                        9128j07

 DevelopmentEconomics,Development Data Group(DECDG].



                                                                       21

                                         Annex 2: KeyEconomicIndicators
                                                             ~~




                                                      Actual                 Estimate           Projected
                 Indicator                   2004   2005       2006    2007   2008     2009   2010     2011   2012
Nationalaccounts inreal terms
(Billions of FBU, at 2000 constant
prices)
Gross Domestic Product                        564.1  569.2       598.4  619.8    647.8  679.9  713.6    749.1   790.1
Primary sector                                274.8  257.4      270.2   270.5    282.0  294.3  307.2    321.3   331.5
  Agriculture                                 266.9  249.1       261.5  261.5    272.5  284.3  296.7    310.2   325.8
Secondary sector                               81.3   87.4        91.4   97.1    102.2  107.9  114.3    121.0   128.1
  Manufacturing                                34.3   36.2        37.6   39.5     41.5   43.6   46.0     48.5    51.2
Tertiary Sector                               207.9  224.4       236.7  252.2    263.6  277.7  292.1    306.7   324.5

Total Consumption (Percent o f GDP)           111.0  108.4       110.5  116.8    109.1  111.1  111.6    111.3
Gross domestic fixed investment (Percent
o f GDP)                                       13.3   10.7        16.3   22.7     28.8   27.2   26.1     25.3
  Government investment                        10.3    6.5         8.3   12.2     15.2   16.0   16.0     16.0    16.0
  Private investment                            3.0    4.0         8.0    7.1      9.8   10.5   11.5     11.5    11.5

Exports (GNFS)b Percent o f GDP                 7.2    7.1         6.4    5.2      6.2    5.9    6.1      6.4     6.9
Imports (GNFS) Percent of GDP                  22.4   23.7        26.6   30.3     32.8   29.9   27.9     27.01   27.0
Gross domestic savings                        -11.0  -17.4       -22.2  -15.8     -7.9   -6.7   -5.3     -4.3    -9.4
Gross national savings'                         5.2    1.2         1.7    9.6     13.7   10.7   11.4     10.4     10
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                        664.5  800.6       918.0  973.7  1139.2  1356.1 1510.2   1615.7  1744.3
(US$ millionat current prices)
GNIper capita (US$, Atlas method)               90      90        100     110
"Real annual growth rates (%)
  Gross domestic product at market prices       4.8    0.9         5.1    3.6      4.5    5.0    5.0      5.0     5.0
  Gross Domestic Income
Real per capita GDP growth (%)                  2.8   -1.1         3.1    0.6      1.5    1.9    1.9      1.9     1.9
Balance of Payments (US$millions)
 EXPOITS (GNFS)~                                                 93.1   80.8    106.5  120.4  141.0    161.8   180.6
    Merchandise FOB                             48      57         59      50      71      81     93      103    116
  Imports (GNFS)~                                                446.7  471.2    573.4  629.2  662.2    686.9   714.0
    Merchandise FOB                          148.8  189.7         245     295     374    406    422      437     450
 Resource balance                                                -354    -390    -467    -509   -521     -525   -533
 Net current transfers                        125.9  240.9       206.0  240.1    231.9  233.2  256.8    245.4   253.9
 Current account                              -55.7   -9.7      -133.5 -117.5  -201.2  -293.2 -264.1   -252.0  -269.4
 Net private foreign direct investment            0      2
 Long-term loans (net)                          11      38
   Official                                       8     20         23      -5       -2    -11    -16      -24    -31
   Private                                        3     18
 Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissic    29     -10
 Change inreservesd                             15     -20
Memorandum items
Current account balance (% o f GDP)
           incl. official transfers            -8.1   -1.2       -14.5  -16.0    -19.1  -20.1  -17.8    -17.9
           excl. official transfers           -25.5  -29.1       -36.3  -37.7    -36.3  -34.2  -31.9    -30.3       3
Real GDP growth rate                            4.8    0.9         5.1    3.6      4.5    5.0    5.0      5.0     5.5
 Merchandise exports (FOB)                    -10.9   -2.0
   Primary
   Manufactures                                 6.3    0.0
 Merchandise imports (CIF)                     -0.7   28.1




                                                          22

                                 Annex 2: Key EconomicIndicators,continued

                                                            Actual                 Estimate            Projected
                  Indicator                  2004        2005       2006    2007     2008    2009    2010     2011    2012

Public finance (as % of GDP at marketprices)e
Total revenue (excl. grants)                     20.1       20.0       18.9   18.7     19.1    19.1    19.1     19.2
Total expenditure                                39.8       36.8       38.2   38.7     43.8    40.3    39.0     36.7
 Capital expenditure                                         13.6      14.8   13.9     17.3    16.1    15.8     14.1
 Foreign financing (Grants and borrowing)                    11.7      20.2   21.6     24.8    97.7    22.7     21.0

Monetaryindicators
  Velocity (GDPMZ; period average)                 3.9        3.7       2.7    3.2      3.3     3.3     3.3      3.2     3.1
 Growth o f M2 (%)                                 7.8      25.7       23.4   13.7     19.5
 Private sector credit growth /
 total credit growth (%)

Price indices(YR80 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index                  67.9       80.8      100.0   91.6     94.6    94.9    96.0     96.9    97.7
 Merchandise import price index                  99.8      109.8      100.0  109.0    127.0   121.1   115.1    112.1   110.4
 Merchandise terms o f trade index               68.0       73.6      100.0   84.0     74.5    78.4    83.4     86.4    88.5
Exchange rate (annual % change)                    1.7       -2.3      -4.3    5.6 ..

  Interest rate (percent)                        13.2        14.0      14.2              ...     ...     ...      ...     ...
 Consumer price index (annual average
% change)                                          8.0       13.4       2.8    8.3     19.1     9.4     8.2      6.8     5.8
 GDP deflator (annual % change)                    8.3       16.6       4.4    8.2     18.5     10      8.7      6.6     6.1


a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes useo fIMFresources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units.''An increaseinUS$/LCU denotes appreciation.




                                                                 23

       Annex 3: Burundi Which goods to tadsubsidizeunder indirecttax reforms?"
                              -
         The consumption dominance curves of order two actually represent the cumulative share o f the
total consumption o f a good that i s made by the poor. The horizontal axis represents the level o f
consumption per equivalent adult normalized by the poverty line, so that a value of one corresponds to
the poverty line actually used in the country. Inthe figure below for example, at a value o f one on the
horizontal axis (which means that we are looking at the consumption share o f all the poor taken together),
the value o f the horizontal axis for maize consumption i s about 50 percent. This means that the poor as a
whole, which roughly represent the bottom third quintiles (actually, a bit more than that) consume about
half o f the total maize in the country. Interms o f comparing different goods and curves in the figure
below, milk and bread have the lowest curves. This means that the shares o f milk and bread consumed
by the poor are lower for any poverty line we chose than the shares o f the other items presented in the
Figure. Thus, it would not be best for poverty reduction to reduce the taxes on these goods. Rice has a
consumption dominance curve that i s locatedhigher, but still below maize and cassava (manioc).

              CumulativeCD Curvefor selected food items- Order 2, Burundi2006




        0.3           0.5       0.7            0.9             1.1              1.3          1.5      1.7

      -                             Normalized per equivalent adult consumption (yi/z)
      - --  bean                   banana                  - I    cassava                     rice
       - - -maize                  cooking oil            --      ndagala and other fish --- -
                                                                                            -meat
            vegetables        - -- petroleum                      bread                 -     milk




'OQ.Wodonet. a1based onthe 2006 BurundiCWIQ survey.


                                                         24

                       Annex 4: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy




MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE, DES
FINANCES ET DE LA COOPERATION
AU DEVELOPPEMENT.

96ZNETDU MINISTRE.
N/Ri?f. :540/    i.!?'  NO08

                                          A Monsieur RobertZoellick
                                              President de la Banque mondiale
                                             1818H street, NW
                                              Washington, D.C., 20433.


     U2&;NOte       d'information sur /'affectation de I'appui budgefaire de 10millions
             de doiiars americains accord6 par la BanqUe Mondiale au couvernement
             du 6UrUndiau titre de /'allegement de /'impactde la crise alimentaire.


Monsieur le President,

NOUSavons I'honneur de VOLIS transmettre ci-dessous une note d'information
sur I'affectation de I'appui budgehire de 10 millions de dollars americains qui
pourrait &re accord6 par la Banque Mondialeau GOUVernement du Burundiau
titre de I'all8gementde I'impact de la crise alimentaire.

1.      Le Gouvernement du Burundi remercie la BanqUe Mondiale pour les
conseils e t I'appui technique et financier considerable gu'il ne cesse de lui
apporter. En effet, la Banque Mondiale a toujours apporte au Burundi des
appuis budgetairessubstantielsqui ont contribue largement A completer nos
ressources interieures limitees et a Bquilibrerles budgetsde I'Etat.

2.      En plus de ces appuis budgetaires, la Banque Mondiale a continue 2
soutenir le Burundi pendant la periode de crise par I'octroi d'importants dons
ou prCts a des conditions tres concessionnetles dans les principaux secteurs de
dfiveloppement         tels que I'AgricuIture,les Infrastructures de base ; I'Education,
I'EnerQie, la Sante; la Lutte contre le SlDA ainsi que le Renforcement des
CapacitCs, tout particuli8rement dans la gestion des finances publiques et la
promotionde la bonnegouvernance.

3.      Actuellement, le Burundi est classe parmi les pays les plus pauvres du
nionde avec un taux de croissance du PIB de 3,6 % ces 3 dernigres annees ; un
produit national brut par habitant de moins de 100 dollarsamericains par an ;
un taux d'inflation situe actuellement autour de 10% et des conditions
climatiques imprevisiblesqui exposent le pays2 la sCcheresse et la population 2
la famine.

  ----------------_----"----------"-------~---------------------------------------------------"-----------------
                                                                                                      5?=
                 KP ;ram B4umbwa r& :25722223988-~-rna~f            :minifin@usan-bu-net




                                                   25

                                         2




4.    Dans un contexte international 00 les prix du carburant; des produits
alimentaires ainsi que des matierespremierestendent 2i s'lnstallerdurablement a
des niveaux de plus en plus releves,avec des impacts significatifs sur les rythmes
de croissance de I'Cconomie mondiale; la situation socio-economique du
Burundi, deja fragile, risque de tomber 2 un niveau plus bas, ce qui affecterait
sensiblement le niveau de vie de la population 3 la            base. ces sombres
perspectives conduisent le pays a demander davantage d'appuis financiers
exterieurs pour dune part, lutter contre la pauvrete en general et d'autre part,
equilibrer son budget annuef.

5.     Pour le moment, le Burundi a conclu avec succes le premier programme
triennal de stabilisation macroeconomique convenu avec le Fonds Monetaire
International. II vient ensuite de s'engagerdans un nouveau programme triennal
de Facllitede Reductionde la Pauvrete et pour la CroissancefFRPC)et un nouveau
programme de reformes economiquesavec la Banque Mondialedans le cadre du
deuxieme don d'appui a la reforme Cconomique (DARE 2). Aussi, le Burundi
b6neficie des avantages de I'initiative PPTE et le Gouvernement continue le
programme de reformes structurelles en cours afin de pouvoir arriver au point
d'achbvement et ainsi beneficier de la remise totale de la dette exterieure. La
totalit6 des fonds relatifs a la remise de la dette exterieure est affectee dans les
secteurs sociaux prioritaires que sont la sante publique, I'education, le
rapatriement des refugies et des deplaces de guerre ; I'agriculture ; la lutte
contre le VIH/SIDA ainsi que la reconstruction du pays afin de pouvoir lutter
contre la pauvrete de la populatFon.

6.     DanS le cadre de son assistance technique, la Banque Mondiale a toujours
Cite un plonnier en appuyant le Gouvernement du Burundi dans la mise en place
des reformes prioritaires aussi bien dans la gestion des finances publiques et la
promotion de la bonne gouvernance que dans les reformes structurelles en
generaI.

7.     Ail niveau des finances publiques,des reformes importantes Ont ete mises
en vigueur et d'autres sont en cours de finalisation. Un cadre legal et
reglementaire rassurant dans le domaine de la gestion des finances publiques a
Bte adopte. Nous citerons a titre d exemple la nouvelleLoi Organique relative aux
finances publiques en cours d'adoption par le Parlement;ainsi que la realisation
de fa Revuedes Depenses Publiques.

8.     AU niveau technique, une application informatique de gestion moderne
des finances publiques est deja operationnelle sur la chaine de paiement des
depenses publiques,I'informatisation du circuit de la collecte des recettes a deja
reussi au niveau de la Direction des DOUaneS et est en cours de finalisation au
niveau de la collecte des recettesfiscales 2 la Direction des rmpots.




                                         26

                                          3


9.     AU niveau de la bonne gouvernance, nous citerons, B titre d'exemples,
I'appui technique de la Banque Mondiale dans I'cilaboration du nouveau Code
des marches publics,deja adopt6 par le Parlement et promulgue par le President
de la Republique; la conduite de I'etude sur la lutte contre la corruption et les
malversations economiques; ainsi que I'imminente etude sur la strategie
d'approvisionnement et de stabilisation des prix des produits p6troliers. Les
recommandationset conclusionsde ces differentes etudes permettront sans nul
doUte au Gouvernement du BUrUndi de prendre de meilleures d6cisions en
termes de choix de politiques economiques.

IO.    AU niveau structurel, la Banqlle mondiale est intervenu considerablement,
notamment 3 travers l'appui de la reforme de la filibre cafe, en cours ; la relance
des mesures de reforme liees a la restructuration/privatisation des entreprises
publiques; ainsi que dans la promotionen general du secteur priv6, notamment
2 travers la production d'une serie de textes visant I'amClioration du ciimat des
affaires (nouveau code des            investissements conformes aux         normes
internationales,cadre de concertation public-prive,etc.).

11.    Tous ces instruments mis en place tant au niveau de la legalit6 qu'au
niveau des techniques de gestion demontrent la dgtermination des autorites
en vue de la transparence et de I'efficacite dans la gestion des finances
publiques.

12.    Concernant I'appui budgetaire additionnel de 10 millions de dollars dont
le Burundi pourrait beneficier de la part de la Banque Mondiale, ies autorites
comptent I'affecter dans le domaine de i'alimentation pour reduire I'impactde la
recente augmentation des prix agricoles sur la pauvrete au Burundi. Ainsi, nous
avons revise le budget 2008 pour pouvoir subvenir aux besoins alimentaires
resultant de l'augmentation suscittie, B travers essentiellement les actrvit6s
 agricoles de court terme et, la satisfaction des besoins alimentaires d'urgence,
 tout particuli&-ement ceux des jeunes ecoliers du primaire, via la mise en place
 des programmes de cantines scolaires. A cet effet, le budget revise prevoit une
 ligne budggtaire de 3 millions de dOllarS E.U. alloude au financement de
 I'expansiondes programmes de cantines scolaires. Ces programmes de cantines
 scolaires seront maintenusdans le budget nationalde 2009, et mis en awvre si la
 crise alimentaire actuelleDersistait

 13.    plus specifiquement, dans la Loi budgetaire revis6e 2008, cet appui
 additionnel contribuera au financementicompensationdes mesuressuivantes :

              AU niveau des recettes : a) suspension des droits de douanes et de la
        taxe de transaction sur certaines importations alimentaires (arachides,
        farine de manioc, fruits et ICgumes, poissons (ndagala et autres),pommes
        de terre, viande fraiche, farine de mals, haricots et petit pois, manioc frais
        ou sec, patate douce, mals, oignon et banane); b) suspension des 17% de
        taxe de transaction sur les produits diesel; c) Reduction deS tarifs sur les




                                          27

                                            it                                             I

      produits diesel import& pour reduire I'impact de la flambee des prix
      petroliers et des denrees alitnentaires sur les pauvres; d)subsides sur les
      produits       diesel pour les secteurs pro-pauvres: e) renforcement des
      programmes de securite alimentaire et d'alimentation dans les ecoles; et,
      f) renforcement des mesures de rationalisation des recettes avec un
      impact sur les imp6ts interieurs et les imp6ts sur le commerce exterieur et
      les transactions internationales.

      I   Au niveaudes d6penSeS : g)en agriculture :(i)la constitutiond'un stock
      strategique de fertilisants agricoles: (ii) la rehabilitation du systBme
      d'irrigationde la plaine de I'lmbo; (iii)l'intensificationdes cultures vivrieres;
      iiv) la contribution aux microcredits agricoles ruraux ; e) pour le
      rapatriement des deplaces de guerre: (v) I'appui au processus de
      rapatriement (il s'agira d'acheter des tbles pour la couverture des maisons
      des rapatries & deplaCCS) ;(vi)I'allocationaux rapatries,deplaces et sinistrC;
      einfrastructures
        t (vii) I'allocation a I'assistance humanitaire d'urgence ; f) au niveau des
                         de base, la rehabilitation des routes d'intCr0t general (axes
      KIRUNDO-GASENYIet GITEGA-KARUSI-MUYINGA),mais aussi hf, au niveau de la
      sgcurite alimentaire immediate, I'allocation aux rapatries, deplaces et
      sinistres; et I'assistance humanitaire d'urgence d'une part ; et surtout
      d'autre part ; la mise en place des programmes de cantines scolaires pour
      d'6tude en 2008, dans ies provinces du Nora a forte concentration et sous
      i'alimentation desjeunes ecoliersdu primaire pendant le dernier trimestre

      menace d'une eventuelle secheresse.

14.   Enfin, le Gouvernement du Burundi remercie encore une fois la Banque
mondialepour les efforts constants qu'elle ne cesse de fournir en vue de I'aider a
condulre, de manih-e gCnerale, son programme du CSLP a bOn port. II se felicite
de la collaboration toujours plus fructueuse avec I'institution susmentionnee et
Iui renouvelle son ferme engagement a une demarche concertee dans la
conduite des programmes de reformes ConVenus visant 2 combattre la pauvrete
et a engager rCsolument le pays sur la voie de la croissance.




                                   LA MINISTRE DE L'ECONOMIE, DES FINANCES ET
                                   DE LA COOPERATION AU DEVELOPPEMENT


                                                   ClotDldeNlZlGAMA




                                            28

    Annex 4: Letterof DevelopmentPolicy,continued UnofficialEnglishTranslation
                                                            -
REPUBLICOFBURUNDI                                                    Bujumbura, July 30,2008

                                                To
                                       Mr.RobertZoellick
                                             President
                                           World Bank
                                       1818 HStreet, NW
                                    Washington, D.C., 20433

    RE: Informationalnoteon the allocationof additionalbudgetarysupport of US$10
   million,providedby the WorldBankto the Governmentof Burundifor mitigatingthe
                                    impactof the food crisis


Mr.President,

We have the honor o f transmitting to you an informational note on the eventual allocation o f
additional budgetary support o f US$ 10 million, provided by the World Bank to the Government
o fBurundifor mitigating the impact o f the food crisis.

1.      The Government o f Burundi wishes to express its sincere thanks to the World Bank for
the considerable technical and financial assistance that it has never ceasedto provide. Indeed, the
World Bank has always provided Burundi with substantial budgetary support, which has largely
contributed to complementinglimitedinternalresources and balancing State budgets.

2.      Inaddition to budgetary support, the World Bank has continued to assist Burundiduring
the crisis, through the provision of significant grants and loans at favorable conditions, for key
development sectors including agriculture, infrastructure, education, energy, health, and the fight
against AIDS, as well as capacity building, most particularly in the areas o f public financial
management andthe promotion o f good governance.

3.      Currently, Burundi is ranked among the poorest countries in the world, with a GDP
growth rate of 3.6% over the last three years, GNP per capita o f less than US$ 100per year, an
inflation rate around 1O%,  and unpredictable climatic conditions, which expose the country to
severe drought and famine.

4.      Inthe international context of sustained risingprices for fuel, food commodities, andraw
materials, with significant impact on the global growth rate, the socio-economic situation o f
Burundi, already precarious, risks further worsening and negatively affecting the living
conditions of the population. These grim perspectives have led the country to request more
financial external support to fight against poverty in general, as well as to balance the annual
budget.




                                              29

5.      Burundi has successfully concluded the first three year macroeconomic stabilization
program, agreed uponwith the International Monetary Fund. The country has also just embarked
on a new three year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program, and a new
economic reform program with the World Bank in the framework o f a second economic reform
support Grant (ERSG II).     Additionally, Burundi i s benefiting from the advantages o f the HIPC
initiative and the Government remains committed to the ongoing structural reform program, in
order to reach full implementation and benefit from total external debt cancellation. The total
amount o f external debt relief is allocated to priority social sectors in order to fight poverty,
namely: public health, education, repatriation o f ex-refugees and displaced people, agriculture,
the fight against HIV/AIDS,as well as reconstructionefforts.

6.      Inthe framework ofits technical assistance, the World Bankhas always beenapioneer in
supporting the Government o f Burundiinthe setting up o f public financial management reforms,
and the promotion o f good governance, as well as other structural reforms.

7.       Inthe area ofpublic finance, significant reforms have been implemented and others are
being finalized. A reliable legal and regulatory framework for the management o f public finance
has been adopted. The new Organic Law related to Public Finance, submitted to Parliament, as
well as the Public FinanceReview,represent a few examples o f such progress.

8.       At the technical level, a modern information management system for public finance is
already operational on the public finance payment chain, and the computerization o f the revenue
collection cycle has already beensuccessful inthe Customs department, and i s beingfinalized for
tax revenue collection inthe Tax Revenue department.

9.       On the issue o f good governance, similar progress has been achieved, such as the
technical assistance provided by the World Bank in drafting the new Code on Public
Procurement, already adopted by the Parliament and promulgated by the President o f the
Republic, a governance and anti-comption diagnostic study was conducted recently, as well as
the imminent study on the oil supply and price stabilization strategy. The recommendations and
findings o f these various studies will certainly allow the Government o f Burundito make better
decisions, interms o f economic policies.

10.      At the structural level, the World Bankhasprovided significant interventions, particularly
through support to the ongoing coffee sector reform, the follow up o f reforms related to
restructuring/privatization o f public companies; as well as promotion o f the private sector in
general, through the development o f a series of legal provisions to improve the business
environment (new investment code in compliance with international norms, Public/Private
Consultation framework.. .).

11.      All these instruments implemented at the level o f legal frameworks and management
techniques demonstrate the commitment o f the Burundian authorities to promote transparency
andefficiency inpublic financial management.




                                               30

12.    As regards the eventual additional budgetary support o f US$ 10 million which Burundi
could be granted from the World Bank, the authorities will be allocating it to agriculture and
food, to mitigate the threat o f famine in the country. The objective o f the Grant is to address
urgent food security needs, especially for pupils inprimary schools, through the establishment o f
school feeding and nutrition programs (cantines scolaires). Consequently, the revised 2008
budget includes a budgetary line o f about US$3 million to finance the expansion o f these school
feeding andnutrition programs. The new budget line for primary school feeding with at least the
same amount o f resources will be maintained in the 2009 national budget, and would be
implementedifthe food prices situation continues to hit the country.

13.    More specifically, in the Revised 2008 Budget Law, this additional support will
contribute to the financing o fthe following measures:


        0       On the revenue side : a) suspension o f customs rights and transaction taxes on
        certain food imports (green beans, cassava, sweet potatoes, wheat, etc.) ;b) suspension of
        17% o f the transaction tax on diesel products; c) reduction o f tariffs on imported diesel
       products, to reduce the impact o f rising oil and food prices on the poor; d) subsidies for
        diesel products for pro-poor sectors; e) strengthening o f tax revenue rationalization, with
        an impact on domestic taxes and foreign trade and international transaction taxes      .

        0   One the expenditure side : g) in agriculture: (i) creation o f a strategic stock of
                                                                 the
        agricultural fertilizers; (ii)rehabilitation o f the irrigation system in Imbo plain; (iii)
        increase in food output; (iv) contribution to rural agricultural microcredits; e) for the
        return o f ex-refugees and displaced people; and (v), support to the ex-refugees and
        displaced people repatriation process (consisting o f purchasing corrugated aluminum
        (roofs) for their homes) ;and also h), for immediate food security, benefits to ex-refugees
        and displaced people and disaster victims; and humanitarian assistance on the one hand;
        and above all, on the other hand; the establishment o f school cafeterias for feeding
        primary school children during the first trimester o f the study in 2008, in the northern
        provinces which are densely populated and vulnerable to drought.

 14.    Finally, the Government o f Burundi once again thanks the World Bank for the constant
efforts it continues to put forth with the objective to help lead, generally, its strategic framework
for the fight against poverty (CSLP). It rejoices in the ever more fruitful collaboration with the
aforementioned institution, and reaffirms its firm commitment intaking steps together to leadthe
programmatic reforms agreed to, inorder to alleviate poverty and put the country onto the path o f
economic growth.


                                                   Ministerof Economy,Finance,and
                                                        DevelopmentCooperation

                                                           ClotildeNIZIGAMA



                                                31

                                   Annex 5: School FeedingandNutrition


1.       The proposed Burundi Food Price Crisis Response Development Policy Grant supports
the revised 2008 nationalbudget, which includes a number o fmeasures to mitigate the impact of
increased food process on the poor while maintaining fiscal stability. The second o f the three
measures that the proposed operation aims to support i s a school feeding and nutrition program
for primaryschools (SFNP). This program will help meet the caloric requirements o f the poorest
and most vulnerable households. Ultimately this program will have a positive effect on the
educational ability o f the children.

2.       One o f the goals of IDA'Soperation i s to support the expansion of the SFNP coverage.
Experience suggests that SFNP-type interventions, particularly in lean periods, help to maintain
or increase school attendance and reduce the negative impact o f micronutrient malnutrition on
child attention and learning.

Background

3.       Currently the World Food Program (WFP) finances and implements school feeding
programs in 6 of Burundi's 17 provinces (Rutana, Karusi, Kirundo, Ruyigi, Cankuzo, and
Makamba)". The provinces were selected according to food security criteria. The Program i s
implemented only on about 52.4 percent o f schools in the targeted provinces. The remaining
schools inthose provinces do not have the infrastructure (water and electricity) necessary to run
the program, and some are considered not to require such programs. However, in some
provinces, like Ruyigi, the coverage i s as low as 14percent schools and 23 percent o fpupils.

4.       WFP-financed and implemented school programs provide one hot meal a day for 238,873
children in 269 schools. The total cost (logistics, food, investments) o f this school feeding
program was calculated at the beginning of the year to be US$ 14 million. Given the escalating
food prices the current costs are believed to be US$ 17 million (or approximately US$71 per
child per school year).

5.       No resources were allocated in the original 2008 budget law to primary school feeding
programs. About US$ 6.5 million in the 2008 budget were earmarked to finance food or
residential facilities for secondary schools and universities.

Proposedinterventionsandimplementationarrangements

6.       To face the country's food price crisis resulting from the chronic drought in the region
and the global rise in food prices, WFP and the Governmento f Burundihave taken the following
measures:



"SinceSeptember2007,apilotschoolfeedingprogramhasbeenlaunchedinMuyingaprovince,financedbyWFP.
This programis meant pilot an increase inthe Government's role inthe implementation o f such programs. Giventhe
food price situation the pilot has not advanced much.


                                                     32

       WFP has increased its 2008 resources from $14 to $17 million. This increase is sufficient
       to maintain the ongoing WFP school feeding program in schools where it is currently
       beingimplemented. The resource increase will not allow any expansion o fWFP program.
       The Government's revised 2008 budget law has increased its high school and university
       residential programs by an additional US$2.3 million. The Government has also
       introduced a budget line o f US$ 3 million to finance the expansion o f the WFP-
       implementedprimary school feeding program. IDA'Sproposed operation will cover this
       gap.
       The Government will work with UNICEF andWHO to ensure de-worming andVitamin
       A supplementation twice a year, inall schools inthe countryprioritizing those infood
       insecure areas.

7.     At the current costs o f US$ 71 per child per school year, the US$3 million funds could
finance SFNP for about 120,000 additional pupils during the first school trimester. The total
number o f children covered will be about 560,000 (out o f about 1.3 million inprimary school),
thus increasing the number o f children, including girls, currently receiving school feeding by 50
percent. Some o f the additional schools covered will be situated in the provinces o f Ngozi and
Kayanza which are currently considered food-insecure. The Government i s negotiating a
Memorandum ofUnderstandingwith WFP to implement the program.

8.     The new budget line for primary school feeding with at least the same amount o f
resources will be maintained inthe 2009 national budget, and would be implemented if the food
prices situation continues to hit the country (see LDP inAnnex 4).

Monitoring arrangements

9.     Program implementation will be monitored through WFP report and monthly reports
from school district authorities complemented by reports from parents associations which will be
presented regularly to the existing education coordinating group. Those reports would indicate
the number of schools under the program, their names and locations and the number o f pupils
receiving the feeding.

10.    The Ministry o f Education (MOE) will include discussion o f this program in the bi-
annual donorjoint supervisionmissions, which include the IDA team.




                                                33

        Annex 6: Burundi-IMFStaff's Assessment ofRecentEconomicPerformance




IMF Approves US$75.6 Million PRGF Arrangement for Burundi
Press Release No. 08/167
July 7, 2008
The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today approved a three-year SDR
46.2 million (about US$75.6 million) arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF) for Burundi, to support the implementation of the country's poverty reduction
program and its efforts to consolidate macroeconomic stability. It takes into account the financial
impact of rising world food and oil prices in 2008.
The Executive Board's approval enables Burundi to draw an amount equivalent to SDR 6.6
million (about US$10.8 million) under the PRGF arrangement.
Following the Executive Board's discussion, Mr. Murilo Portugal, Managing Director and Acting
Chair, said:
"The Burundian authorities are to be commended for the progress they have made in
implementing Burundi's first PRGF-supported program in a difficult post-conflict environment.
Though structural reforms have been slow, most monetary and fiscal reforms have progressed
well. However, despite the progress made, poverty remains widespread, and the challenges for
Burundi in meeting the MDGs continue to be significant.
"The new three-year PRGF-supported program, anchored in Burundi's Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper, is designed to reduce inflation to single digits; ensure fiscal sustainability in the
face of heavy debt; improve the composition of spending; strengthen public financial
management and enhance governance; and accelerate structural reforms to stimulate growth
and reduce poverty.
"The authorities' fiscal program for 2008 targets a substantial increase in capital spending, while
accommodating additional spending to boost agricultural output and help alleviate the impact of
increasing food and fuel prices on the poor.
"The success of the authorities' PRGF-supported program will depend, in part, on strong and
coordinated assistance from the international community. Accelerating structural reforms, most
notably on governance issues, will also be critical,'' Mr. Portugal said.
The approved PRGF arrangement for Burundi succeeds an arrangement that expired earlier this
year. The PRGF is the IMF's concessional facility for low-income countries. PRGF loans carry an
annual interest rate of 0.5 percent and are repayable over 10 years with a 5Wyear grace period
on principal payments.
ANNEX
Recent Economic Developments
Economic growth decelerated in 2007, while inflation increased, mostly driven by rising food and
energy prices. Higher grants disbursement from international donors contributed to an improved
fiscal position and helped build international reserves.
After an upturn in 2006, real GDP growth decelerated from 5 percent to 3.6 percent in 2007,
mainly because of a poor coffee harvest. End-period inflation increased to 14.7 percent, from 9.3
percent in 2006, owing to higher international commodity prices and exchange rate depreciation.
I n the first four months of 2008, domestic prices of fuel and basic staples rose on average by 23




                                                34

percent, pushing the overall inflation rate to 11.7 percent during the same period. Excluding
food and oil, the inflation rate would be about 3.5 percent.
The overall fiscal position improved in 2007. The overall fiscal balance (on a commitment basis
and after grants) shifted to a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP from a deficit of 1.8 percent in 2006.
Social spending was estimated to have increased from 8.7 percent of GDP in 2006 to 9.2 percent
in 2007. The authorities have implemented a number of measures with a view to ensuring fiscal
discipline and improving transparency in public finances.
Program Summary
The purpose of the new PRGF arrangement will be to consolidate macroeconomic stability,
further reduce the heavy debt burden, and help the government of Burundi pursue
implementation of its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. It will also support the government's
efforts to obtain debt relief under the enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative
and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).
The main objectives of the new three-year PRGF program will therefore be to:
   0    Return to single-digit inflation. An independent central bank with price stability as its
       principal mission will be essential for this purpose. Better budget and monetary policy
       coordination will also be essential, especially during this period of increasing inflationary
       pressures.

        Improve the composition of public spending to the benefit of the priority sectors, while
       preserving fiscal sustainability. To that end, the wage bill will have to be controlled. It will
       also be important to rely mainly on grants and highly concessional loans to avoid
       unsustainable debt.

        Strengthen public financial management (PFM). The program will seek to stabilize the
       existing PFM system, with particular attention to two ongoing initiatives: (1) the passing
       and gradual implementation of the new budget organic law; and (2) consolidation of a
       single Treasury account and an effective cash flow management plan; and

        Strengthen the internal control systems of the central bank. Emphasis will be placed on
       parliamentary passing of the draft central bank law and on the implementation of a
       number of financial safeguard measures to strengthen internal controls and risk
       management systems.
Provided that the public security situation continues to improve, the macroeconomic objectives
are as follows for the period of the PRGF program: (1) GDP growth should average 5 percent
over the medium term, up from the average of 3.6 percent in 2004-07; and (2) inflation would
slow to about 6 percent by 2011.
The projected growth pattern, which resembles those observed in other post-conflict countries,
is predicated on three factors: (1) continued removal of major economic distortions, especially in
the coffee sector, which will boost total factor productivity; (2) a substantial increase in
investment, driven by international aid and largely consisting of infrastructure renovation, which
will help relieve major supply bottlenecks; and (3) further advances in trade liberalization with
accession to the East African Community, which will help diversify the economy, stimulate
competition, and attract more investment.




                                                35

                      Annex 7: Food CrisisResponseDPG-Actions Matrix
   Overallobjective: To mitigatethe impact of the risingfood pricesonthe poor andvulnerable
                                                 roups
 0bjective        Actions         Indicators        Baseline        Targets      ResponsibleAgency
              already taken
Prevent       Enactedtax     Import and          Import and     Import       and Ministryof
increasing    exemptionson   transactiontaxes    transaction    transaction      Economy, Finance,
poverty rates thirteen basic on bean, banana,    taxes on       taxes        on  and Development
              food items     cassava flour,      thirteen food  thirteen   food  Cooperation.
              (bean, banana, cassava roots,      items listed in items listed in
              cassava flour,  fish, fresh meat,  "indicators"    "indicators"
              cassava roots,  fruits and         column are      column kept at
              fish, fresh    vegetables,         zero.          zero until end
              meat, fruits    maize, maize                       December
              and             flour, onion,                      2008.
              vegetables,    peanuts, potato,
              maize, maize   and sweet potato.
              flour, onion,
              peanuts,
              potato, and
              sweet potato).
Prevent       Strengthened   (a) Actual          (a) US3         (a) US3         (a) Ministry o f
increases in  the food        allocationof the   million;        million;        Economy, Finance,
malnutrition  security and   spending amount                                     and Development
              school feeding  as indicatedin                                     Cooperation;
              programs;       the revised2008
                              budget to school
              Added more      feeding program
              budgetary       extension(US$3
              resourcesfor    million);
              the emergency (b) Number of        (b) 0;          (b) 60;         (b) WFP and
              humanitarian    additional                                         Ministry of
              reliefto cope   schoolsinwhich                                     Educationreports;
              with the threat schoolfeeding is
              of famine in    being
              the country     implemented;
              following the   (c) Number of                      (c) 120,000.    (c) WFP and
              drought.        additionalhot      (c) 0.
                                                                                 Ministry o f
                              meals distributed                                  Educationreports.
                              inschools.
Note. Priori tions and key indicators are indicated in bold.




                                               36

