Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FILE   C4WI
Report No. P-3144-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
November 2, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =    CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million          US$3,700
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)         0.386 square miles (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =    2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare (ha)             -    2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)        =    10.76 square feet
1 liter (1)                =    0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)               264 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BETPA     -  Bureau d'Etudes Techniques des Projets Agricoles
BSIE      -  Budget Special d'Investissements et Equipements
DED       -  Departement d'Etudes et Developpement of BETPA
DEP       -  Direction des Etudes et de la Planification of the
Ministry of Agriculture
DPBCG     -  previously:  Direction de la Planification, Budgetisation
et Controle de Gestion
presently:  Direction de la Programmation, Budgetisation
et Controle de Gestion
ISNAR     -  International Service for National Agricultural Research
ONPR      -  Office National de la Promotion Rurale
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:        US$16 million equivalent
Terms:         17 years, including 4 years grace at an interest rate of
11.6 percent per annum
Loan
Description:   The project has been conceived as a tool to help the Government
implement and consolidate its structural adjustment program as
endorsed by the Bank under the SAL (see Part I).
The project is aimed at assisting the Planning Directorate
of the Ministry of Planning and Industry to improve project
selection; the Industrial Directorate of the Ministry of
Planning and Industry to develop an efficient industrial
policy; the Ministry of Agriculture to strengthen its policy
planning and project preparation capacity; the Ministry of
Scientific Research to devise a research strategy; and finally
at initiating new procedures which should help improve the
management of 8 public enterprises to serve as models for
other enterprises. It provides for the financing of 44-1/2
man-years of resident specialists and 237 man-months of
short-term consultancies. The main risks of the project are
the difficulty of attracting specialists under the project who
will collaborate effectively with the technical assistance
already in place and of attracting and retaining qualified
Ivorian staff to work with these specialists.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             US$ million
Local  1/   Foreign        Total
I. Ministry of Planning and Industry
Directorates of Planning and of Industry
Technical assistance  2/                         371.9        1071.0         1442.9
Vehicles and equipment                            16.3          24.5           40.8
Operating costs                                  225.2           9.3          234.5
Training                                          -             86.6           86.6
TOTAL                                            613.4        1191.4         1804.8
II. Ministry of Agriculture
Technical assistance  2/                        2438.8        5175.3         7614.1
Vehicles and equipment                           113.0         170.4          283.4
Operating costs                                 1066.0          71.8         1137.8
Training                                          -            777.7          777.7
TOTAL                                           2617.8        6195.2         9813,0
III. Ministry of Scientific Research
Technical assistance  2/                         357.8         819.6         1177.4
Vehicles and equipment-                          250.3         537.1          787.4
Operating costs                                  237.5          87.0          274.5
Research fund/training                            -            351.1          351.1
TOTAL                                            845.6        1744.8         2590.4
IV. Ministry of Economy and Finance
Technical assistance  2/                         422.1        1408.6         1830.7
Equipment                                          3.0           4.4            7.4
Operating costs                                  202.6           6.3          208.9
Training                                          -             40.0           40.0
TOTAL                                            627.7        1459.3         2087.0
V. Unidentified activities                         1411.9        2613.0         4025.2
Total base costs                                7116.7       13203.7        20320.4
Price and physical
contingencies                                 1518.5        2796.3         4314.8
GRAND TOTAL                                     8635.2       16000.0        24635.2
1/ including taxes of $4.5 million.
2/ long- and short-term consultant services, including short-term consultancy
for training.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                          US$ million
Bank                   16.0
Government              8.5
of which taxes         (4.5)
TOTAL                  24.5
Estimated Disbursements:                                 US$ million
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                0.5    6.0    7.0    4.5
Cumulative            0.5    6.5   13.5   18.0






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN]D DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE IVORY COAST
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan for the equivalent of US$16 million to the Ivory Coast for Technical
Assistance. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years
of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report" (1147b-IVC) was circulated
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It was published in 1978 by the Johns
Hopkins University Press under the title "The Challenge of Success". Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects, updated by Bank missions in
each subsequent year, is reflected in the following paragraphs. Bank missions
to prepare and appraise this proposed loan visited the Ivory Coast in October
1980, and in April and June 1981. This report incorporates their findings.
In February 1981, the Executive Board of the IMF approved an Extended Fund
Facility program for the Ivory Coast. Annex I provides basic country data
and contains updated information on recent economic developments.
Introduction
3.        Since 1960, when GDP per capita was US$145, the country has experi-
enced a 7 percent per annum GDP growth rate, a pace of development that has
surpassed that of most non-oil exporting countries and which resulted in a
1980 GDP per capita of US$1200, the second highest in sub-saharan Africa.
4.        From the outset, the Government has pursued economic growth as
its primary objective. A political framework was established that promoted
an open and stable economy. Political ideology played a secondary role to
practical considerations in promoting growth and development. The open
economy proved to be a strong attraction to foreign factors of production.
As a result, there has been a massive immigration of both unskilled labor
from poor neighboring countries and skilled technicians and managers from
Europe. Today, immigrants (mainly Africans) constitute about 30 percent of
the country's population. Neighboring countries enjoy substantial benefits
from the outflow of workers' remittances from the employment that their
surplus labor force is able to find in the Ivory Coast. Close relations with
France through, inter alia, the West African Monetary Union, ensure currency
convertibility 27 and a relatively stable balance of payments.
1/   This section is the same as Part I of the President's Report on the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Report No. P-3143-IVC, dated November 2nd, 1981.
2/   The exchange rate of the CFA franc is fixed with the French franc at
50 to 1.



-2-
5.        From Independence, agriculture was identified as the key to the
country's growth potential. Tropical rainforests covered large areas in the
South, and their successful (if overly extensive) exploitation gave the
country foreign exchange resources for investment. These areas were suitable
for growing coffee, cocoa, and other crops. The agricultural potential of
the North was more limited, and it therefore was developed more slowly and
to a lesser extent. But food crops, cotton, and livestock were successfully
promoted. There was a relatively favorable ratio of cultivable land to
population so that food output expanded with the needs of a growing population,
and the competition between food and export crops was limited. Public agencies
strongly supported smallholder development, although state-owned industrial
plantations were established and prospered under sound management. SODEPALM
became a model of a semi-autonomous public agency which established palm oil
and coconut plantations and effectively processed and marketed both crops.
Underpinning this growth performance were the agricultural research institutes
which developed varieties of coffee, cocoa, oil palm, cotton and rice that
were successfully introduced. Value added in the agricultural sector grew
by an average of over 5 percent per year.
6.        In support of this agricultural development, Government developed
physical infrastructure. For example, access to transportation was assured
through a good network of feeder roads linked to a well-developed and main-
tained secondary and trunk road network. An excellent and well-managed
deepwater port was developed at Abidjan, the capital, and a second port more
recently at San Pedro in the West.
7.        Other sectors of the economy also grew rapidly.  Industry, parti-
cularly agro-industry, grew at 12 percent per year. Most investment exploited
import substitution potential such as in cotton textiles. The tertiary sector
grew rapidly based partly on demand generated by agriculture and industry, and
partly on demand resulting from government policies to provide infrastructure
to support development. A large parapublic sector emerged with enterprises in
agriculture, transportation, power, and housing among others, based both on
the need to diversify growth in areas that private enterprise was unlikely to
enter and on the need to speed up the Ivorianization of the economy.
8.        The combination of decisions to promote government investment
in both infrastructure and the parapublic sector led to a growing public
investment program. Although investment rates increased from 14 percent of
GDP in the early 1960s to well over 20 percent by the mid-1970s, large public
sector savings and increasing external borrowing were available to finance
the expanded program. Moreover, through the mid-1970s, the balance of pay-
ments position remained strong as coffee and cocoa prices continued to
increase.
9.        Under the impetus of the boom in coffee and cocoa prices in late
1976 and 1977, Government expanded the public investment program in 1978 to
more than $2 billion, almost one-fourth of GDP, under the erroneous assumption
that prices of these commodities would remain high. External debt provided 40
percent of the financing. Debt service, therefore, rose rapidly and reached
$700 million by the end of the 1970s. But because of both lower-priority



- 3 -
projects, particularly in the public enterprise sector, and projects with
very long pay-off periods (in education, for example), export earnings did
not increase commensurately, so that debt service ratios rose to over 25
percent by the end of the decade.
10.       Coffee and cocoa export earnings declined precipitously after 1979,
and, by 1981, had lost over 50 percent of their peak (1977 and 1978) prices.
Furthermore, import prices continued to increase with inflation. Thus terms
of trade declined by about 35 percent from 1978 to 1981, and the balance of
payments entered a period oc siringency.
11.       Public finance problems also emerged.  Savings fell sharply as
government marketing surpluses from coffee and cocoa were reduced by about
$600 million annually from 1977 and 1978 to the present. The claims of debt
service, of recurrent costs from completed projects, and of a few large cost
overruns generated strong fiscal pressures. The public enterprise sector began
to incur large deficits because of higher current costs which were not matched
by returns on investment. The recurrent costs of the education sector, which
accounts for 46 percent of the current budget, have become particularly burden-
some.
Weaknesses of Government Policy
12.       There are four main areas of weakness in government policy which
need to be addressed. First, the public sector expanded excessively, contri-
buting to a deterioration in public savings and rising external debt. Second,
while current expenditures increased, the main cause of the expansion was
an inflated and ill-conceived public investment program. Third, planning and
programming in the agricultural sector were inadequate, and the pipeline of
suitable projects diminished. Furthermore, distortions emerged in the price
incentive system. Finally, industrial sector policies, based on excessive
protection, had the effect of systematically increasing costs and reducing
the incentives to export.
Excessive Public Sector Expansion and Deteriorating Savings
13.       Government and public sector activities expanded rapidly in the
mid-1970s. From 1970 to 1975, public expenditure (current and capital)
increased gradually from 25 to 32 percent of GDP. By 1978, public expenditure
accounted for a full 41 percent of GDP. Current expenditure had quadrupled
while investment had increased tenfold from 1970 to 1978. This expansion
was based on the faulty hypothesis that the coffee/cocoa commodity boom of
1976-78 would be long-lived, and would thus continue to add substantially to
Government's long-term resources.
14.       Public enterprises came to play a major role in Government-s devel-
opment policy. They were used extensively by Government to meet growth
objectives, particularly in agriculture, Ivorianization, social objectives,
including regional development and housing, and the objectives of ensuring
adequate infrastructure and services in sectors such as energy and transporta-
tion to support the growth process. Their share of the public investment



- 4 -
program increased from US$150 million (or 25 percent) in 1975 to $850 million
(or 45 percent) in 1978. This rapid increase was accompanied by a sharp
deterioration in quality since projects were inadequately screened, a deterio-
ration reflected in the financial problems faced by many public enterprises in
the early 1980s. By 1980, the operating deficit of the state enterprises had
exceeded $250 million, to which an additional $175 million should be added on
account of debt service owed by state enterprises but paid by Government.
Public sector savings did not keep pace with investment.
15.       Public savings averaged 7 percent of GDP for 1971-75.  They increased
temporarily with the 1976-78 coffee/cocoa boom to 17 percent of GDP, but fell
to less than 1 percent of GDP by 1980. Thus, increased external borrowing was
required to fund the shortfall. Moreover, the problem was aggravated by the
large amounts of pro-cyclical borrowing which increased in 1976 and 1977 (a
total of $2.2 billion in commitments) as Government pursued its expanded
investment program. Total debt reached $5.5 billion at the end of 1980.
Investment Program Distortions
16.       Public investment has been a dominant policy variable in the Ivory
Coast. Starting at Independence, when public investment accounted for 12
percent of GDP, investment increased through the late 1970s when it reached
24 percent of GDP. An upward trend in investment would not by itself have
necessarily been detrimental. However, in the mid-1970s a qualitative change
occurred in the planning and programming controls on investment. An indicator
of the change is the hastily organized major departure from the 1976-80 Five-
Year Plan, in contrast to the country's close adherence to the 1971-75 Plan.
Table I: PUBLIC INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE (billions of CFAF)
1971-75                          1976-80
Planned    Actual      Actual      Planned   Actual      Actual
Expend.    Expend.    Expend.    Expend.   Expend.    Expend.
in 1970    in 1970  in current   in 1975   in 1975  in current
prices     prices      prices       prices.   prices    prices
Agriculture            86           80        108         349       419         532
of which sugar:       -           -           -           -      (251)       (311)
Industry and Energy   50           49          66         209       258         321
Transportation and
Communications         55           69         97         221       311         358
Education              18           20         30          49       123         158
Health                  9            6          8          19         19         26
Urban Development
and Housing            34           39         56          97        160        169
Other                  25           36         49          76       143         172
Total                 277          299        416       1,020     1,443       1,736



Thus, whereas the 1971-75 Plan experienced an 8 percent expenditure overrun,
the 1976-80 Plan experienced a 40 percent overrun in real terms. This excess
was all the more substantial because the 1976-80 Plan was itself quite ambi-
tious representing, in real terms, a doubling of expenditure over the 1971-75
Plan, while (actual) GDP increased only 45 percent in real terms.
17.       The increases from the first to the second Plan are attributable
to increases in agriculture (mainly sugar), transportation, education, and
"other" (mainly administrative buildings). The common theme among these
sectors is the increasing proportion of large projects with high unit costs in
the investment program. In agriculture, most of the increased allocation in
the investment program (CFAF 311 billion) was for six sugar complexes. The
rationale for the sugar program was to generate employment and income for
farmers in the low-income northern region. However, unit costs are over three
times world market prices for sugar. As this became apparent, the Government
cancelled plans for an additional five complexes. In education, the investment
program supported several over-designed higher educational facilities, which
also absorb large amounts of the current budget. In transportation, the main
problem was the excessive scale of highway investment although, in general,
both project design and selection were adequate.
18.       By contrast, the Government supported an expansion of the cotton
program, so that cotton production increased from 10,000 tons to 150,000 tons
produced at approximately world market prices. Although questionable input
subsidies remain, the program has brought a cash crop to about 100,000 farm
families in the lower-income northern region of the country.
19.       The decline in productivity of public investment in the late 1970s
imposed substantial costs on the economy. The incremental national income
from the $8 billion spent on the public investment program from 1976-80 was
approximately 40 percent less than it would have been if earlier standards
had been maintained. The annual cost, in terms of foregone earnings, imposed
on the economy by this deterioration is equivalent to about 5 percent of
GDP levels in the early 1980s.   The very slow growth of the early 1980s can
thus be seen as the result of the failure to convert the transient gains of
the coffee/cocoa boom into capital capable of sustaining growth. Had this
failure not occurred, growth in the early 1980s could have been close to the
long-term trend of 7 to 7-1/2 percent per year, despite the drastic decline in
coffee and cocoa prices.
20.       The consequences of this enlarged investment program were far-
reaching. The recourse to external debt financing--about 45 percent of the
program was debt-financed rather than the 29 percent foreseen in the Plan--
means that debt service will quickly reach $1 billion per year and absorb more
than 25 percent of export earnings for several years. Public savings will
suffer as interest (and amortization) payments preempt resources. In 1981,
for example, public savings are estimated to be only US$35 million.
21.       Towards the end of the 1970s, Government began to realize the
problems created by the expanded public investment program, and began to
change its policies. Thus, expenditure during the first three years of the



- 6 -
Plan period (1976-78) came to CFAF 821 billion in 1975 prices, or over 80
percent of the amount projected for five years. By contrast, expenditure in
the last two years (1979-80) came to CFAF 495 billion, or 48 percent of the
total projected amount. This was a large shift relative to GDP, since GDP was
growing rapidly during the period. With this slowdown in 1979 and 1980, the
public investment/ GDP rates declined from 23 percent in 1978 to 17 percent in
1980. However, this decrease resulted from ad hoc investment reviews under-
taken by Government. It did not represent a return to the more systematic and
rational policies of the past.
Inadequate Support for Agricultural Development
22.       Although agriculture has been the key sector in the Ivory Coast's
rapid development, over the last four or five years the sector has, with few
exceptions, lost much of its dynamism. For example, foodcrop production is
apparently stagnant, requiring increasing imports to meet the country's needs.
This can be traced to growing financial problems, a decline in institutional
effectiveness, and inadequate price and other policies.
23.       A potentially important reform was announced in 1977 under which
three previously crop-specific agencies were to become responsible for regional
development in three geographic zones. While the reform was partially put
into effect in the North, it was never implemented in the Center or South.
However, the regional agencies' central staff expanded while, partly because
of Government indecision, services deteriorated. Further, with increasing
fiscal problems, Government inadequately funded essential services leading
to arrears and some demoralization as staff became concerned with day-to-day
financial problems. For example, in the Central region, SATMACI, which
supplies extension services and inputs to coffee and cocoa farmers, saw its
operating budget grow from CFAF 5.7 billion in 1976 to CFAF 10 billion in
1980, while its administrative staff increased from 6 percent to 26 percent
of total staff and the average annual salary per worker increased from
CFAF 336,000 to CFAF 1,134,000. Because staff were poorly motivated, field
programs were poorly executed. In the South, SODEPALM was deprived of its
marketing function and ceased receiving adequate funding. This in turn
reduced SODEPALM's ability to run its industrial estates, pay smallholders,
and operate its industrial facilities. Thus, smallholders in the last few
years have begun to turn from oil palm to other crops. The quality of manage-
ment in the industry has severely deteriorated.
24.       Coffee and cocoa are important products for which Government pricing
policy became inadequate. Producer prices for the two crops have been equal
since 1976, although a case exists for a positive coffee/cocoa producer price
differential, is based on stronger world market prospects for coffee than for
cocoa. Further, unit production costs for coffee are higher. Yet, through
the 1970s, Government gave a substantial grant for clearing land to plant
cocoa. In the case of rice, an excessive producer price and inadequate
consumer price led to huge Government losses and distortions in production and
marketing.



-7-
25.       The agricultural sector remains relatively small in the public
investment program, aside from expenditures for ongoing projects in the large
sugar program. New efficient projects lately have not been prepared at an
adequate pace in the Ministry of Agriculture. The quality of recent proposals
such as the untested soya bean project indicates the need for improved project
planning, identification, preparation, and programming. This suggests the
need for fundamental changes in the Ministry of Agriculture with respect to
investment programming and policy decision-making.
Excessive and Ill-directed Protection of the Industrial Sector
26.       The manufacturing industrial sector has grown rapidly (at about
12 percent per year), and now represents 11 percent of GDP. This growth was
largely based on the expansion of import substitution industry in such fields
as cotton textiles for which the absorptive capacity of the domestic market is
limited. While policies have generally been sound, the limits of this kind of
growth are rapidly emerging. Further expansion should be based on export
markets. However, current policy penalizes exports because of relatively high
rates of effective protection in many subsectors.
27.       Other factors also limit industrial growth.  Subsidized investment
(in the form of lower-than-market interest rates and government guarantees)
discourages the use of local factors and biases growth against the smaller-
scale firms which do not have access to this subsid7.  Institutional factors
have also played a role since industrial promotion activities (for example,
industrial estates) have not been very successful partly because of inappro-
priate organization. This has left secondary centers with an inadequate
industrial base to sustain growth.
28.       While the industrial sector remained a small percentage of GDP, the
consequences of such shortcomings were not serious. Two factors suggest that
a revised industrial policy is now of increasing priority. First, now that
industry has become a more significant component of GDP, policies which inhibit
growth are of substantial concern. Future growth will depend in part on the
capacity of the Ivory Coast to diversify output from the current narrow range
of products. Secondly, when substantial petroleum revenues come on stream
(see para. 30 below), they are likely to lead to greatly increased industrial
investment. This investment should develop backward linkages and lead to
self-sustaining growth, in view of the uncertainty which surrounds the duration
of petroleum revenues. To help ensure this, Government needs to improve its
capacity to evaluate projects, especially those requiring guarantees or
concessions.
Prospects
29.       Two important elements stand out in a discussion of the country s
economic prospects. First, the country still has strong agricultural
growth potential. Although diminishing returns and changes in world market
conditions make the choice of future investment more difficult, the country's
underlying productivity remains. The period of bold large investment projects
in agriculture may be over. What is needed is judicious planning, careful
investment preparation, and better management of the state enterprises.



- 8 -
30.       The second factor is oil.  The Ivory Coast embarked on an off-shore
oil exploration program during the mid-1970s, and recent developments have
been encouraging. Production in one field began in 1980 and will reach one
million tons in 1981 or 1982. Based on published information, production in a
second field (Espoir) is scheduled to begin in 1982 and is conservatively
expected to reach about 6 million tons per annum by 1985, with subsequent
increases to beyond 10 million tons per annum likely. The Ivory Coast, even
on the basis of conservative estimates, will be a net oil exporter before the
mid-1980s, since domestic consumption is less than 1.5 million tons per
annum.
31.       There are, however, two problems associated with petroleum develop-
ment. The first is the very costly type of drilling and development required
in the Espoir field. Secondly, development to date has required a long period
of time for technical reasons, and future development is therefore difficult
to predict.
32.       The uncertainty associated with petroleum development requires
that immediate action be taken to reduce the balance of payments and fiscal
deficits to keep the short-term situation manageable. In the medium term,
improved government planning will be essential to restore growth in agricul-
ture and other sectors. These improvements will ensure that, when large
petroleum revenues become available, they are put to productive use. More
efficient use of resources to meet government objectives is all the more
important since there is a possibility that oil revenues will be available for
a relatively short period. Income creation based on petroleum will need to
generate self-sustaining growth, including diversification from the current
high dependence on a few primary products.
33.       Despite these underlying strengths, the Ivorian development process,
which worked so well through the 1960s and most of the 1970s, is now clearly
in need of restructuring. GDP growth for 1981 has declined to about 2 per-
cent per year, substantially less than even the historical rate of population
growth. Balance of payments constraints have emerged for the first time in
almost a decade, and the public finance picture is also weak. These problems
are closely tied to the decline in coffee and cocoa prices, which in turn
generated about a 35 percent decline in the country's terms of trade, a serious
occurrence for a country whose exports are equivalent to 35 percent of GDP.
The above analysis has shown that both short-run and longer-run problems exist
in macroeconomic management, agriculture, public enterprises and industry, and
that new policies must be found and institutions reformed if the country is to
exploit its long-term growth potential.
34.       This combination of short and longer run problems needs to be
addressed in two stages. First, a short-term policy to address immediate
problems. The need is to limit expenditures, external borrowing, and public
sector activities to those which can be prudently financed and, therefore,
to become systematically more selective in identifying high priority projects
and programs. For the medium-term, a more fundamental approach is required,
which will enable the country to adjust to its resource constraints, to
promote adequate development and growth, and to prepare for the best possible
use of the petroleum revenues expected in the mid-1980s.



- 9 -
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR REHABILITATION
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
35.       The Government's letter of development policy (circulated separately)
sets forth the Government's structural adjustment program, the objectives of
which are summarized below:
a)   to provide a sound basis for development and mobilization of
resources by re-establishing internal and external financial
equilibria through a financial recovery program;
b)   to restore a system of effective economic management of public
resources, and of policy-making in support of expanded output,
exports and job creation;
c)   to rehabilitate the planning, management and incentive system
in agriculture, the main source of economic activity, so that
it again becomes the primary basis for expansion in national
output and employment;
d)   to reform the inefficient public enterprise sector so that it
can set clear objectives, and ensure efficient management and
effective monitoring of the resources at its disposal;
e)   to carry out a comprehensive reform of the system of industrial
incentives and official institutions involved in new industrial
investment with a view to promoting an expansion of exports and
production of goods competitively priced with imports;
f)   to revamp the educational system both to reduce the unsustainable
growth in costs and relate the curriculum to more realistic
national manpower planning.
36.       The Government's program is presented below under the following
headings:
i)   Financial Recovery Program;
ii)   Structural Adjustment in the medium term;
iii)   Agricultural Sector Reform;
iv)   Public Enterprise Reform;
v)   Industrial Sector Reform; and
vi)   Education Sector Reform.
Financial Recovery Program
37.       In the short run a considerable inflow of financial resources
was needed to deal with pressing balance of payments and public finance
problems. Accordingly, Government requested IMF assistance through an



- 10 -
Extended Fund Facility. A joint Fund/Bank mission visited Abidjan in
October/November 1980 to work out the details of a financial recovery
program and establish the basis for a Bank structural adjustment loan.
38.       The program calls for a strengthening of budgetary discipline
and a centralization of public finances. Expenditure controls are being
tightened and a program to redress arrears undertaken. An austerity budget
has been adopted for 1981 only 5 percent higher in nominal terms than the
previous year. The prices of a number of public services and consumer
goods have been increased.
39.       Specific first-year performance conditions of the Extended Fund
Facility limit new foreign borrowing with maturities of less than 12 years.
They also place restrictions on the growth in the domestic assets of the
banking system and the net claims made on it by the public sector; in the
past, public enterprises' overdrafts placed a severe strain on the banking
system. Interest rate policy will aim to make domestic financial investments
competitive with comparable investments abroad, thus helping to reduce the
large outflow of funds.
40.       Following a review in June 1981, the IMF stated that the Ivory
Coast had satisfied the EFF performance conditions. Nevertheless, because
of the continued decline in coffee and cocoa prices and a significant rise in
the cost of servicing the debt as the dollar strengthened and interest rates
remained high, adjustments were required in the performance conditions for the
balance of the first-year program. Because of these developments, the IMF
has approved a Compensatory Funding Facility of SDR 114 million.
Structural Adjustment in the Medium Term
41.       The restoration of financial equilibrium is only the first step
in a program of structural adjustment. Other measures in pursuit of the more
general aim of improving economic management and investment programming are
being implemented. These measures, which are discussed below, are principally
designed to give the Government the means to:
i)   react in a timely fashion to rapidly changing circumstances;
ii)   permit annual investment and borrowing decisions to be based on a
realistic assessment of budgetary and extra-budgetary resources;
and
iii)   ensure that all large projects have at least a 10 percent economic
rate of return and meet reasonable criteria with respect to technical
design and priority in development.
The objective, discussed in more detail in paragraph 63 below, is to restore
the non-oil growth rate to around 7 percent annually, and to reduce the
current account deficit from its current level of 15 percent of GDP to about
7 percent by 1985.



- 11 -
Institutional Changes
42.       The principal institutional measures already taken are:
i)   the establishment of an interministerial committee on Financial
Coordination and Investment Control, chaired by the Minister of
Economy and Finance and including the Secretary General of the
Presidency, the National Director of the BCEAO and the Directors
General of the CSSPPA 1/ and the CAA. 2/ The Committee will
maintain a current set of key economic and financial indicators
(including consolidated accounts of Government and the public
enterprises), prepare projections of the annual current budget
and investment program and propose corrective measures. The
Committee has already started work and, is producing an impressive
set of indicators by which it is monitoring the financial recovery
program. It is expected to play a major role in defining policy
options for next year's public current and investment budgets.
ii)   The establishment of a control committee for the Government-owned
national oil company, PETROCI. The committee, in addition to
reviewing PETROCI's operations, will ensure that the surplus non-tax
revenues of PETROCI are properly integrated into the Treasury. The
committee will be chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and
will include the Secretary General of the Presidency; and
iii)   the separation of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan
once again into two ministries--Economy and Finance, and Plan and
Industry--as it had been before 1977. The new Ministry of Plan is
expected to reinforce the Government's planning and programming
capabilities.
43.       One of the first tasks of the new Planning Ministry was to produce
a draft five-year plan for the period 1981-85, which will provide a compre-
hensive framework for the structural adjustment program. Within the frame-
work of this plan, the Government has begun to institute systematic planning
and programming of public investment to ensure that the actions of all minis-
tries and public agencies with regard to public investment are based on a
comprehensive assessment of available resources and development priorities
comparable to the system in effect through the mid 1970s. A three-year
macroeconomic plan, or "schema directeur", will balance resource availability
with investment requirements, including the desirable sectoral allocation of
investment. The "schema directeur" will be prepared jointly by the Ministries
of Economy and Finance, and Plan and Industry and will be translated into a
three-year rolling public investment program ("loi-programme"), the first year
1/   CSSPPA:  Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix de Produits
Agricoles (the agricultural price stabilization fund).
2/   CAA:  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Government debt repayment agency).



- 12 -
of which will be that year's public investment budget. All public investment,
including both government and parastatal, will be included. If unscheduled
projects are proposed during the year, the system would require a full analysis
of their merits and their impact on the volume and objectives of the "loi-
programme".
Five-Year Plan
44.       The new five-year plan aims at limiting further growth in the public
sector in favor of more rapid growth in the private sector. The keys to rapid
growth are identified as the transformation of traditional agriculture,
increasing the productivity of investment, and industrialization. The country
will maintain its liberal economic and political framework while seeking more
balanced regional growth and closer economic ties with neighboring countries.
A further objective is to increase the pace of Ivorianization. Thus the
education and training systems will be adapted to produce more technicians and
managers. The principal sectors of the plan covered in the development policy
letter are agriculture, public enterprise reform, and industry. These are
discussed below.
Table II. FIVE-YEAR PLAN GROWTH RATES
Primary sector 1/                                  7.7
of which, agriculture                           5.3
Secondary sector 2/                                4.7
of which, industry                               7.2
Tertiary sector                                    5.0
GDP (at market price)                           5.7
1/   Including petroleum.
2/   Including construction.
Agricultural Sector Reforms
45.       The Government recognizes that its program of structural adjustment
must be based primarily on agriculture, which continues to be the sector
with the most potential for the expansion of output, generation of employment
and distribution of income. The processing of agricultural products will be
an essential part of new industrial growth and of value added in the service
sectors. The Government looks to the agricultural sector, as well as to
petroleum, to provide the surpluses to finance part of overall development.
46.       Successful structural adjustment will depend on implementing new
programs, institutional reforms and policies resulting from scheduled studies,
research and field tests. Major issues need to be resolved, such as finding
alternatives to the continued expansion of coffee and cocoa in view of
world market constraints, analyzing the relationship between prices and costs
of various export and food crops as a basis for a comprehensive price and
subsidy policy, and determining the prospects and appropriate technological
packages for food crops in the North.



- 13 -
Interim Strategy
47.       In the meantime, priority should be given to maintaining and, where
markets permit, expanding output of those crops where the Ivory Coast has a
demonstrated comparative advantage, such as cocoa, coffee, palm oil, rubber
and cotton. Lack of knowledge about price/cost relationships in the agricul-
tural sector make it necessary to await the results of a comprehensive study
before undertaking a full-scale reform. Enough, however, is known about the
deficiencies of certain programs and the inappropriateness of certain prices
and subsidies to form the basis for a credible first-year action program which
is described in paras. 49 and 50 below.
48.       The interim strategy will be based on maintaining the priority given
to the consolidation of coffee and cocoa production rather than expanding
output. A major effort will also be made to renovate the smallholder oil palm
and coconut sub-sectors. The continued expansion of the successful rubber
plantations and associated smallholder plots will be encouraged. In the North,
the largely successful cotton program will be expanded, as this is the main
cash crop of the region. The soya bean program will be halted until the
economic and technical feasibility of the program has been demonstrated.
Similarly, the heavy mechanized land clearing program will be sharply reduced.
Trials are also underway with lighter forms of mechanization. The sugar
program will be rationalized and ways will be sought to improve the program's
viability. A food crop development policy will be adopted emphasizing private
initiative in response to market conditions.
49.       The basis does not yet exist to reform the entire price and subsidy
system, but enough is known about prevailing distortions in specific prices and
subsidies to form the basis for a series of steps which have already been
taken:
(i) consumer rice prices were raised by 10 percent (from CFAF 100 to
CFAF 110 per kg) in 1981, and the producer price was cut from
CFAF 75 per kg to CFAF 60 per kg. Government has decided to base
further adjustments on a price study which will be available in the
spring of 1982;
(ii) cash subsidies for expanding cocoa plantations have been
eliminated;
(iii) in view of the better long-term prospects for coffee than cocoa
the price will be reviewed for the next season;
(iv) as the price of oil palm bunches and copra had remained unchanged
for five years, palm bunch prices were raised by 50 percent, and a
preliminary decision taken to increase the price of copra; and
(v) the subsidized sale of cotton to local textile mills has been
stopped.



- 14 -
50.       The Government plans to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's
capacity for carrying out long-range sectoral planning and for preparing and
implementing projects. The absence of an adequate pipeline of well-prepared
projects explains in part the low proportion of public investment allocated
to agriculture in the past. The following measures have already been taken:
(i) a Studies and Planning Directorate has been established in the
Ministry of Agriculture. It will define the country's agricultural
strategy and long-term goals, and will carry out a continuous review
of agricultural prices, subsidies and taxation. It will be supported
by technical assistance financed under the proposed Technical
Assistance Project;
(ii) a reorganized study bureau (BETPA) 1/ will be provided with addi-
tional personnel and resources to carry out studies supervised by
the Ministry of Agriculture. Bank technical assistance has been
requested;
(iii) a reorganized Directorate of Programming, Budgeting and Management
Control will be strengthened; and
(iv) a State Secretariat for food crops has been created within the
Ministry of Agriculture. Its objective is to develop a long-term
strategy for food crops in the various regions. Government is
concerned with the rising dependence on imported foods, notably
rice and meat, and with the problem of developing cash crops in the
more disadvantaged regions. In the past, food crop production,
except for rice, received relatively little attention and was
overshadowed by export crop production. The successful development
of food crops involves departing from the single crop approach and
emphasizing overall farm development with modern inputs, improved
marketing and a unified Government support structure.
51.       In parallel with the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture,
management studies will be carried as required out on the principal agricul-
tural agencies (PALMINDUSTRIE, CIDT, and SATMACI) 2/ as part of the reform of
the public enterprise sector discussed below. The studies will propose ways
of reducing costs, increasing operational efficiency and will establish
appropriate management information systems. PALMINDUSTRIE will be transformed
into a Government holding company, whose assets will be managed by a mixed
public/private management company. Efforts are underway to select a private
1/   Bureau d'Etudes Techniques de Projets Agricoles.
2/   PALMINDUSTRIE:  oil palm and coconut production in the South;
CIDT: Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles: cotton
and food in the North;
SATMACI: Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole
de la Cote d'Ivoire: coffee, cocoa and rice in the Center.



- 15 -
company in this field, to manage the operating company and to control market-
ing, a major objective of any reform. CIDT is regarded as relatively well
managed but lacks financial autonomy. The Government is aware of the need to
reduce CIDT management costs. Moreover, although the policy of subsidies for
fertilizer and insecticides in cotton production is defended on social grounds,
the price and subsidy study (see para. 55 below) will address the question of
whether or not the farmgate price permits the cotton farmers to do without
input subsidies altogether.
52.       SATMACI provides inputs to farmers but does not market crops.  It is
a commercial public firm concerned principally with cocoa and coffee promotion
and, in recent years, rice. Aside from the financial difficulties caused by
inadequate government funding, the agency has had a poor record in recent
years in promoting coffee and cocoa production. Its large administrative,
managerial and field staffs need to be reduced and reorganized. The agency's
weaknesses have been partly addressed through the Bank's proposed Center-West
regional development rehabilitation project, which will cover only a small
part of the SATMACI area.
53.       In order to enable the three main agricultural development agencies
and several others to continue their assistance to smallholder production and
marketing programs, urgent action was needed to cover their large accumulated
arrears, and assure the availability of adequate financing for the balance of
1981. Consequently, financing plans have been adopted to cover these needs
through the end of the year from identified external borrowing and domestic
public resources. Actions have also been taken to cut costs: for example,
the February 1981 decision of the Council of Ministers to cut SATMACI's 1981
budget to CFAF 8 billion from a requested CFAF 15 billion, and require the
agency to produce a short-term reorganization plan, including a staff reduc-
tion program. An in-depth study is required in order to go beyond these
limited improvements.
Prices and Subsidies
54.       In the past, agricultural prices in the Ivory Coast were fixed
roughly in relationship to world market prices but, more importantly, were
influenced by the leverage exerted by the development agencies and their
farmer constituencies. There was no comprehensive agricultural price system.
In addition to the actions already taken to diminish price distortions, the
structural adjustment program will provide support for a pricing system for
all crops and regions based on the country's comparative advantage. The
system will be based on the principle of free market prices for food crops,
with a primary role for the private sector in furnishing transport and market-
ing services. It will have to be sufficiently sophisticated to adjust
producer prices of the main officially-supported crops in order to offset the
possible inflationary effect of a prolonged period of high oil revenues, while
maintaining the country's competitiveness in exporting and producing import
substitutes.



- 16 -
55.       Government has launched a major price and fiscal study of the
agricultural sector in order to provide the basis for a national price policy
for agricultural development. The study relates incentives and producer
prices to international prices and market mechanisms. It takes into account
direct assistance through extension services and subsidies, and the impact of
the fiscal system on the use of factors of production and agricultural output.
It is scheduled to be completed by the end of March 1982.
Research
56.       The Government places great stress on the role of research in
supporting its program of structural adjustment in agriculture, including
devising cost-effective technologies. The new Studies and Planning Direc-
torate of the Ministry of Agriculture will conduct a study of research goals
and methods in cooperation with the Ministry of Scientific Research. A
national program is to be devised covering food crops, cash crops and small-
holder production systems. Particular stress is to be placed on raising
productivity and overcoming the social, technical and economic constraints to
small-scale farming in the drier zones. The proposed Bank technical assistance
loan will finance consultants to assist in this effort.
Public Enterprise Reform
57.       A major cause of the public finance deficit is the growing losses of
the public enterprises and their financing requirements for ongoing projects.
Past reforms of the sector were only partially successful, despite the intro-
duction of improved cost recovery policies in, for example, EECI (electricity
company) and SOTRA (urban transport). AttempLs have been made to sell certain
public enterprises to private interests especially in the secondary and
tertiary sectors. Several enterprises were sold but their financial problems
remain. The liquidation of other enterprises cannot proceed because of the
lack of funds.
58.       Government lacks a comprehensive view of the sector and is aware
that the situation urgently requires measures to improve managerial perfor-
mance, tariff structures, cost recovery and overall financial performance
and savings capacity. Accordingly, the Government invited the Bank and the
Caisse Centrale to send a mission in March 1981 to review the sector's
program, define the role of the enterprises in future development, and recom-
mend a system for financing and monitoring their activities. The report
of this mission will be made available to the Government shortly, but it is
clear that most of the basic changes in organization, function, financing
and monitoring of the public enterprises will have to await the results of
a number of management studies scheduled for completion next year. These
studies initially in the agricultural sector will be designed to evaluate,
enterprise by enterprise, reasonable objectives, resources required to achieve
those objectives, and ways of assuring the adequacy and efficient use of those
resources. Based on these studies, contractural arrangements (contract plans)
between the public enterprises and the Government would be agreed. For the



- 17 -
present government policy is to divest itself of ownership of public enter-
prises in the secondary and tertiary sectors where possible, and to postpone
new initiatives in the primary sector (except in a few instance where private
participation has been invited.) Price policy for a number of enterprises is
under review.
Industrial Sector Reforms
59.       With the present system of incentives, import substitution for the
narrow domestic market is becoming increasingly uneconomic. A deficient
system of incentives has led to inefficiencies in several branches of industry.
In order to provide the basis for renewed growth and to correct the misalloca-
tion of resources, the industrial incentive system including tariffs, import
restrictions, domestic subsidies and the Investment Code require a thorough
revamping. This should be done in a way that avoids severe dislocation of
existing industry. The objectives of the reform are:
(i)  to develop a strategy for the promotion of Ivorian-manufactured
exports, including an export subsidy scheme and the reduction of
effective protection for sales on the domestic market;
(ii)  to encourage industrial integration through a reduction in the
graduation of tariffs according to the degree of processing; and
(iii)  to strengthen the capacity of the administration for making
economically sound resource allocation decisions.
60.       The Directorate General for Industrial Activity will carry out an
economic evaluation of all industrial projects for which Government conces-
sions are requested. The DGAI's project evaluation unit will be strengthened
through the provision of experts to be financed under the proposed technical
assistance loan. The DGAI will also conduct a systematic review of the
Investment Code and the system of taxation, protection and incentives appli-
cable to the industrial sector. The object will be to improve the incentives
for sound industrial growth and for exports. A study will be undertaken of
the impact of the proposed reforms on existing industry. Pending completion
of the study, Government will not impose new quantitative restrictions or
further escalate tariffs except for emergency situations.
Education Sector Reforms
61.       Hitherto the Government has been intent on raising the living
standards and cultural levels of the people. Over 75 percent of primary age
school population now attend primary schools. Efforts have been made to
create a class of skilled people able to work in and manage a modern economy.
Consequently, today some 15,000 students are receiving higher education. The
quality of education is high, but so is the cost, which accounts for 46
percent of the current budget and close to 10 percent of public investment.
The continued expansion of the system along prevailing lines adds to the
burden on public finances, and the number and types of graduates will exceed
the absorptive capacity of the economy.



- 18 -
62.       Reform is needed to restrain costs within the context of financial
stabilization. Steps have already been taken to reduce scholarships and cut
construction costs in higher education. Secondary school repeaters are no
longer permitted, but the capacity of the system is still under considerable
strain. Major changes are needed in both secondary and higher education to
steer more students towards those fields where their skills will find ready
employment. Government also plans to study vocational, technical, and agri-
cultural training reforms. A UNESCO mission made a first overall review of
the situation in February, and UNESCO plans specific subsectoral missions
during 1981. The Government has set up an Interministerial Coordinating
Committee to handle inputs from the Bank, UNESCO, UNDP and bilateral agencies
to the various aspects of the reform program.
Government Program: Concluding Remarks
63.       The Five-Year Plan has three broad targets.  They are:
(i) the desirability of restoring the non-oil growth rate to around
7 percent annually;
(ii)  the necessity of raising the growth impact of the investment
program in both the short and the longer term; and
(iii) the desirability of reducing the current account deficit to a
more manageable level of about 7 percent of GDP by 1985, compared
with the 15 percent experienced in 1980. Although the policy
actions described above refer to the 1981-83 period during which
time the most essential reforms are to be set in place, the achieve-
ment of some of these objectives is only expected to materialize
over a longer period. Table III shows the changes in the main
macroparameters projected over the 1980-90 period.
Despite the deterioration in economic growth in recent years, the potential
for prolonged growth at levels above 7 percent annually remains. The agri-
cultural sector, with its wide variety of products, still offers great possi-
bilities for expansion, which in turn are likely to stimulate activity in
other sectors. One of the main objectives of the Government's program is to
raise the growth in agriculture in real terms by 5 percent annually, akin to
the rates experienced in the early 1970s. Without the program, agricultural
growth would be projected at 3.5 percent annually. Industry has been par-
ticularly hard hit during 1980-81, but its recovery over the coming three
years is likely to be speeded up by the spin-off from agriculture, the imple-
mentation of the new incentive system, and the multiplier effects of oil
activities.
64.       The speed of recovery and the ultimate attainment of a 7 percent
non-oil growth rate depend in part on the development of the oil sector.
Production has begun this year, and over the next two years is likely to
replace oil imports on a net basis and, by 1985, Ivory Coast is expected
to have crude oil available for export. Taking this into account, GDP growth



- 19 -
is likely to reach 7 percent in the mid-1980s and 8 percent in the second
half of the decade. In the absence of structural adjustment the growth
rates would not have exceeded 5 and 5.5 percent, respectively. The higher
level of oil exports may also increase the country's external debt capacity.
65.       In 1980 the investment rate (public and private) reached an un-
tenably high 30 percent. As part of the structural adjustment program,
Government will try to reduce the rate to 27 percent of GDP by 1985 and
22 percent by 1990. Given that oil investments are expected to reach 4 per-
cent of GDP, non-oil investment rates would therefore be in line with rates
in the mid-1970s. To achieve this lower level of investment while enhancing
its impact, Government is now approaching project selection more carefully
through the Financial Coordination and Investment Control Committee of the
Cabinet, especially in the agriculture sector where some mistakes (e.g. in
sugar and rice) were most serious in the past. Bringing a higher degree of
scrutiny to bear on all public investments is expected to increase the effi-
ciency of investments and lead to better utilization of capital. This is
likely to be reflected in a gradual reduction of the ratio of incremental
capital to output from around 4.5:1 in 1980 to 3.0:1 by the second half of the
1980s, compared with 5.0:1 in 1985-90 in the absence of structural adjustment.
However, it should be emphasized that this result is not automatic; in large
part the achievement of better returns on investment, in particular in agri-
culture, is likely to depend on pricing policies and the support services
provided by the state enterprises.
66.       Financing the current account balance for 1981-83 will require
a substantial increase in borrowing compared with the mid-1970s, although
this can be achieved without overstepping prudent limits. In part, financing
needs are higher because of the initial investments in the crude oil sector.
Under the terms of its EFF agreement, Ivory Coast has agreed to limit its
borrowings of less than 12 years' maturity to SDR 563 million in 1981.
Because of the high level of borrowing and the resulting rise in debt service
obligations, it is important that Ivory Coast's access to capital markets
should be strengthened by support from the Fund and the Bank. The Bank and
Fund are unlikely to be able to meet more than a part of Ivory Coast's needs
during this period but, partly because of the financial recovery and struc-
tural adjustment programs, Government expects to mobilize the balance from
other official and private sources without undue difficulty, particularly
funds required for financing oil-sector activities.
67.       Debt service payments will inevitably rise sharply from 25 percent
in 1980 to a peak of about 32 percent in 1985. Of total debt service, an
amount equivalent to about 1.7 percent of exports in 1985 and 2.5 percent in
1990 will be due from PETROCI for borrowing in connection with crude oil
development, which will not be guaranteed by Government (except for the
proposed Bank loan for exploration and production). The debt service ratio
for non-oil borrowings would therefore reach a peak of 31 percent by 1985 and
decline to 21 percent by 1990. Therefore by 1990 it is estimated that debt
service will be around 24 percent of exports, including 4 percentage points
for oil related debt.



- 20 -
Table III PROJECTED MACROPERFORMANCE 1/
Without
Structural Adjustment
With Structural Adjustment                           Percent
Percent Share of GDP                Growth Rate           Share of GDP          Growth Rate
1980      1980       1985       1990     1980-85   1985-90       1985       1990      1980-85      1985-90
CFA
A. Gross Domestic Product          2223.5      100.0     100.0      100.0       6.8        8.0        100.0     100.0       4.9          5.5
Agriculture                      555.4       25.0      22.1       19.1       4.2       4.9         21.7       18.8       1.9          3.5
Industry  2/                     525.7      23.6       21.7       21.8      5.1        8.1         21.6       21.2       3.1          5.0
Services                         972.5      43.7       41.2       41.6      5.6        8.2         41.0       40.4       3.5          5.1
Petroleum                          6.5        0.3       7.3        9.9        -       22.3          7.7       12.3        -          22.3
Consumption                     1702.5       76.5      72.0       75.1       5.6       9.2         72.5       75.5       3.7          6.6
Investment                       658.9      29.6       27.1       22.3       5.0       2.9         28.2       22.4       4.0         -0.3
Exports GNFS 1/                  725.6       32.6      33.6       33.6       7.6       8.0         33.3       34.5       5.5          6.2
Imports GNFS                     863.5      38.8       32.8       31.1      3.6        6.7         34.0       32.3       2.4          4.2
B. Memo Items
Current Account Balance
($ billions)                             -1543.7   -1995.9    -697.2                            -2200.7    -938.7
(% GDP)                                     14.6        7.2        3.8                              9.5        5.8
Consumption Growth Rate
per capita                                                                  1.1       4.7                              -0.8          2.1
ICOR                                                    4.1        3.3                              6.0        5.0
Import Elasticity                                       0.52       0.84                             0.49       0.77
ref. GDP
Debt Service Ratio                          25.1       32.3       23.5                             35.9       30.1
Debt Service on Borrowing
for Petroleum                                          1.7        2.8                              1.7        3.0
Debt Service Ratio
excluding Petroleum Debt                   25.1       30.6       20.7                             34.2       27.1
Debt Service Ratio
excluding Pet.oleum
Earnings and Debt
Service on Petroleum
Borrowing                                                                                         41.1       32.3
1/ The projections do not make an allowance for the short-term impact on coffee prices of the recent frost in Brazil. Oil sector
foreign exchange earnings (or savings in the case of substituted imports) will reach $2.2 billion in 1985. This would permit
the current account deficit to be reduced from 15 percent of GDP in 1980 to 7 percent in 1985 and 4.0 percent in 1990, more in
line with the financing possibilities open to the Ivory Coast.
2/ Including public utilities and works.



- 21 -
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
68.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes 41 loans totalling US$709.8
million (including US$14 million from the Third Window), and an IDA credit
of US$7.5 million. Of these operations fifteen have been for agriculture,
supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development, and rural
development in the North East Savannah region. There were six road projects
and a highway sector project. The remaining 20 loans were for education,
telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water supply,
urban development, power distribution, tourism development, small- and medium-
scale enterprises, a regional cement project and a regional railway project.
IFC's involvement includes participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpe-
ment Industriel amounting to US$423,500; a 10 percent equity investment,
equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the
largest textile plant in the country; a US$6.4 million investment in Societe
Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng) to double the company's fertilizer plant
capacity to 120,000 tons per year; and an equity investment of US$446,600 and
a US$2.9 million loan for MSO, a flour milling company. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which are encountering
problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
69.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment's policy of crop diversification and promotion of exports and giving more
emphasis to developing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber project
was approved by the Board in October 1978, and a rural development project for
the North-East in March 1980. In June 1979, the Executive Directors approved
the first Bank forestry project in the Ivory Coast which consists of a 20,000
ha plantation program of short- and medium-rotation hardwood species. The
Bank is currently processing a Center West Project which covers part of the
area of responsibility of SATMACI. The conditionality of this loan with
respect to coffee and cocoa consolidation and price policies and the restruc-
turing of SATMACI would complement the policies supported by the proposed SAL.
In the future, the Bank is contemplating assisting integrated rural develop-
ment projects in the North and Northwest regions which will be primarily
designed to execute the integrated crop strategy to be developed under the
structural adjustment program. The Bank is associated with the preparation of
a mechanization study and pilot scheme, carried out by the French CCCE, to
determine the feasibility of introducing light mechanized farming.
70.       Thus far the Bank has granted loans for six road projects totalling
$123.3 million, and for a highway sector project in the amount of $100 million,
which was approved in November 1980. The first project was completed in
December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates. The OED
report on this project dated June 28, 1977, recommended inter alia, that more
emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This had been picked up in the
Third Highway Project. The Second Road Project was satisfactorily completed
in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modification and
subsequent poor work organization for the construction component. The Third



- 22 -
and Fourth Highway Projects, which are virtually completed, incurred substan-
tial cost overruns which the Government is covering; otherwise, execution
proceeded satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project, which is near completion,
will contribute to a further improvement of the primary road network of the
country. A feeder roads and highway maintenance project was approved in
December 1977.
71.       The highway sector loan, approved by the Board in late 1980, con-
tains provisions for project identification, appraisal and monitoring pro-
cedures which meet the objectives of the SAL. The loan supports a high
priority multi-annual sector investment program for 1981-83 consistent with
the priorities agreed to in the proposed SAL. A railway project, focusing
on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was
approved in FY78. A Second Railway Project to complete the track rehabili-
tation (from Petionara to Tafire) has been appraised.
72.       In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July
1980 to finance power distribution facilities in rural areas, technical
assistance and the preparation of a hydropower project which the Bank is
considering financing. The cost recovery features of the loan directly
support the purposes of the financial recovery program discussed in Part II of
this report. Recently, the Government has requested Bank financial assistance
for further exploration and development of the new off-shore petroleum field,
l'Espoir. The project is currently being appraised.
73.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy,
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in FY76,
which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale project
approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for medium-scale
enterprises through another local development finance company and two lines of
credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism sector.
74.       Future lending to industry will be designed to facilitate the pro-
vision of long-term finance for indigenous Ivorian industry, particularly
small- and medium-scale enterprises and enterprises in high-priority industrial
subsectors.  Such loans are expected to contribute to the structural adjustment
program goals of revitalizing the industrial sector and increasing Ivorian
participation in industrial activities.
75.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan. The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low-income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976; a follow-up project
was approved in August 1981. With respect to the smaller towns, the Board
approved in FY78 a secondary centers water supply project and another project
for water supply in secondary centers and villages is being appraised.



- 23 -
76.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. A Third Education
Project covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal
education in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December
1979. Education is formally a part of the Government's structural adjustment
program and it should be noted that the Fund's EFF stressed the need for
reforms in the education sector, particularly cutting the budgetary costs of
the system, to be carried out under the Bank-UNESCO sponsored studies now
underway.
77.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$74.2 million annually in the 1975-79 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years.  The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1979 stood at approximately 10.4 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of externsl  i do]'t- disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, 4.2 percent in 1979, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent in the
early 1980s.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives
78        The Ivory Coast has traditionally relied on large inputs of expa-
triate technicians and advisers. The project would not displace these people,
but rather complement them. It has been conceived as a tool to help the
Government implement and consolidate its structural adjustment program, as
endorsed by the Bank under the SAL and defined in Parts I and II. In macro-
economic management, there is a need to restore the planning and programming
system, including the reestablishment of a macro-economic plan, schema direc-
teur and loi-programme, and the use of systematic criteria for the selection
of projects. In industry there is a need to set up a new incentive system
and to revise the methodology and procedures for identifying, designing,
appraising and monitoring projects. In agriculture there is to be a shift
from a crop-oriented to an integrated farm system approach which will require
a reformulation of the research and extension programs. With respect to the
state enterprises, there is a need to put in place the procedures to improve
the efficiency of these enterprises and increase their contribution to public
savings. The specialists to be financed under the proposed project are
expected to assist the existing staff in the establishment of these new
systems and procedures. On-the-job training of the local staff will con-
stitute one of the major tasks. The importance of the training aspect of the
specialists' work justifies, in BETPA for instance, a high ratio of expatriate
to local staff (see para. 88). To accelerate the training of local personnel,
the project provides funds for the organization of seminars and for study
trips and fellowships abroad.



- 24 -
79.       In order to accomplish these objectives, the project is aimed
specifically at assisting:
(i) the Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Plan and Industry to
strengthen the planning and programming system and improve project
selection;
(ii) the Industrial Directorate of the Ministry of Plan and Industry
to develop an efficient industrial policy;
(iii) the Ministry of Agriculture to strengthen its policy planning and
project preparation selection capacity;
(iv) the Ministry of Scientific Research to devise a research strategy
for agriculture; and
(v) the initiation of new procedures to improve the management of
8 public enterprises to serve as models for other enterprises
(Ministry of Economy and Finance).
80.       The project was discussed with the Government in July 1981.  Nego-
tiations were held in Abidjan and Washington on September 21-October 2. The
Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. Dosso, Director of the Directorate of
Investment of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Description
81.       A loan and project summary is given at the beginning of this report
and supplementary data are contained in Annex III. A detailed project descrip-
tion is attached in Annex IV. The project, to be executed over a three-year
period, is described below.
Ministry of Plan and Industry
82.       Planning Directorate.  The project would provide 20 man-months
of short term consultancies for assistance to a Project Evaluation Unit.
This Unit has been recently established within the Planning Directorate of
the Ministry of Plan and Industry, and is intended to monitor and participate
in project selection with the technical ministries and the Ministry of Finance.
The consultants financed under the project would provide the unit with
expertise required in specific fields, assure consistency in the methodologies
applied by the various technical ministries in project analysis, and train the
staff in charge of project economic analysis in the Ministry of Plan and
other ministries.
83.       Industrial Directorate  Due to a lack of leadership and frequent
turnover within the staff of the Directorate of Industry, the Government still
lacks a coherent industrial development strategy. The General Directorate was
reorganized in June 1981. Its main objectives are to define a nationwide
industrial development policy and strategy to promote Ivorian manufacturing
enterprises, and to review and process the applications of private enterprises
requesting Government assistance.



- 25 -
84.       The new procedures provide for the General Directorate to review
all industrial projects requiring Government assistance from the point of view
of project design, engineering, and impact on the economy. The General Direc-
torate will also carry out ex-post evaluations of the performance of industrial
projects. To assist in these tasks, the proposed project would finance two
industrial experts over a 2-year period, one project economist and one project
analyst, plus a budget for 24 man-months of short-term consultants. The
resident specialists would conduct a systematic review of the Investment Code,
the system of taxation and production incentives and define a general indus-
trial policy. Both would also be required to train the local staff in the
methodology of project appraisal.
Ministry of Agriculture
85.       In order to improve agricultural planning, the Government has
recently decided on a reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture. The
former Directorate of Planning, Budgeting, Control and Managemnt (DPBCG)
has been split into two directorates: a Directorate of Planning (DEP), and a
Directorate of Programming, Budgeting and Control of the Management of the
Agricultural State Enterprises (DPBCG). A State Secretariat has been estab-
lished within the Ministry of Agriculture to promote the production of
foodcrops. Finally, the Government has also reorganized the study bureau of
the Ministry of Agriculture (BETPA) (see para. 50). The terms of reference
for the DEP, BETPA and the Secretariat of State have been approved by the
Bank.
86.       The proposed project would finance 3 specialists for DEP each for
a 3 year period as follows:
a) a general economist who would focus on general strategy work, defining
priority actions, centralizing technical and economic data on the
sector, supervising and assisting in the work of the various units
carrying out the studies, following up on the pricing study and being
responsible for the overall design of the medium-term program of DEP;
b) an agro-economist who would assist the economist, and would focus
on the development of farm models and preparation of programs for
comparative analysis of cropping patterns, and together with the
economist would follow up the pricing study; and
c) an agronomist who would assist the economist and would in particular,
advise on plans and studies related to farm management (including the
development of crop rotation systems required by sedentary agriculture).
87.       All three specialists would work as a team under the direction of
DEP. They would advise the Director and staff of DEP on the organization of
the Directorate. The project would also finance 30 man-months of short-term
consultancies for specific tasks and studies. Funds would be provided for
training local staff.



- 26 -
88.       The proposed project would finance 3 resident specialists each for
3 years who would assist the existing staff of BETPA in project preparation,
including devising and applying new methodologies as follows:
(a) a macroeconomist/financial economist who would be responsible for
assisting BETPA in the execution of studies related to broad-based
economic issues (including prices and subsidies) and the economic
and financial analysis of development projects;
(b) an agricultural economist who would advise on the development of
farm models and farm budget calculation; and
(c) an agronomist who would be in charge of the technical aspects of
project preparation.
The project would also finance 45 man-months of short-term consultants and
training. BETPA employs presently 4 expatriates. The recruitment of 3 addi-
tional expatriates under the project would raise the ratio of resident specia-
lists to local staff to 1:1. This high ratio is justified by the importance
of the training task of the new specialists.
89.       The project would provide technical expertise to the State Secre-
tariat as follows:
(a) a senior advisor (for 3 years) who, with the DEP, would assist the
Secretary and his staff in the definition of a broad based strategy
on foodcrop developments, the preparation of studies and research to
formulate such policies, and advising on the organization of the
Secretariat;
(b) a seed multiplication specialist (for 3 years) who would review
the present status of foodcrop seeds and planting material production
in the Ivory Coast with a view to formulating, in liaison with the
Ministry of Scientific Research, a comprehensive foodcrop seed
multiplication program. This specialist would work closely with the
executing agencies in charge of conducting field trials; and
(c) a study of the economic and technical feasibility of storing,
marketing and processing foodcrops. The study (18 man-months of
short-term consultancies) would be carried out by a team of 3
experts (one foodcrop marketing expert, one processing expert and
one storage expert) for a period of 6 months. Such a study could
form the basis of a marketing program, the preparation of which
could be entrusted to the marketing expert (30 man-months of resident
specialist services). Both the study and the preparation of the
marketing program would be conducted jointly with the Ministry of
Commerce. The project would also finance 12 man-months of short-term
consultancies for specific tasks and studies. Funds would be
provided for training local staff.



- 27 -
90.      The recruitment of the seed multiplication specialist and the
start of the marketing study would be contingent upon the review by the Bank
of, first, a nationwide research program to be prepared by the Ministry of
Scientific Research, and, second, a plan of action to implement the recommen-
dations of the price and subsidies study now underway (Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
91.       The terms of reference of the new DPBCG consists of the programming,
budgeting, control and monitoring of the finances of the agricultural state
enterprises. The Minister of Agriculture has recently decided upon the
creation of a unit consisting of 2-3 auditors who would be attached to his
cabinet, complementing the work of DPBCG by providing the Ministry with
specific analyses of enterprises in difficulty. The project would finance 2
resident specialist auditors each for three years to be attached to the audit
unit. The terms of reference of the two auditors to be financed under the
project would be agreed upon at negotiations.
Ministry of Scientific Research
92.       Since the appointment of a new Minister of Scientific Research
in February 1981, there has been a reorientation toward a broad-based multi-
disciplinary agricultural research. In mid-1981, the Minister of Scientific
Research initiated a series of seminars devoted to the improvement of inte-
grated production systems in the forest and savannah. An interministerial
committee grouping representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture (State
Secretariat and DEP), and Commerce, has been established and has already met
several times.
93.       By the end of 1982, there will be about 20 Ivorians with PhD
degrees in the Ministry of Scientific Research. The Government has requested
the financing of the services of:
(i)  ISNAR, an international institute set up to strengthen national
research activities, to start in early 1982 a review of the ongoing
research work in the Ivory Coast and help devise a national program
covering foodcrops, cash crops and smallholder production systems;
(ii)  1 resident specialist for 3 years (plus a budget of 6 man-months
of short-term consultants) with the Ivorian Institute of Technological
Research (IIRT) recently established to handle questions related to
storage, marketing and processing of foodcrops and the use of agri-
cultural byproducts.
(iii)  1 resident specialist for 3 years (plus a budget of 6 man-months
of short-term consultants) to focus on improved foodcrop production
and would address issues such as the stabilization of agriculture
(including crop rotation, motorization and reduction of fallows),
the improvement and maintenance of soil fertility, the development
of crop systems combining foodcrops and cash crops, and the improve-
ment of the channels of communication between research and extension
work. Working as a team, they would review existing studies, launch



- 28 -
trials for the principal foodcrops and prepare a medium- and long-
term action program (including estimates of investments, material
and personnel needed).
Ministry of Economy and Finance
94.       Under the proposed SAL, the Government is committed to carry out the
management studies of 8 state enterprises (in 1982 and 1983), and upon comple-
tion of the audit of the first four to prepare detailed "contrats plans" (such
as defined in para. 58) of which at least 3 will be finalized before the end
of 1982. The proposed project would finance a total of 64 man-months of
short-term consultancy to carry out these operational audits, the services of
one resident specialist for a 2-year period (with a 12 man-month short-term
consultancy budget) who would develop and implement these "contrats plans" and
train the Ivorians in their preparation. The expert would be located in
the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Since "contrats plans" would be a new
procedure in the Ivory Coast, it is important that adequate training in their
use be given. Assurances have been obtained to this effect (Section 3.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Both ISNAR and the two resident specialists would
work in liaison with the DEP and the State Secretariat. The project would
also finance a research fund and equipment for both the Ministry and IIRT.
95.       About one-fifth of total loan proceeds would be reserved at the
outset to finance activities subsequently identified. The programming of such
funds would be administered by the project coordinator (see para. 20) at the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, in consultation with the Bank. All such
activities would be subject to prior approval by the Bank (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Execution
96.       Each Ministry would be responsible for its own component of the
project, including selection and recruitment of resident specialists and
short-term consultants, preparation of terms of reference of studies, and
training programs. There would, however, be overall administrative coordination
in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement).
The progress of the project would be monitored by regular Bank supervision
missions carried out by RMWA and missions from headquarters, in liaison with
the supervision of the SAL. Supervision missions would in particular check on
the cooperation between various specialists and agencies to which they are
attached.
97.       The Bank's approval of contracts for resident specialists' assign-
ments would be subject to the Government having made available the Ivorian
professional and support personnel and related office facilities. The Govern-
ment would also assure that it would maintain the appropriate number and level
of Ivorian staff essential to the success of the project. A program of action
to upgrade key posts and promote career development in the DEP would be
discussed during the negotiations.



- 29 -
Project Costs and Financing
98.       Project costs (inclusive of taxes) are estimated at US$27.6 million
and foreign exchange costs at US$18.0 million (65 percent). Taxes would
amount to US$5.5 million. Physical contingencies for purchases of vehicles
and equipment of 5 percent have been provided. Price contingencies of 10
percent per annum have been included for resident specialists, short-term
consultants, local staff, training vehicles and equipment, and incremental
operating costs. Total contingencies amount to 20 percent of total project
costs. Costs are based on end of 1981 prices. Average base costs (net of
taxes) for resident specialists, including salaries, allowances and travel
(international and local) are estimated at US$11,000 per month. The average
cost of short-term consultants is estimated at US$14,000 per month including
fees, subsistence and international travel. The Government has agreed that
these costs are realistic and in line with those prevailing locally for
expatriates having similar qualifications. The Government and the Bank are,
however, determined to make pointed efforts to minimize the average costs of
the experts, inter alia, by contacting a wide range of consultants and,
whenever possible, qualified individual specialists and local consulting
services.
99.       The proposed loan of US$18 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The Government contribution would cover the
whole of the local cost. In order to facilitate project implementation
an advance in an amount of US$200,000 would be made from the loan proceeds
upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, deposited in a special account and
used solely for project purposes (Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
100.      The Ministry of Finance and Economy would establish and maintain
consolidated project accounts for all the proposed project expenditures.
These accounts and supporting records would be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports would be submitted promptly to
the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation
101.      The implementation of Technical Assistance provided under the
proposed loan would correspond to the schedule outlined in Part II and
Annex III of the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (No. P-3143-IVC).
Procurement
102.      Contracts for equipment and vehicles, which cannot be grouped into
lots of sufficient size to attract foreign suppliers, would be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The aggregate value of
such items is estimated not to exceed US$1.1 million. Specialist services
(resident and short-term) estimated at US$12.0 million would be obtained in
accordance with procedures acceptable to Bank. The remaining costs would
consist of administrative costs, fellowships, and training trips.



- 30 -
Disbursement
103.      The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
a)   for resident specialists and short-term consultants 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures (US$9.7 million);
b)   for foreign training trips and fellowships 100 percent of total
expenditures (US$1.4 million);
c)   for vehicles and equipment 100 percent of foreign or 60 percent of
local expenditures (US$0.8 million);
d)   for incremental operating expenditures (excluding local staff) 20
percent of total expenditures (US$0.1 million);
e)   US$4.0 million would be unallocated.
Disbursement against a) to c) would be fully documented, whereas disbursement
against d) would be made against statement of expenditures, with the supporting
documentation retained by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and made avail-
able for inspection by Bank project supervision missions and independent
auditors.
Benefits
104.      The proposed project is expected to help the Government in imple-
menting and consolidating the various structural reforms recently decided
upon. In the medium and longer term it would assure better functioning of the
various institutions and, by the same token, make better and more efficient
use of existing staff resources in the country, an important although unquan-
tifiable objective.
Risks
105.      Attracting and retaining qualified Ivorian staff is expected to
be difficult because of the rather low salaries paid by the civil service.
This risk is, however, expected to be alleviated by the measures under con-
sideration by the Government: productivity premiums during the project period
to attract good candidates and, later, the upgrading of key posts.
106.      There might also be the risk of unsatisfactory collaboration between
the specialists financed under the project, the technical assistance already
in place, and the Ivorian civil servants. This risk should, however, be
alleviated by the fact that the additional assistance has been requested by all
parties, and the project is conceived as a short-term program aimed at support-
ing the Government-s present massive effort under the SAL to restructure its
policy and some of its institutions. Also the close supervision of both the
proposed project and the SAL by Headquarters and the staff of RMWA should help
in maintaining constructive work relationships.



- 31 -
Part V - Legal Instruments and Authority
107.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ivory Coast
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
108.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Part VI - Recommendations
109.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 2, 1981



- 32-                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AES
LANU AREA (THUUSAND SQ. K)                                       -                   - MOST RECENT ESTIaATE)L
TUTAL            322.5                                NDST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
ACGICULTURAL     11.0              1960   b    1970 b ESTIMATE L    AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNl PEK CAPIIA (USS)                 260.0       520.0    1040.0                 794.2                  1616.2
EhERGY CUNSUMPIIUN PER CAPITA
(IULUOGANS OF CUAL EQUIVALENT)      75.3       220.4     234.1                 707.5                  1324.1
PUPULAILUN AND VlTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3460.0       5000.0    8227.0
URBAN PUPULATIUN (PERCENT OF TUTAL) 19.3        27.6      36.5                  27.7                    64.2
POPULATlON PRUJECTIUNS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       15.4
SIATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        45.0
YEAR STATIUNARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2110
POPULAIOUN UENSITY
PER Sq. LM.                       10.7        15.0      25.5                  55.0                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     32.5        46.2      66.4                 130.7                    94.5
POPULAIOUN AGE SIRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                         43.6        42.9      44.4                  46.0                    40.7
15-64 YAS.                         53.6        55.0      53.6                 51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.1       2.0                   2.8                     4.0
PUPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                              2.1         3.7.L     5.5Lc                 2.8                     2.4
URBAN                              6.0         7.3       8.6                   5.1                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH KATE (PER THUUSAND)     50.2        49.3      47.0                  46.9                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.9        20.8      17.6                  15.8                     8.4
GRUSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.3       3.3                   3.2                     2.3
FAKILY PLANNlNG
ACCEFIO&S, ANNUAL (TKOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
EUL) AND NUTRITIUN
INDEX UF FUOO PRODUCTIUN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        97.0     103.0                  89.9                   10S.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALUKIES (PERCENI OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.0       122.0     103.0                 92.3                    107.6
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          42.0        59.0      51.0                  52.8                    65.8
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      I1.0         15.0      15.0                  16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MURTALITY RATE     41.0        32.2      25.4                 20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTIH (YEARS)    37.2       42.5      46.9                 50.8                     64.1
lNFANT MURTALITY RATE (PER
THUUSAND)                             ..          ..        ..                    ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
IUTAL                               ..          ..      19.0                  27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.0                  74.3                    79.7
KURAL                               ..          ..       5.0                  12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TU EXCGETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULAIOUN)
TUIAL                               ..         5.0      25.0                   ..                     59.9
URBAN                               *-        23.0      33.0                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      22.0                    ..                    30.4
POPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN         29187.0e   14084.5   15220.0                13844.1                  1728.2
PUPULAIOUN PER NURSING PERSON     2920.0      2880.2/e  2368.0/e             2898.6                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            679.0       792.7        ..                1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..       492.7        ..                423.0                    558.0
RUkAL                               ..      1331.4        ..               3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HUUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF dOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              3.4d         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PLR ROOM
TUTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              1.8I         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLlNDS S)
TOTAL                              1.0"         ..
URBAN                              0.7          ..        .
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 46.0        63.0      71.0                  73.7                   101.7
MALE                 68.0        81.0      88.0                  96.8                   103.0
FEMALE               24.0        46.0      54.0                  79.0                   101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         9.0      14.0                  16.2                    35.3
MALE                  4.0        14.0      21.0                  25.3                    34.9
FEMALE                1.0         4.0       7.0                  14.8                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  13.0         7.0      11.0                   5.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        45.0      43.0                  36.2                    29.6
SECONDARY                           ..        21.0        ..                  23.6                    15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.0/g      20.0        ..                    ..                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0        11.3      11.9                  32.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        15.9        15.0     107.2                  69.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         4.6      40.2                  8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER CDAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  2.0         8.8       8.9                  20.2                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       1.2                   0.7                     3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1857.9       2657.7   4140.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  46.2        42.8      41.7                  36.7                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             88.8        84.0   .  78.9                  56.6                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.1         3.0       3.9                 17.5                     23,2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               53.7        53.2      50.3                  37.2                    31.8
MALE                                58.4        59.3      56.8                  47.1                    49.0
FEMALE                              49.1        46.7      43.4                  27.5                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         0.8       0.9                   1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.87         ..      50.0/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.67ih       ..         .d7-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5/h        ..      20.07h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    274.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      96.0                 156.2                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    487.0                  334.3                   513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..    244.0                 137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1957-58, African
population in the city of Bouake only; /e Government personnel only; If 1956-57; 7ji 1962; /h Population.
May, 1981



- 34 -                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEF INITIONS OF SOCIAL INDIlCATORS
hates   Although shet data  -r  deaun feos stee   generallY judged the  -eat a artttead reiable, to uhould a,a  uc ct,! chi  -.10  aoy c
naiona"lly computableIheo..s  of the look of taadardieed definitions aud -on-pt  used hy diffe-rent.. outries Incis o    the data.  The data toe, none-
theless. usefl.tod-srihe ordai   of s_gelinds, indictet teends. sod o~ratteise  -rtao  ajor differenoes. hbte- aaotriss.
The raeet   eoy   r   I  th  smecontygroup of the subject  --nty cad (2) a oau-ery group aith  -aeha, highstrmgeincm   than the orunty group
atteehjcfute   eop  foe "Cap1Itolt-plan Oil Epoe-ees  g.rtop nhee  "tltddls Income North Afioa and MItddiE fast  Is oha..t because. of strangee
soe!to-ueua  afotls)fe  S  pfrec  geaupt.f.     data the aII_           aar  phutnw ighed arinhetieae  ftr eah'iadicata  aed shown anly when
Iaotyo   h  ourietagoo   a   aafrthtidcer    Ites eta cereg  of ourIet aea.                                      teinoatr  deede on the as~lebiliey of data
and ta  ot nntfea, osutta ann  be eaaroled intinto   anraeeo   _`nindiotrt   ncac-T    I crat   r   tpao1i   oprigtenlee
LAND0 ohJEA (thbou..odaucniP                                                                                                                        -to   o   .t(tlhd-til   la.cd cuccl    P1--fcot .,c:'tl
Toa     - oa   ufoc  ae  copeOie  ln  ae  ad inlladI naee.uban,at  rural) dio d byLchi-e cenpe-eln  -onhe    f honyco-  -tdu
Aerirutural    iso iate ofagricooural  rea tod  -eprc li   rPorsanatty                asiul apoblto acd peicac  geos-Ialiat  nysciateed hoepic   acte
forcrpe  potre,mrtar and kitchen goedec  or      lie fel1a; 1979 data.                          habiltintion centers.  cHpital.  - r  eanablteheenta Peranetly staffed
by at least one phynician.  Etsblhlsbnt  podn pecIPsIlyc.....-
SOP Pl  CAPIA (Id   -GNt  par -cyota .  ae  at  ..rr..   market prices, ca1-                  dial tare ute non Irolded.   oRa-l hasoti.tatr  include health
catdby  aeccaao  method an Wfod tanAtlan  (1977-79 tacit); 1960,                              at    eia  cnennt  esoniyeataffed by a physliai (.but bya
19 71, ad 1979 data,                                                                               medtti.  asteae..    nr    midwife,et    eh"Ichffee t-,Panta e,tta
dan inn atd pet-ide  I looted. ra.ge of .edic-   fclite.Fors,           t
ENfERGY COSUMhiPTION PER CAPITA - aecua1  -osuptioc of cocemtIta  Ineeg   (oa                        itica  porponee orhaa ho.pitale tcluds WHlO. tcpa/enrlh-apinat, 
an~t      I                                             ~_el                                                    P~           ~     J .d lignite, petroleum, natural fat atd hydrc-, toolaa7 ad geot,hera  alec-  and ,rura   hoytal,  local o r    _eal hpltala atd mdica_ad  atrn Ity
tIcly) toic-o-If coal e.u. aen  yet ctt;19601, 1970,..cd 1979                                    cete     pecl-- ledhopeleaa                 ided otadee,ataI
data.                                                                                           Odei.itonoafcecled-telubeatdlsot toIor di_ohagee
lean hoepilela dlolded by the numbee of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tntla Pelto,td-ar(hend) - is of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                                  fIlsiOS
daa                                                                                           hoerAge i      Ie o   ho htil IPeSO  per booethoid  - tatal. -ebcs. sad ratal 
Irbu... Pe-aion(eee Io  total) - RatiIofatubar to tctaI popolatioe;                               A hb.asaboid tnIe        f c  a grop of idedatsasoslvn                    te
differsedatot           I f orb. atarea  eap affect        I ieprhlity of data                  an   heemin   aI.  A bocedel r     dgar ey ce map mat be included tn
amn   tore;1960, 190   n   99dt,teboeodtrsaitical pareas.
Porniantoo Projactoona                                                  Atepage towhee of rernoas pee roam-total. aehsa. end enral-Ateroge.. Per t..  A a.tmg
Poenlatlon In tea  lOft) - larrantpayuiatian  projection  arel basdon 1980             her of persoon par eaai   l   eao   t    eloepidceeea
octa  poouinby age anI         r   o   he mraiytadOstltpans                                   d-elllnga, reapacoinely.  Dellasealdeon-ea. t1tre    a
P-oj-ecion Paro--ar  for mortlity rsen  _oPrte  f  hre   ltels                                ..s.n-.s.etuptd pa-n..
log lIfe  -py-ctny at birth i..looeantg alth counry'  Pee  "aPianosacestfectootocotfde itne-toa.nhnadrul-
.e.e , -od feal a lfe ety-ccany nbahllain,gat77.  year._ The parc-                          Cen....on.     dellctgs aitb electriitly in lining qaleneesapye tettge
neesttfet,Iiyrc   loht   hre  Iseeaeeogdtiei                                             f  otctl, urba, and rural  dwellingsI renpcIne
to-tiilyac--ditgt   ic-o.. IttdP.ost family plIicola  atenne
tac .co.e.oy co then analgced on  of chae.  ill octniaIitton  of mortlity                 FIUCATION
and fariltip treoda for projecIon' nrl       aaAdinsted tE-lae.cI Outiom
Stactti y_ocoa           _ooioocI   icaypplto   honi   cgot   inePiaytho  - total, matle and tals-rI                                             s   toalml  cad femle
tha birth rate In  cual no the death race, otd alto the  S            - afsrtu er-              ear.limas  If all a.e.n.h.        eiaylaa   mPeee         Iae f respeatine
maIon ctee. This to a-hiene.d only after fartility race  datline no                             Primary nch-ol-ag  ppln        -s nrmly tetiads thitldeet aged 6-il
ch. raplaee.. c 1ace  of unit se  reprodattiot rate  abe  eath gane.-tion                       Yeata hat adjaaed for different I.I.ghobe at piey edneaito; foe
of _ .e.trelates itself ex_oly.  The a-aionary popalation sine ac                               Ion r wtie   ithuies auaineris    eay eateed 101 perteoc
ettinaned onth obe  ais of the proJelted oaateneIcof the popolatit                              stn  soee pnrii  areIt  belowa   hn  thetfiola1 achoai  g..
icc the year 2000, aod the race of declion of fertility ream so rnplace-                      teeodaoI hol           ca      1 ol  and femae - Clmp-te  a.  b.son; mecodar
aect loot1,                                                            educa~~~~~~tion requres atlatI   oe Is      f  pptoe-d pri"ary inatlutite
tea  -tti .o.ary popa1ltiot In reached- The year ohoc  teat ltory population                       p-toidee gnnes.l   ecclo1 ,      art neact hee  -eling inatruoni... for P-Pik'
sloe baa been e-ahed.                                                                           _sially of 12 to 17 yearm tf ege; ct-repandents t.u.... are gecrully1
Par an. kt. -   di-peat poplaIonteoIt ioatr(l                        ors   f                     tttional enomn  (a.erano of  -aoodae1) - In...titealiwatin
ito oe   9690  190ad 199da.                                                              tlde  aehoc l, ndusia, at  thee peogeam  which apecim-                eepa
Pee eg  ha.  ceicutura land-ComputeId as  hon  for ageicultural land                        stl  or ae depae. enaIa  -etedep instinaeia.-
ol;1960, 1970 and 1978 dat.Peltaberto-nian.  cad ....ndeey - TotalI -idents entelled Is
FPoe 1iaeIo  Ace Steutoe  (ecn)-Childeas (0-14 years). wokIng-age (11-                               Priee  and aetodee  leel    Iidd by toaermt  of teaehee  In the
69pe),ad reiieed (6957pearce ad  -ne) ma per-n-gee of mid-yea  .pop-                              c.ree.po.dig Ienel.. 
latio;10, 170, med 1979 daedl  ieaoes   paet      iteeste  ed.te  (chi  to read sad eiti)
Pona    -h Ioi  Renteetn)- oa  -   ..ac 91gaa           atso   atal. mid-                      assI p.-ce-ge of nesa1 adult  ppis             ged 15 pests a ad Ieme.
peso papulati.na far 1950-6.. _907, and1970-7 9.t ..I
Poeclanion Oro-h gae(percen) - orban - A"acoa greenth ratesI tbaeha  papa-                    CONSUMP'TION
letn    o   9060, 0960-70, and 1979-79.                                               asnn  Cats (pae thousan.d poeoiscinn),  - Pmssemger nets coprise  mtoe
Crude Birth fate leer oho_wod) - AIna l. 1Ine bilehe pee th-os-d c  mid-pear                      tar.se s:ing leesthat sight parsn;...oldeshaate,heresad
popolanion; 1960, 1970, nod 1979 data.                                                          eOItarptehtla
Ceide D-ah fate (te  thousand)L ~- aoua1 dmaiha pee thata.nds at mid-pete                       hadi. is -einee   (geethosan  eupsltion) - Alltps of reteters ta  eadlo
population; 196.190  and 179 da.                                                                brodnaste to geeem 1publia pee thousan d at    . pouaIng  amladl          n
Crams Reorod-cin. Rtne-A-srge Iube  o f daaghtefa a unma  till hbee  Io                            liemneed reemin...es         ... n iwtie  and It p.ean  wh..emiee Iafn nadon
her narmI e-pe-du-tint,       o   it  "beeI"nt I          ....t age-spat ifi  tine-             letm ca  to eff-e; data foe eneas yeaee may net hs tnparahln ainn
nttliy rates; usually tine-pa a- esgs  mdtg  n  960. 1970, aed 1979.ss                                   aee   abolished IIee-i- g
Pantlo PIane.,lnc-dotsrtesA:.. daoa  (ithue...d') - A..acI number of aetp-ore                   TOgpnr    eet theama            ..euleina  - TV rea .toer  toe head-  to
of bieth-conteo  den cI o-der asepic:, of national "family pla...Oog program,                   general! pbli  peI     huan    euaion; ealadeolnnedT   eene
PotoPaau-lee(pacet_  of married womet) -    teoge of matoied                             Is Io...tries and In  ere  nnr ertina   Ost   e  itetfee..
nune  f child- hearing age (15-i  yesesI) who use tirtb-oteo-1 denioma to                  iNw-tar Circulation  eer thousand pnpnleati)   _S-ihw   the settigs tie-
all, ortiod  -oe  In same age group.                                                            ouaItion of 'daily genera i-1     rs  newapapern, deftwed as   period Ica
poblianeina denoted primarilynreodg geeinw.Iiscaideted
PFOOD ANDi NUTRITIOt                                                                                 nohIdty   f  napasa  lec  tou r tiesamek
teden of Pood Prodocoiot Per CoPtle  71969-71-it0) - Ides of per ocyica annual.                 Cinema- Atu latteedanre Pee Copiaa Per  ean - ease d on the number of
p-cdu-tio  of all food ooictee.  fr-uo- euldee need and teed and                                ni        -1n ml doping the paine, incinding amsft   odiet   io
It on cleo.dme year hoel. C7oe-odit is o-IeprimaIry gotds (e.g. nugarc...ndmoil  atn.
ios...ad at algae) ubich are edible and con tai noie.tta (e.g. eoffoe and
te -r alded).  Aggregate peoduieta   of eat  country In base.d on                     LABff FORCE
natinalooeega  eodoer  tie  seghte  1961 -6S, 1971, cud 1979 date,                   Total Labor Forte (thousads) --onala iyauty er a  ioelnding
par cat ito aoly of.1 caloIes (te       ta of reeuiir-mente  - Conputod from                    armd f...ea and onapnybyd hut eneludiag ho..is-we, ecudeutaet,
aunrap equi-lent of tot foed sPppi ie  ateileble  In coutry per caItaIcatring population of all  Ige..                               sf.ini.i.n In  -eri...aI.u.tetes. atc
prday.  AtatlablelatpnIns  -ope iao domeni pedcIn, impots less.                             eat cnparabin; 196t, 1970 and 1979 datae._...I   I.
o.Poc_.  cud chaugonIt:P11I lontok.  tot aippie Inlde aimo  feed, seede,                   PFmaI. loerceet) - femalelbor forea   ecaeofttllbrtre
qut    I Intn   It food pr--asnOg, aed Ilos..n toditrhu Ro . Oquie-                  Lgar   eeio)-theb.  forc  ia farming, foreeny, b..,iag and
aee :eoat imatod by FAO h.ead t  phyalalgl-Ia neds too  -o1a acti-                     tIhin  aspete-ge If tota  laoI            oee 90, 1970 aed 1979 dcea.
niey aud health coleigclomcatmnaua   hcdy weights. Io                                       Industry (perc-l -Labor forte it  iig   osrtle,tauatr
and sndintlbueco  ofl0  poPo1atlon, and al'iceg 10 parc-t foenae a.t                          so.d sl-orteity, aserod gasa  peoe           fga  tota  labor torte.;I960,
houehodJ loe; 191-65, 1970, acd 1977 data.                                                 1970 and 1979 dae..
Pe  sita  .ippJ IIof c teit (cr.0. coo-Da   - Protein co-cea  at Per capita               Partienpet,no fae(eeea)-toa,  ae ald femal  - Pce1tieptioo or
ee apyo   odped ay. tfe  aupply of food Is defined ce abat.O-                        coiirrse    e  onae  asItotal, maIn, and tel  lahor, fore a
,,Ieanetc  fatIll countries ewebli,hd by 190A pronide tar musperoe..asgem  ot totl,  mi  ndfmlepplalwo  oil ages repeettoey;
alocc    f 6   rm    fttlprotei  per day std 20 gresoantaad190171ad 1979 dta,T m  aebsd o                                                           attpto    ae
poise protet, of ohich 10 grate should be anmlIon                  hm   tn-relc  a   g-e    niep f the po.poation, and  .long aiIe treed.  A
ards nen loer that'hos  of 75 grama of tct1i prtin and 23 Irn   ffreomtt ar  from -1- naioaleereaa
aaimu1 protein at  na-   rga for the norld, proposed by FAO in the ThirdEto....sII teenedency Rtie  - fania of population oeder 15 and 65 ald Inee
lNd Podlany  1961-, 1977 S. cd 1977 data,                                                     to  the tonal labor farce
Per o-pina pro teit nopopfey   atm ad paIne -Protein sopply at food de-
nee d fran onialt aud pul1e ..In ge.m. per day; 1961-65, 1979 and 19c7,data. 09N0O4 DISTRIBUTION
Child (agem 1-V7 ttlt hateI(pe  thousand) - Aa-aui deahs pet thO..send it                       Per---as of Prio-c  Inoom   (both In -ah sad kind) - if-ci-ed hy pichent
age groiP 1-4 yaaea, to children Itchin age group; foo mot  deneloping tone-                    5           rpier,ohest 20 coronet, patinae  20 percent, and poutet 40 parc--
Itrie   data deponed (eon lifo  tablet; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data,                               of ht..n.holda.
HEAL.TH                                                                                         P0O0R1Y TARGET _5R00PS
Life E.,csnpa  Orch (yeatsI A-  ege number of year o.  f life renanatgThfolwnesiasortryprnmte emieofpneiot,
os birch; 1960, 197   ed17    9  at                                                              o  tol   aluepn              ich toiderabe cuin
Inan irol.ley face   erthoasand)  - lunoa  dadiba of inatsuder toe year                     fEOmtm-td Absolute Poo--n Inc,eI henri li   e  00S ,     pIes) -       md rorl.-
iccena toSaft Oaoe )certeoof coruattood- otal, uran, and arel - O-             notrici-u'it,  adqy atd   dit pdi atepi  enial nt-io1 o  aqoic-mats Ia ct
her tf P-,p"  (total, ura,adorl   ith  facua le aces   c nOtafogbl
.tote  -tply  (teolodseau        daescocr  0 utIt   but, anrotamltad                          Eantmated ealetit- Ponety 1now  ee  (US) tpee_             n -.i.   aehn mad rip.1
cae -ah -0 thai from  procactod toreholen, nyig,ad sani-tar   el)a                              arinn    oey -1nomlecl i  tee-third of Itrg    e   epc
etototit c  nItcpn   oae   c  earn than 200 1 neenr   rom  a Ipsnbnyih                          precocal moos-  of the ttor.Urbat le-  is dented  fro. the rurll
l.l.d bi.g  'thI.rI_                                                 ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Enti    aPh  djuntenet foe higheroo  atlnigh  urbn sene..
ounsidnoed  a hatag ciblo reanucble accessof that hose.  In tip1 0t0        ttmae  Ptltto 8 felo  Olboate Poore  toom  L-eol (etecent -  -bhm
eensooebleacIa.n.o-ld Isylychtteoseifccnacsf tIhe.oshl                                          nd eral -  eeea  n  ppLato   ubtad rrl   b   e                          lt
do 000tac..tc  spad a Ityctrl tepr  of the day In f-ttiog th
fnaly'.    . sare tend.                                                                         p
dAco. to Eace         'E""psa     ...co o   tuata-oa  urban, andror1 
N.mbe  of peopl  (noal  uta,           rrl  tamed byaeradipalt
percentages of theiereapoctho   topolatto"m    Enceera   dinpnlmp ..   yiooOuda
the ca lctnsd dospotal, aith or umhaut  ---eo, of ho-eIncret                                                                         fScoi  ad ioel InsDiniatta
Indl Iae-omner by  -sr-b-ru   nyotos or the use of pit pitin.  and shalt... ConIc o.olyaie and Projections Depar-mat
Ponano   er Phoolino - Potulation dinldd by nsrcIf prt-iolog physi-                                                                              M,18
otI.. q-sitted fro  a  edic_l _ch_cIatuioriy ioel.
PeuslcPer Nu-etotParso   - Populaion diondad by  uber of pesoticing
male aad female grad aco   urt  practical..    oarnIa, otd ae.eistaetnos.



09iI 4i_oeo r -    -
-,~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 09  4444  444   44 
i -                                                                           009       444             44.'Z
0                                                                             0      *4       44            444          4 0U  0S0U     s        
09    90                 W044           4        4                  4 
m   es   4 N o B=   O    aC O    O             sD                  *P                                                                                    4
C   4                            . _I                                         009          04       44        0                                      04 4                4               4=           044 W   C 
94                                                             .  ,    0         94    -04444444                                -4                0  n4                0 
l  9                                                                                                                                                                                                       *-o>O            0  D <     r0  
04                                                                                                                                                                                                          4 .0        S              04   gu   
49                                                                                                                                                                                                00 I     o4
I                                                       X                                                                                                                        _                ono -99r04
z~~~~~~0                                                                 0e                                                                                                                          .o         0     s_~ft=S>t f         
00~~~~ ~~~~~~~ 49    0                                                         _ 4,  99   N Z4    44                                                                                0    0        44          00 .
-90                         o  49  0      144       4                                          0                 00.0W         __ SN.r  4       09 I0    00 o                                0S4           00
4       _           9     00S             t=OlO      0                  0S                                         24        0                    09N u 0414                    _                 0.         00_          0
4       _        9.9     0              _ .90 I                     0. _9                                         000       0t 49                        00 0                          9     .00           0
~~~~~~~~~~'oo.0.  0 1  09  00  00    0                                          00    _         00           0          S          9    0      41                                00           -     _ 4oo
00     0            09      004           0i0                                                         S ,0 00     > 00_    4z   4l o'9                                                          0               00 0
00      0                9    0 0            0 0                                                             0     4 0                               4         0 4                         9      0 
4    n 0                         09       0                              0                            0 04         0                                   9      0 0 4.                                           0
.9    C                   9 O0                                                                              40      1400 4D 9D                                       0 9 4O                         014         49              0
00    o C                        40          10 S~~o                                                                          0t                       o. S0 09 4_                                 14S 0o    o1
41    0p,                     9         N X-4                                                                                                                                                               ,.000                   e   9    00  004    9400
oo                         ;             ~             ~~, 0^ 000  0  14                                                                                                                                      e               o 000  0j9
-ff~~     ~       ~ 709   c                                         o                          0 u409                                            14 9        j                         09 e 31i                              1  e 



-36 -ANtEX 
Page 5 of 6
IVORY COAST - EXTEIONAL TRADE
Population:  8,240 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP pro capita: USS1,Z50 (1980)
Annual Growth Retin  (%) at Constant 1980 Prices
Am ounI------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- __ _     _  ___  ___  _      _  __ _      _ _ _ _ 
Ir.dica tor                              (mill ion US S at                        Actual                             Preliminary                                 P-ojected
enrrent  prices)         -------------------------------------            ---------------          --------------------------------------------
1980              1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1985
EXTEYe3AL TRADE
M-erch-diso Eiports                              3037               10.7        -1.3        -26.3        22.7        -0.8        23.5          1.2         3.7         9.5        12.5        11.4
Primary                                        2508                9.4        -4.2       -28.0        24.2         -4.6        21.8         1.1         3.4         9.4         12.0        10.8
Manufactures                                    529               34.4       -39.1         15.9        13.3        25.0        31.8         2.0         6.0         10.0        16.0        16.0
Petroleum                                        -                                                                                                                443.5        117.6        50.8
Merchandise Imports                              3045                0.5        23.1         41.1        27.8        -3.7         5.9        -7.0        -1.8          5.6         7.4         7.1
Fond                                            393              -19.8        18.3        77.3        21.1          0.5         9.2         2.5         3.8         4.7         6.4          6.2
Petroleum                                       445              - 6.9        37.7        11.1          1.9        45.9        32.4       -64.0      -100.0           -           -           -
Machinery and Equipment                        1552               10.9        19.5        67.4         41.1       -16.0         5.1         4.2         4.1          3.9         6.9         5.8
Others                                          655              -17.3        22.4        27.5        25.0          3.0        -1.5         1.6         4.2         7.4         0.8          8.4
Export Price Iden (1979   100)                    98               51.4        67.5       104.5         91.8       100.0        98.0        87.3         93.3      104.3        116.6       129.0
I=poct Price Iedex (1979 * 100)                   116               70.9        77.2        86.9         90.1       100.0       116.0       124.4       133.5       144.2        155.0       166.0
Terms of Trade Index (1979 * 100)                   85              72.5        87.4        120.3       101.9       100.0        84.5        70.2         69.9        72.3        75.4        78.0
Co-pselsiun of 1Merhandise Trade (I)                                        A-ecage Annual Increase (.)
(a  cu-rmnt prices)                                                 (at conutant 1980 prices)
1965    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990               1965-1970       1970-1975      1975-1980       1980-1985      1985-1990
Euports                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   6.6            7.9             2.4            7.9             7.8
Pripaty                                            93.0    92.0    91.6    82.6    60.0    40.1                   5.7             6.6             1.6            7.6            6.4
Manufacturen                                         7.0     8.0      8.4    17.4    14.2    17.7                 15.2           16.1            12.1           10.1            16.0
Petroleu                                              -        -                -      25.8    42.2                 -
Imports                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   9.0            7.2           -0.7             2.6            6.5
Fond                                               10.0    11.0    12.0    12.9    14.6    13.9                   7.4             0.5            8.2             4.8            5.6
Petroleum                                            9.0     9.0    14.0    14.6         -        -                7.5           10.7            0.7              -               -
M-ahinery and Equipment                             30.0    26.0    28.0    32.1    36.8    31.7                   6.5            5.3            -6.8            4.9             2.7
Othe-a                                             51.0    54.0    46.0    40.4    48.6    54.4                  10.8            -0.1            0.6             6.1            9.4
Shien of Trade with                             Share of Trade with                                        Share T-ade  ith
Industrial Countries (7)                        Developing Countries (h)                            C.pital Surplus Oil Exporters (7.)
1965    1970    1975    1979 I/                1965    1970    1975    1979 iE                         1965    1970    1975    1979 e7
DIRECTION OP TRADE
inp.tel                               82.4    86.9    70.0    81.4                    13.0    11.1    24.2    11.3                             0.6      0.2      0.0      2.7
Pritacy                             84.2    89.9    75.9         -                 11.0       7.9    18.2       -                            0.6      0.2      0.0       -
Manufactures                        50.3    38.2    26.5         -                 49.0    60.7    68.1         -                            0.0      0.0      0.0       -
I-pocts                               84.7    84.0    71.8    81.3                   14.1    14.3    21.4        6.5                           0.0      0.1      1.3    11.7
p Preliminary actual.



_ 37 -                                                              ANNEX I
pag. 6 of 6
DVOIY 0DAS? - 38381C gP PASTS. UXTSUAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(.illiona 5S$ at current prices)
Population 8,240 (aid-1980,thousende)
GNP per capita: 0U81,258 (1980)
Actual                                   Praliatory                                    Projected
Indicator                                1970      1975        1976        1977        1978          1979        1980           1981        1982        1983        1985        1990
BALANCE 07 PorINTS
I.ports of Goods and Service.                     573       1507        1998        2768        3072          3330        3798           3489        3909        4750       7290       16331
of which:  Marchaodisa f.o.b.                   497       1239        1735        2391        2616         2719        3037           2739        3034        3714        5761       13013
Ieports of goods ad services                      646       1933        2188        2827        3440          3950        5375           5595        6129       7036        9352       17112
of which:  Merchandise fo b.                    375       1012        1161        1362       2045           2203       3046            3037        3201       3653        4830        8934
Net Trsoefer                                        34        42         -59        -331        -417          -529          33             38          44          50         67          134
Current Account saleocs                           -38       -384        -249        -390        -785         -1149       -1544          -2068       -2176      -2235       -1996        -697
Private Direct Invetent                            31         81          37           3          55           119          62            269         371         408        670         249
MLT Loans (set                                      50       249         277         725         976           625         404            923        1418        1651        1462       1014
Official.                                        34         75          65         158         750           648          64            334         978       1306        1287        1014
Private                                          15        174         213         567         169           -23         340            589        440         345         175        -0.1
Other Capital                                      -4        -39         -35        -256          45           300         235            338         261         251         19         225
Change in Reerve*                                 -39         93         -30         -82        -159           320         639            -55        -134       -227        -302        -487
I.ternetiMnel RmeesrV.                                   -          -           -           -                   -         -866          -801        -667        -440         139        2091
of which: Gold
les.orvee as moth. imports                          -                                                                      1.9           -1.7        -1.3       -0.8         0.2         1.5
EXtERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Grosr  Disburoeot t /
Official Grnto                                   -          -           -                       20            25         30              35          39         42          51          83
conceesfooi   Loans                              32         34          44          44          64            27        41               71          64         42           7        0.08
DAC                                            24         23          37          24          30           15         27              25          24          18           3          -
OPEC                                           _          _           _           -           _ -     -                                                       -           -           -
IDA                                            -           1           2           4           1            -         -                 2          3           3           2        0.08
Other                                           8          9           6          17         33             12        14              44          37          21           2          -
Noo-concseeiomol Loans                           45        291         342         865         932           978       a88             1401        1940       2044        2636        3503
OfficIal Eporte Cfrdite                         6         20          21          89          28          101         26             186         821        1179        1500        2193
IBRD                                            3         25          14         37          58            51         40              64          77          89         109         146
Other ltaltilateral                             1         15           7          11         32            28         18              92         119         110           4          -
Private                                        34        231         299         727        815           798        805            1059         923         866        1023        1164
E.ternal Debt
Debt Outstanding  nd Diab.re.d                  256        916        1167        1962       2667          3502       4062            4985        6403        8055       11203       17008
Official                                      144        378         433        612        1574          2083       1115            1449        2427        3733        6446       11439
Private                                       112        538        734        1351        1093          1419       2947            3536        3976        4321        4756        5570
Undisbur ed D6bt                                168        560         974       1666        1626          1548       1828            2727        3181        3376        3280        5341
Debt Servic
Total Se-I* Psyents                              39        132         175        288         415           568        855             928        1044        1201        1995        3741
loceroer                                       12        56          66         104         171           250        329             379         458         567        814        1251
Payments se 7 Ixports                           6.7        8.8        8.8        10.4          14            17         23              27          _7          25          27          23
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (7)            5.9        8.0         7.5         7.7         8.6           8.1       8.5              8.2        8.2         8.2         8.2         8.1
Officil                                        4.9        7.3        6.9         6.6          -                                 -          -
Priv4te                                         7.5        85.         7.6         8.1         -             -          -               -           -           -           --
Avergae Maturity of New Loans (years)            18.5       12.6        10.6        11.2         9.8          11.5       8.0             10.7        11.1       11.1        10.5        11.5
Officia1                                       22.5       18.0        16.9        18.7          -                       -                -          _                                   -
Private                                        12.0        8.7         9.0         9.1
As i of Debt Outet ndiog
at End of Most Re o.t
Year (1979)
Maturity Structure of Debt Outotanding
Principal due withis 5 years                                                                            Sl.8
Principal due within 10 yers                                                                            87.6
Isterest Structure of Debt Outstnding
lotereet due within five years                                                                          26.6
g/  Diebucesnt data for 1978 ar  estiate.                                                                                                                          Weet Africa Recgor
Doptoober 1991



-38-                            ANNEX II
Page I of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1981)
US$ Millions
Loan or     Fiscal                                           (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose           Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
One         Cred't  Fully Disbursed                      139.8      7.5
Eighteen    Loans   Fully Disbursed
981-IVC     1974    Ivory Coast         Telecom-          17.4                   8.4
munications
1069-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast         Cocoa II          20.0                   2.9
1077-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast         Cotton            31.0                   5.2
1124-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast         Tourism            9.7                   2.6
1161-IVC    1976    Ivory Coast         Highways V        43.0                   3.4
1162-IVC    1976    CCI                 DFC                5.6                   1.7
1177-IVC    1976    BIDI                DFC                8.0                   3.6
1347-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        30.0                   9.0
1348-T-IVC  1977    Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        14.0                   4.2
1484-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Water Supply      16.0                   3.4
1490-IVC    1978    RAN                 Railway           23.0                    *
1501-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Feeder Roads      29.0                 10.1
1575-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Rubber II         20.0                   4.3
1577-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Abidjan
Sewerage II       33.0                 24.8
1633-IVC    1979    Ivory Coast         Rubber III         7.6                   3.9
1663-IVC    1979    Ivory Coast         CCI-Artisans      12.6                  11.0
1698-IVC    1979    Ivory Coast         Tourism II        14.2                  13.0
1735-IVC    1980    Ivory Coast         Forestry          18.0                  13.1
1777-IVC    1980    Ivory Coast         Education III    24.0                   23.1
1827-IVC    1980    Ivory Coast         Rural Dev.         9.4                   9.4
1896-IVC    1981    EECI                Power             33.0                  31.4
1914-IVC/1  1981    Ivory Coast         Highway Sector  100.0                 100.0
2048-IVC/2  1982    Ivory Coast         Urban Dev. II    51.0                  51.0
TOTAL                                        709.3     7.5        339.5
of which has been repaid               36.6       -
TOTAL now outstanding                       672.7      7.5
Amount sold                          5.1
of which has been repaid      5.1       0.0       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA              672.7      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                            339.5     0.0        339.5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Approved but not yet signed.
*   US$46,682.83 undisbursed.



- 39 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1981)
USs '000
Type of
Year       Obligator                   Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1965       Banque Ivoirienne          Industrial        -        204.0      204.0
de Developpement         Development
Industriel               Bank
1978-      do.                        do.               -        219.5     219.5
1977       Ets. R. Gonfreville, S.A. Textiles           -        884.7     884.7
1980       Societe Ivoirienne         Fertilizers   5,210.0  1,272.0   6,392.0
d'Engrais (SIVENG)
1980       Moulins du Sud-Ouest       Food
(MSO)                   Processing    2,900.0    406.7   3,306.7
Total gross commitments                   8,020.0  2,986.9  11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                           -         -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                             8,020.0  2,986.9  11,006.9



-40-                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. ProJects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 981          Telecommunications Project:  US$25 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due maihly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointirlg engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is generating the
cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out its
expanded investment program, although at a lower pace than anticipated.
Lu. No. 1069         Second Cocoa Proiect-  US$20 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The project's physical targets have been met. The problem of quality of
cocoa has been closely followed and decisive progress in fermentation and
drying techniques of cocoa have been achieved. The financial situation of
SATMACI.is unsatisfactory as a result of administrative delays in the pay-
ment of Government's contributions. Ways to improve the situation have been
recently discussed with SATMACI and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Ln. No. 1077        Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975, Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is far
ahead of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production
is, however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Disbursements are
behind schedule due to the reorganization of CIDT's accounting system and the
administration's slowness in processing the withdrawal applications. Discus-
sions between the Government and RMWA on these various issues are underway.
Ln. No. 1124        Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date:  January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The loan has been fully
committed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress of
projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems and actions
being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the understanding that
they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 41-                             Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 1161         Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided foV under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.
Ln. No. 1162         Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The loan is now fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1177         BIDI DFC Project:  US$8 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Over 80 percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln. No. 1347         Urban Development Project:  US$44 million.  Lcans
and 1348-T           (US$30.0 million and US$14 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The execution of the urban transport components of the project has been
completed satisfactorily. The shelter component is still delayed mostly
because of slow administrative procedures in on-lending the proceeds of the
loan to the executing agencies. The matter has now been solved, contracts
for slums upgrading have been signed and the project is expected to be
completed by end 1982.
Ln. No. 1484         Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1501         Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



-42-                            ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Lu. No. 1575         Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15.
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Because of the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand Bereby
rubber plantations (SO.G.B.), the structure of the legal documents for this
project had to be amended. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded
satisfactorily under Bank staff supervision. On July 17, 1980, the new agree-
ments to substitute for the original ones were submitted for approval to the
Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on August 6, 1980. They became effec-
tive on September 15, 1980, and US$15.7 million have been disbursed to date.
Ln. No. 1577         Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 1978:  Effectiveness Date:  Septem-
ber 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although house connections to
the sewerage system is progressing at a lower pace than anticipated. Remedial
action in this respect is being discussed with Government.
Ln. No. 1633         SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million Loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1663         Artisans, Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although commitments and dis-
bursements are about twelve months behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1698         Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1735         Forestry Project:  US$18 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1777         Third Education Project:  US$24 million Loan of
December 28, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
-43 -                           -age 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1827        North-East Savannah Rural Development Project:  US$9.4
dmillion Loan of May 27, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1896        First Power Project:  US$33 million Loan of September 11,
1980; Effectiveness Date:  March 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Lu. No. 1914        Highway Sector Project:  US$100.0 million Loan of
March 19, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1981.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Lu. No. 2048  1/    Second Urban Development Project:  US$51.0 million Loan
of October 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
1/ Not yet effective.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
IVORY COAST
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           June 1981 through July 1981
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Government with Bank staff's
assistance
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:          June 1981
(d)  Completion of negotiations:              October 2, 1981
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:           November 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Condition
The recruitment of both the seed multiplication specialist and the start
of the marketing study should be contingent upon an agreement between the
Government and the Bank on the concept of a nationwide research program to be
prepared by the Ministry of Scientific Research and an agreement between the
Government and the Bank on the recommendations of the price and subsidies study
now underway and a plan of action to implement the required reforms (Section
3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(a) Ministry of Planning and Industry
Planning Directorate
- 20 man-months of short-term consultancy to provide timely assistance
in project evaluation to a newly created Project Evaluation Unit;
(b) Ministry of Planning and Industry
Industrial Directorate
-  4 man-years of industrial experts for 2 years (one project analyst
and one project economist) and 24 man-months of short-term consultancy
to help reform the-industrial institutional and policy environment and
improve project economic evaluation;
- training: study trips overseas and fellowships for the staff;
- vehicles, equipment and incremental operating expenditures.
(c)  Ministry of Agricul.-,e
Study and Planning Department (DEP)
-  3 resident specialists for 3 years (one general economist, one agro-
economist and one agronomist) and 30 man-months of short-term consultancy;
-  training:  9 man-months of short-term consultancy to provide training
in sectoral and project analysis to the staff of the Ministry, study
trips in Africa and overseas, and fellowships;
-  vehicles, equipment  and incremental operating expenditures.
Study Unit (BETPA)
-  3 resident specialists for 3 years (one economist/financial analyst, one
agricultural economist and one agronomist) and 45 man-months of short-term
consultancy for specific studies;
-  training:  study trips in Africa and overseas, and fellowships;
-  vehicles, equipment and incremental operating expenditures.
Budgeting, Programming and Control Unit
- 2 resident specialists for 3 years to staff an audit cell to be established
within the Minister's cabinet to assist the Minister in his assessment of
the performance of the state enterprises under his jurisdiction.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
State Secretariat (for the promotion of foodcrops)
- 2 resident specialists for 3 years (one senior advisor to the Secretary
of State and one seed multiplication specialist);
- a six-month study by 3 experts of marketing, storage, and processing
problems and, if justified following the study, the recruitment of a
resident specialist for 30 months to prepare a marketing investment
program and 12 months of short-term consultancy for related specific
tasks;
- training: study trips in Africa and overseas, and fellowships;
- vehicles, equipment and incremental operating expenditures.
(d)  Ministry of Scientific Research
- 6 months of short-term consultancy by ISNAR and 6 man-years of specialists
to review the ongoing research programs and make proposals for a nationwide
research program covering foodcrops, cash crops and smallholder production
system;
- training: study trips in Africa and overseas, and fellowships;
- vehicles, scientific equipment and incremental operating expenditures
(e)  Ministry of Economy and Finance
State Enterprises
- 64 man-months of short-term consultancy to conduct operational audits
of 8 enterprises; and hiring of the services of one expert for 2 years
(with a short-term consultancy budget of 12 man-months) to prepare
'"contract plans".



- 47 -
VOERY  COAST4EZV
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                Psge i of 9
S'UlARY COST TABLE
COST million                                                     US   (OO0)
TotaI                                                          Total
TocoS        Tamms        Local     Foreign        netTo Total              Boxes         Local      Foreig        toroo
A,  Iinsoiry of Pla  and Industry
B. Birecorarar of elan
Short tee  -nasaltanry       04.0           10.0          -         76.0         76.0        348.1        66.7            -         201.4       281.4
2.  nreratata of Ids
BRe3dent Speo-alists        102.8           40.0       20.8        122.0        142.8        677.0       148.2         77.0         451.0       528.0
Short tern -cno=Nltmy       l2.0            21B6          -         91.2         91.2        417.B        Bo.O            -         337.0       337.8
Vehicles a-d aqoip-rt        1B.O            3.3         1.1         5.6           7.7        40.0        12.2          4.1          24.5         20.6
noresstsonsl expenditrar
i    Staff                51.0            7.5       43.5            -         43.5        100.9       27.8         161.1             -       761.1
ii    OperaSing rosIn      12.3            1.2        8.6          2.5         11.1         45.6        4.4.         31.9           9.3        41.2
Teaiaing                     23.4              -          -         23.4         23.4         066            -            -          066         06.6
Tonal Direr-orste Isdn-tty   393.3            73.6       74.0        243.7        319.7       1456.7       27Z.6        274.1         910.0      1184.1
Total Miniatty of Iodn-rey       487.3           91.6       74.0        321.7         393.7      1804.8       339.3        274.1        1191.4       1465.5
B.  tinitty of An girolt-rn
1. D.E.P.
Sosednt specislis-s         411.3           90.0       46.0        274.5         321.3      1523.3      333.3         173.3        1006.7      1190.0
Bi-te teem ro-enltny         4L.B          127.0          -        114.         114.         322.2      30B.S             -         422.        422.2
Vehirlts and .sqiptnt.       33.1            9.9        3.3         19.9          23.2      12216         3627         12.2          73 7        05.9
n:r=e_ntal epjendi-ores
Staff               102.B          15.1        86.9           -          86.9      377.8         55.9         321.9            -        321.9
Operating caere      40.0           4.1        28.6         0.1          36.7       131.1        15.2         105.9         30.0        13539
Training                     73.8              -          -         73.8         73.8       273.3            -            -         273.3       273.3
Internal 'tip far
con.ltants                   22.0              -       20.7          2.0         00.0        01.0           -          74.4           7.6        01.5
Toci D.E.0. .                 824.0          146.1      105.6        492.3         677.9     3051.0        541.1        607.4        1623.3      2510.7
2. B.B.T.P.A.
8RNident sparciaoots        411.3           90.0       46.8        274.5        321.3      1523.3       333.3         173.3       1016.7       1190.0
Sh-e teem ronsltar          21.3            40.3          -        17.B         10.         734          150.0            -         633.4       63373.4
Vehicles and equipm-.        22.2            6.6         2.3        13.3          15.6       003          24 5          8.5          49.3         30.0
Inrertntal axpenditrr-s
~tenEf30.0                          4.4        25.6           -          23.6      111.1         109            4.0            -         94.0
operating ca-sc      27 6            2.8       19.3         5.5          24 .       101.2 2      0 4           71i5         20.3         91.0
Tr-ining                     73.8              -                    73.9          73.8      279.3            -                      273.3       273.3
Intetnal 1r078 far
ransaltants                  33.0              -       30.0          3.0         33.0       122.2           -        111.2           11.1       122.2
Total 0.E.T.P.A.              009.4          144.3      124.0        341.1         665.1     2007.8        534.3       459.2         20B4.1      2463.3
3. St-retoriat d' Sat
R hiT33Mibper3o14P t        300.3           S5.0       44.2        259.0        303.3      1430.9        314.0       163.7          960.4      1124.1
tSYortaterm noasolnanry     141.1           27.0          -        114.0        114.0       522.2        100.0           -          422,2       422.2
Vshirles and saqipamac       16.7            5 0         1.7        2Q.0          11.7       61.6         18.5         6.3           37.Q         43.3
Intrenmatal etepsn.iteres
Staff                66.0           9.7        56.3            -         56.3       244.5        35.9        220.6             -        200.6
Operating rasts      2-.9            2.2       15.3         4.4          19.7        01.1         8.2         50.0           16.3        72.9
Training                     62.4              -          -         62.4          62.4      231 1           -                       231.1        231.1
Internal trips foe                                                                            /
ransal.asts                  22.0              -       20.0 ..       0 0          22.0       61.5            -        74.1            7.4         01.5
Taol Sarteteriat d'Etat      718.5          120.9      137.3        432.1         509.6     261.1         477.4       509.3         1674.4      2103.7
4. D.P.B.C.G.
saIdne=tsper-ialst          274.2           60.0       31.2        103.0         214.2     1019.6        222.2       110.6          677.0        793.4
Equipge=t                     4.7            1.4        0.5          2.0           3.3       17.4          3.2         I.0           10.4         12.2
I=rR=-ntala  panditnra_       6.9           0.7        4.0          1.4          6.2        25.6          2.6        17.0            5.2        23.0
Staff                12.0           1.8        10.2            -         1O.2        44.4         6.6         37.0              -        37.0
OpeestingemtPst-a-                                             -            -                                       
Taal D.P.B.C.G.              297.8           63.9       46.7        107.2         233.9     1103.0        236.6       173.0          693.4        066.4
Tata1 Mlosistry of Agticltitr-  2649.7          403.2      493.0       1672.7        2166.5     9013.7       1709.6      1328.9         6195.2       024.1
C.  Ministry rf Sniantific Itesearh
* hert teem amenOltgany      20.2            5.4          -         22.0          22.S      104.5         20.0          -            04.5         84.5
2. I.Rt.T.T.
F.-d-n   sperislista         91.4           20.0        10.4        61.0          71.4      338.5         74.1         38.5         225.9        264.4
Sh-rt teem agn-nlt-srY       28.2            5.4          -         22.S          22.0      104.4         20.0           -           04.4         84.4
VOhiBles m2i sqoipet.       125.6           37.6       12.6         75.4          00.0      465.2        130.3        46.6          270.1       325.8
=anreRRantol eSpesli totes
Staff                12.0           1.0        10.2            -         10.2        44.5         6.7         37.0              -        37.8
OpreatiPs nasOs      45.6           4.6        31.9          9.1         41.0       060.9        17.0        118.2           33.7       151.9
Treaiig                     17.4              -          -         17.4          17.4       64.4            -           -           64.4         64.4
Batarnal trips f2n
tanstslteats                  3.1              -        2.0          0,3           3.1       11.5            -        10.4            1.1         11.5
fas "arol  fosS              28.6              -           -        28.4          28.0      105.2            -            -         105.2        103.2
Tatal I.R.T.T.                351.7           69.4       67.9        214.4   2_      7 1     eta         -252-         2n_,L          7040 1     04
3. Poad craP daveBopment
Resident spetialists        137.1           30.0        15.6        91.5         107.1      507.8        111.1        57.8          330.9        396.7
Shatt teem cansoltanoy       28.2            3.4          -         22.0          22.0      104.4         20.0           -           84.4         04.4
Vehiolas ad aqaip-.Lt    116.0              34.0       11.6         69,6         81.2       429.6        120.0        43.0          257.R       300.R
7anrsessatal sexpeditorss
Staff                12.0            B.8       10.2            -         10.2        44.4         6.7         37.7              -        37.7
Operatint  -osts      4.5           0.5         3.1          0.0          4.0        16.7         1.0         11.5            3.3        14.9
T-iniag                       9.0              -          -          9.0           9.0       33.3            -           -           53.3        33.3
Ietesool trips for
ransaltanta                   1.0              -        1.6          0.1           1,0        6.3            -         5.9            0.4          6.3
IasesearlothVan              40.0              -           -        40.0          40.0      140.2            -           -          148.2        148.2
Total faad croa  d-r.         310.5           72.5       42.1        233.9        276.0      1290.7        26R.5      ..l.            866.1      1O22O2
TEotl Ministry af Soie-tifi4
R-s1-rth                        720.4          147.3      110.0        471.1         501.1     76-7.8        5A5.6       407.4         1744.0       2152.2
D.   Ministry of E-aampy and Pinanre
1. OPaeti=anl Aadit
Bl_a-t tee  remsntay        300.0           57.6          -        243.2        243.2      1114.1        213.3           -          900.0       900.0
2. CaaaecaPLta
R.idTt speeislists          137.1           30.0        15.6        91.5         107.1      507.7        111.1         57.7         330.9        396.6
Shtrt teem aona-ltany        56.4           11.8          -         45.t          43.6      200.9         40.0           -          160.9       168.0
EqnlpP-t                      2.0            0.6        0.2          1;2           1.4        7.4          2:2         0.0            4:4          5:2
7nreegntgsl aepanditores
Staff                40.0           7.1        40.9            -         40.0       177.0        26.3        155.5              -       151.5
ope-etieg ro.ts       8.4            1.8        5.9          1.7          7.6        31.1         3.0         21,8            6.3        20.1
Training                     IO.0              -          -         1O.8        I.8         40.0            -           -           40.0         40.0
Tatal Cla-rats-Plan          262.7           49.3       62.6        13O.8         213.4      972.9        182.6       231.0          538.5        790.3
Total Misistry af toa..o.y
sSd Firate                      563.5          106.9        62.6       394.0         436.6     2087.0        395.9        231.0        1459.3       0690.1
Tatal Pajia-t                  4428.9          029.0      740.4       2859.5       3399.9    16403.3        3a7o.4       2742.        1059n.7      19752.0
Onid.ntified  atirities        1086.8          192.9       188.4       705.5         893.9     4525.2        714.4        697.0         2613.0      3310.8
Tetal bess rost                5515.7         1021.9       92S.8      3565.0        4-S.R   2420.5          37864.       9440.0       13203.7      16643.7
Total toatengannisa
(101 p. year)               1167.9          211.1      2u1.a        755.0        956.6    4325.6          781.9       747.4         2796.3      3543.7
GORR1ALO. 70TL6              6683.6         1233.0     1130.6       4320.0        9430.6   24754.1        4366.7       4107.4       36008.0      21187.4
___~~~~~~~~~~I'                  4 ._____ _ ._ 12_    = ___             _ .        ....._4_ _ ... ._.






- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of9
r000Y COAST
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Tota Project Cost broloe dooo'
by ootogoro,years, ead local and foo-g. o-.oonats  ICFAP,000)
Total 1   YotnoTata1                                                                       Castpooat                                     Total                  CrePoosot                                     Tet.1                  Cemponst
Unit        Cost           Tone         Local1    Foreign           Unit        C-            Toot          Loat     Fetigst             Osit        Cost           Teas         Lo-1        F-arsg           Unit        Cost          TonsL .           .bete  Fe..eis
A   Rssidoot Apecialiac                         15          685.500        158.080      78,000        457.500       LA            731.200      160.000      83.200        488.808          135        86.8 50        135.000        70.200    411.730           445      2.033.650       441.808        231.400  1.357.250
N   tho-c tar  oo..so.lIt-y                    102          479.400         91.800          -         387.600       88            413.600       79,288          -         334.400           3 3       249.100         47.700           -       201.400          243      1.1472.108      218.700             -       92.0
C   Peibles and oqoipol..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10          50.000        15.080         1.000        0.0
car                           0~     ~     ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~0 50.000  15.000  5.000  30.000      -                                                         -             -                                                                     4         34.10        40.200          3.400       20.400
4 abet1 drive   ar4                                  34.000         10.200        3.400        20.1f400                                                                                                                                                    4          6.000         1.800            688       3.888
Phootoo.pi-r type 4                      4             4.000         1.8060         8082         .08         --                                                                                                                                            1          4.20          1.260            428       2.52
Pbooooopiar type 0  1            4.200          1.240         828~        ~~~~~~       ~~~                                                              ~      ~~~~~~~ 2.320  ----19                                                             7.888        2.280            760        4.58
Calonlator               19             7.8~080       2280           760         4.560         -                                                                                                                                            411.20                   3601. 120                   .2
Typeoits-                               14            112            3.360        1.120         6.720         ----17                                                                                                                                                 13,68          400            1: 360      860
0          _t fritor                    17            13.8           4.080        1360          8.160         --                                                                                                               -03.6                                               41000.7                   1228
Oeeearoh aqoiproac  203.417  61.100  20. 547  122.200  -                                              -             -                                         -                                      1.000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo  10067  1-002036  608120
Other                                                  I.088           300          100           8080
Total C                                     331.267         99.380       33.127       198.760                                                                                                                                                               3027           9303.2                     5.6
i)  Proel42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               168.888        24.8          143.220          -
i)Proesoa   tf                             4           5600            828        47014                                      56.000       8.260        47.740            -14                      56.000          a.260       47.740          -36                     144.000        2120122.760-
ftof .. i-.l  t.ff        56.0            9.2        47.7412048.80                                           7.80        4098                             2         48.080          7.080        40.920         -12                       12.801800 I  110.20                          -
Pereay/ooooao1                                       48.000          7.080       40.90            -          14            4.000         6.00         3400 92                         4          4.000            600        3.408                         9          9.000         1.310          7,650 
PinIon                        ~      ~      ~~~~~~          ~~~~~4 4.0000  600  3.40'0             4              4.00o         410        235               -3340040                                              2.5
DS-neer5                                                                          25  3  3.000           450        2.550 3-.1045                                                                                               .5
-0/Total  i3                                1.00             6.9         94.1                                     11cy           6.390       94.610                                    111.000         16.390       94.610                                  3334000        49r170        283.830
ii)  Operating treat.
Ca- operation                           10           28.000          2.000       14.000         4.000       10             20.000       2.8000      14.000           4.808           10         20.000          2.008       14.000        4.000           30         60.000         8,088         42.008        12.000
4habsl die oa  operation                4            14.000         1.400        9.800         2.800         4            14.000       1.400         9.888          2.8000           4         14.088          1.400         9.880       2.808           12         42.000         4.200         29.40          8.400
Phota.oopier (ttype A) oPer-t.           4             2.000            200       1.400           600         4             2.000          200        1.400            400            4          2.000            288         1,2488        40            12           6,0000          680         4.:208oo      1.200
Phototopie   (Yp  N)opra.                1              .o0o             8        1.260           360                       1.0            188B       1.260             360           1          1. 800           100         1260          360            3           5.400           140         3.78 0        1.080
Ca.lat_or/ppsoria ...                  33            6.600            6860      4.620          1. 320      331             6.600         663        4.620           0.328           33          868              660462                  1.32            99         09.800         1. 900        13.860         3.960
Offite ocpply                                         12.000         1.200        8.400         2.400                      12.000       1. 200        8.400          2.400                      1808             .8           710          .6                        3.0            340            430            .6
0/Total ii)                                   56.400          5,640      39.480        11.280                      56.400        5.r6 40     39.480         01280                       33200           5.320        38.640      11.04016.0                                1.801740                     360
Tatal D                                      16740          2.30        1400           11.280                     147.400       22.o        134.090         1,JLq8                     2h~0             1923.4                    i,b                         01.2)04590                 41 .. ~ 3 600
0 Tralolag
i1  Trips in Attica   Air  ar               25             3.000            -           -           5.O8O        43             8.600                                    8  .600         61         10.200            --                     12,200          120          25.8000                                   2580
Perdise            335           13.400            -            -          13.400      603             24.200          --                       24.200          075         35.000            --                     35.000        1. 815         72.600           --72.600
i) Trips ootside
Afri-a              Air Fare            18            10.800            -           -          10.800       20             12.000          -                        12.000           19         11.400            --                     11.400           57          34.200           --34.200
Perdiera           460            18.800           -            -          18.400      140             21.600                                   21.600          560         22.400o                                  22.400        1.560          62.400           --62.400
ii)  Traiaiag p-eion                         21            25.200            -           -           25.200       21            25.200          -                         25.200          21          23~                                      3200                         360--7.9
Total E                                       72.800                                   72.NOO                      91 600                                   91.600                     14000620270.'600                                                                                                270.o
P   Oataoal tripe
loootaata3         Air Fort            112            4.480            -4 .480                              35              1.580         --1.560                                    35          1.400                                    1.400          186           7.440           --7.440
P-rdiest         1.120           44.800                     44.800            -        390             15.600          -        13,600              -           350         14.800-                      14.000         -          1.860          74.400           -7.0 
Total P                                       49.0280           -        44.80          4.480                      171015.60                                               .6            15.400                      14.000        11.4000                                                                744
0   lOta.a.ch Pood                                           24.200            -            -          24.200                      24.200          -            -           24.200                      20.00-                          -        20.8000                      68.400           --                       640
0   Paideotifiod -toieitiee                                             -                   -             -                       536.018      96.892       86.380         332.766                     350.:780        96.005       102.029    0352.746                   1.006.798       192.897        188.409       70.9
Tota1                                     1.809.847       343.210       290.017    1.106.620                    1.900.078    350.122        319.270      1.303.706                   1.724.630        300.415      319.479  1.104.336                      5.515.655   1.021.947         920.766   3.564.942
Conreogonoie                                            180.985       36.301        29.002       111.662                     416.047       75.206       67.046         273.790                    520.853         99.304       105.745     365.601                    1.167.885       211.031       201.796       735.3
GRAND TOTAL                               1.990.032       399.531       319.019    1.272.20                     2.397.225      433.2         8836        1.577.281                   2.29543          4019          4327 140,4                              .8.4          .3.7          .3.6          .2.0
....-                 ....         --=--                    -              =--==.  354    1.3297                                                                                                                                    1.3056    4.200-






- 49 -
ANNEX V
IVORY  COAST                                                                    Page 3 of 9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS              (CFAF   Million)
PYl                     PY2                         PY3                          TOTAL
Unit        Unit Cost         NO         Total          NO        Total           NO           Total          NO            Total
II Ministry of Agriculture
A. Directorate of Studies and Planning
a) Resident specialists                man/year          45.7          3           137.1         3          137.1           3          137.1            9             411.3
b) Short term consultancy              man/month          4.7          8            37.6        10           47.0          12           56.4           30             141.0
c) Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicle                           unit               5 0          4            20.L         -              -          -               -            4              20.0
Photocopier (type B)              unit               4.2          1             4.2         -              -          -               -            1               4.2
Calculator                        unit               0.4          5             2.0         -              -          -               -            5               2.0
Typewriter                        unit               0.8          5             4.0         -              -          -               -            5               4.0
Office furniture                  set                O.8          3             2.4         -              -          -               -            3               2.4
Other                                                0.5          1             0.5         -              -          -               -            1               0.5
S/Total c                                                                  33.1               _-            -             -                                   33.
d) Incremental Expenditures
i.  Personnel
Professional staff              man/year           4.0          5            20.0         5           20.0          5             20.0          15              60.0
Secretary/accountant            man/year           4.0          3            12.0         3           12.0          3             12.0           9              36.0
Planton                         man/year           1.0          1             1.C         1            1.0           1              1.0          3               3.0
Driver                          man/year           1.0          1             1.0         1            1.0           1             1.0           3               3.0
S/Total i                                                                  _34                      34.0                        34.0                          02.0
ii.  Operating Costs
Car Operation                                      2.0          4             8.0         4            8.0           4             8.0          12              24.0
Photocopier operation  (a)                         1.8          1             1.8         1            1.8           1             1.8           3               5.4
Calculator/typewriter                              0.2         10             2.0        10            2.0          10             2.0          30               6.0
Office supplies                                    0.6          3             1.8         3            1.8          3              1.8           9               5.4
S/Total ii                                                                 13.6                     13.6                        13.6                          40.8
S/Total d                                                                  47.6                     47.6                        47.6                         142.8
e) Training
i.  Trips in Africa
Air Fames                    unit              0.2           6              1.2        15            3.0         24              4.8          45               9.0
Per diem                     day                0.04        90              3.6       225            9.0        360             14.4         675              27.0
ii.  Trips outside Africa
Air Fares                    unit              0.6           2              1.2         3            1.8           4             2.4           9               5.4
Per diem                     day               0.04         80              3.2       120            4.8         160             6.4         360              14.4
iii.  Training premium               man/year           1.2          5              6.0         5            6.0           5             6.0          15              18.0
S/Total e                                                                  15.2                     24.6                        34.0                          73.8
f) Internal treps for consultants
Air Fares                    unit              0.04         30              1.2        10            0.4          10             0.4          50               2.0
Per diem                     day                0.04       300             12.0       100            4.0         100             4.0         500              20.0
S/Total f                                                                  13.2                      4.4                         4.4                          22.0
Total Directorate of Studies and                                                     283.8                    250.7                       279.5                         824.0
Planning



- 50 -                                                                                       ANNEX V
Page 4 of 9
IVORY COAST
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS
(CFAF: million)
PY1                      PY2                          PY3                          IUfAL
Unit        Unit  Cost         N-       Total          N-           Total          N'           Total          N-             Total
IT - Ministry of Agriculture (continued)
D. B.E.T.P.A.
a)  Resident specialists                  man/year          45.7           3          137.1          3         137.1           3            137.1            9           411.3
b)  Short term  consultancy               nan/month          4.7          15           70.5         15         70.5           15             70.5           45           211.5
c)  Vehicles  and equipment
Vehicle                             unit                5.0           3           15.0         -             -           -                -             3            15.0
Calculator                          unit                0.4           5            2.0         -             -           -                 -            5             2.0
Typevriter                          unit               0.a            2            1.6         -             -           -                 -            2             1.6
Office furniture                    set                 0.a           3           2.4          -             -           -                 -            3             2.4
Scientific equipment                set                 1.0           1            1.1         -             -                             -            1.0           1.1
S/Total c                                                                  22. I                                                                              22.1
d) Incremental expenditures
i.  Personnel
Secretary/accountant            man/year           4.0           2            8.0          2           8.0           2              8.0            6             24.0
Planto n                        man/year           1.0           1            1.0          1           1.0           1              1.0            3              3.0
Driver                          man/year           1.0           1            1.0          1           1.0           1              1.0            3              3.0
S/Total i                                                                  10.0                     10.0                         10.0                         30.0
ii. Operating costs
Car operation                                      2.0           3            6.0          3           F5.n          3              6.0            9             18.0
Calculator/typewriter                              0.2           7            1.4          7           1.4           7              1.4           21              4.2
Officer supply                                     0.6           3            1.3          3           1.0           3              1.8            9             5.4
S/Total ii                                      2-,2                        9.2                      9.2                          9.2                         27.6
S/Total d.                                      19.2                       19.2                     19.2                         19.2                         57.6
e) Training
i.  Trips in Africa
Air Fares                     unit                0.2           6            1.2         15           3.0          24              4.B           45             9.0
Per diem                      day                 0.04         90            3.6        225           9.0         360             14.4          67S            27.0
ii. Trips outside Africa
Air Fares                     unit                0.6           2            1.2          3           1.8           4              2.4            9             5.4
Per diem                                          0.04         80            3.2        120           4.8         160              6.4          360            14.4
iii. Training premium                man/year             1.2           5           6.0          5           6.0           5              6.0            15            1B.0
S/Total e                                                                  15.2                     24.6                         34.0                         73.8
f) Internal trips for consultants
Air Fares                       unit                0.04         46             1.8        15           0.6          15              0.6           75              3.0
Per diem                        day                 0.04        450           13.0        150           6.0         150              6.0          750             3D.0
S/Total f                                                                  19.                       0.8  6                        .6                         33.0
TOTAL '.E.T.P.A.                                                                  283.9                    250.0                        257.4                         809.3



- 51 -
ANNEX V
IVORY COAST                                                                         Page 5 of 9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED AND BASE COSTS
(CFAF   million)
PY I                  PY 2                   PY 3                          TOTAL
II.   Ministry of Agriculture (Cont'd)                            Unit           Unit Cost          N      Total           N     Total          N      Total                 N      Total
C.     Secretariat d'Etat
a)  Resident Specialists                                Man/year             45.7           2.5      114.3           3      137.1           3      137.1                8.5     388.5
b)  Short-term Consultancy                              Man/month             4.7          20         94.0           5       23.5           5       23.5               30        141.0
c)  Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                                            Unit               5.0           2         10.0            -       -              -       -                  2         10.0
Photocopier (type A)                                Unit               1.5           1          1.5            -       -             -        -                  1          1.5
Calculator                                          Unit               0.4           3          1.2           -        -             -        -                  3          1.2
Typewriter                                          Unit               0.8           2          1.6            -       -              -       -                  2          1.6
Office Furniture                                    Set                0.8           3          2.4            -       -              -       -                  3          2.4
S/TOTAL C                                                                                   16.7                                                                        16.7
d)  Incremental Expenditures
i) Personnel
Professional Staff                             Man/year              4.0           3         12.0           3       12.0           3       12.0                9         36.0
Secretary/Accountant                           Man/year              4.0           2          8.0           2        8.0           2        8.0                6         24.0
Planton                                        Man/year              1.0           1          1.0           1        1.0           1        1.0                3          3.0
Driver                                         Man/year              1.0           1          1.0            1       1.0            1       1.0                3          3.0
S/TOTAL (i)                                                                                 22.0                   22.0                   22.0                          66.0
ii) Operating Costs
Car Operation                                                        2.0           2          4.0           2        4.0           2        4.0                6         12.0
Photocopier Operation (A)                                            0.5           1          0.5           1        0.5           1        0.5                3          1.5
Calculator/Typewriter                                                0.2           5          1.0           5        1.0           5        1.0               15          3.0
Office Supply                                                        0.6           3          1.8           3        1.8           3        1.8                9          5.4
S/TOTAL (ii)                                                                                 7.3                    7.3                    7.3                          21.9
S/TOTAL (d)                                                                                 29.3                   2923                   222                          87M2
e). Training
i)  Trips in Africa
Air fares                                      Unit                0.2           6          1.2           6        1.2           6        1.2               18          3.6
Per diem                                       Day                 0.0S         60          2.4          60        2.4          60        2.4              180          7.2
ii)  Trips outside Africa
Air fares                                      Unit                0.E           9          5.4           9        5.4           6        3.6               24         14.4
Per diem                                       Day                 0.0.-       180          7.2         180        7.2         120        4.8              480         19.2
iii)  Training Premium                                Man/year              1.2           5          6.0           5        6.0           5        6.0              15          18.0
S/TOTAL (e)                                                                                 22.2                   22.2                   18.0                          62.4
f) Internal trips for Consultants
Air fares                                     Unit                O.C4         30          1.2          10        0.4          10        0.4               50          2.0
Per diem                                      Day                 0.04        300         12.0         100        4.0         100        4.0              500         20.0
S/TOTAL (f)                                                                                 13.2                    4.4                    4.4                          22.0
Total Secretariat d'Etat                                                                       959.7                  216.5                  212.3                         718.5



-52 
ANNEX V
IVORY COAST                                                                               Page 6 of 9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT.
DETAILED COSTS
(CFAF   million)
PY I                         PY 2                         PY 3                         Total
Unit       Unit cost         N'           Total            N           Total           N'           Total            N          Total
Ministry of Agriculture (end)
D. P. B. C. G
a)   Resident specialists                      man/year           45.7            2           91.4             2           91.4             2            91.4              6          274.2
b)   Equipment
Photocopier (type A)                    Unit              1.5           1             1.5            -             -               -             -                1            1.5
Calculator                              Unit              0.4            2            0.8             -            -               -             -                2            0.8
Typewriter                              Unit              0.8            1            0.8             -            -               -             -                1            0.8
Office furniture                        Set               0.8            2            1.6             -            -               -             -                2            1.6
S/Total b)                                                           ___
c)   Incremental expenditures
i. Personnel
Secretary/accountant                  man/year            4.0            1           .4.0             1            4.0             1             4.0              3           12.o
ii.)Operating costs
Photocopier operation (A)                                 0.5            1            0.5             1            0.5             1             0.5              3            1.5
Calculator/typewriter                                     0.2            3            0.6             3            0.6             3             0.6              9             1.8
Office supply                                             0.6            2            1.2             2            1.2             2             1.2              6            3.6
S/Total ii                                                            2.3                           2.3                          2.3                            6.9
S/Total c)                                                            6.3                           6.3_                        ___                           = 12
Total D. P. B. C. G.                                                                102.4                         9.7.7                         97.7                         297.8
Total Ministry of Agriculture                                                       259.8                        832.9                         856.9                        2649.6



- 53 -
IVORY COAST                                                                  ANNEX V
TECIOhICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                          Page 7 of 9
DETAILED COSTS                            (CFAF  :  Million)
Py I                      PY 2                      PY 3                     PROJECT
Unit      Unicost         N         Total          N          Total           N        Total           N         Total
III - M4inistry of Scientific Research
A/ I.S.N.A.R.
Short term consultancy              man/month      4.7             6           28.2         -            -            -             -            6            28.2
B/ I.I.R.T.
a) Resident specialists             man/year      45.7             0.5         22.8          1         45.7          0.5          22.9           2            91.4
b) Short term consultancy           man/month       4.7            3           14.1          3          14.1          -             -            6            28.2
c) Vehicles and equipment
4 wheel drive vehicle              unit         8.5             4           34.0         -           -             - _                        4            34.0
office furniture                    set         0.8             2            1.6         -           -             -            _             2             1.6
Research equipment                  set        77.1             1           90.0         -           -             -            -             1             9.0
s/Total c                                                                  125.6                                                                          125.6
d) Incremental expenditures
(i) Personnel
secretary/accountant        man/year        4.0            1            4.0          1           4.0         1              4.0          3             12.0
(ii) Operating costs
Car operations                 unit         3.5            4            14.0         4          14.o         4             14.0         12             42.0
Office supply                  unit         0.6            2             1.2         2           1.2         2              1.2          6              3.6
s/Total (ii)                                                         15.2                     15.2                       15.2                       45.6
s/Total  d                                                           19.2                     19.2                       19.2                        57.6
e) Training
(i) Trips in Africa
Air fares                      unit         0.2             5            1.0         5           1.0    1   5               1.0          15             3.0
Per diem                       day          0.04          75             3.0        75           3.0    I  75               3.0        225              9.0
(ii) Trips outside Africa
Air fares                      unit         0.6             1            o.6         1           0.6     I   1              o.6           3             1.8
Per diem                       day          0.04          30             1.2        30           1.2        30              1.2         90              3.6
s/Total C.                                                               5.8                     5.8                        5.8                        17.4
f) Internal trips for consultants
Air fares                      unit         0.04           5             0.2         2       .  0.1           -              -            7             0.3
Per diem                       day          0.04          50             2.0        20           0.8                         -          70              2.8
s/Total                                                                  2.2                     0.9                                                    3.1
g) Research fund                                                   /           14.2        /            14.2                                 (28.4) 2          28.4
Total I.I.R.T.                                                             203.9                    99.9                       47.9                       351.7
(454)



- 54 -
IVORY COAST                                                                           ANNEX V
TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE  PROJECT                                                                   Page 8 of 9
OETAILED COSTS                 (CFAF: million)
PY I                            PY 2                             PY 3                            PROJECT
Unit       Unit Costs            N            Total              N=             Total              N              Total            N              fotal
III - Ministry of Scientific research.
(continued)
C/ Food crop development
a) Resident specialist                 man/year        45.7               1            45.7               1             45.7                1              45.7              3            137.1
b) Short term consultancy              man/month        4.7               3            14.1               3              14.1               -                 -              6             28.2
c) Vehicles and Equipment
Photocopier (type A)             Unit              1.5               1            1.5               -                 -               -                 -               1              1.5
Calculator                       Unit             0.4                1            0.4               -                 -               -                 -               1              0.4
Typewriter                       Unit             0.8               1             0.8               -                 -               -                 -               1              0.8
Office furniture                 Set              0.8                1            0.8               -                 -               -                 -               1             8.8
Research material                 Set            96.4                1          112.5               -                 -               -                  -              1            142.5
S/Total c                                                                   116.0                                                                                               116.0
d) Incremental Expenditures
i Personnel
secretary/accountant                 man/year         4.0               1            4.0                1              4.0                1               4.0              3             12.0
ii operating oosts
photocopier operation                unit             0.5               1            0.5                1              0.5                1               0.5              3              1.5
calculator/typewriter                unit            0.2                2            0.4               2               0.4                2               0.5              6              1.2
office supply                        set              0.6               1            0.6                1              0.6                1               0.6              3              1.8
S/Total ii                                                                    1.5                               1.5                               1.5                             4.5
S/Total d                                                                     5.5                               5.5                               5.5                            16.5
e) Training
i Trips in Africa
Air Fares                          unit             0.2               2             0.4               2               0.4               2               0.4              6               1.2
Per diem                            day             0.04              20            0.8              20               0.8              20                0.8             60              2.4
ii Trips outside Africa
Air Fares                           unit            0.6                1            0.6                1              0.6               1               0.6               3              1.8
Per diem                            day             0.04              30            1.2              30                1.2             30                1.2             90              3.6
S/Total e                                                                     3.0                               3.0                               3.0
f) Internal trips for consultant.s
Air Fares                           unit            0.04               2            0.1               2               0.1               -                 -               4              0.2
Per diem                            day             0.04             20             0.8              20               0.8                                                40              1.6
S/Total f                                                                     0.9                               0.9                                                                1.8
g)  Research Fund                                                              1            10.0               1              10.0               1              20.0    (40.0)   3              40.0
Total Food crop  development                                                      195.2                              79.2                              74.2                           332.5
Total Ministry of Scientific Research                                             427.3                             179.1                              122.1                           699.S



- 55 -                                                                                       ANNEX V
Page 9 of 9
IVORY COAST
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS
(( rFAF   m illionl)
PY 1                               PY2                          PY3                              PY4
Unit           Unlit Cost      N             Total               N.            Total            No            Total            N              Total
IV.}Ministry of Economy and Finance
A. Operational.   Audit
Audit short term consultancy               man/month              4.7          32             150.4               32            150.4            -               -              64              300.8
B. Contrats-Plan
a) Resident specialist                     man/year               45.7           1              45.7                1             45.7            1              45.7             3              137.1
b) Short term consultancy                  man/month               4.7           4              18.8                4             18.8            4              18.8            12               56,4
c) Equipment
Calculator                             unit                  0.4          1               0.4                -              -              -               -               1                0.4
Typewriter                             unit                  0.8          1               0.8                        -                     -               -               1                 0.8
Office furniture                       set                   0.8           1              0.8                 -             -                                              1                0.8
S/total c                                                                           2.0                                                                                                2.0
d) Incremental expenditures
i. Personnel
Professional staff              man/year                4.0           3             12.0                 3             12.0           3              12.0              9               36.0
Secretary/accountant            man/year                4.0           1              4.0                 1             4.0             1               4.0             3               12.0
S/total i                                                                  16.0                               16.0                           16.0                             48,0
ii. Operating costs
Calculator/typewriter            unit                  0.2          2               0.4                 2             0.4            2               0.4             6                 1.2
Office supply                                          0.6           4              2.4                 4              2.4            4               2.4            12                7.2
S/total ii                                                                  2.8                               2.8                            2.8                               8.4
S/total d                                                                         18.8                              18.8                           18.8                              56.4
e) Training Premium                        man/year                1.2           3               3.6                3              3 .6           3               3.6             9               10.8
Total Contrats-Plan                                                                      88.9                              86.9                           86.9                            262.7
Total Ministry of Economy and Finance                                                             239.3                             237 .3                          86.9                            563,5
Ministry of Plan and Industry                                                                     183.4                             195.9                          108.0                            487.3
Ministry of Agriculture                                                                           959.8                             832.9                          856.9                           2649.6
Ministry of Scientific Research                                                                   427 .3                            179.1                          122.1                             728.5
General Total                                                                                    1809.8                            1445.2                         1173.9                           4428.9






IBRD 126E4
. t   -   ,  *  ij   :   t                         *                          I      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUflAt 15t7
fK    MQA$T , I
,) 10'AR              J \xC;  Rh1 nrt9 u
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \EKSSD                                                        Fe (X '  ',                                  ( fI    
(b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~D
tzt    ;   j *   X   - g     wz      .~~~~~~~~~~r  /   .g    i                .~~ ,    -,~             7                   '_DS  ki
ASSANDRA  CL,!1                                00-~~~~~~~~~~~ P  0 ~~N
ftO&ROTERS ~        ABNG~RO
6                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
AG.BOVIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~API 17
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"''
t                                                                                                                                           v K t ASSANDRA \ ~~~~~~~~ASADR
, A F R C 5/ *  , - ~~~~~~~~~~~G ulf    o f                                      Guine a 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                              I'" 'N 8ootsreximtotmi  om  feo+sad    ,.o NA TANTS-   Al
--                                         |                          I                          1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APIIL 197i



