CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 435 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 435 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1973, between THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of part of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has obtained from the French Republic assistance in
the financing of technical services and training required for the management of
the Project, and will finance the other expenditures on the Project out of its own
resources; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions hive the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "ORD" means Office du Ranch de la Dihesse, an autonomous state
entity of the Borrower to be established under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ORD pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
and
(c)   "FCFA" means such coin or currency as at the time referred to is
legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in The People's Republic
of the Congo.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand dollars
($5,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than goods and services under any contract the cost of which is
expected to be equivalent to less than $25,000, for which the usual government
procurement procedures of the Borrower shall apply, and other than livestock and
the services of consultants), required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1983, and ending June 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ORD is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause ORD to carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency 'and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall relend to ORD in local currency the
equivalent of such amounts of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be allocated
from time to time to Categories I and II, as set forth in the table included in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ORD under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association and which shall include inter alia that the subsidiary loan shall
have a life of twenty-five years including a grace period of ten years, shall bear
interest at a rate of six per cent (6%) per annum and that interest accruing during
said grace period shall be capitalized.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the


﻿6
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   The funds required for the carrying out of the Project other than
proceeds of the Credit relent to ORD under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
be made available to ORD in the form of contributions to its capital and an
interest-free advance of FCFA 50,000,000 repayable not later than December 3 1,
1981. Such contributions and advance shall be deposited to the credit of ORD
in an account maintained at the Banque Nationale de Developpement du Congo.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
ORD to employ qualified and experienced contractors on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to assist ORD in carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall, within a period of nine months starting from the date of this
Agreement, make arrangements satisfactory to the Association which shall include
inter alia the employment of consultants to assist in (i) the establishment of a
program of applied research, (ii) the supervision of employment on the ranch of
a research assistant and (iii) implementing a program of periodic visits to the ranch.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause ORD to insure, or to make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to


﻿7
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. Before commencing the works required to establish the ranch
included in the Project, the Borrower shall cause the settlers living or farming on
the ranch site to be resettled elsewhere.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall provide adequate slaughtering facilities
promptly as required to meet the needs of ORD.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause all livestock proposed to be procured
for the Project to be thoroughly tested inter alia for brucellosis and shall take
all other reasonable steps to ensure that diseased livestock not be procured for
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ORD to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of ORD.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ORD to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of ORD and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause ORD to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.


﻿8
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall insure that:
(a)   ORD shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate business, inancial, agricultural and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent ma. igement selected and supported
technically with the assistance of consultants, including a General Manager, two
Deputy Managers, an engineer of the level and qualifications of an "ingenieur des
travaux du genie rural", an engineer of the level and qualifications of an "ingenieur
des travaux mcaniques" and a Chief-Accountant, assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers;
(b)   all staff of ORD shall have taken up their respective posts within a
period of six months from the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   prior to the end of a period of five years from    the date of this
Agreement, the Borrower, ORD and the Association shall exchange views on the
availability of local nationals to replace any expatriate staff of ORD, and before
any such replacement shall be made, the Association shall be consulted on the
qualifications and experience of any local nationals proposed for such replacement.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to grant and renew from time to time all such rights, powers, privileges and
franchises (including but not limited to rights in respect of land) of ORD as shall
be necessary or useful for the carrying out of the Project and the operations of
ORD.
(b)   The Borrower shall take adequate measures to preclude unauthorized
settlement on land allocated to ORD.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿9
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of ORD and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of ORD and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
*        of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VH
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ORD shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken by ORD or by others whereby any
of the property of ORD shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ORD or for the
suspension of all or part of the operations of ORD.
(c)   The legislation and charter under which ORD is incorporated, or any
provisions thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated without the
prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, any event specified in Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VHI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿11
(a)   that ORD has been duly established under the laws of the Borrower
pursuant to legislation and under a charter satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   that the General Manager of ORD has been appointed and has taken
up his post;
(c)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the ORD, and has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action; and
(d)   that ORD has received the advance referred to in Section 3.02(c) of
this Agreement and a payment of FCFA 72,000,000 in the form of a contribution
to its capital pursuant to such Section.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that ORD is a legal entity duly organized and operating under the
laws of the Borrower; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ORD, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and ORD in accordance
with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date March 4, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.08 and Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance and Budget of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances et du
Budget de la R6publique Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
Republique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Brazzaville
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s / Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Ranch Fixed                  3,100,000
Investments;
breeding stock
A.   Direct                                      100% of foreign
imports                                     expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
B.   Local pro-                                  85% of total
curement                                    expenditures
II.  Research, techni-              400,000
cal studies, train-
ing; construction
and equipment of
facilities related
thereto; consultants'
services
A.   Direct                                      100% of foreign
imports                                     expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
B.   Local pro-                                  85% of total
curement                                    expenditures
III.  Net operating                  800,000           100% of total
costs of ranch                                   expenditures
(as defined in
paragraph 2(a)
below)
IV.  Unallocated                   1,300,000
TOTAL              5,600,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "net operating costs" means for a given period the total
operating expenses (excluding cost of breeding stock) less total sales in the given
period and less any accumulated operating surpluses from prior periods.
(b)   the  term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(c)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(d)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿15
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first stage of the Borrower's long-term program to increase
beef production and consists in the following:
A.    establishment of a 30,000 ha ranch in the Dihess6 plain located in the loop
of the Niari river including the construction of fencing, watering points,
housing and other buildings, and related facilities; the establishment of
improved pastures and the development on the ranch of a herd of about
35,000 head of beef cattle, principally of the N'dama breed;
B.    carrying out of applied research and trials on pasture establishment and
utilization, animal husbandry, ranch management and the collection of data,
and the development of techniques needed to support further livestock
development by the Borrower; and
C.    training of staff of ORD in ranch management, including the training of
counterparts for the personnel referred to in Section 4.03(a) of this
Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1981.


