Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&Ca                           AC PI
Report No. 7423-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 1, 1989
Southern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1989)
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
US1$    620 Meticais
Mt 1.00 =  US$0.0016
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fiscal Year = July 1 - June 30
Government Fiscal Year   January 1 - December 31
MEASURES
1 Meter (m) =  3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (sq m) = 10.76 Square Feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALOS              Average Length of Stay
DHR           :   Directorate of Human Resources
DPCCN        :   Departamento de Prevencao e Combate das Calamidades Naturais
(Department for the Prevention and Control of Natural
Calamitics)
DPCS          :   Direccao Provincial do Comercio de Sofala (Provincial
Directorate of Commerce of Sofala)
EACB              Empresa de Abastecimento a Cidade de Beira
(Supply Company for the City of Beira)
EACM              Empresa de Abastecimento a Cidade de Maputo
(Supply Company for the City of Maputo)
EC                European Community
E.E. MEDIMOC :   State Import/Export Agency for Medical Supplies
ERP               Economic Rehabilitation Program
GACOPI        :   Gabinete de Coordenacao de Projectos de Investimento
(Investment Program Implementation Unit)
GOAM              Gabinete de Organizacao do Abastecimento a cidade de Maputo
(Organizational Secretariat for Supply in Maputo)
FAO          :   Food and Agricultural Organization
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               International Development Association
IPPF              International Planned Parenthood Federation
LCB           :   Local Competitive Bidding
MCH           :   Maternal and Child Health
MOA           :   Ministry of Agriculture
MOC           :   Ministry of Commerce
MOH               Ministry of Health
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD             Norwegian Development Cooperation Agency
NSA               Novo Sistema de Abastecimento (New Supply System)
OMM           :   Organizacao das .Mulheres Mocambicanas
(Mozambican Women's Organization)
PHC               Primary Health Care
PPF               Project Preparition Facility
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SOP               Standard Operating Procedures
UNDP         :   United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA        :   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
WFP           :   World Food Program
WHO               World Health Organization



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Basic Data    .......................................................    i
Credit and Project Summary .......................................  ii
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan                 . .           .    iv
I.  INTRODUCTION AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT .... ...................           1
II.  SECTORAL CONTEXT AND ISSUES ...       ..............................    2
A.  Health and Nutrition Status .............................. .      4
B.  The Health Sector:  Policies, Programs and Issues ........        6
C.  Nutrition and Food SecuLity:
Policies, Programs and Issues .......................... .     13
D. Bank Group Role ..... .    19
III.  THE PROJECT ..............................      ............    20
A.  Objectives and Summary Description ........................    20
B. Detailed Description                    ... .  21
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                  ..                   30
A. Cost Estimates ............................................    30
B.  Financing Plan ............................................   34
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION            .      .        35
A. Pro'ect Management                     ....    35
B.  Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule    . .           36
C.  Procurement ...............................................      37
D.  Disbursements .      .        ...........................................    39
E. Special Accounts ...                      ...        ..   40
F.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting            . . . .            40
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................   41
A.  Benefits ..................................................   41
B.  Risks .....................................................    42
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   42
ANNEXES
1.The Structure of the Ministry of Health             .       .        44
2.Categories of Health Manpower .................................   50
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mozambique in June-July, 1988. Mission members were Mr. J. Innes (m,ssion
leader, task manager), Ms. N. Sirur (operations analyst), Ms. T. Genta-Fons
(counsel), Mr. R. Heyward (nutrition specialist), Mr. S. Holand (pharmacauticals
specialist), Mr. F. Pires (architect) and Mr. J. Urbano (hospital specialist).
The report was written by Ms. N. Sirur. Ms. H. Phillips assisted in preparation
of cost tables and Ms. M. Swan and Mrs. S.B. Jesus were responsible for report
processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
3.  Health Care Facility Rehabilitation Program ..................  51
4.  Agricultural Production Summary .......... .................   54
5.    Food  Prices ...... 0....  .  ......  .*....... ........................  58
6.  Letter on Prospects for Developing Health Care ...............  60
7.  Structure of Ministry of Commerce             .........               72
8.  Investment Program Implementation Unit          ......       ......  75
9.  Hospital Efficiency Measures and Phasing of
Health Facilities Rehabilitation.......................             79
10.  Vehicles for Food Distribution - Terms of Transfer ...........  84
11.  Project Cost and Financing        ...................... .            87
12.  Project Implementation Schedule ....       . 6 .................  101
13.  List of Documents on the Project File .....................  ...      107
MAP
Mozambique - IBRD No. 21274



- i -
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Basic Data
(All figures apply to 1986 unless otherwise indicated)
Area ................................ 802,000 square km
GNP per capita        .......... US$150
Population   ............................ . 14.2  million
Rural population as proportion of
total population   .     ............ 87 percent
Crude birth rate ...      ........... 45 per thousand
Crude death rate ............. ..... .. 17 per thousand
Population  -owth rate  ....           ............ 3.0 percent per annum
Infant moLcality rate  ...... # ......... 120 per thousand
Child mortality rate .      ........... 22 per thousand
Life expectancy at birtht (male) ...... 46 years
Life expectancy at birth (female) .... 49 years
Caloric supply per capita .      ........... 1,617 calories
Population per physician  ..* .......... 46,800
Population per trained nurse ......... 5,400



el"r                                            - ii -
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:      People's Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries:Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Commerce (MOC)
Amount:        SDR 21.0 million (US$27.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard with 40 years maturity
Project ObJectives:
To improve health and nutrition status, the project has four main objectives:
(a) strengthening capacity in policy formulation and management on health and
food security issues, with special attention to resource mobilization,
institutional development, information systems, and planning and analysis; (b)
improv3lng efficiency, to enhance the impact of services within the tightly
constrained budget; tc) improving service quality, to enhance the provision of
basic needs to the population; and (d) helping t_ mitigate some of the social
costs of adJustment, to help sustain the Economic .'ehabilitation Program (ERP).
Project Description:
In order to meet these objectives within the context of building a firmer basis
for longer-term development and institution-building, the project would involve
the following.
(a)   For the objective of strengthening capacity in policy formulation and
management, the project would: (i) facilitate development of improved health
policies in the areas of cost-recovery, manpower development, and facility
management through studies and assistance in implementation of the studies'
recommendations;   (ii) strengthen the MOH through reorganizing the central
ministry, developing a better fi.nancial management information system and
increasing central capacity to manage and supervise investment programs; and
(iii) contribute to improving food security policies and information, by aiding
in policy analyses on food pricing and distribution and improvements to the food
security information system.
(b)   For the two objectives of improving quality and increasing efficiency of
services, the project would: (i) support the health facilities reconstruction
program, through renovating and equipping selected health facilities;   (ii)
improve hospital efficiency through establ.shing better management procedures;
(iii) strengthen health facility maintenance at the provincial and central levels
through technical assistance and the provision of initial stocks of basic
materials; (iv) improve pharmaceutical supply system, througi construction/
renovation of drugs storage facilities with a view to strengthening inventory
control, reducing spoilage and upgrading overall management; (v) improve health
manpower training, through enhancement of teaching quality, curriculum
development and capacity for in-service training, and through upgrading of
training centers and teaching materials; and (vi) increase the efficiency of
the urban food distribution system through streamlining food supply management
and information in the ration system, easing the transport shortage for moving



- iii -
food supplies from central and regional depots to areas where the food is needed,
and strengthening supplemental feeding programs targetted to school children and
factory workers.
These activities would, in addition to their othez benefits, also contribute to
the fourth objective of helping to m' igate the social costs of adjustment. In
particular, the supplemental feeding programs would directly help selected
population groups in dealing with the ERP's transitional costs. Additionally,
improvements to the rationing system would help ensure regular availability of
essential cereals and other commodities to the urban public.
Benefits and Risks:
The principal direct benefits of the project would be two-fold. First,
project interventions directed to key elements of health care d,livery, namely
rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, improved manpower
training, and reliable pharmaceutical supply, would increase access to better
quality health services throughout the public health system -- particularly in
the five provinces of Nampula, Tete, Manica, Sofala, Maputo and in Maputo city,
where about 50 percent of Mozambique's people reside. The need for good quality
health care is especially urgent given that natural disasters, such as flood and
drought, and the ongoing security crisis have had serious consequences for the
health status of the population. Second, the project's focus on improving the
nianagement and overall efficiency of urban food distribution would increase
access to food for the populations of Maputo and Beira cities (and peri-urban
areas) -- about 1.3 million persons or about 9 percent of the population -- who
have had to bear the heaviest burden of the costs of economic transition under
the ERP.   In addition to these direct benefits, the project's emphasis on
improving policy formulation capability and introducing efficiency and cost
containment measures in both health and food distribution systems would assist
the Government in making better use of scarce domestic and foreign resources,
thereby improving both the quality and the sustainability of service delivery
within the tight resource constraints facing Mozambique.
The project's main risk is that project implementation could be disrupted
by the security situation in Mozambique.   This  risk has been reduced by
explicitly restricting project activities to areas which are likely to remain
secure.   Second, given that this is the first IDA-supported project to be
undertaken in the health and nutrition sectors, there is a prima facie risk of
delay in implementation. However, this risk has been reduced by: (a) project
interventions to strengthen investment program implementation capacity; and (b)
the inclusion of consultant services to aid in implementation of key project
policy and technical interventions, which can also be expected to help overcome
potential problems arising from the relative inexperience of the implementing
ministries in executing externally-assisted projects of this magnitude. Overall,
the degree of risk is acceptable.



- iv -
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN a/
(US$ Million)
Estimeted Costs                                       Local   Foreign   Total
A. Policy Formulation &
Management Strengthening (Sub-total)           0.5          3.3        3.8
1.  Health Policy Studies & Implementation          0.2          0.6       0.8
2.  Management Strengthening of the MOH             0.2          2.1        2.3
3.  Food Security Policies and Information          0.1          0.6        0.7
B. Improving Efficiency and Quality of
Services (Sub-total)                        5.0         26.3       31.3
1.  Rehabilitation of Health Facilities             2.1          7.5       9.6
2.  Hospital Efficiency                             0.2          1.3        1.5
3.  Health Facility Maintenance                     0.2          4.0        4.2
4.  Pharmaceutical Supply System                    1.2          4.0        5.2
5.  Health Manpower Training/Effecttveness          0.4          1.7        2.1
6. Urban Food Distribution System                   0.9          7.8        8.7
C.  Project Preparation Facility                     0.0*         0.7        0.7
Total Baseline Costs                              5.5         30.3       35.8
Physical Contingencies                          0.3          2.2        2.5
Price Contingencies                             0.3          3.9        4.2
Total Project Costs                                  6.1         36.4       42.5
Financing Plan
Government                                           2.2          1.5        3.7
IDA                                                  2.6         24.4      27.0
Parallel Financing
WFP                                                0.2          4.2        4.4
UNICEF                                             0.2          1.7        1.9
NORAD                                              0.0          0.2        0.2
Government of Switzerland                          0.9          4.4       5.3
a/Net of customs duties and taxes.
* US$35,000, which rounds to US$0.0 million.
IDA Disbursements
IDA FISCAL YEAR
89      90       91      92       93      94       95
Amount Disbursed            0.8      2.2     3.5      5.9     7.0      5.2     2.4
Cumulative Amount           0.8     3.0      6.5    12.4    19.4    24.6    27.0
Percentage of Total          3        11      24      46      72       91      100



I. INTRODUCTION AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.01        During the first half of the 1980s, Mozambique experienced a
marked and sustained decline in output and an aggravation of economic
distortions and financial imbalances resulting from a combination of adverse
exogenous factors, internal disruptions caused by widespread armed attacks and
inappropriate economic policies. In the first six years of the decade,
overall production fell by nearly 30 percenc, exports declined by nearly 75
percent and imports were compressed by nearly one-third. In response to the
growing internal and external imbalances, and the limited impact of initial
corrective policy measures undertaken to address them, the Government, in
1987, launched a far-reaching Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) intended
to deal comprehensively with the structural problems and severe distortions in
the economy. By the end of its first year, the ERP, which contains, inter
alia, measures to increase reliance on market signals, improve economic
incentives and strengthen demand management t -ough appropriate fiscal,
moretary, exchange rate and external borrowin6 policies, had begun to reverse
the economic decline of previous years. Now in its second year, the main
objectives of the ERP have remained fundamentally unchanged -- namely: (a) to
reverse the decline in production and restore a minimum level of consumption
and income for the population; (b) to substantially reduce domestic financial
imbalances and strengthen external accounts and reserves; (c) to enhance
efficiency and establish conditions for a return to higher rates of economic
growth; (d) to reintegrate official and parallel markets; and (e) to restore
orderly financial relationships with trading partners and creditors. The
Government appears to be maintaining the momentum of policy reform, and
consolidating the encouraging results that have already been obtained.
1.02        While there can be little doubt as to the appropriateness of the
ERP's objectives (and the policy measures required to achieve them) for
Mozambique's goal of moving towards sustained economic growth in the medium-
to longer-term, it is also recognized that some adjustment measures have
considerable short-term costs for vulnerable population segments -- costs
.hich must be at least partially mitigated if the supporting social consensus
for the ERP is to be maintained and past progre2ss in human resource
development not undermined. For example, increases in food prices and
restrained public expenditure for health care and other social services have
had severe short-term costs for a number of population groups, in both urban
and rural areas, which are now a serious governmental concern. From a human
resource perspective, then, the key challenges emerging within the ERP
framework are: first, to help lay the foundation for continued provisior. of
sustainable and efficient basic social services, such as education and health
care, that are critical to developing Mozambique's human potential and hence,
preparing for longer-term growth; and second, to assist in the maintenance of
a social consensus on the desirability of the ERP through measures that
address the uneven burden of adjustment and help offset the transitional costs
that bear hardest on the poorest.
1.03        The project proposed in this report aims to assist the Government
in meeting these challenges in the areas of health care and nutrition. It
would assist in addressing the medium- and longer-term issues in health and
food supply through support for needed policy analysis/implementation and for
improving the overall quality and efficiency of the health delivery and food
rationing systems. In addition, while not specifically providing emergency



- 2 -
assistance in the form of commodities, which is being provided by a number of
donor sources, the project would assist in increasing national institutional
capacity to efficiently utilize emergency inputs to the health and food supply
systems, thus helping to ameliorate the short-term costs imposed by the ERP.
A detailed description of the proposed project is given in Section III of this
report. It is preceded by a summary analysis of the current situation and key
issues in health and nutrition (Section II) in order to provide familiarity
with the sectoral context within which the project was developed.
IJ. SECTORAL CONTEXT AND ISSUES 1/
2.01        When Mozambique gained Independence in 1975, the level of human
resource development, as reflected in the literacy rate and life expectancy at
birth, was extremely low, even compared with the prevailing low standards of
sub-Saharan Africa. In response to this unsatisfactory situation, and in
keepinLg with its socio-political goals of equitable development, the post-
Independence Government placed high priority on development of basic social
services, including investment in an extensive primary health care (PHC)
network, development of the education system and implementation of special
interventions aimed at maintaining food intake and nutritional levels at an
acceptable minimum. At least partially as a result of these measures,
improvements began to be observed in the heal.h, nutrition and educational
status of Mozambicans, particularly in the first 5-7 years following
Independence. Since then, however, the increasingly widespread armed bandit
activity in rural areas has led to severe disruption of existing social
services systems and agricultural production, thereby jeopardizing the gains
of previous years. Moreover, as discussed in Section I, the growing economic
crisis (and the adjustment measures taken to address it) has meant that the
Government has been severely constrained in its ability to allocate sufficient
resources for social services' operation and development.
2.02        Substantial population growth over the past years has also placed
tremendous pressure on Government capacity to provide adequate social services
and employment opportunities. Although not among the highest in Sub-Saharan
Africa, the annual average rate of population growth in Mozambique is now
beginning to approach 3 percent and available estimates are that the country's
population doubled in size from 6 million to 12 million between 1950 and 1980,
with a further 50 percent increase anticipated by the end of the century.
Examination of the components of population growth indicates that while total
fertility levels have risen substantially since 1950 and are now about the
same as in comparable African countries (i.e., around 7 births per woman
completing her child-bearing years), mortality levels (particularly among
infants and children) have barely fallen at all over the last few decades and
are, therefore, relatively higher. Thus Mozambique's somewhat lower-than-
average population growth rate appears to be the result of higher mortality
levels, in turn related to lack of significant improvements in health and
nutrition status, given continued disruption of social services outside the
1/ A more detailed treatment of sector status and issues is given in Report
No. 7422-MOZ, Mozambique: Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Report.



- 3 -
main urban areas. In this context, any vigorous campaign to promote family
planning for purposes of lowering fertility is likely to prove unconvincing to
pare,ats, who have reason to be fearful for the survival of existing children.
As such, Government, though aware of the cons?quences of rapid population
growth, has not as yet adopted any explicit rials for reducing the national
population growth rate. Rather, recognizing the beneficial effects of family
planning for maternal and child health/nutrition, it has stressed integration
of family planning into health services, focussing on the main urban areas
where receptiveness to family planning is presumably higher, given better
child survival rates.
2.03        This approach of using health services as an entry point for
introduction of population/family planning services and education appears to
be well-suited to the present Mozambican context, and is being implemented
satisfactorily by the Government with assistance from external agencies,
princirily the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and the
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF).  The main strategy is to
target family planning services to women at medical risk from child-bearing as
determined by the elapsed interval since the last pregnancy, the age of the
woman and the number of children already born to the woman.  This is now being
done effectively in most urban areas, where family planning services are
provided by specially trained para-medical workers, a wide variety of methods
is offered, and contracf-otive supplies are adequate, although there could be
shortfalls in the future as demand for family planning increases. Information
and Lommunications activities related to family planning are carried out with
the assistance of women's organizations linked to the ruling party, and by
health workers, primarily through woman-to-woman contacts. This modest
approach has been relatively successful in gaining acceptance of family
planning, with contraceptive prevalence estimated to be highest in Maputo
(about 15 percent), where infant and child mortality as relatively lower, and
grow.ng in other urban areas. Substantial further progress in other areas
will probably have to await improvements in health and nutrition and related
child survival rates, in tutn, largely dependent on easing of the current
security crisis.
2.04        Paras. 2.05-2.31 below provide an in-depth analysis of prevailing
sectoral conditions and issues in the sreas of health and nutrition as they
relate to the proposed project. The content of the project takes into
account, and is to a large degree based on, a Bank study of the population,
health and nutrition sectors (Report No. 7422-MOZ), and on extensive
discussions within Government and between Government officials and Bank staff.
In addition to health and nutrition, population/family planning issues were
carefully considered in these discussions and it was jointly determined that a
separate component or sub-component for population/family planning would not
be appropriate at this time given the suitability of the existing family
planning approach to the current security and socio-economic climate and the
fact that satisfactory levels of assistance are already available from donor
sources (i.e., mainly UNFPA and IPPF). Rather, through strengthening key
aspects of the health and nutrition sectors, the proposed project is expectid
to help lay the basis for a more comprehensive family planning program in the
future, insofar as it can be expected to help lower mortality and strengthen
the network of health facilities/programs through which family planning



- 4 -
cervices are delivered. Government is committed to implementation of such a
broader population/ family planning effort once security and socio-political
conditions permit, and expects to secure assistance from international
agencies, incluJing the Bank, for the effort.
A. Health and Nutrition Status
2.05        Status Indicators.  Accurate information on the health and
nutritional status of Mozambique's population is limited. World Development
Report estimates 2/indicate, however, that life expectancy at birth is about
48 years; the crude death rate is about 17 per 'housand population; and infant
and child mortality are about 120 and 22 per thousand, respectively. Daily
calorie supply per capita is estimated to be 1,617, considerably below
requirements of 2,300 calories, and the percent of babies born with low birth
weights -- an important indicator of maternal malnutrition -- is around 16.
These health and nutrition status indicators compare very unfavorably with the
averages for all low income economies, even when China and India are excluded.
For example, average life expectancy for low income countries (excluding China
and India) is 52 years, well above the Mozambican figure, and daily calorie
supply per capita averages about 2,100. Including China and India, the
corresponding averages for all low income countries are: life expectancy -- 62
years and daily per capita calorie supply -- 2,329.
2.06        Main Health Problems.  The available data suggest that the
principal causes of morbidity and mortality in Mozambique are infections and
parasitic diseases, particularly malaria, gastrointestinal illnesses,
pneumonia, measles, neonatal tetanus and tuberculosis. Communicable diseases,
often complicated by malnutrition, account for up to 75 percent of all visits
to rural health facilities. For all age groups combined, the most common
diagnoses are trauma (including all accidents), anemia and malaria and the
most frequently reported infectious diseases are measles and tuberculosis.
While the full extent of the AIDS problem is unknown, anecdotal evidence
suggests that it is less severe than in neighboring countries. However, the
social dislocation caused by armed attacks indicates that the potential for
its rapid spread is high. 3/ Among children, available statistics show that
the most common causes of illness and death are anemia, malnutrition,
pneumonia and diarrhea.
2.07        Data on non-infectious morbidity and mort2lity, including war-
related trauma, are more limited. In Maputo City, about 7-10 percent of
deaths reported annually are attributed to cardiovascular causes, and another
6-11 percent to malignancy. War-related injuries have overwhelmed the
2/  All figures are from the World Development Report 1988 and pertain to 1986
unless specified otherwise.
3/  The Government with assistance from the World Health Organization (WHO)
has developed a medium-term action plan for addressing the AIDS problem.
Funding for implementation of the plan has been provided by a number of
bilateral and multilateral donors.



available surgical, intensive care, orthopaedic and other rehabilitation
services at hospitals. For example, the patient case load of the only
artificial limb service in the country (operating in Maputo) rose nearly
eightfold in four years from 53 in 1981 to 392 in 1985. These represent only
a fraction of actual needs. In general, the incidence of medical problems
arising from the prolonged bandit activities in Mozambique, ranging from
civilian injuries during bandit attacks to the mental trauma suffered by
eyewitnesses, have, not surprisingly, been underreported and catered for by a
health system designed for times of peace.
2.08        Malnutrition.  As indicated in paras. 2.05 and 2.06 above,
malnutrition, particularly among the highest at-risk groups (infants, young
children and pregnant and lactating women), is a serious and widespread
problem in Mozambique as in many other African countries. Spot surveys
carried out in the past 2-3 years in secure areas have found that prevalence
of chronic malnutrition among children, measured by weight-for-age (stunting),
is between 30 and 40 percent; while severe malnutrition, measured by weight
for height (wasting), is prevalent in an average of about 6 percent of
children surveyed. The situation is presumably much worse in areas cut off by
bandit activity. For example, Red Cross representatives in Zambezia report
that 20-25 percent of children arriving in resettlement camps are severely
malnourished, versus the 6 percent average for accessible areas. Micro-
nutrient deficiencies common in Africa are also prevalent in Mozambique,
namely Vitamin A deficiency (with consequent xerophthalmia) and widespread
anemia among women. While earlier studies/surveys have shown nutritional
status to be better in Maputo and in provincial capitals than elsewhere,
results of a new, 1988 monitoring system for child growth show rates of
faltering growth to be at about the same level as in other parts of the
country -- probably because of the recent substantial influx of families from
de-stabilized areas. Moreover, increases in food prices under the ERP would
appear to have negatively affected the food intake of urban-dwellers (see
para. 2.26).
2.09         The food supply situation is a key factor in current nutritional
problems. Food production, like agricultural development in general, is at
present in a state of crisis, having fallen substantially since Independence,
and by a quarter between 1981 and 1986 alone. The causes of this
deterioration include the neglect of the dominant smallholder sector in both
colonial and post-Independence times, inappropriate agricultural pricing
systems since Independence, droughts in four of the past six years, and the
disruption of food production and internal distribution networks caused by
bandit activity. Food production will probably fall further this year,
despite higher producer prices under the ERP, given the renewed drought. The
South has been particularly hard-hit since remittances from labor migrants to
South Africa, an important supplement in earlier times to family farming, have
fallen drastically due to South Africa's post-Independence cuts in recruitment
from Mozambique.



- 6 -
B. The Health Sector: Policies, Programs and Issues
Sector Description
2.10        Health Organization and Management.  The Ministry of Health (MOH)
is the principal provider of medical services in the country. The MOH is
headed by a minister and vice-minister and contains five central directorates
and two central departments, each consisting of between two and seven
divisions or sections. The five directorates include: (a) the National
Directorate of Health; (b) the National Directorate of Social Action; (c) the
Directorate of Human Resources; (d) the Directorate for Administration and
Finance; and (e) the Directorate of Supplies. The two central departments
include the Department of Planning and the Department of Cooperation, intended
to coordinate donor activities in the sector. Furthermore, the MOH also
possesses a number of subordinate and adjunct units (e.g., institutes for
research, training, laboratory work, maintenance, printing, procurement and
storage). This fragmented and elaborate structure leads to apparently
"understaffed" sections and units, as well as duplication of responsibilities
and lack of coordination between units thereby hampering the efficient
functioning of the ministry. An organogram of the MOH, together with a
summary description of the functions of its various divisions, is given in
Annex 1.
2.11        In addition to the central MOH, each of Mozambique's ten ?rovinces
has a provincial health directorate headed by a Provincial Health Director.
The provincial directorates are responsible for all staff and curative and
preventive activities, and plan their own expenditures within the guidelines
and global budgets provided by the central level. The provincial health
service areas are in turn subdivided into district health directorates, whose
main function is the supervision of rural hospitals, health centers and healtn
posts, and district preventive activities within their respective districts.
2.12        The Health System.  All modern health care in Mozambique is
provided thirough government health services and private practice is not
permitted. The sale of some drugs is permitted through private pharmacies and
a number of private general traders operating outside the main urban areas,
though all drugs are supplied to such outlets by E.E. MEDIMOC, a state-owned
import house which is the sole importer of drugs and most medical supplies in
Mozambique. Traditional healers are reported to provide a significant amount
of health care, whose nature and quality are little known.
2.13        Public health facilities in Mozambique are organized into four
tiers: the first being health posts and health centers; the second, rural and
general (i.e. urban) hospitals; the third, provincial hospitals; and the
fourth, central hospitals. The lowest level unit in the health system is the
communal village health post, served by multipurpose basic-level agents who
are selected and paid by the community. At the next tier up is the locality
health post, which is staffed by a midwife and a health agent. Many health
posts function essentially as first-aid stations. The next higher level is
the health center, which acts as a transitional unit between the primary and
secondary health care systems and serves a population of 150,000 to 200,000.
It has up to 20 beds and is staffed by midwives, HCH nurses, preventive health



-7-
agents, laboratory and pharmacy workers, technicians, and sometimes a full-
time physician. The health center may function as a small hospital whenever
there is no rural or general hospital nearby, and distinctions between them
are often blurred. However, rural and general hospitalj often also possess
radiology and dental facilities, have more physician services available, can
usually do simple surgery and contain 50-100 beds. The provincial hospitals
have about 200 beds as well as a surgeon, a gynecologist, a pediatrician and
an internist on their staff. The three larger central hospitals, located at
Maputo, Beira and Nampula, act as provincial hospitals for their respective
provinceF and the latter two also act as regional referral points. The Maputo
hospital, besides serving the population in its surrounding area, is also the
ultimate referral facility for the whole country.
2.14        Numbers of health facilities increased dramatically after
Independence, particularly those at the lowest, primary level -- in keeping
with the Government's strong commitment to PHC. Between 1975 and 1985,
numbers of operating primary care facilities (health posts and centers) rose
from 546 to 1,416. Unfortunately, bandit activity has damaged a significant
part of this primary health care network in recent years. By 1985, 196
peripheral units (particularly health posts, centers and rural hospitals) had
been destroyed and another 288 looted and forced to close, constituting
altogether a quarter of the network. Some provincial hospitals have also been
damaged or looted and both these and the central hospitals have suffered from
gross neglect as limited Government resources have become focussed
(appropriately) on rebuilding and operating the primary network. The
Government, with assistance from a number of external donors -- bilateral,
multilateral and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) -- is putting in place
a program of rebuilding and rehabilitation of health facilities to repair the
damage.
2.15        According to MOH statistics, numbers of patient visits (out-and
in-patient) peaked at nearly nine million in 1985, or just over half a visit
per person per year on average. Visits had increased rapidly prior to 1985
(from 6.5 million in 1979) but then fell by 15 percent in 1986, largely due to
security problems. Outpatient curative visits made up almost 80 percent of
total recorded contacts with the health system, most occurring at the primary
and secondary levels of the system. Reliance on data regarding visits to
health facilities, however, probably underestimates the extent of the
population's contact with the health system: special programs such as the
Expanded Program of Immunization and the Child Survival/Development Program
have involved extensive outreach efforts whereby people are reached in their
communities or homes. Both programs, which are supported by the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and by bilateral donors, have shown good
results, taking into consideration the unusual security conditions with which
they have to cope.
2.16        Numbers of health personnel active in Mozambique have generally
increased since Independence, reflecting the higi priority accorded to health
manpower training by the MOH. For example, doctors increased from 171 in 1975
to about 300 at present; nursing staff increased by 25 percent, from about
2,150 to 2,700, between 1980 and 1986; and midwives doubled during the same
period to a current total of about 1,000. Health manpower training is



coordinated by the Directorate of Human Resources, which is also responsible
for coordinating in-service training and maintaining records and statistics on
personnel employed in the health system. Information on the specific
categories of health manpower trained in Mozambique is given in Annex 2. The
principal health manpower training centers include: the Faculty of Medicine
in Maputo; three Health Sciences Training Institutes for nurse and paramedic
training situated in Maputo, Beira and Nampula; a midwifery/nursing training
center in Marracuene, funded largely by UNFPA; and a number of provincial
training centers, usually located in provincial capitals, which are
responsible for training elementary-and some basic-level health workers in
accordance with provincial requirements and available budgets. Between 1976
and 1985, the total number of health workers trained annually (excluding
doctors) rose from about 275 to slightly over 1,000. Since then, however, the
economic crisis has forced a scaling back of the health labor force, which
because of a policy guaranteeing employment within the MOH system to all
trained health workers, is being implemented through lowering enrollment into
training institutions.
2.17        Besides facilities and manpower, another key element of health
services is the provision of pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies. In
this regard, Mozambique has been one of the pioneers in establishing a
national essential drugs program, whose goals are to control expenditures of
foreign exchange on drugs, and to strengthen further the PHC system by
supplying it with quality drugs at the lowest possible cost. A Technical
Committee was set up soon after Independence which established a National
Formulary, njw listing 107 vital drugs. Special permission is required to
import any other drugs. As noted in para. 2.12, E.E. MEDIMOC, supervised by
the MOH pharmaceuticals department, is responsible for the procurement of
drugs in bulk through international competitive bidding procedures. They are
then distributed to the public through health facilities or through
pharmacies. Kits containing a three-month supply of 34 basic drugs are now
shipped directly to health posts and centers. This kit system, which does not
cover hospitals, was implemented in 1986 in the South and the MOH intends to
expand it to the rest of the country by the end of 1988. Kits are currently
largely funded by donors and procured and assembled abroad by UNICEF, ready
for unpacking in the health facility. Unlike in many other African countries,
drug procurement in Mozambique (carried out by E.E. MEDIMOC) is relatively
efficient. However, significant improvements could still be made in drug
storage, management and distribution.
2.18        Health Financing and Expenditures.  Financing for the health
sector in Mozambique derives from three main sources. In order of importance,
they are general government revenues, donor contributions, and patient fees.
In line with its commitment to developing social services, the Government
allocated increasing financial resources to health in the first few years
after Independence. Recurrent budget allocations to health rose from about
8.7 percent of total recurrent allocations (2 percent of GDP) in 1975 to 10',J
percent (2.5 percent of GDP) in 1980. However, growing military needs and
economic difficulties subsequently forced a teversal of this trend, with the
health allocation dropping again to 7.1 percent (1.4 percent of GDP) by 1985,
declining further to 4.4 percent in 1987, and 3.9 percent in 1988. Public
sector investment in the health sector, however, was maintained until 1986,



-9-
when a sharp drop occurred. The gap left by decreasing government
allocations/expenditures has, to some extent, been filled by donor
contributions (notably UNICEF and some bilateral donors), who in recent years,
have increasingly supplemented government recurrent expenditures through
provision of essential commodities, incremental staff and running costs of
special programs. Moreover, as previously noted, several external agencies
are providing support for the reconstruction/ rehabilitation and equipping of
health facilities, both as part of their regular investment assistance
programs and in response to a recent United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP)-sponsored emergency appeal. The third source of health financing --
patient fees -- was equal to about 8 percent of total health expenditures in
1985. In 1987, in the face of growing financial difficulties, a new, more
comprehensive, cost recovery scheme was introduced, consisting of: a flat one-
time fee for outpatient consultations; payment for outpatient drugs; and a
daily inpatient fee in urban hospitals.
2.19        The allocation of resources within the health system has been
mostly consistent with stated government policies emphasizing PHC and
preventive activities. Mozambique has done much better than other African
countries in assuring consistency between resource use and policy objectives.
For example, the common problem of excessive concentration on referral
hospitals has been avoided, with nearly all investment directed to lower level
facilities and over 64 percent of the recurrent budget devoted to PHC and
rural health services versus about 36 percent allocated to the seven
provincial, three central and two psychiatric hospitals. If anything, it is
now apparent that the higher-tier facilities, notably the central hospitals,
have been neglected and are now in need of urgent repair. With regard to the
composition of health expenditures, there have been some important shifts in
the past two years which are linked to the adjustment program. In particular,
the reduced share of expenditure going to health and the substantial wage
increases granted in 1987 and 1988 to partially offset devaluation-related
inflation has meant that real expenditure on operating expenses and material
inputs has been severely squeezed. Moreover, shortages of foreign exchange
for basic supplies (including maintenance items) have meant that existing
infrastructure and equipment have begun to deteriorate, even where local funds
are available to replace or maintain them. As previously mentioned, donors
are already providing some assistance in these areas. However, higher levels
of assistance may be required in the future, perhaps even at the expense of
reduced support for investments.
Issues
2.20        Many of the key issues and constraints in the health sector have
been alluded to in the preceding paragraphs as part of the sector description.
in general, the main challenges facing Mozambique's health system concern the
need to restore and maintain health services of adequate quality in an
environment that in the medium-term at least is likely to be hostile from the
standpoints both of security conditions and resource constraints. Specific
issues, most of which are interlinked, are discussed below (including, where
appropriate, brief descriptions of government initiatives in addressing them).



- 10 -
(a)   Rehabilitation of the Health Network.  As previously noted, a
significant proportion of Mozambique's health facilities has been
damaged or destroyed as a result of armed bandit attacks, and others
have deteriorated as a result of shrinking availability of the financial
and material resources required for investment and maintenance.
Although Government is strongly committed to rebuilding/restoring the
health network and has allocated its own resources to the effort,
external assistance will be critical to its ultimate success. To date,
substantial financial support has been forthcoming from a number of
external sources including the Dut-h, Italian and German Governments,
UNICEF and a wide array of NGOs (see Annex 3). These agencies are
largely focussing their efforts on restoring primary and secondary
facilities, with NGOs concentrating on the lowest-tiers, namely health
posts and some health centers, while bilaterals and UN agencies have
pledged financial assistance for rebuilding rural, general and
provincial hospitals as well as some health centers. However, needed
physical improvements at the three main hospitals at Maputo, Beira and
Nampula have been constrained by lack of funds, although there are
extensive and serious unmet needs for services more complicated than can
be provided at lower-level facilities (para. 2.07).
A second constraint to effective implementation of the
reconstruction program as a whole is the absence of adequate technical
and managerial capacity within the MOH to adequately assess and cost
physical reconstruction needs, prioritize among them, secure donor
support in accordance with these priorities and initiate and oversee
actual reconstruction efforts. At present there is only one full-time
staff person (an architect) within the planning department focussing on
these issues, while other staff are concerned with them only on a part-
time basis. Finally, rehabilitation of facilities will be of little
value if capacity to maintain them is lacking. Recognizing the
importance of maintenance, the Government is attempting to strengthen
its network of provincial maintenance centers (linked to the Maputo
Maintenance Cernter). Its efforts have, however, been hampered by the
lack of technical and managerial expertise in the maintenance area, lack
of foreign exchange to purchase simple tools and supplies and inadequate
storage facilities in some provinces. Limited assistance in these areas
is now available from the Dutch and the Italian Governments in the form
of technical expertise, training, spare parts for medical enuipment and
improvements to storage facilities. In addition, UNICEF provides
support for vehicle maintenance.
(b)   Resource Use and Mobilization.  Given the prevailing economic
environment in Mozambique, there is little likelihood that budgetary
allocations for health will increase significantly in real terms over
the next five or so years. In this context, it is essential to maximize
resource use through appropriate efficiency measures throughout the
system, but particularly within health facilities which are the major
consumers of resources. For example, substantial cost reductions could
be achieved in hospital operations (while positively affecting service
quality) by improving patient admissions and management procedures in
order to achieve overall declines in lengths of hospital stay,



- 11 -
reductions in inappropriate admissions and reductions in readmission
rates. Resources thus freed up could then be reallocated, either to
other priority needs within the hospitals or to the operating costs of
primary facilities and programs. While efficiencies at the primary
level may be harder to implement given the much larger number of these
facilities and of individuals managing them, some improvement is likely
to be possible through appropriate in-service training efforts (see (c)
below). Thus far, the Government, beyond sending a few individuals on
health management fellowships, has not taken any steps to address these
efficiency issues systematically -- at least in part because of the lack
of domestic expertise in the area. There is, however, considerable
interest within the MOH to begin tackling these issues in a
comprehensive manner.
The issue of mobilizing additional resources for the health sector
is one that the Government has begun to tackle in three ways: (a) by
soliciting additional external support for the sector (e.g., through
emergency appeals); (b) promoting greater community responsibility for
health -- particularly in the context of its special programs on
immunization, child survival etc. (para. 2.15); and (c) through the
introduction of a comprehensive cost recovery system (para. 2.18). Of
the three initiatives, the last is probably the most problematic.
Although in many countries cost recovery has proven to be one of the
best ways to mobilize resources for the sector, its introduction in
Mozambique may need to proceed much more cautiously given the need to
protect access to health services for the poorest segments of the
population and those hardest hit by the transitional costs of the ERP
measures. While the cost recovery regulatory framework does contain
provisions to protect the ir.cerests of these vulnerable groups and to
ensure that preventive measures are available free, there are some
indications that these provisions are not being implemented adequately,
so that utilization rates at health facilities are beginning to decline.
Moreover, the MOH is experiencing considerable difficulties in revenue
accounting and, in some instances, collection, particularly from
enterprises that are responsible for paying their employees' health care
fees. In this connection, it should be noted that there is a need for
better financial accounting and management within the health system as a
whole, including development of a simple financial management
information system to allow MOH decision-makers to better relate health
outcomes to resource utilization. Such a system would complement the
WHO-supported health information system, now being developed within the
MOH.
(c)   Effectiveness of Manpower Training and Health Personnel.  A
crucial factor in the provision of health services is the health worker,
who, if sufficiently motivated, well-trained and adaptable, could do
much at the level of the facility to overcome the obstacles posed by
Mozambique's uncertain security and economic situation. At present,
however, few systematic steps have been taken to review the changing
role (and, hence, skill requirements) of the various categories of
health workers or to better equip them to function adequately within the
realities of working under difficult conditions. Moreover, training in



- 12 _
even the basic technical skills has been seriously hampered by shortages
of trained teachers, lack of textbooks and other written materials in
Portuguese and shortages of transportation and equipment required for
practical training. These factors, combined with inadequate prior
academic preparation in the sciences and extremely poor boarding and
lodging conditions have contributed to high drop-out rates, particularly
from paramedical courses. Upon graduation and subsequent employment in
the health system, health workers continue to be hampered in the
performance of their duties by lack of up-to-date job descriptions,
limited supervision and few opportunities to upgrade their skills
through relevant in-service training. Appropriate in-service training
could also do much to improve the effic4'ncv of lower-level facilities,
which are often headed by paramedics wi , little or no prior exposure to
management requirements.
Another issue concerning manpower development, relates to the
absence of an up-to-date, realistic plan relating manpower needs by
category of health worker to affordable training and, ultimately,
employment scenarios. The existing 10-year MOH manpower training plan
(prepared in 1981) has become obsolete in the current constrained
environment, with the result that sharp cuts in training are being made
without adequate analysis of their implications for health system
functioning or determination of the optimal skill-mix required under
present conditions. The latter problem is exacerbated by the absence of
adequate information on the numbers and types of staff presently
employed within the system, in turn caused by the incomplete data
forwarded by provincial authorities to the Directorate of Human
Resources (DHR), as well as by the latter's weak capacity for
systematizing and analyzing such data as are available.
(d)   Pharmaceutical Storage and Management.  Although Mozambique,
through adoption of the Essential Drugs Program (para. 2.17), has been
relatively successful in improving the procurement and supply of drugs,
further efficiencies are possible which could be achieved through
improved storage and management practices at central and regional
distribution points. For example, in Maputo, E.E. MEDIMOC's drugs and
medical supplies are scattered in over twelve storage facilities in as
many locations, and many are short of the shelving, handling and cooling
equipment essential to proper drug storage and distribution. As a
result of these physical constraints, management and inventory control
of the stores is unnecessarily complicated and leads to extensive losses
of drugs from the system due to spoilage and other leakages -- while
many secondary and tertiary health facilities (not covered under the kit
system) remain severely undersupplied. Similarly, spoilage of drugs is
high at the regional stores in Beira, where the main warehouse has
insufficient air-conditioning for drug storage. Furthermore,
improvements in established systems for management and inventory control
and appropriate training for staff are also necessary to increase
efficiency of Mozambique's drug supply.



- 13 -
C. Nutrition and Food Security: Policies, Programs and Issues
Sector Description
2.21        Nutrition Institutions.  Responsibility for nutrition and food
security issues is shared among: (a) the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which
is responsible for food production; (b) various departments of the Ministries
of Commerce (MOC) and International Cooperation, which are responsible for
food distribution; and (c) the MOH Nutrition Section, which is responsible for
nutrition interventions through the health system. In addition, the
Government has recently set up a Commission to evaluate the impact of the ERP
on welfare, which has a working group focussing on food security and
nutrition. A summary of the current status of agricultural production is
given in Annex 4. More detailed information on the agriculture sector in
Mozambique is available in the Mozambique Agricultural Sector Survey, 1988,
Report No. 7094-MOZ.
2.22        The main nutrition and food security programs can be classified
into two categories: (a) the food distribution and ration schemes; and (b)
interventions through the health sector.
2.23        The Food Distribution and Ration Schemes.  Government provision of
food staples to consumers through a ration scheme (effective in Maputo and now
being extended to Beira) and a free food distribution scheme (in rural areas,
for displaced persons and others seriously affected by the bandit activities)
is substantial, accounting for a large share of some families' total food
consumption. A response to the current food supply crisis, these schemes
depend almost entirely on imported food aid, since the state of emergency,
scarcity of foreign exchange, and other aspects of the economic situation have
made commercial imports infeasible. Needs for donated food for an estimated
6.5 million persons (mainly 1.6 million displaced persons, nearly 3 million
urban and peri-urban dwellers and about 20 percent of the 9 million rural
population) requiring assistance are calculated on the basis of a daily ration
agreed with the World Food program and composed of: 350 grams (g) cereal, 10 g
oil, 40 g pulses, 35 g sugar, and 5 g salt. This diet's caloric value is
about 1,600, compared with a daily requirement of about 2,300 per capita.
Donated food supplies are meant to be (but cannot always be) supplemented in
urban areas and camps by horticulture in family allotments within "zonas
verdes" ("green belts").
2.24        Chief responsibility for food distribution is borne by the
Ministries of Commerce and International Cooperation. Attached to the latter
is the main executive department in this domain, the Departamento de Prevencao
e Combate as Calamidades Naturais (DPCCN). The MOC is responsible for the
overall availability of food, and for the distribution of the quantities that
are for sale. It analyzes surveillance data and plans the food distribution
system in its Department of Food Security. The DPCCN is responsible for
implementing the free distribution of food for emergency relief. The
instrument of coordination is a committee, chaired by the Vice-Minister of
Commerce and including representatives from concerned minist ies and donor
agencies. Below the central level, affected provinces each have a provincial
committee chaired by the Governor and program executive authority rests with



- 14 -
the Provincial Directors of Commerce and DPCCN. There are analogous
committe('5 in affected districts.  A current assessment of needs is maintained
through radio contact with the districts, and available food supplies are
disttib1met.d accordingly, often by army convoy. The administration of the
ratioi5:g system in 4laputo and Beira is separate, being the responsibility of
the MOC, xzurking throagh the Gabinete de Organizacao do Abastecimento a Cidade
de Maplot, (GOAM) and in Beira, through the Direccao Provincial do Comercio de
Sofala (Wl)';C). The rations are distributed to retailers (mostly private) with
whom rationi card holders are registered. Actual warehousing and distribution
is dor3r b,y parai;tatals created for the purpose -- the Empresa de Abastecimento
a Cidade de Maputo (EACM) and the Empresa de Abastecimento a Cidade de Beira
(EACB).
2.25        Some 25-40 percent of donated food is distributed free for
emerg(e-icy relief, to displaced persons in towns and camps, hospitals, health
centrns, :,ocial centers, and training and other institutions.  This food is
allocated to provincial governors and thence by them to district
adminisirfitors, who arrange distribution to families through community
leader<..  rhe leading criterion of need employed is the family food stock
needei tro last till the next harvest.
2.26        The remaining more than 60 percent of donated food is sold through
the rationing  stem operating in Maputo (since 1981) and in Beira (since
1986), known as the NSA or Novo Sistema de Abastecimento. Ration supplies are
distributed to registered retailers, who then sell to consumers who are
registered with them.  All consumers who wish to participate in the scheme
must register, and are then entitled to purchase food at the ration prices up
to the I-iij:its established, depending upon actual food availability. However,
the aim is to supply, per month, for each family member:  4 to 5 kilograms
(kg) of cereals (rice, maize, flour, pasta); 1 kg sugar; 1 liter oil; salt.
This rationi would supply some 1,100 calories per day, which is around half
normal r-equirements. The balance of requirements must be met by means such as
cultivating a garden or "green zone" plot, barter arrangement with rural
dwellers or purchase on the free market.
2.27        There is quite a high financial cost for donated food through the
operation of the PL 480 agreement covering the large contribution of the
United States (US$70 million pledged in 1987), and similar arrangements in
operati.(o for the European Community (EC) contribution.  According to these
arrangements, the Government must pay the stated market value of all food sold
into a local currency (metical) account which can only be drawn upon with
donor consent, and is supposed to be devoted to agricultural development. Any
difference between the amount paid into the metical account and the receipts
from sale at the official ration prices represent a kind of subsidy, which
would have to be met from the budget. It was with the aim of reducing these
subsidy costs to the Government, in harmony with the current ERP, that
official ration prices were raised on April 1, 1988. (For example, the price
of maize per kilogram was raised from Mt 27 to 112.5 and of rice from Mt 40 to
271 - see Annex 5). Additional objectives are to reduce incentives for the
population to move into Maputo, Beira and other towns; make official prices as
consi-J( f  is possible with the long-term liberalization of agricultural
pricin  l,es, and thereby stimulate agricultural investment and



- 15 -
production, reducing Mozambique's dependency on food aid in the longer term.
The NSA ration scheme itself is in the process of being converted from a means
of providing an indiscriminate food subsidy to urban populations in Maputo and
Beira to a means of ensuring them a basic minimum availability of food.
2.28        Using the new schedule of much higher ration prices, the monthly
cost of the ration amounts to just over Mt 1,900 per capita, or around Mt
13,000 for the average family of seven persons. The purchase of 35 kg of
tubers to bring calories up to requirements would add another Mt 5,000 or so
(using the cheaper kinds) per month; the substitution of vegetables, fruit,
meat or fish would increase this amount considerably. Thus total monthly
family food costs would add up to at least Mt 18,000, compared with a minimum
wage of Mt 12,900. Families at such wage levels try to have two wage-earners
per family, but this possibility is reduced at present by the transitional
unemployment associated with the reorganization of industry, commerce and
government organizations. Even at higher income levels, for example a middle-
level civil servant earning about Mt 40,000 per month, the cost of an adequate
diet would be a significant drain on family budgets. In the circumstances, it
is imperative that the Government develop mechanisms to buffer the most
vulnerable population groups from the negative effects of the huge price
increases.  The Government C3mmission on the Social Impact of the ERP is
undertaking a preliminary assessment of the effects of price increases and
developing guidelines for appropriate targeted interventions. In the interim,
the ration scheme has been amended to enable customers to buy their rations in
small quantities (rather than on a bi-weekly or monthly basis) and to
substitute among the various starch staples in the diet to achieve a more
affordable mix. Moreover, efforts are being made to develop supplemental
subsidized feeding programs targeted to specific groups such as school
children and workers.
2.29        Nutrition Interventions Through Health Services.  Within the
context of currently available food supplies and basic diets, much can and is
being done to reduce the levels and impact of malnutrition. Main
responsibility in this area rests with the MOH Nutrition Section which has one
assistant-level and two professional-level posts. The Nutrition Section's
program of action for 1987 is organized around the following activities:
training; nutrition education; collection and publication of information;
research; supervision of dietetic services; emergency program; intersectoral
coordination; and administration. Many of these activities are supposed to be
directed and supervised at provincial level, as well as carried out at the
center. There is also a nutrition assistant (para-professional) in some of
the provincial Governors' offices. Currently, the most important nutrition
and nutrition-related interventions being carried out through health services
are as follows: (a) oral rehydration therapy which reduces mortality from
severe bouts of diarrhea and shortens their duration, thus lessening nutrition
losses; (b) growth monitoring of children through MCH clinics which detects
faltering growth through monthly weighing; (c) immunization which reduces or
eliminates the incidence of childhood diseases - consequently also the
deterioration of nutritional intake and status during illness; (d)
rehabilitation of severe cases of malnutrition is provided in pediatric wards
of hospitals and in health centers; and (e) nutrition education and promotion



- 16 -
of breast-feeding is included as a normal part of broader health education
efforts.
2.30        Nutrition/Food Secur'ty Surveillance and Measurement.  The
Government of Mozambique is well aware of the importance of nutrition/food
security information, and has made many attempts to build up a solid data
base. -These efforts have sometimes been frustrated by economic problems and
the security situation. However, over the past two years, the MOH Nutrition
Section has developed a new system to monitor the nutritional status of
children through weight data at MCH centers. A failure to gain any weight is
classified and recorded as a case of malnutrition, requiring follow-up action
by MCH personnel. Results are now regularly available from most districts,
though sometimes only for district capitals due to security problems. This is
nevertheless a remarkable achievement in the circumstances, and bulletins
publishing the data should prove useful in monitoring levels and trends in
nutrition and living standards. Monitoring of agricultural production is done
by the MOA. With assistance from Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), it
has established an Early Warning System, with sentinel posts located
throughout the country, to reasonably predict domestic food production.
AGRICOM, a parastatal linked to the MOA and MOC, also manages an information
system to track actual sales of domestically produced food (and other
agricultural products). Finally, the MOO maintains information on food stocks
and offtake in the emergency relief and urban rationing systems, for which it
has supervisory responsibility. In addition, it attempts to make assessments
of food requirements, focuss:ng particularly on urban needs, and gathers
information on domestic food prices.
Issues
2.31        There is little doubt that the long-term solution to Mozambique's
nutrition/food security problems lies in revitalized domestic agricultural
(and food) production coupled with equitable economic growth. And, indeed,
the Government, assisted by a number of external aid agencies, including IDA,
is giving highest priority to agricultural investments (within the supportive
framework of the ERP) that will help put the country back on a growth track.
The impact of these investments will, however, be limited in the short to
medium term, particularly in light of the continuing uncertainty of the
security situation and the ravages of drought and flooding in recent years.
As such, Mozambique is likely, over the medium term, to remain largely
dependent on meeting food requirements through food imports (both commercial
imports and aid grants), the efficiency of whose distribution will be critical
to achieving a minimum level of individual and household food security. The
main issues pertaining to this latter concern are discussed below.
(a)    Food Pricing Policy.  While there is as yet no ccGiprehensive
empirical data on the effects on food consumption of the recent
increases in official food ration prices.(para. 2.27), available
information suggests that their negative impact on urban family food
security has been considerable -- an issue causing Government
considarable concern given its commitment to the ERP program of reducing
(and eventually elininating) all subsidies. In this context, there is
an urgent need to better analyze the components of present food prices



- 17 -
to determine whether family food requirements can be met at lower cost
through alternative means. Taking into account that consumer prices for
the main food staples are currently in excess of import parity prices,
there may be some scope for consumer price reduction without resorting
to increases in subsidies. This need not necessarily affect producer
price incentives given that the margin between average producer and
consumer prices is large -- e.g., maize is Mt 65/kg to the producer and
Mt 112.5/kg to the consumer. Specific issues requiring analysis in this
regard include inter alia: (i) the mark-ups made at each intermediate
level between producer and consumer -- i.e., port/warehouse to district
distribution, district to local retailer -- and possibilities for
lowering these; (ii) the cumulative effects of sales taxes imposed at
each intermediate level and potential for adjustments; (iii)
possibililies for lowering transport costs, which are high at Mt 7-8/kg
due to bad roads, lack of transport (see (b) below) and poor security
conditions; and (iv) improvements to current methods of determining the
metical value of donaied food. In addition, potential for introduction
of lower cost foods on the market should be explored. The Government is
keenly interested in studying these issues and modifying policies as
appropriate, but has been constrained by lack of the technical expertise
and operating funds required to do so.
(b)   Transport for Food Distribution.  Apart from the question of the
affordability of the family food basket given present higher prices, the
consumer's access to food supplies is also limited by the shortage of
vehicles to transport food from the ports/warehouses to areas where food
is needed. This is particularly true for the commercial urban ration
system, whose transport capabilities are extremely limited but which has
been overlooked as donor agencies and the government itself have
focussed on providing vehicles for emergency relief programs. At the
same time, given the limited administrative and maintenance capacity of
the public sector and parastatals to efficiently utilize a large fleet
of vehicles, it is essential to expand the role of the private sector in
food transport. In particular, owners of ration shops could be
encouraged to assume greater responsibility for transporting food from
the warehouses to their businesses. Thus far, however, efforts to
encourage greater private sector responsibility for food transport have
been hampered at least partially because of its limited access to the
foreign exchange required to purchase vehicles.
(c)   Ration Program Management.  An important element of both the need
to lower food prices and to ensure timely distribution of available food
in urbar. areas is efficient management of the NSA in both Maputo arid
Beira -- particularly in the context of recent changes to the NSA (to
allow consumers greater freedom in the quantities and types of
commodities purchased) which are likely to increase the complexity of
program administration. At present, however, management of the NSA
suffers from inadequate skills of staff, absence of basic office
equipment and supplies and inadequate procedures for maintaining and
updating records of ration system clients. Moreover, information on
food stocks, expected deliveries and offtake is maintained only in an ad
hoc manner and long delays occur in invoicing of retailers and in



- 18 -
collection of monies owed. Improvements in these areas could
substantially reduce administrative costs of the NSA and improve
distribution, thereby helping to improve the access of consumers to food
supplies.
(d)   Food and Nutrition laformation Systems.  While Mozambique's
efforts to maintain food supplies in the current emergency situation
have, in mary ways, been remarkably successful, a key constraint to
efficient program planning has been the absence of an effective
information system relating food requirements by geographic area to
availability of food supplies. As .iscussed in para.. 2.30,
considerable information on many aspects of the food situation is now
being collected, but it is being done by a number of discrete agencies
in their respective areas of interest, is insufficiently analyzed and is
virtually never juxtaposed to provide a more complete picture of the
national nutrition and food security situation and needs. In this
context, and given the seriousness of Mozambique's present food security
crisis, there is a need for an integrated system to provide systematic
information and analyzes to policy-makers and program managers. The
Government has not, however, yet taken steps to develop such a system,
principally because of the difficulties involved in achieving
cooperation between a number of agencies and lack of technical expertise
in developing the system itself. However, with the formation of the
intersectoral Committee on the Social Impact of the ERP, coordination is
likely to be considerably easier in the future, thereby enhancing
potertial for establishing a workable system.
(e)   Protecting Vulnerable Groups during Economic Transition.  Given
that the food security situation in Mozambique is at best precarious,
vulnerable groups require special protection to avert possible severe
malnutrition. As previously noted, with the rise in food prices under
the rationing system, low income households, those with high dependency
ratios, and those having one or less formal sector incomes, are having
severe difficulties in procuring family food supplies. This has
potenitially serious implications for the productivity of the labor
force, capability of children to learn at scMlool, and increased
morbidity/mortality amongst small children and pregnant women. The
Government has formulated a number of measures to mitigate some of the
adverse nutritional and income effects on school children and workers,
including development of small, targeted subsidized feeding programs in
urban areas.  If appropriately strengthened, the programs could
significantly alleviate some of the adverse transitional cost for these
groups, while at the same time helping to maintain human capital and
socio-political support for the ERP.
In addition to the programs already initiated, there is a need to
develop low-cost, targeted supplemental feeding programs aimed at
pregnant and lactating women, pre-school-aged children and the poorest
urban households -- the groups worst off from a nutritional standpoint.
Progress in designing such interventions, has, however, been hindered by
lack of policy consensus within the Government principally on the
practicability of effective targeting in a context where: (i) data on



- 19 -
income, particularly from informal sector activities, is thought to be
iniadequate for targeting on the basis of a means test; (ii) targeting on
Fl geographic basis -- is perceived to be culturally and politically
sensitive, given the imperfections inherent in the approach; and (iii)
targeting on the basis of child growth information (collected at health
centers for nutrition surveillance) is seen as encompassing too-high
potential for abuse in the absence of an effective administrative
machinery to supervise/monitor the actions of health staff or to conduct
follow-up family nutrition assessments. Experience in a number of
countries in Africa and elsewhere shows, however, that effective
nutrition interventions can be developed despite similar difficulties.
This suggests that further study of the issues, including pilot-testing
of various approaches, could lead to the design of programs (and related
policies and institutions) appropriate to the Mozambican context.
UNICEF is currently providing some technical and financial support for
suchi policy/program development, although much more remains to be done.
D. Bank Group Role
2.32        The International Development Association (IDA) has been working
closely with the Government of Mozambique in developing and implementing its
ERP, for which two IDA multisector rehabilitation credits have been approved,
with a third now under preparation. In support of these initiatives, IDA is
also developing a program of project-based credits to support improvements in
production and the delivery of services. The proposed project is an integral
part of this process in that it would prevent further deterioration of key
aspects of the health system, assist in the preparation for long-term sectoral
development, and help reduce some of the social costs encountered in the
transitional phase of adjustment through health and nutrition interventions.
These activities would complement existing and proposed Bank interventions in
other sectors, including education, urban development, industry, transport and
agriculture.
2.33        IDA's involvement in the health and nutrition sectors in
Mozamb:'que began with a sector mission to the country in mid-1987. The
mission reviewed policies and strategies in the two ;ectors and began a
dialogue on short- and medium-term needs. Preliminary recommendations of the
resulting sector report (Report No. 7422-MOZ) were discussed with the
Govprnment in December 1987 and led to the identification of the proposed
project, which would be the first lending operation in the sector. Section
III below provides details of the specific activities included in the project.
Based on discussions of the sector report, the MOH also began to prepare a
letter of health policy development. The letter is attached as Annex 6.
Subsequent to the proposed project, two additional activities in health and
nutrition/food security have been envisaged for continued IDA-Government
collaboratioii over the next three years. The first, a food security study --
to be undertaken during the latter part of this fiscal year -- would build on
agriculture sector work (Report No. 7094-MOZ), the above-mentioned health and
nutrition sector review and analyzes undertaken in preparing the proposed
project, to assist the Government to arrive at a comprehensive national food
security stvategy. The study would examine issues of food production,



- 20 -
pricing, marketing and consumer access, including serving as a vehicle for
continued dialogue with Government on the possibilities for developing
supplemental feeding programs for the poorest households and for mothers and
children (para.. 2.31 (e)). Implementation of the resulting strategy (or a
significant proportion of it) would be supported through future IDA-financed
operations, including a proposed second health and nutrition project. The
latter project would also include population/family planning interventions in
the context of maternal and child health iiid a number of activities aimed at
strengthening provincial health services, provided security conditions permit.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.01        To help improve health and nutrition status, the project has four
main objectives: (a) strengthening capacity in policy formulation and
management on health and food security issues, with special attention to
resource mobilization, institutional development, information systems, and
planning and analysis; (b) improving efficiency, to enhance the impact of
services within the tightly constrained budget; (c) improving service quality,
to enhance the provision of basic needs to the population; and (d) helping to
mitigate some of the social costs of adjustment, to help sustain the ERP.
3.02        In order to meet these objectives within the context of building a
firmer basis for longer-term development and institution-building, the project
would involve the following.
(a)   For the objective of strengthening capacity in policy formulation
and management, the project would: (i) facilitate development of
improved health policies in the areas of cost-recovery, manpower
development, and facility management through studies and
assistance in implementation of the studies' recommendations;
(ii) strengthen the MOH through reorganizing the central ministry,
developing a better financial management information system and
increasing central capacity to manage and supervise investment
programs; and (iii) contribute to improving food security
policies and information, by aiding in policy analyzes bn food
pricing and distribution and improvements to the food security
information system.
(b)   For the two objectives of improving quality and increasing
efficiency of services, the project would: (i) support the health
facilities reconstruction program, through renovating and
equipping selected health facilities; (ii) improve hospital
efficiency through establishing better management procedures;
(iii) strengthen health facility maintenance at the provincial and
central levels through facility improvements and the provision of
initial stocks of basic materials; (iv) improve pharmaceuticals
supply, through construction/renovation of drugs storage
facilities with a view to strengthening inventory control,
reducing spoilage and upgrading overall management; (v) improve



- 21 -
health manpower training, through enhancement of teaching quality,
curriculum development, and capacity for in-service training, and
through upgrading of training centers and teaching materials; and
(vi) increase the efficiency of the urban food distribution system
through streamlining food supply management and information in the
ration system, easing the transport shortage for moving food
supplies from central and regional depots to areas where the food
is needed, and strengthening supplemental feeding programs
targeted to school children and factory workers.
These activities would, in addition to their other benefits, also contribute
,.o the fourth objective of helping to mitigate the social costs of adjustment.
In particular, the supplemental feeding programs would directly help
vulnerable groups in dealing with the ERP's transitional costs. Additionally,
improvements to the rationing system would help ensure regular availability of
essential cereals and other commodities to the urban public.
B. Detailed Description
3.03        The project would have two main components.
Component I: Policy Formulation and Management Strengthening (US$ 3.8 million)
3.04        This component would have three subcomponents pertaining to (a)
health sector policy studies and their implementation; (b) management
strengthening of the MOH; and (c) food security policies and information.
Details of each subcomponent are given in paras. 3.05-3.07 below.
3.05        Health Policy Studies and Implementation (US$ 0.8 million).  This
subcomponent would provide support for the analysis of key policy issues in
the health sector as follows.
(a)   The cost-recovery scheme introduced in 1987 is causing Government
considerable concern, particularly with regard to its equity
implications and its implementation given existing (inadequate)
procedures/institutional capacity for revenue collection, accounting and
use (para. 2.20 (b)). IDA, through its Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance, is already assisting the MOH to undertake a rigorous
evaluation of the cost-recovery scheme with a view to identifying needed
policy modifications and institutional requirements for effective
implementation. The project would provide about six person-months of
technical assistance to the MOH to finalize the conclusions of the
evaluation and to develop and begin implementation of policy and
operational recommendations. The project would also provide basic
office equipment, materials such as receipt books, recording forms etc.
and funds for training and on-the-job supervision of health facility
workers to facilitate implementation of the revised cost-recovery
policy. These latter activities would be closely coordinated with
project activities aimed at improving overall accounting and financial
management procedures (described in para. 3.06 below). During
negotiations assurances were obtained that: (i) the Government would



_ 22 -
complete the PP?-financed evaluation, review it internally and furnish
to IDA the report with MOH comments as a condition of credit
effectiveness; (ii) a joint MOH-IDA review of the report recommendations
would be held no later than October 31, 1989; and (iii) implementation
of an action plan for instituting the recommendations of the study,
taking into account Government and IDA comments, would commence no later
than April 30, 1990.
(b)   As discussed in para. 2.20 (c), the MOH's existing ten-year plan
for health manpower development has been rendered inadequate by the
drastic shifts that have occurred in the country's security and economic
environment. In this context there is a need for a revised, realistic
plan relating manpower needs by category of health worker (including
nutrition workers) to affordable training and employment scenarios. The
project would assist in the development of such a plan through provision
of about eight person-months of services of a manpower planr.er, whose
responsibilities would also include assisting in the conduct of an
inventory of existing health personnel, and providing assistance to the
DRH in analyzing training enrollment and employment information
forwarded by the health sciences training institutions and by provincial
authorities. Terms of reference for the manpower planner were reviewed
and finalized at credit negotiations. In addition, funds would be
provided for travel and per diems of DRH staff involved in the personnel
data gathering effort, and for office equipment and personal computers,
essential furniture, office and computing supplies and short-term
training of staff for the DRH planning and record-keeping sections.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that: (i) the manpower
development plan would be completed, reviewed internally and forwarded
to IDA with MOH comments no later than July 31, 1990; (ii) a joint
Government-IDA review of the plan would be held not later than October
31, 1990; and (iii) training programs included in the plan would be
implemented immediately thereafter, taking into account Government and
IDA comments.
(c)   As noted in para. 2.20 (b), there is a need for systematic policy
measures designed to increase the operational efficiency of health
facilities. To assist in this area, the project would provide two
complementary consultancies (12 person-months each) to advise MOH
officials on: (i) appropriate cost containment measures for each level
of facility, taking into account trade-offs between coverage, equity,
cost-effectiveness and quality of care; and (ii) the development of
simple mechanisms/procedures to increase accountability and allow for
routine monitoring of cost containment effort. Terms of reference for
each of these consultancies were agreed and finalized at credit
negotiations. Funds would also be provided for implementation of agreed
measures, including costs of training health facility staff, travel and
per diem costs for MOH staff helping to assemble/evaluate local
experiences, and basic supplies and equipment.
3.06        Management Strengthening of tl- MOH (US$ 2.3 million).  The main
aims of this subcomponent are:-(a) to rationalize the present, unnecessarily
complex institutional structure of the central MOH to reduce fragmentation and



- 23 -
duplication of functions among units and improve coordination among them; (b)
as a complement to efforts to improve cost control and revenue collection at
the facility level, to strengthen central accounting and financial management
procedures, including development of a simple financial management information
system; and (c) to develop the capacity of the Directorate of Planning to
manage and supervise sectoral investment programs, particularly the large and
dispersed facilities reconstruction program which is critical to maintenance
and development of health services. Corresponding to these objectives, three
sets of activities are included under this subcomponent as described below.
(a)   With assistance from a PPF-financed consultant, a detailed
analysis of the MOH organizational structure is already being
undertaken, with the intention of identifying ways in which the
Ministry's functional efficiency might be improved. The project would
provide a further 12 person-months of assistance from a management
expert to help operationalize the recommendations of this organizational
analysis. In addition, he/she would be responsible for assisting the
MOH to develop new standard operating procedures (SOPs) to conform with
the new structure, where these are now deficient, and assist in
organizing on-the-job training for staff in adapting to the procedures.
The project would provide funds for such training and for MOH groups
working with the expert to develop SOPs as well as proviae basic
equipment and supplies necessary to ensure the Ministry's smooth
functioning. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (i)
the organizational analysis would be completed, reviewed internally and
furnished to IDA with MOH comments not later than October 31, 1989; (ii)
a joint Government-IDA review of the recommendations would be held no
later than January 31, 1990; and (iii) implementation of the
recommendations satisfactory to IDA, on terms and within a timetable
agreed between the Government and IDA, would commence promptly
thereafter.
(b)   Given the project's overall emphasis on improving resource
mobilization and use, a key project activity would be the strengthening
of MOH financial management, particularly streamlining of existing
accounting and budgeting procedures within the MOH and developing a
simple financial information system for use by MOH managers. To assist
in this area, the project would provide 12 person-months of technical
assistance and operating and travel/per diem funds for MOH staff working
with the consultant on the issue. Funds would also be provided for
training staff in implementation of the newly-developed system and for
computing and office equipment, limited office furniture, computer
software, paper supplies and other materials. It is anticipated that
the financial information system would be closely integrated with the
WHO-supported health information system (para. 2.20(b)) which will focus
on collection and analysis of epidemiological data and health outputs
information. As such, health managers in the MOH would be able to
relate health outcomes to resource utilization more effectively, thereby
improving day-to-day management and budget/financial control.
(c)   To help further the objective of strengthening MOH capacity for
managing and supervising the implementation of its investment programs,



- 24 -
particularly the reconstruction program which is being funded by a
number of donors, the project would establish a program implementation
unit (Gahinete de Coordenacao de Projectos de Investimento -- GACOPI)
within the, MOH Directorate of Planning. The Unit would be staffed by 3
professional field engineer architects, 1 civil engineer, 2 draftsmen,
3 quantify surVeyor, I financial controller and 1 procurement officer in
addit'-on to support staff.  The Unit would be headed by the Director of
Planning in his capacity of Project Director, assisted by a Program
Coordinator, responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Unit, who
would report directly to him. Annex 8 provides an organogram of the
Unit.  Three professional staff for the Unit and all the support staff
are expected to be recruited from within the Government. Others would
be new recruits. Costs of salary supplements for internally-recruited
staff and salary costs for new staff would be provided under the
project. Of the new staff positions, two would initially be filled by
expatriate consultants including the posts of senior architect and civil
engineer (18 person-months each). In addition, local consultants would
be recruited for the posts of project coordinator, financial controller,
procurement officer and one architect post. Funding for these
consultancies would also be provided by the project. Detailed terms of
reference for each of these positions have been prepared by the MOH and
were finalized at credit negotiations.  A summary of these is included
4n Annex 8. In addition to staffing, the project would also provide
effice and computing equipment, furniture, vehicles and supplies to
assist in the establishment and operation of the Unit. A small fund for
recruitment of local consultants as needed for specialized
reconstruction works would also be included. Enactment of the legal
instruments establishing the program implementation unit within the MOH
and appointment of the Program Director (the Director of Planning) and
the Program Coordinator were undertaken prior to credit negotiations.
3.07        Strengthening Food Security Policies and Information (US$ 0.7
million). The principal aims of this subcomponent are: (a) to assist the MOC
to develop appropriate policies related to pricing of food in the ration
system, taking into account issues such as the existing large differentials
between producer and consumer prices, the suitability of current marketing
margins and possibilities for adjusting pricing policies or designing other
suitable interventions to ensure minimum food intake by the poorest families;
and (b) to strengthen the MOC's capacity to oversee the national food security
situat on.
(a)   With regard to the first objective of improving food pricing
policy, the project would support ongoing MOC efforts in the area by
providing a food pricing specialist (for 24 person-months) to assist in
analyzing key issues and making appropriate policy recommendations.
Detailed terms of reference for the specialist were prepared arnd were
agreed at negotiations. A summary of these is included in Annex 7. In
addition, the project would provide one four-wheel drive vehicle,
computing equipment and other supplies for use in carrying out the
policy analyzes. It should be noted that the MOC, with assistance from
the PPF, is presently undertaking a preliminary study on food needs,
supply and access, a draft version of which was completed prior to



- 25 -
credit negotiations. The report would be revised in light of Government
and IDA comments prior to credit effectiveness and be the starting point
for the strategic work to be undertaken during the project period.
(b)   With regard to improving MOC oversight of the national food
security situation, the project's principal goal would be to assist in
the integration of food security information systems. Such a system
would link three related information systems -- namely, the MOC's system
(to be strengthened under this project - para. 3.15 below), the Ministry
of Agriculture's Early Warning and the MOH's Nutrition Surveillance
systems (para. 2.30) -- to ensure regular availability of comprehensive
food security information and enable better program responsiveness to
existing needs. Development of the integrated system would be supported
through provision Df 12 person-months of technical assistance as well as
computers, supplie:s and a four-wheel drive vehicle to the MOC. The
recruited consultant would also be responsible for assisting with staff
training in implementation of the integrated system and for helping with
the planning and utilization of food aid, given expected domestic
production. Training funds and a small amount of office equipment and
supplies would also be included in the project to strengthen the MOC's
Food Security Department.
Component II: Improving Efficiency and Quality of Services (US$ 31.3 million)
3.08        This component of the project would focus on improving the overall
functioning of the health facilities network, addressing priority needs in the
areas of physical infrastructure,-maintenance, pharmaceuticals and health
manpower. In addition, it would address key issues of program management and
transport constraints in the urban food rationing systems in Maputo and Beira
and support supplemental feeding programs targeted to selected population
groups. A detailed description of the activities included is given in paras.
3.09-3.15 below.
3.09        Rehabilitation of Health Facilities. (US$ 9.6 million).  As
discussed in para.. 2.20 (a), one of the major initiatives of the Guvernment
in the health sector has been the establishment of a substantial program of
health facilities reconstruction/rehabilitation in secure areas. Funding for
much of the program has been derived from a number of sources, including
Government allocations, bilateral and multi-lateral agencies and NGOs. One
key constraint to effective implementation of the program has been the lack of
technical and managerial capacity within the MOH to prioritize program
activities and oversee their implementation, an issue which is being addressed
in Component I (para. 3.06). A second constraint is the shortage of funding
for needed rehabilitation at a number of primary and secondary facilities and
at the main hospitals at Maputo, Beira and Nampula. In this context, and
taking into account donor pledges of support to the reconstruction effort, the
project would finance reconstruction/rehabilitation of the, entire network of
health posts, centers and rural hospitals in secure areas of the three
provinces of Tete and Manica. A precise inventory of the actual
reconstruction needs is now being undertaken by UNICEF (which is expected to
finance this activity) with assistance from PPF-supported consultants.



- 26 -
3.10        Given that the effective functioning of the main hospitals is
critical to overall health system credibility and to the provision of
services for which there are extensive unmet needs in the present security
crisis, the project would also provide funding for rehabilitation activities
at the Maputo, Nampula and Beira hospitals, which because of the relatively
large amounts involved, have not been (and are not likely to be) covered by
other donor or Government funds. Rehabilitation activities at all three
hospitals would involve both building and engineering projects including (but
not limited to) improvement of operating theater, intensive care,
physiotherapy and X-ray facilities, refurbishing of wards, laboratories,
kitchen and laundry facilities and improvements in water/electricity supplies
and in waste disposal systems. The project would also provide priority
equipment items for use at the hospitals such as sterilization, X-ray and
laboratory equipment. A complete list of the civil works activities and
equipment items to be supported under the project is available in the project
file. The rehabilitation work under the project would proceed in two phases.
The first phase would include the highest priority activities (about 40
percent of the total cost of the subcomponent) and would proceed immediately
after credit effectiveness. Credit disbursements for the second set of
activities would be contingent upon IDA approval, after an exchange of views
with the MOH, of the satisfactory implementation of specified efficiency
improvement measures at the hospitals. Assistance in achieving these
efficiency targets would be provided through the project (see 3.11 below).
Final agreement on the specific, monitorable efficiency measures to be
undertaken at the hospitals was reached at credit negotiations. In addition,
the list of specific rehabilitation activities to be included in each
disbursement phase was finalized at negotiations. An indicative list of the
specific civil works activities to be included in each phase together with
information on the efficiency targets to be monitored are given in Annex 9.
3.11        Hospital Efficiency  (US$ 1.5 million).  Both the Government and
IDA attach high priority to achieving efficiencies in health facilities
operation, particularly at the hospital level, where the smaller number of
facilities, the presence of better-skilled staff and the relatively larger
amount of resources consumed per facility make efficiency improvements both
implementable and highly desirable. To help achieve efficiency improvements,
the project would provide funding for equipment, supplies and recruitment of a
long-term hospital administration specialist (24 person-months) to assist with
general reorganization of the three hospitals, beginning with the Maputo
hospital, and help hospital directors and staff to implement management
improvements in areas such as admissions and discharge procedures, cost
accounting and control, clinical coding and materials and manpower
productivity control. The consultant, sometimes with assistance from
specialized short-term consultants (also to be provided under the project),
would be responsible for on-the-job training of hospital staff in the new
procedures and systems introduced. It is expected that one hospital would be
developed as a "center of excellence" for management improvements to
facilitate dissemination of management measures to staff of other hospitals
and health facilities through a program of study visits. Special seminars and
short-training courses would also be organized for this purpose,.for which the
project would provide funds. Terms of reference for the long-s.erm consultant
have been agreed.



- 27 _
3.12        Health Facility iMaintenance (US$ 4.2 million).  As discussed in
para. 2.20(a), MOH plans to establish a national network of health
facility/equipment maintenance centers have been hampered by inadequate
managerial and technical expertise and severe shortages of basic tools and
maintenance materials. To relieve these constraints, the project would
provide 72 person-months of technical assistance -- a technical administrator
to be based at the central maintenance center in Maputo (24 person-months) and
two hospital engineers (24 person-months each) to be based one in Maputo and
the other in Nampula and Beira to assist with management of provincial
maintenance centers and maintenance needs of all facilities in the region. As
with other technical assistance included in the project, a key responsibility
of the maintenance consultants would be to train local staff in their areas of
expertise. Detailed terms of reference for these consultants were finalized
at negotiations. In addition to personnel expertise the project would provide
maintenance "kits" including basic tools, limited building materials and other
assorted items such as wire, light bulbs, etc. to maintenance centers in each
of the country's nine provinces. (One kit was procured under the PPF to
ensure the appropriateness of the mix of items and adequacy of control
procedures.) A complete list of the items included .n the kits is available
on the project file. Inventory control procedures for the maintenance
materials were agreed during project appraisal and issuance of an MOH "Ordem
de Servico" approving the procedures is expected shortly. Funding would also
be provided for replenishment of the kits. Finally, funds would be provided
for about six four-wheel drive vehicles and about 32 motorcycles to be used by
maintenance center staff in the provinces.
3.13        Pharmaceutical Supply System (US$ 5.2 million).  At present the
major bottlenecks to efficient pharmaceutical supply are: (a) the inadequate
storage facilities which lead to spoilage and other losses of drugs; and (b)
the inadequacy of current procedures for inventory control and management
(para.. 2.20(d)). To address these problems, the project would provide for
construction of a new central pharmaceuticals warehouse (including air-
conditioned and cold storage rooms) and inflammables store for E.E. MEDIMOC in
Maputo, furnishing it with needed shelves and racks and handling equipment.
Detailed designs for the warehouse are currently being prepared and will take
into consideration the physical requirements for inventory control. Technical
assistance (24 person-months) would also be provided to develop effective drug
management procedures and provide on-the-job training to E.E. MEDIMOC staff.
The regional pharmaceutical storage facilities at Beira would also be
renovated under the project, with particular emphasis on improving ventilation
and air-conditioning requirements and meeting equipment needs. The proposed
site for the Maputo pharmaceutical warehouse was legally transferred to the
MOH by Maputo City authorities prior to credit negotiations. There are
presently about 60 families living on the Maputo warehouse site. A plan for
resettlement of the families on alternative sites (including costs
implementation and financing) has been developed and was agreed and finalized
at credit negotiations. Costs of resettlement have been included in the
project.
3.14        Health Manpower Training/Effectiveness (US$ 2.1 million).  The
project's main aims in the manpower area are: (a) to improve the efficiency



-28-
and quality of pre-service medical, nurse, paramedical and nutrition worker
training; and (b) to develop a relevant program of in-service training for
health (including nutrition) personnel to improve their managerial and
technical skills in line with current economic and security realities.
(a)   In support of improved pre-service training, the project would:
upgrade physical facilities and furniture of the 3 principal health
sciences training institutes, particularly lodging and boarding
facilities whose poor condition has contributed to high student drop-out
rates; provide support for curriculum development through provision of
short-term technical assistance (about 4 person-months), incentives for
teacher's working groups, costs of workshops and suppliF3; provide
office and teaching equipment, vehicles for practical training,
textbooks and teachingilearning materials (e.g., wall charts, slides,
films and anatomical models) for the institutes; and support a course of
teacher training intended to produce about 65 new teachers and provide
refresher training to an additional 80 over a period of three years.
Limited support would also be provided to the University of Mozambique's
Faculty of Medicine, principally through provision of Portuguese
language medical textbooks and laboratory materials, of which there is
presently a severe shortage.
(b)   To provide a sound basis for developing a relevant in-service
training program, the MOH plans to undertake an analysis of the present
(sometimes drastically changed) functions of a selection of rural
facilities and the suitability of staff skills to cope with expected
workload. Based on this analysis, a program of in-service training
would be designed, including definition of the categories and numbers of
staff to be trained, an action plan for imp'lementation of the training
and production of course materials to be used in the training. The
initial functional analysis would also form the basis for development of
revised job descriptions for distribution to all health personnel. The
project would support these efforts through provision of 3 short-term
consultancies (about 12 person-months in total) to assist in the initial
functional analysis, development of the in-service training program and
revision of the job descriptions. In addition, funds would be provided
for travel and per diem costs of MOH staff working with the consultants,
incentives and workshop costs for local teachers working on the training
program design, and printing and distribution of job description
booklets. It is expected that support for the actual in-service
training would be available from other external agencies, specifically
WHO and bilateral donors.
3.15        Urban Food Distribution System (US$8.7 million).  This
subcomponent of the project comprises three parts: the first would focus on
improving the management of the urban rationing systems in Maputo and Beira;
the second would address the transport shortage for distribution of urban food
supplies; and the third would strengthen ongoing subsidized feeding programs
targeted to urban school children and factory workers. Details of each part
are given below.



- 29 -
(a)   As previously discussed (para. 2.27), the urban food rationing
scheme (NSA) has a key role to play in ensuring urban food security in
Mozambique's current and foreseeable economic environment. In order to
implement its changed objectives, which would provide consumers greater
freedom of choice in the types and quantities of foods they purchase and
reducing program operating costs, the government aims to improve the
management of the ration scheme, principally by streamlining systems
for: issuing ration cards (which are reviewed every six months);
maintaining up-to-date information on food stocks, expected deliveries
and offtake; improving food procurement; issuing monthly collection
vouchers and bills to retailers; following up unpaid accounts; and
preparing financial statements for the system. To assist in realizing
these objectives the project would provide six person-months of
technical assistance in program management, small mainframe computers
(one each for Maputo's GOAM and Beira's DPCS) for data processing and
analysis, and funds for training of GOAM and DPCS staff in management
procedures and computer use. In addition, a small amount of office
storage and handling equipment and furniture would be provided to GOAM,
DPCS, EACM and EACB to improve the efficiency of routine management
activities.
(b)   In order to alleviate the -transport shortage for the distribution
of food supplies in urban areas (para. 2.31(b)), the project would
provide ten 5-8 ton trucks, eight 10-12 ton trucks and 102 3-5 ton
trucks for Beira and Maputo. Of the latter, and taking into account
government objectives of supporting the private sector, about 100
vehicles would be transferred to private retailers, mainly small traders
in the ration scheme to enable them to pick up their supplies on a
regular basis. The remaining 20 vehicles would be transferred to EACB
and EACM to facilitate the transport of food from the ports to the
wholesale warehouses. A small number of motorbikes and light vehicles
would be provided for communication purposes. The operating costs of
all vehicles would be the responsibility of the private individual or
enterprise concerned. However, the MOC would monitor the use of the
vehicles in order to ensure that project objectives are achieved. Terms
of transfer of vehicles to the private retailers and to the parastatal
and municipal agencies were reviewed and finalized at credit
negotiations (see Annex 10). In addition, assurances were obtained at
-negotiations that the transfer of trucks including the procedures and
terms for transfer and use of proceeds from sales, would be carried out
in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
(c)   In order to enhance the nutritional status of the. school-age
population, the Government aims to expand the school feeding program to
all primary and secondary school students in Maputo. This would be
undertaken through provision of a nutritionally fortified bun made by
private bakeries. Assuming that each student would be fed for about 180
days a year, it is anticipated that about 200,O00 students would be
beneficiaries of the program. The project would provide annual food
requirements of 1,440 tons of wheat flour, 360 tons of maize flour, 720
tons of milk powder, 360 tons of sugar and 180 L$.ons of oil for
production of the enriched buns (to be provided by the WFP from its



_ 30 -
regular food aid program); six 3-5 ton trucks for delivery of the buns,
and a small amount of funds for drivers' salaries and incidental
operating expenses. To improve worlers' nutritional intake, thereby
helping to raise output and reduce absenteeism, the project would
support improvement of worker's canteens at a small number of
enterprises, on a pilot basis. The selected enterprises would
themselves be responsible for purchase and preparation of canteen food
and for minor civil works entailed in improving canteen dining and
kitchen facilities. The project would provide kitchen equipment
including, inter alia ranges, ovens, pots and pans to be sold by the MOC
to the concerned enterprises.
IV. F-OJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01        The total cost of the project is estimated at MT 46.2 billion or
US$42.5 million equivalent, net of customs duties and taxes on civil works and
locally-procured goods and services (approximately US$1.0 million equivalent).
Items imported directly for the project would be exempt from import duties and
taxes. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at US$36.4
million or 86 percent of total project costs.  Detailed costs are presented in
Annex 11 and are summarized in Tables IV.1 and IV.2 below.



- 31 -
Table IV.1: Project Cost Summary by Project Component
(US$ Million)
2
Total
Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Z F.E.  Costs
A. STRENGTHENING POLICY FORMULATION
AND MANAGEMENT
1. Health Policy Studies and
Implementation                  0.2       0.6      0.8       78       2
2. Management Strengthening of
the MOH                         0.2       2.1      2.3       89       7
3. Strengthening Food Security
Policies and Information        0.1       0.6      0.7       90       2
Subtotal                    0.5      3.3       3.8      87       11
B. IMPROVING EFFICIENCY AND QUALITY
OF SERVICES
1. Rehabilitation of Health
Facilities                      2.1       7.5      9.6       78      26
2. Hospital Efficiency                  0.2      1.3       1.5      87        4
3. Health Facility Maintenance          0.2      4.0       5.2      95       12
4. Pharmaceutical Supply System         1.2      4.0       5.2      78       14
5. Health Manpower Training/
Effectiveness                     0.4       1.7      2.1       80       6
6. Urban Food Distribution System       0.9      7.8       8.7      90      25
Subtotal                    5.0     26.3      31.3      84       87
C.  PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY         0.0*     0.7       0.7      95        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                     5.5     30.3      35.8      85      100
Physical Contingencies            0.3       2.2      2.5       88       7
Price Contingencies               0.3       3.9      4.2       93      12
Total PROJECT COSTS                      6.1     36.4      42.5      86      119
*US$35,000, which rounds to US$ 0.0 million.



- 32 -
Table IV.2: Cost Summary by Summary Account
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Building Projects                  2.0      7.4       9.4
2. Rngineering Projects               0.4      1.4       1.8
Sub-total                      2.4      8.8      11.2
B. FUILNITURE                          0.2      0.1       0.3
C. EQUIPMENT                           0.2      4.1       4.3
D. SUPPLIES                            0.4      7.9       8.3
E. VEHICLES                            0.2      2.8       3.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                0.2      4.0       4.2
G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                  -        0.1       0.1
H. LOCAL SALARIES & INCENTIVES         0.3      -         0.3
I. TRAVEL & PER DIEM                   0.2      -        0.2
J. TRAINING & WORKSHOPS                0.2      0.1       0.3
K. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY        0.1      0.7       0.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  4.3     28.6      32.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATIONS &
MAINTENANCE                       0.1       0.5      0.6
B. EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS &
MAINTENANCE                       0.3       0.6      0.9
C. BUILDING OPERATIONS &
MAINTENANCE                       0.8       0.6      1.4
Total RECURRENT COSIS                   1.2      1.7       2.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                    5.5     30.3      35.8
Physical Contingencies               0.3       2.2      2.5
Price Contingencies                  0.3       3.9      4.2
Total PROJECT COST                      6.1     36.4      42.5



- 33 -
4.02        The project's base costs are in November 1988 prices.  They were
calculated in US dollars and then converted to Meticais at the prevailing
exchange rate of Mt 620/US$l. Purchasing power parity exchange rates were
used for the project's implementation period. Construction costs (for both
building and engineering works) are based on estimates prepared by the MOH and
HOC, with assistance from a PPF-financed consultancy firm. The estimates were
reviewed and found satisfactory during appraisal. As most civil works
included in the project involve rehabilitation of existing facilities, unit
costs vary widely, but generally range from US$80 per square meter (sq m) to
US$170 per sq m The unit cost for the major new construction activity
proposed, namely the Maputo pharmaceutical stores, is about US$345 per sq m
This is comparable to construction prices for similar facilities in other
southern and eastern African countries. Unit costs for vehicles were based on
international c.i.f. prices. Costs of furniture, equipment, and supplies
include 15 percent in-country handling costs and are based on lists prepared
by the MOH and MOC, in mrst instances with assistance from PPF-financed
consultants. During appraisal the cost estimates included in the lists were
checked against price quotations given in international catalogs (including
the UNIPAC catalog 4/) and found to be satisfactory. Technical assistance
costs for foreign consultants include salaries, allowances and airfares.
Other investment costs, e.g., travel, per diems and local salaries were based
on prevailing local raLes.
4.03        The project's foreign exchange component of US$36.4 million was
calculated on the basis of the following estimates: civil works - 80?;
furniture - 402; equipment, vehicles and supplies - 95Z; studies - 702,
training workshops - 202; technical assistance - 95?; and local salaries,
travel and per diems - OX. In addition, foreign exchange estimates for
incremental recurrent costs were as follows: for equipment operation and
maintenance - 70?; for vehicle operation and maintenance - 85Z; and for
building operation and maintenance - 202. Physical contingencies of 10 Z were
added to civil works, equipment, vehicles and supplies. Price contingencies
assume the following expected annual rates of increase:
1988        1989         1990       1991     1992      1993       1994
Local    30.0        30.0         20.0       15.0     15.0      15.0       15.0
Foreign   8.0         3.0          4.0        4.0      4.0       4.0        4.0
4.04           Post-Project Incremental Recurrent Costs.  In current prices,
the annual incremental recurrent costs generated by the project (for both the
health and nutrition/food security aspects) amount to about US$869,000,
including about US$16,000 for salaries, US$157,000 for the operation and
maintenance of vehicles, US$276,000 for equipment operation and maintenance
and US$420,000 for building maintenance. Of this total, about US$670,000 is
associated with the health sub-components, representing less than 3 percent of
the 1988 health sector recurrent budget of US$24.5 million. The MOH has
assured IDA that these funds would be made available in the post-project
period. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that a number of project
4/ Catalog produced by UNICEF's procurement wing.



- 34 -
activities will contribute directly to better utilization of recurrent
allocations in the health sector -- e.g., improvements to hospital efficiency,
improved financial control in the MOH and reduced drug spoilage and loss
through improvements in pharmaceutical storage -- thus enabling provision of
better quality services within given budgetary ceilings. Annual incremental
recurrent costs generated by the nutrition/food security sub-components would
amount to about US$190,000, of which about US$175,000 would, in fact, be borne
by parastatals which operate on a commercial basis. The remaining US$15,000
represents only an insignificant fraction of the MOC budget and could easily
be sustained.
B. Financing Plan
4.05    Of the total project costs of US$42.5 million, US$3.7 million (8.7Z)
would be financed by the Government, US$27.0 million by the proposed IDA
credit, and US$11.8 million by cofinanciers on gr&nt terms. The Government of
Switzerland would provide US$5.3 million equivalent for most of the
pharmaceutical sub-component; the Norwegian Development Cooperation Agency
(NORAD' would allocate US$0.2 million in technical assistance for drug
supplies management; the World Food Program (WFP) would provide food supplies
amounting to US$4.4 million for the urban school lunch program; and UNICEF
would finance rehabilitation of health facilities in Tete and Manica,
estimated at US$1.9 million.
4.06    Thus, IDA and the cofinanciers would finance US$38.8 million or 91.3?
of total project costs, covering the entire foreign exchange requirement plus
about 40? of local costs. The Government, through its contribution, would
finance about 2X of civil works costs; 100? of local salaries and travel/per
diem; and 100? of incremental recurrent costs except equipment operation and
maintenance, of which it would finance 402 of total expected costs.



- 35-
Table IV.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent) a/
Project Element      Government   IDA   Switz   NORAD    WFP   UNICEF   Total
A. INVESTMENT COSTS
1. Civil Works        0.3       7.0    4.4      -       -        1.9    13.6
2. Furniture          -         0.3    -        _       _        -       0.3
3. Equipment          -         4.4    0.9      -       -        -       5.3
4. Supplies           -         5.4    -        -       4.4      -       9.8
5. Vehicles           -         3.7    -        -       -        -       3-7
6. Technical Asst.    -         4.4    -        0.2     -        -       4.6
7. Project Manag.     -         0.1    -        -       -        -       0.1
8. Salaries           0.4       -      -        -       -        -       0.4
9. TrAvel/per diem   0.2        -      -        -       -        -       0.2
10. Training           -        0.3    -        -        -       -       0.3
11. PPF                -        0.8    -        -        -       -       0.8
B. RECURRENT COSTS
1. Vehicle O&M        0.7       -      -        -       -        -       0.7
2. Equipment O&M      0.4       0.6    -        -       -        -       1.0
3. Building O&M       1.7       -      -        -       -        -       1.7
TOTALS                3.7      27.0    5.3      0.2     4.4      1.9    42.5
a/  Includes physical and price contingencies.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
5.01      The main responsibility for project management would rest with two
ministries: (a) the MOH, for all aspects of the project pertaining to the
health sector; and (b) the MOC, for all nutrition/food security-related
aspects. More specifically, the MOC would be responsible for the two
subcomponents concerned with strengthening food security policies and
information (para. 3.07) and increasing efficiency of the urban food
distribution system (para. 3.15), respectively. The MOH would be responsible
for all other project subcomponents. For those project activities which
involve parastatals or municipal agencies -- i.e., the pharmaceuticals
subcomponent (para. 3.13) and the urban food subcomponent (para. 3.15) -- the
ministry concerned would enter into a legal agreement with the relevant
institution specifying the mutual obligations of each in project
implementation, including issues of ownership and financial responsibility
vis-a-vis IDA. The ministries would be responsible for overseeing
implementation of project activities by the parastatal and municipal agencies.
Legal agreements between the MOH and E.E. MEDIMOC, the MOC and GOAM and EACM



- 36 -
and the HOC and DPCS and EACB were executed prior to credit negotiations. The
government agreed during negotiations to take all the necessary steps to
ensure the provision of housing to all long-term resident consultants.
5.02      Within the MOH, it is anticipated that overall responsibility for
management of the project would rest with the Director of Planning (who would
also be appointed the Project Director).  The Director would chair an advisory
steering committee comprised of the heads of all the technical Lnits concerned
with the project.  The steering committee would meet at least bi-monthly, to
monitor overall project progress, approve plans and budgets for all project
health components, and resolve any issues affecting project goals and
implementation. For day-to-day coordination of the project, the Director
would be assisted by staff of the investment program implementation unit to be
supported under the project (para. 3.05(c)), particularly the proposed Program
Coordinator, Procurement Officer and Financial Controller, who would spend
about half of their time focussing on the implementation of this project. The
technical units concerned with the project, principally the Directorate of
Administration and Finance, the Directorate of Planning, the Directorate of
National Health Services, the Maintenance Center, the Pharmaceuticals and
Medical Supplies Department and the Directorate of Human Resources would have
primary responsibility for implementation of the subcomponents pertaining to
them. The proposed program implementation unit, as part of its regular
fun-ction of support to all MOH investment programs, will assist the technical
departments in implementing civil works and procurement of equipment, supplies
and vehicles. The implementation arrangements are outlined in Annex '.
5.03      Within the MOC, the Director of the Food Security Department was
designated as Project Director and has overall responsibility for project
management.  Responsibility for day-to-day management of project activities --
including selection of staff and consultants for project implementation,
liaising with relevant MOO units and parastatals and preparation of progress
reports -- would rest with a designated Project Coordinator. In addition, a
full-time Administrative Officer, would be appointed to help coordinate and
oversee adequate fulfillment of all project requirements, including reporting,
accounting, procurement and disbursement. The Government appointed the
Project Director, Project Coordinator and Administrative Officer prior to
credit negotiations. The implementation arrangements are outlined in Annex 7.
B. Proiect Preparation and Implementation Schedule
5.04       Status of Project Preparation.  The project was prepared by
designated teams in the MOH and MOC, headed respectively by the MOH Director
of Planning and by the MOC Director of Food Security. Subsequently, a PPF was
approved by IDA to finalize preparatory activities and ensure prompt project
start-up, including:
(a)   consultant services for assessment and evaluation of the existing
cost-recovery scheme (para. 3.05(a));
(b)   operating costs and technical assistance for functional analysis of
the organizational structure of the central MOH (para. 3.06(a));



_ 37 -
(c)   technical assistance, vehicles, computing equipment and operating
costs for a study on food needs, supply and access (para. 3.07(a));
(d)   surveys of rehabilitation and equipment needs at central, provincial
and rural hospitals, health sciences training institutes and
pharmaceutical storage facilities (para. 3.09);
(e)   preparation of preliminary drawings for the Maputo pharmaceutical
stores (para. 3.13); and
(f)   procurement of one provincial maintenance kit (para. 3.12).
5.05       Despite provisions included in the PPF and extensive project
preparation, there remain two obstacles to the prompt initiation of project
activities:
(a)   about 60 families are currencly living on the site proposed for the
Maputo pharmaceutical warehouse, and the Government needs to resettle
these families before construction can begin; and
(b)   housing for long-term project consultaiits is not readily available in
Maputo and might delay the arrival of proposed consultants.
5.06       In response to the first obstacle, the Government has identified
alternative sites based on a survey of households currently occupying the
warehouse site. Recommendations of the survey and an action plan for its
implementation, including timing and costs of compensating, moving and
reconstructing houses for the families were reviewed and agreed at
negotiations (para. 3.13). Funding for implementation of the resettlement
plan is included in the project. To overcome the second obstacle, Government
intends to construct an eight-unit apartment block to house project expatriate
consultants. Foreign exchange costs of the construction (amounting to under
US$0.3 million) have been included in the project. During negotiations it was
agreed that funds for the apartment block would not be disbursed until the
Government has: (i) provided evidence satisfactory to IDA that the necessary
site has been legally attributpd to the MOH; and (ii) furnished to IDA
satisfactory designs, architectural plans, financial terms and timetable for
construction of the apartment block.
5.07       Implementation Schedule.  Project implementation is expected to
take five years beginning in April, 1989. The project would be completed by
March 30, 1994 and it would be closed by December 31, 1994. An implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 12.
C. Procurement
5.08       Project procuresent arrangements are summarized in Table V.1 below:



_ 38 -
Table V.1l Procurement a/
(in US$ million)
Procurement Method
LCB and
Int./Local
ICB        Shopping      Other b/      Total
Cost
Investment Costs:
A.       Civil Works               4.4          2.7         6.5             13.6
(4.4)       (2.4)        (0.2)            (7.0)
B.      Furniture                               0.3          -               0.3
(-)    ~(0.3)                        (0.3)
C.      Equipment                  3.9          0.5         0.9              5.3
(3.9)       (0.5)         (-)             (4.4)
D.      Supplies                   4.6          0.8         4.4              9.8
(4.6)       (0.8)         (-)             (5.4)
E.      Vehicles                   3.5          0.2          l               3.7
(3.5)       (0.2)         ()(3.7)
F.      Technical Asst.                          -          4.6              4.6
(-)         C-)         (4.4)            (4.4)
G.      Project Management          -            -          0.1              0.1
(-)         (-)         (0.1)            (0.1)
H.      Local Salaries/Inc.         -            -          0.4              0.4
(-)         C-)          (-)              (-)
I.      Travel/Per Diem                         -           0.2              0.2
(-)         (-)          (-)              (-)
J.      TraininglWorkshops          -            -          0.3              0.3
C-)         (-)         (0.3)           (0.3)
K.      PPF                                      -          0.8              0.8
(-)         C-)         (0.8)            (0.8)
Recurrent Costs:
A.      Vehicle O&M-                             -          0.7              0.7
(-)         (-)          (-)              (-)
B.      Equipment O&M                            -          1.0              1.0
(-)         C-)         (0.6)            (0.6)
C.      Building O&H4                            -          1.7              1.7
Totals                   16.4          4.5        21.6             42.5
(16.4)       (4.2)        (6)27.0)
Note:   Figures in parentheses indicate the amounts to be financed by the IDA
credit.
a8 Costs include physical and price contingencies.
bl Other means of procurement include force account civil works, procurement
of consultancies in accordance with IDA guidelines and procurement of
other items through regular Government procedures, or donor agencies
procedures in cases where items are expected to be financed under co- or
parallel-financing arrangements.



- .39 -
5.09       All civil works contracts exceeding US$100,000 and equipment,
supplies and vehicles contracts valued in excess of US$70,000 would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according
to IDA procurement guidelines. Domestic contractors bidding on project civil
works will receive a preference of 7.5Z following IDA guidelines. In
addition, for equipment, supplies and vehicles tenders, local suppliers will
be eligible to bid and, in the evaluation of bids, would be eligible for a
margin of preference equal to 15Z of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports, or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.
5.10       Equipment and supplies items and vehicles which cannot be grouped
into bid packages of US$70,000 or more may be procured through Government
international or local shopping or local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures,
which are acceptable to IDA. Items procured in these ways would be subject to
aggregate limits of US$0.5 million for equipment, US$0.5 million for
furniture, US$0.8 million for supplies 5/ and US$0.2 million for vehicles.
Civil works contracts under US$100,000, and subject to an aggregate total of
US$2.4 million, would be procured through Government LCB procedures, which
have been reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory. Moreover, site
preparation for the Maputo Pharmaceutical Stores (US$0.2 million) would be
undertaken by force account. All furniture (US$0.3 million) would be procured
through LCB or local shopping. Textbooks and learning materials for the
Faculty of Medicine may be procured under direct contracting up to a maximum
of US$160,000.
5.11       Consultants' services will be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Other items, including incremental recurrent cost items,
travel/per diem, salary costs and workshops/training would be approved through
regular Government procedures.
5.12       Contract Review.  Bidding packages for construction valued at over
US$100,000 and for other goods valued at more than US$70,000 would be subject
to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of
about 70Z of the total estimated value of such contracts. Smaller packages
would be subject to random post-award review by IDA. Terms of reference,
curricula vitae and draft contracts for consultants would be reviewed by IDA
prior to appointment of consultants. Similarly, terms of reference for policy
analyzes and plans and budgets for implementation of their recommendations
would be reviewed by IDA prior to commencing expenditures for these
activities.
D. Disbursements
5.13       The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of five and
three/quarters years (between 1989 and 1994). Disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1994, nine months after project completion. The
5/ Includes US$0.2 million for procurement of medical textbooks and some
other learning materials which will be undertaken by direct contract due
to their highly specialized nature and the limited sources of supply.



- 40 -
credit proceeds would be disbursed on the basis of the table shown below. All
disbursements from the IDA credit would be fully documented except for
training/workshops, equipment operating costs, force account civil works
activities (e.g., for site preparation for Maputo pharmaceutical stores) and
other items under US$40,000 for which disbursements would be made against
certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentat.3n would be
retained by project executing agencies and made available for revie.r as
requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
Table V.2 Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Allocation            Z of Expenditure
Disbursement Category    SDR Million  US$Million          to be Financed
1. Civil Works                5.0           6.4      1002 of foreign and
902 of local expenditures
2. Equipment, Furniture,
Supplies, Vehicles      10.1           13.0     100% of foreign expenditures,
1002 of local expenditures
(ex factory) and 90% of
other local expenditures
3. Consultant Services,
Studies and Audits       3.4           4.4      100X of total expenditures
4. Training/Workshops         0.2           0.3      1002 of total expenditures
5. PPF                        0.6           0.8      100l   of total expenditures
6. Resettlement Plan          0.0*          0.0      1002 of foreign and
90% of local expenditures
7. Operating Costs            0.5           0.6      60% of total expenditures
for equipment operation
and maintenance and
100% for project
management-related costs
Unallocated                1.2          1.5
Total                     21.0         27.0
SDR 20,000, which rounds to SDR 0.0 million.
US$20,000, which rounds to US$0.0 million.
E. Special Accounts
5.14      In order to expedite disbursements, the Government would establish
two Special Accounts for the project, one each for the MOH and the MOC
subcomponents, in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. An initial amount of
US$1.7 million and US$0.6 million equivalent would be deposited by IDA to the



- 41 -
MOH and MOC accounts respectively after receipt and approval of a withdrawal
application. These amounts are estimated to cover about four months of
eligible payments by each project executing agency. Replenishment
applications would be submitted monthly and would be accompanied by the full
documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure.
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
5.15       The MOH and MOC would each maintain detailed accounts for their
respective subcomponents. Short-term technical assistance would be made
available at the end of each financial year to ensure that project accounts
are in order, that financial statements suitable for auditing are drawn up,
and that the project is audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Audited financial statements acceptable to IDA would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each financial year. SOEs would be included
in the audit and specifically addressed in the audit report. To facilitate
close monitoring of the project, the project executing agencies would also
submit to IDA: (a) bi-annual progress reports; and (b) within six months of
the project's closing date, a final project completion report on the
implementation experience and project outcom3s.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01       The principal direct benefits of the project would be two-fold.
First, project interventions directed to key elements of health care delivery,
namely rehabilitation and mainterance of infrastructure and equipment,
improved manpower training, and reliable pharmaceutical supply, would increase
access to better quality health services throughout the public health system
-- particularly in the five provinces of Nampula, Tete, Manica, Sofala, Maputo
and in Maputo city, where about 50 percent of Mozambique's people reside. The
need for good quality health care is especially urgent given that natural
disasters, such as flood and drought, and the ongoing security crisis have had
serious consequences for the health status of the population. Second, the
project's focus on improving the management and overall efficiency of urban
food distribution would increase access to food for the populations of Maputo
and Beira cities (and peri-urban areas) -- about 1.3 million persons or about
9 percent of the population -- who have had to bear the heaviest burden of the
transitional costs of economic adjustment under the ERP. In addition to these
direct benefits, the project's emphasis on improving policy formulation
capability and introducing efficiency and cost containment measures would
assist the Government in making better use of scarce domestic and foreign
resources, thereby improving both the quality and the sustainability of
service delivery within the tight resource constraints facing Mozambique.



- 42 -
B. Risks
6.02       The project's main risk is that project implementation could be
disrupted by the security situation in Mozambique. This risk has been reduced
by explicitly restricting project activities to areas which are likely to
remain secure. Second, given that this is the first IDA-supported project to
be undertaken in the health and nutrition sectors, there is a prima facie risk
of delay in implementation. However, this risk has been reduced by:
(a) project interventions to strengthen investment program implementation
capacity; and (b) the inclusion of consultant services to aid in
implementation of key project policy and technical interventions, which can
also be expected to help overcome potential problems arising from the relative
inexperience of the implementing ministries in executing externally-assisted
projects of this magnitude. In addition, an initial project launch workshop
is planned for the second quarter of 1989, and during the first year or so of
implementation, an above-average IDA supervision effort is anticipated.
Overall, the degree of risk is acceptable.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01       The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   submission to IDA of the evaluation of the cost-recovery
system, together with MOH comments (para. 3.05(a));
(b)   finaii:.ation and submission to IDA of the sLudy on food needs,
supply and access (para. 3.07(a)).
7.02       During negot'.ations assurances were obtained that:
(a)   a joint MOH-IDA review of the cost-recovery report
recommendations would be held no later than October 31, 1989;
and implementation of an action plan for instituting the
recommendations of the study, taking into account Government
and IDA comments, would commence no later than April 30, 1990
(para. 3.05(a)).
(b)  the manpower development plan would be completed, reviewed
internally and forwarded to IDA with MOH comments no later
than July 31, 1990; a joint Government-IDA review of the plan
would be held not later than October 31, 1990; and training
programs included in the plan would be implemented immediately
thereafter, taking into account Government and IDA comments
(para. 3.05(b));
(c)  the MOH reorganization study would be completed and furnished
to IDA, together with MOH comments, no later than October 31,
1989; a joint Government-IDA review of the recommendations of
the MOH reorganization study would be held not later than
January 31, 1990; and implementation of the recommendations,



- 43 -
taking into account Government and IDA comments, would
commence promptly thereafter (para. 3.06(a));
(d)  the Government would implement the resettlement plan for the
families located on the site of the proposed pharmaceuticals
warehouse (para. 3.13);
(e)  the transfer of trucks to private retailers and to EACB and
EACM, including the procedures and terms for transfer and use
of proceeds from sales, would be carried out in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.15 (b)); and
(f) the Government would take all the necessary measures to
provide housing for the resident consultants to be employed
under the project (para. 5.01).
7.03       Credit disbursements for the second phase (about 60Z) of hospital
rehabilitation/reconstruction are contingent upon IDA approval, after an
exchange of views with the MOH, of the satisfactory implementation of
specified efficiency improvement measures at the hospitals (para. 3.10). In
addition, disbursement of funds for construction of consultant housing is
contingent upon (i) provision of evidence satisfactory to IDA that the
necessary site has been legally attributed to the MOH; and (ii) IDA approval
of architectural designs, plans, financial terms and timetable for
construction of the apartment block (para. 5.06).
7.04       The institutional arrangements for Ampleme.iting the project have
been reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory (Arnnexes 7 and 8).
7.05       Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project forms a
3uitable basis for granting of an IDA credit of SDR 21.0 million (US$27.0
million equivalent) to the People's Republic of M4ozambique.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
THE STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1.          The Ministry of Health is the principal provider of medical
services In the country. However, it is assisted by two official, party-
linked NGOs, the OMM and the National Association of Workers' Councils. The
OMM disseminates information regarding family planning, health and nutrition
and the Workers' Council provides representatives who are trained to provide
first aid and safety education in the workplace.
2.          The MOH contains five central directorates (direccoes) and two
central. departments, each of which consists of between two and seven
divisions, sections, nuclei, or centers. In addition, each province has a
provincial health directorate. The function of the MOH directorates are as
follows:
(a)   The National Directorate of Health (Direccao Nacional de Saude)
oversees:
(i)   curative and preventive service delivery, including the
tuberculosis and 3eprosy, MCH, family planning, diarrheal
disease, malaria and EPI programs;
(ii)  environmental and occupational health;
(iii) the pharmaceutical department;
(iv)  an epidemiological and statistical unit; and
(v)   supervision of hospital and other health units, in
conjunction with the provincial health directorates.
(b)   The National Directorate of Social Action  (Direccao Nacional de
Accao Social) is in charge of:
(i)   social services and welfare for children, the aged, the
physically and mentally handicapped, and the indigent; and
(ii)  limited dayeare services for working mothers.
(c)   The Directorate of Human Resources (Direccao de Recursos Humanos)
is in charge of:
(i)   manpower planning and management, including development of
directives for worker selection, training, transfer and
evaluation;
(ii)  supervision of all health training institutes, with the
exception of medical student education, which falls under
the direction of the Ministry of Education; and



-45 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
(iii) directives for Ministry of Health personnel salary levels
(through the Ministry of iinance);
(d)   The Directorate for Administration and Finance (Direccao de
Administracao e Financas) is in charge of the internal
administrationL of personnel matters and physical plant, including:
(i)   financial policies of the Ministry of Health as a whole;
(ii) the planning and provision of materials and supplies;
(iii) assuring on-the-job safety for Ministry personnel; and
(iv) maintenance of logistics and communications.
The financial arm of this directorate also administers the
Ministry's current budget, does the accounts, and monitors
expenditures.
(e)   The Directorate of Supplies (Direccao de Aprovisionamento) is in
charge of procurement and distribution of consumable supplies and
equipment;
(f)   The Planning Department (Depart:.mento de Planificacao) is in
charge of the entire planning process and in this context:
i)    works with the Directorate to define long-term needs with
respect to health coverage, human resources, and finances;
ii)   organizes the health information and analysis systems
required for program management; and
iii) manages its own epidemiology section and a division of
statistics and demography.
(g)   The Department of International Cooperation  (Departamento de
Cooperacao Internacional) coordinates the activities of bilateral,
international, and NGO donors in the health sector.
3.          In each of the ten provinces, MOH services and their
administrative support are under the direction of the Provincial Health
Director. The Director is advised by a Consultative Council (Conselho
Consultivo) composed of the chief medical doctors of the province and its
departments, the director of the respective central and provincial hospital,
the director of the health personnel training school(s) located in the
province, and other selected specialists and technical cadres. The provincial
directorates are responsible for and supervise all staff and curative and
preventive activities, and plan their own expenditures within the guidelines
and global budgets provided by the central level. The provincial health
service regions are in turn divided into District Health Directorates, whose
main function is the supervision of rural hospitals, health centers and posts,
and district preventive activities within their respective districts.



- 46 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
4.          In addition to its central and provincial organization, the MOH
also has a number of "subordinate" and "adjunct" units:
(a)   the National Health Institute (Instituto Nacional de Saude),
founded in 1980 under the Special Program Branch of WHO, has as
its primary function epidemiological, laboratory, and public
health research. Although active, the Institute faces financial
and manpower difficulties, with little money available to train
Mozambicans in the appropriate types of research. Many of the
functions currently conducted by local personnel may soon have to
be taken by donor-funded expatriates;
(b)   the Regional Center for Health Development (Centro Regional de
Desenvolvimento Sanitario (CRDS), inaugurated in 1985 and situated
on the outskirts of Maputo City, is co-funded by WHO and the MOH.
It serves as a regional resource in management and public health
training for Portuguese speaking countries, and has excellent
training facilities, with an audiovisual production center and two
full time training specialists.  Up to now, this resource has been
somewhat underutilized;
(c)   the Water and Food Safety Laboratory (Laboratorio de Higiene de
Aguas e Alimentos) is responsible for laboratory analysis for
purposes of public health;
(d)   the Health Science Institutes (Institutos de Ciencias de Saude),
five health personnel training centers described later in the
section on training;
(e)   the Maintenance Center (Centro de Manutencao), which looks after
the maintenance and repair of all Ministcy equipment and vehicles;
in recognition of its importance to the rehabilitation process,
its management structure was recently reorganized and a new
management team appointed. Maintenance centres have been
established in all nine provinces. Staff involvement was also
increased by the creation of work groups. These efforts have led
to improved response times and more personnel being trained. There
is a major effort underway to decentralize activities to the
provinces;
(f)   the Printing Center (Central Impressora) is well equipped and
handles the bulk of MOH needs for the production of training and
informational materials; and
(g)   the Centro de Abastecimentos handles all medical and non-medical
supplies and their distribution.
5.          Finally, a number of important parastatal agencies are also
associated with the MOH:
(i)   E.E. MEDIMOC is the state-owned drug and medical supply
import agency;



- 47 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
(ii) E.E. FARMAC is the parastatal drug and supply distribution
network; and
(ii) the EMOFAR facility in Beira is a recently established ORT
factory, the first in the country with the potential for
drug production.
6.          The multi-layered, complex and fragmented structure described
above has evident drawbacks. Because of financial difficulties and the dearth
of trained professlonals in Mozambique, many units contain few full time
professional staff or are run primarily by expatriate "cooperantes" (technical
advisors). Coordination between programs is difficult and laborious. There
is duplication and overlap in some areas; for example, the National Institute
of Health, the Planning Department, and the National Directorate of Health all
maintain an epidemiological unit, each of which provides separate but related
services.
7.          In recognition of the need for better coordination within the MOH,
a recent restructuring has been undertaken, with a clearer definition of each
init's role. In particular, the central role of the National Directorate of
Health has been clarified. Emphasis has also been placed on technical needs
and the creation of a management structure with a comprehensive view of the
health field. To improve support services, the Supplies, Administration, and
Finance Divisions have been reorganized, and the Directorate of Human
Resources has been restructured into three divisions: Management, Training,
and Administration. However, there is still a need for simplification of the
MOH structure and related reporting procedures and decision-making authority.



- 48 -                                   ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
ORGANIGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTER
|VICE-MINISTER|
|HEALTH CONSULT-                                            SERTR
ATIVE COUNCIL
PLANNIN
TECHNICAL
COUNCIL
DEPARTMENT OF
INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION
NATIONAL          NATIONAL DI-         DIRECTORATE    DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE
DIRECTORATE       RECTORATE OF         OF HUMAN        FOR ADMIN.           OF
OF HEALTH          SOCIAL ACTION       RESOURCES       & FINANCE         SUPPLIES
NATIONAL                                   E.E. MEDIMOC - STATE
HEALTH INSTITUTE                                IMPORT/EXPORT AGENCY
_                            ~~~~~~~~~FOR MEDICAL SUPPLIES
STATE ENTERPRISE
PROVINCIAL                    PROVINCIAL                      FOR PHARMACEUTICALS
GOVERNOR                 HEALTH DIRECTORATE                                    I
|STATE ENTERPRISE 
MAINTENANCE]
CENTER        J
SUPPLY
CSNTER
Source: Ministry of Healthl



ORGANIGRAM OF A TYPICAL PROVINCIAL HEALTH DIRECTORATE
PROVINCIAL
DIRECTOR
HEALTH COORDI                                                    PLANNING &
NATING COUNCIL                                                   STATISTICS
z                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~UNIT
CONSULTATIVE
COUNCIL                                                 X SRAAT
SOCIAL
ACTION
DEPARTMENT                                                                                       DEPARTMENT
OF HEALTHl
COMMUNITY
HEALTH DIVISION
CHILD
HUMAN                  DIVISION OF        DIVISION FOR                SUPPORT
HOSPITAL                RESOURCES                 ADMINISTRATION    SUPPLIES, TRANSP.           SECTION
ASSIST. DIVISION            DIVISION                  AND FINANCE        AND MAINTENANCE
NURSING                                                                                  SECTION FOR THF
SECTION                                                                                  HANDICAPPED AND
THE ELDERLY
PHARMACY
SECTION                                                                                      SECTION FOR
DIRECT
HEALTH SCIENCE INSTITUTE                                  SOCIAL ACTION
LABORATORY                       1              C     TU
SECTION                                                                                                           oX
Source: Ministry of Health



- 50 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
.EALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CATEGORIES OF HEALTH MANPOWER
Level
Professional
Stream         Higher 1/       Medium 2/      Basic 2/     Elementary 2/
Medicine             TH              T             --              --
Nursing              TH           General        Nurse        Nurse
Nurse                       Elementary
Preventive
Medicine &           TH              T
Sanitation
Obstetrics           TH           Nurse          MCH          Midwife
Midwife       Nurse
Social Welfare      TH               T           Agent        Auxiliary
Pharmacy             TH              T           Agent        Auxiliary
Laboratory           TH              T           Agent        Auxiliary
Radiology &
Radiotherapy         TH              T           Agent        Auxiliary
odontostomatology   TH               T           Agent        Auxiliary
Physiotherapy        TH              T           Agent        Auxiliary
Child
Development          TH              T           Agent        Auxiliary
Health
Administration       TH              T           Agent        Auxiliary
Code:  TH = Technician - Higher Level; T = Technician;
-- = not an exisiting category
1/ Staff are further categorized (in descending order) as Principal, First
and Second Class.
2/ Staff are further categorized (in descending order) as First, Second
and Third Class.
Source: Department of Human Resources, Ministry of Health.



- 51 -
MOZAMBIQUE                                 ANNEX 3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT                       PaRe 1 of 3
HEALTH CARE FACILITY REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(Status of Financing - November 16, 1988)
PROVINCE                 LEVEL PROJECT               FINANCING             AMOUNT               PERIOD
LOCALITY                                             SOURCE
NIASSA
H.R.CUAMBA               II    GLOBAL                MSF(NET)              ECU    860,000       1987-88
CABO DELGADO
H.P.PEMBA                III   REHABILITATION        ITALY                 US$  TBC             1988-90
III   EQUIPMENT             R. EMILIA (ITA)       LIRE TBC            1986-89
H.R.MOC. DA PRAIA        II    GLOBAL                CRIAA (FRA)           US$    620,000       1988-90
H.R.MUEDA                II    GLOBAL                ITALY                 US$    146,000       1987-88
H.R.MONTEPUEZ            II    GLOBAL                ITALY                 USS  3,000,000       1989-92
C.S.MOC. DA PRAIA        I     GLOBAL                CRIAA (FRA)           US$    146,000       1987-88
C.S.IBO                  I     GLOBAL                MSF (FRA)             USS    146,000       1987-88
C.S.MUEDUMBE             I     GLOBAL                CRIAA (FRA)           USS    146,000       1987-88
C.S.MACOMIA              I     GLOBAL                CRIAA (FRA)           US:    146,000       1987-88
C.S.QUISSANGA            I     GLOBAL                CRIAA (FRA)           USS    146,000       1987-88
C.S.PALMA                I     GLOBAL                CRIAA (FRA)           USS    146,000       1987-88
C.F.PEUBA                III   NEW CONST.            ITALY                 USS  3,000,000       1988-91
NAMPULA
H.C.NAMPULA              IV    REHABILITATION        SWEDEN                USS    460,000       1988-89
IV    REHABILITATION        GOM                  US$    100,000       1988
IV    EQUIPMENT             ARO (SWE)                  TBC            1989
IV    EQUIPMENT             OHI                        TBC            1989
IV    NEW CONST.            CICV                       TBC            1989
H.R.MONAPU               II    REHABILITATION        COMP. MONAPU          US4  TBC             1989-91
H.R.NACALA               II    GLOBAL                ITALY                 USS  6,600,000       1988-91
H.R.ANGOCHE              II    GLOBAL                MSF(NET),ICCO(NET)  USS    360,000         1988-89
C.S.NACALA               I     GLOBAL                AMA (AFR.MUS.)        US$    100,000       1988
I     GLOBAL                FMFA (FIN)           US$      70,000      1988
C.S.RAPALE               I     GLOBAL                CPAR (CAN)            US$    400,000       1988-89
ZAMBEZIA
H.P.QUELIMANE            III   GLOBAL                ITALY                 USS  C,000,000       1987-90
H.R.MOCULA               II    GLOBAL                MSF (FRA)             USS    760,000       1987-88
H.R.GURUE                II    GLOBAL                MSF (FRA)             US4  TBC             1989-91
C.S.NICCADALA            I     GLOBAL                ITALY                 US     260,000      1987-90
C.S.NHASSUNGE            I     GLOBAL                ITALY                 US     260,000      1987-90
C.S.MORRUMBALA           I     GLOBAL                SCF (UK)              STER   210,000      1988-89
C.S.MOPEIA               I     GLOBAL                SCF (UK)              STER   210,000       1988-89
C.S.PEBANE               I     GLOBAL                ACTION AID (UK)       STER TBC            1988-90
C.S.MAGANJA C.           I     GLOBAL                ACTION AID (UK)       STER TBC            1988-90
C.S.NANAGOA              I     GLOBAL                WAR ON WANT (UK)    STER TBC              1988-90
C.S.MILANJE              I     GLOBAL                SCF (USA)             USS  TBC            1988-90
C.S.LUABO                I     GLOBAL                SCF (USA)             USS  TBC            1988-90
C.S.GILE                 I     GLOBAL                ACTION AID (UK)       STER TBC            1988-90
C.S.ILE                  I     GLOBAL                UNICEF                USS  TBC            1988-90
C.S.NAMARROI             I     GLOBAL                UNICEF                USS  TBC            1988-90
TETE
H.P.TETE                 III   REHABILITATION        UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  USS    762,000        1988-90
III   NEW CLINICAL LAB.   SWITZERLAND,ITALY            TBC            1987-88
H.R.BONGO                II    REHABILITATION        UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  USS       30,000      1988-90
H.R.ULONGUE              II    REHABILITATION        UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  USS       30,000      1988-90
C.S.MUTARARA             I     REHABILITATION        UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  USt    238,000        1988-90
C.S.XITIMA               I     REHABILITATION        UNICEF-NETHERLANDS  US:    134,660        1988-90
I     REHABILITATION        ISCOS (ITA)          US:  TBC             1988-90
C.S.UOATIZE              I     REHABILITATION        ISCOS (ITA)           us:     46,000      1988-90
I     GLOBAL                ACNUR + MSF (BEL)   US:    200,000        1987-89
C.S.BOROMA               I     GLOBAL                ACNUR + MSF (BEL)   US:       13,000      1988-90
I     REHABILITATION        ISCOS (ITA)          US:  TBC             1987-89
C.S.UATUNDO              I     REHABILITATION        WLF (WORLD LUTH.FED.USS    135,000        1987-89
C.S.BENCA                I     REHABILITATION        ACNUR + MSF (BEL)   US:    100,000        1987-89
C.S.C.TETE               I     REHABILITATION        REED BARNA            US:  TBC            1987-89



MOZAMBIQUE                               ANNEX a             - 52 -
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT                   Page 2 of 3
_ ______________________ _
HEALTH CARE FACILITY REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(Status of Financing - November 16, 1988)
PROVINCE                LEVEL PROJECT              FINANCING           AMOUNT              PERIOD
LOCALITY                                           SOURCE
C.S.SONGO               I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  US1      24,000     1988-90
P.S.MUPA                I     REHABILITATION       ISCOS (ITA)         US$  TBC            1987-89
MANICA
H.P.CHIMOIO             III   REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  USt    728,000      1988-90
C.S.MANICA              I     GLOBAL               MHC (MOZ.HEALTH COM.USt    223,000      1987-88
P.S.AMATONGAS           I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHFRLANDS  US1      24,000     1988-90
P.S.MACATE              I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  US1      24,000     1988-90
P.S.INCHOPE             I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  US$      24,000     1988-90
P.S.ZONUE               I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  US1      24,000     1988-90
P.S.ZONUE-RIO           I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  US$      24,000     1988-90
P.S.MUCHA               I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  USS      24,000     1988-90
P.S.ZEMBE               I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF+NETHERLANDS  US1      24,000     1988-90
P.S.ROTANDA             I     REHABILITATION       UNICEF*NETHERLANDS  USS      24,000     198d-90
REDE - RIBAUE           I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           DM      428,600     1987-89
REDE - MOSSURIZE        I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           DM      428,500     1987-89
REDE - GONDOLA          I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           DM      420,600     1987-89
REDE - GURO             I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           OU      428,600     1987-89
REDE - SUSSUNDEGA       I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           DM      428,600     1987-89
REDE - MACHASE          I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           DM      *'28,600    1987-89
REDE - MANICA           I     GLOBAL               GTZ (GFR)           DM      428,600     1987-89
REDE - MANICA           I     GLOBAL               ITALY               LIRE TBC            1998-90
SOFALA
H.C.BEIRA               IV    REHABILITATION       GOM                 US$    100,000      1988
H.R.MARROMEU            II    GLOBAL               CAMP-ANAMUR (GDR)   USS    760,000      1988-89
H.R.NHAMATANDA          II    GLOBAL               HSF+MM+ASF+UNDRO    FF      142,000     1988
C.S.GORONGOSA           I     GLOBAL              ESF.MM+ASF+UNDRO    FF   TBC             1989-90
REDE PERIFERICA BEIRA  I      GLOBAL               ITALY               USS  TBC            1989-90
INHAMBANE
H.P.INHAMBANE           III   GLOBAL               ITALY               USS  6,000,000      1988-90
III   PROSTH. + PHYSIO    OHI                  ECU    222,000      1987-8S
H.R.VILANCULOS          II    PROSTH. + PHYSIO    OHI                  FF      880,000     1987-88
II    GLOBAL              MSF (BEL)            USS    490,000      1988-89
C.S.N. MAMBONE          I     GLOBAL               MSF (BEL)           US$    137,260      1988-89
C.S.INHASSORO           r     GLOBAL               MSF (BEL)           US$    137,250      1988-89
C.S.FUNHALORO           I     GLOBAL               MSF (BEL)           USS    137,260      1988-89
C.S.MABOTE              I     GLOBAL               MSF (BEL)           US$    137,260      1988-89
P.S.SITILA              I     GLOBAL               MSF (BEL)           USS      20,000     1988-89
P.S.MOCODUENE           I     GLOBAL               MSF (BEL)           USe      20,000     1988-89
H.R.CHICUQUE            II    GLOBAL               IMU (METHODIST)           TBC           198?-89
C.S.CAMBINE             I     GLOBAL               IMU (METHODIST)           T8C           1987-89
C.S.MORRUMBENE          I     GLOBAL               CAA (AUSTRALIA)     USS      15,900     1988
C.S.HOMOINE             I     REHABILITATION       CCM+WLF+CARITAS+UNICEF   TBC            1988-90
GAZA
H.R.CHOCUE              II    GLOBAL               CUAMM (ITA)               TBC           1987-90
H.R.CHIBUTO             II    GLOBAL               CUAMM (ITA)              TBC            1987-90
H.R.CHICUMBANE          II    GLOBAL               CUAMM (ITA)               TBC           1987-90
C.S.MACIA               I     INT. RUR. DEV.       SCF (USA)                 TBC
C.S.INHAMISSUA          I     INT. RUR. DEV.       NOVIB (NET)              TBC
C.S.CHONGUENE           I     INT. RUR. DEV.       NOVI  (NET)             TsC
C.S.INHACOTSE           I     INT. RUR. DEV.       NOVI8 (NET)               TBC
P.S. A.C.P.LUMUMBA      I     INT. RUR. DEV.       NOVIB (NET)              TBC
MAPUTO PROVINCE
C.S. BOANE              I     INT. RUR. DEV.       ITALY                    TBC            1898-90
C.S.NAMAACHA            r     INT. RUR. DEV.       ITALY                    TBC            1893-90
C.S.SABIE               I     INT. RUR. DEV.       ITALY               ECU    600,000      1898-90
P.S.MALOHELA            I     INT. RUR. DEV.       ITALY                    TBC            1898-90
P.S.PATEQUE             I     INT. RUR. DEV.       ITALY                     TBC           1898-90



MOZAMBIQUE                                ANNEX 3               - 53 -
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT                     Page 3 of 3
HEALTH CARE FACILITY REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(Status of Financing - November 15, 1988)
PROVINCE                LEVEL PROJECT               FINANCING            AMOUNT               PERIOD
LOCALITY                                            SOURCE
MAPUTO CITY
H.G.MAVALANE            II    REHABILITATION        ITALY
H.C.JOSE MACAMO         II    REHABILITATION        SPAIN
H.G.MACHAVA             II    REHABILITATION        NORWAY
H.Q.CHAMANCULO          II    REHABILITATION        DENMARK
C.S.MATOLA CARE         I      CONSTRUCTION         UNICEF + JNSP
C.S.POLANA C.           I      CONSTRUCTION         GOM
C.S.ALBASINI            I      CONSTRUCTION         UNICEF + JNSP
C.S.BOGUISSO            I      CONSTRUCTION         UNICEF + JNSP
C.S.MAHOTAS             I      CONSTRUCTION         COM
C.S.BAGAMOIO            I     REHABILITATION        GOM
GENERAL
LOGISTICS SUPPORT       I-IV  VEHICLES,GENERATORS SWEDEN                      TBC             1988-89
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   I-IV  PROGRAM SUPPORT        UK                   USS    600,000       1989-?
KEY
H.C. = Central Hospital.                            GOM = Government of Mozambique.
H.P. = Provincial Hospital.                         TBC = To be confirmed.
H.G. = General Hospital.
H.R. = Rural Hospital.
C.S. = Health Centre.
P.S. = Health Post.
Source: Ministry of Health



- 54 -
MOZAMBIQUE                  A       4
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT         Page 1 of 4
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUMMARY
Land is plentiful in Mozambique, with only about 7-8 percent of
total cultivable land currently under cultivation for annual crops and another
33 percent in use as either pasture or fallow. Soils are in general
reasonably fertile. Rainfall is adequate, though there is a drought risk in
the South, and there is abundant potential for irrigation, so far largely
unexploited. There has always been an imbalance in Mozambique's agricultural
resources and production between north and south. The south suffers from
generally poor soils, lower and more erratic rainfall, and higher population
densities.
In colonial times this imbalance was to some extent compensated
for by the south's higher level of economic development and longstanding flow
of migrant labor to South Africa; thus remittances from migrants and income
from cash employment in plantations or the modern sector could be used to buy
food in bad harvest years. However, this pattern has been disrupted since
Independence, following South Africa's cut in recruitment of Mozambican labor,
the reduction of employment opportunities in plantations and industry
(particularly Maputo port), and the cutting off of the normal flow of food
from food-surplus northern provinces to the food-deficit south.
Major food crops vary by region. In the north cassava is dominant
at lower altitudes, sorghum at medium altitudes and maize at higher altitudes.
In the center/west, the pattern is maize at high altitudes, sorghum and millet
at lower altitudes, with rice found in the coastal belt north and south of the
Zambezi delta. In the south, maize is the dominant crop, with mixtures of
ground nuts, beans and cassava, and rice and vegetables grown on irrigated
land. Cash cro,0s are cotton (more in the north than south), tea (in
Zambezia), sugar cane (irrigation schemes in the center and south), sisal (in
the north) and two tree crops, coconut and cashew, grown along the coastal
lowlands from north to south. Cattle are concentrated in the tsetse - free
far south, with sheep and goats distributed throughout the country.
The smallholder family sector is dominant in agricultural
production in Mozambique, responsible for more than 90 percent of the
cultivated land and most of both domestic food production and also major cash
crops such as cotton, cashews and coconut. It includes 2 to 2.5 million
families, with cultivated areas of between 1 and 1.5 hectares per family.
Shifting cultivation is the traditional mode of family production, with
fallows of four to six years. Manual labor is used, with hand tools, some
animal traction in tsetse free areas, and no purchased inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides or improved seeds. This family sector has been
largely neglected in terms of support services such as extension, research,
input supply, marketing and credit.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
Other types of agricultural producers include: private farmers
(who employ non-family paid labor); state farms, which are heavily mechanized
and use imported inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides intensively;
and the 320 cooperatives, which were formed originally from farms abandoned at
Independence and taken by the government. Of these three types, state farms
and cooperatives have not been successful and the areas cultivated have
declined in recent years. Private farms, on the other hand, feli drastically
in numbers at Independence, when most settlers left the country, but are now
thought to be on the increase again and to be making a significant
contribution to marketed food production.



Table 1
Estimtes of Total Agricultural Production
(valued at 1986 constant prices)    I/
1979/80
Volume of Production                          Cross Value of Production
" i                        Prices
Crops                   Family  Commercial         Total                   Family  Commercial       Total                   1990
(00 Tons)                                       (MIllions M.T.)                         (Mt/Kg)
Cassavs (dry)                2273.06                   2273.06                  6819.06         6.66    6919.06                      3.00
Sorghum                        371.71        6.17       871.98                  1115.18         6.61    1115.64                      8.06
Maize                          674.78       40.40       716.10                  2699.12       161.66    2880.72                      4.00
Rico                            62.14       42.58       104.72                   386.27       264.00      649.26                     6.26
Croundnutu                     132.51        0.46       132.97                  1326.10         4.60    1329.70                     10.00
Beans                          130.91        1.30       132.21                  1309.16        13.60    1322.10                     10.00
Pearl Millet                    61.69                    61.89                   156.07         6.0o      156.07                      3.o0
Flingr Millot                    9.88                     8.e9                    26.64         6.66       26.64                     3.06
Sweet Potato                    32.31                    82.31                   161.55         6.66      161.6c                     6.00
Sesame                           2.39                     2.38                    26.18         6.06       26.18                    11.W 6n
Cotton                          42.63       22.27        64.s0                   426.80       222.70      649.06                    10.0W
Sisal (leaves)                             2ss.62       298.02                     0.00       187.69      137.09                     0.46
Copra                           10.30       26.90        87.16                    56.66       147.40      204.65                     5.6e
Tea                                         96.15        90.15                     6.66       833.56      833.6e                     3.76
Citrus                                      87.34        87.84                     6.0e       184.42      184.42                     8.66
Potatoe                                      11.11       11.11                     6.06        77.77       77.77                     7.06
Sunflower                      7.87        8.93        I1.99                    6e.9s        83.41      106.36                     8.60
Tomato (induot.rial)                         6.38         6.88                     6.oo        25.62       25.52                     4.00
Vegetables                                   6.48         6.43                     6.66        51.44       51.44                     8.0"
Tobacco                                      1.40         1.40                     0.00        43.46       43.40                    81.66
Onions                                  s.52         6.52                     6.06        68.16      69.16                      8.06
Sugar                                126.96       126.96                     6.06      1697.62    1687.62                     12.61
Maturra                     6.66         6.o6         6.o6                     6.66         6.66       6.0                       8.e6
Cushewnjts                     87.60                    67.89                   488.66         6.06     439.66                      5.06
Total 2/                                                                 16916.66     8366.69   10316.99
Source: Production data for the commercial sector from Informacso Estatlstico 1986
and DEA. Mission estimates for food production in the family sector complementod with
data on marketed production from Informacao Estatisttca 1986
I/ Official producer prices 1480 and mission estimates
for sisal, tea, citrus and tobacco based on export parity price#.
2/ Using adjusted prices for exported products: cotton (11.0 MT/Kg),Copro (9.0) and Cashew (1.60)                                                         >
Gross volu, of production  totals 19349.74  million MT, of which 16954.38 produced by the family sector                                            LO 4
0



Table 2
Estimates of Total Agricultural Production
(valued at 1980 constant prices)     1/
1995/86
Volume of Production                        Cross Value of Production
Priees
Crops                  Family  Commercial       Total                   Family  Commercial      Total                  1980
(000 Tons)                                     (Millions M.T.)                       (Mt/Kg)
Cassava  (dry)              1971.49        4.16      197S.6S                 6914.47       12.48    5926.95                     3.00
Sorghum                      268.76        0.23      266.98                   800.26        6.69     800.94                     3.00
Maize                        437.64       21.96      459.60                  1750.16       87.84    1838.00                     4.00
Rice                          66.20       37.63       92.83                   342.24      233.31    656.56                      6.20
Croundnuts                   101.33        0.37       101.70                 J113.30        3.76    1617.66                    10.00
Beans                         94.88        2.04       96.92                   948.s6       20.40     969.20                    10.00
Pearl Millet                  31.77                   81.77                    96.31        6.66      95.31                     3.06
Finger Millet                  5.71                    6.71                    17.13        6.66      17.13                     3.60
Sweet Potato                  26.81        0.12       20.93                   104.065       6.6      104.86                     6.00
Sbasme                         1.94                     1.94                   21.84        6.06      21.34                    11.06
Cotton                         5.48        5.28        16.76                   54.86       52.80     107.60                    10.66
Sioal (leaves)                            22.40       22.40                     6.60       16.30      10.36                     0.46
Copra                         12.80        15.82      29.62                    70.40       87.61     157.41                     6.56
Tea                                        8.40         6.46                    6.66       23.08      23.68                     3.70
C true                                    26.1e       20.18                     6.66       72.65      72.65                     3.66
Potatoes                                   2.88         2.88                    6.66       2e.16      20.16                     7.60
Sunflower                    6.83        6.18 11.61                           7.6         1.53       8.69                     8.60
Tomato (industrial)                       23.68        23.66                    6.66       94.24      94.24                     4.00
Vegetables                     0.27       23.e6        23.97                    2.16      188.80     190.96                     8.06
Tobacco                                    6.38        0.36                     6.66       11.16      11.16                    31.00
Onions                    6.18        6.42        6.6e                     1.44       61.36      52.80                     8.00
Sugar                               23.62       23.62                     e.oe      296.49     296.49                    12.61
Nafurra                    2.22           a        2.22                     6.66        6.66       6.66                     3.00
Cashewnuts                   40.67                   40.67                   206.36        6.66     266.36                     5.00
Total      2/                                                         11349.92     1268.19   12618.11
Source: 'roductior. data fo- the cometcial sector t-os Irfornseso Estatistics 1986
and DEA. Mission estimatos for food product-on in the family *ector complemented with
dotu on wa)rpetec production *ro* informscec Estatist;ce 1986
1/ Officia) producer prices 1986 onc misior estimstes
for sisal ,tea,c;trus and tobacco based o- orpert parity prices.
2/ Using adpusted pr'ces for expo-tec Prooucts: cotton (11.0 UT/Kg;,Cop'a (5.0) and Cashew (15.6)
Cross value of proouctior  totais 131e;1>2 e1ll;or MT, of .hicb 1178*.  produced by tho fewily sector w                                             x
Io -



- 58 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
FOOD PRICES
FOOD RATION PRICES: MAPUTO AND BEIRA, APRIL 1988
(Meticais)
January 1987      August 1987      April 1, 1988
Maize                        27                49               112.5
Maize Flour                  37.5              77               145
Rice "Extra"                 40                63              271
Sugar                        50               230              264
Vegetable Oil               360               430              540
Soap                        145                --              429
Official Prices Outside the Ration System
Bread (for 250g) 'normal'  18                  --               29
Beans                       195               204              260
Source: Novo Sistema de Abastecimento (NSA)



- 59 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
FOOD PRICES IN MAPUTO CENTRAL MARKET
Prices in Mt per kilo
Tubers                      End January 1988              April 1988
Cassava                        150 - 250                   150 - 200
Sweet Potatoes                    125                        300
Potatoes                       475 - 500                  500 - 700
Other Vegetables
Tomatoes                       850 - 900
Onions                        900 - 2,000                    750
Greens/spinach (per bunch)        50
Sweet Peppers                  250 - 300
Aubergines                     100 - 500
Pumpkin                           150
Okra                              500
Cabbage                                                       700
Fruits
Sweet Bananas                  200 - 250                  300 - 400
Pineapple                         200                        500
Paw Paw                           100                        150
Watermelon                        400
Mangoes                           250
Oranges                           200                         150
Apples                           1,200
Fish
Dried Fish                     165 - 945 (varying types)
Cooked shrimp (per small tin)    100
Source: Maputo Central Market.



- 60- 
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 12
REPIALICA POPULAR DC M9AMUBIQUE
MINI8TIRIO DA SAIDE
GABINETE DO MINISTRO
827/CIS-5/GMS/88                                       16th, December 1988
TO:
MR. E.V.K. Jaycox
Vice-Presidente/Africa Region
WORLD BANK
1818 H St., NW,
WASHINGTON, DC
U.S.A.
Subject: MOZAMBIQUE - HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT-
LETTER PROSPECTS FOR DEVELOPING HEALTH CARE.
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
1. On behalf of the Government delegation that I had the pleasure to   head
for the Negotiations in Washington, from October 30 untill November   the
4th, I would like to congratulate either your staff, for the open ess
and kind attention that were paid to us.
2. In order to be included in the staff Appraisal Report (SAR) our policy
paper discussed during the laste negotiations that were held in
Washington and now translated in english, we submit the final version of
the LETTER OF PROSPECTS FOR DEVELOPING HEALTH CARE.
Yours Sincerely,
.1~-
N. greas Campos
Vice-Minister of Health
C/C. Governor of the Banco Mozambique
C/C. John Innes - MOZAMBIQUE HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT .-AF6PH



- 61 -                     ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 12
REP160LICA POPULAR OS M"AMQ.QUZ
MINIST,RIO DA SA'UDE
PROSPECTS FOR DEVELOPING HEALTH CARE
The Current Position
1.   In  general,  Mozambique's epidemiolocgical profile and the health
indicators  for its population are tropical of a developping  country.
Morbidity and mortality data,  although incomplete,  indicate that the
main  causes  of  disease and death -- as is frequently  the  case  in
Africa -- are infectious. contagious and parasitic diseases. primarily
malaria, acutte gastrointestinal and respiratory infections. measles.
tuberculosis  and intestinal and vesical parasitoses.  These  diseases
are  combined with quantitative and qualitative dietary  inadequacies,
inadeqtate   hygiene  and  e-nvironment  sanitation.   drinking   water
shortages,  and  a  low  star-idard  of  socioeconomic  and 'educational
development. There are also prcoblEms of obstetric and perinatal care,
resulting  in part from the inadequlate provision of health  care,  and
these  are  partially res,lponsible for the hich rates of  matErnal  znd
irifant mortality. The tiliteracy r-ate is still extremely high (7%/).
In addition, hea]th problen,s are caused by the direct and indirect
action of armed bardits, and ranqe from the physical injUries suffered
by the civiliarn populati.on to t,he mental traLuma iriflicted on children.
2.    Averacie  life  expectancy (calculated usinq data from  the  198C
census)  is from 42 to 45 years.  and t,his plates MozamtbiqLte amonu ther-
poorest  countries in SUIb-Saharan Africa.  The infant  mortality  rate
(prnjected  using  den,ographic method- and data from the I 986  censusL)
was 159 per 1,00(  live births.  However, becaLuSe of t,he lack of healtn
care and the dietary problems reSLlting from the drouCIht.  thE- war  tc
destabilize  the countryv  aric the qener-al di-clire in tthe standard  of
living,  LJt4ICEF  has calculated that the rate h s increased in 1985 to
oC:) per 1 owoC live hirtis.
LHPF.0(0) 1- FAG - 1



-62-                       ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 12
In  1987,  studies  condLucted in the areas affected  showed  that  th?e
averacle cLtrrent malnLutrition rate among children (i.e. the percentagce
of ch-ldren with an inadequate weight/height ratio) was 6.7%. the
maXlmttm rat.e being 13%.
The  studies also showed that 47' of children under five are not  tall
enough for their age (the r-esult of prolonged malnutrition).
Health Policies and Strategies
S.  The  concept of primary health care which forms the basis for our
entire  public health policy is the outcome of the  country's  history
and  Its reSLltinc  politICal orientation.  In the People's Repoblac of
MozarnbiqUe,  the basic policy approach is that the Community's  health
depends on m&ny factors, among which medicine is not always the most
important.
4. On Jutly 24, 1975, medicine was nationalized and all forms of
private practice were forbidden. As a result of this nationalization,
the  government too; responsibility for providing health care for  the
whole popLtlation.  and thus took the first step toward eliminating the
discriminatory system operated in the colonial period.
In November 1977.  the Socialized MLedicine Law was  passed.  providinq
free services in the areas of preventive medicine,  hospital impataent
care,   suplementary   diagnostic  examinations.   and  certain  b5sic
medications.
Distribution and Utilization of Health Units
I. The health care system is divided into four levels, the basic ore
being p_imar_y health care. This is the form most immediately available
to the community, and its function is to provide remedies for the vast
majority of health problems. This care is provided by health posts and
centers, the nUrrber of which considerably increased after independence
was achieved.
Betwteen  1975 and 1986,  the number of health posts (postos de  s.aLde)
increased fr-om '-6 to 1,115, and the number of health centers (centros
de  saude)  increased from 1(X)C) to 211,  most of these units  being  r-,
rural areas.  As a result.  the rate of such primary health facilities
went  from one for every 2_,3t)t inhabitants in 1985 to one for  10:>,670
inhabitants  in 1986.  Unr-fortunately,  armed bandits have destroyed or
damaged a considerable portion of the primary health 'tre network.  By
LHFP.OC)u-- PAG - 2



- 63-                       ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 12
the  end  of 1987.  about 80:} of these facilities  (90C%/  bc-i ncn  t I f? -1!.
posts)  had  been  damaged,  and some had  been  destroyed.  Estinatt'-
indicate that the direct cost of destruction. damage and looting of
these facilities totals about US$25 million.
6.    The  "reference system" consists of hospitals,  of which 26  are
rural  and  general  (the  latter being in  urban  areas),  seven  are
provincial,  and three are central (Maputo,  Beira and NampuIla). There
are also two psychiatric hospitals.   The MapLtto Central Hospital  has
nationwide status,  and provides uiniversity-level training. The number
of  hospital beds was 10, 155 when independence was achieved   but  had
risen  to 12.27C by 1986.  and the number maternity beds had increased
by  7.5%. Nevertheless, in 1986 the number of beds per 1, 00C inhabitants
was only o.87.
7.    In 1986, aboUt 6 million consultations too. place, an average of
slightly less than one half of consultation per person per year. This
was a 15% decline fromr, the 1985 figure,  doubtless becauSe of security
problems.  On  average,  there were four times mor-e consultations  per
year  in Lurban areas than in rutral areas.  About 95% of  all  external
consultations took place at the first and second levels of the system.
8. From the beginning, the Ministry of Health's action programs had
the  following  ob jectives:  (i) to  prioritize  promotive  preventive
medicine; (ii) to promote the welfare of rrmothers and children; (iii)
to extend the primary health care network,  especially in rural areas:
(iv)  to  develop hospitals;  (v) to train personnel for  the  various
levels  of  the health service;  (vi) to control the  major  epidemics
(malaria, tuberculosis and leprosy) and the otheer diseases forming the
country  's  epidemiological profile.  and to extend the scope of  the
various  health programs,  e.g.  the Expanded Program of  ImmUnization
(PAV),  the  Frogram of Maternal and Child Health and Family  Flanning
(SVI/PFF))
9.    Some  sLIccess has been achieved in the attempts to increase  the
efficiency  of  the  SM I/FF  and  FhV  programs,  in  which  community
involvement  is  esserntial.  In 1987.  there was an  increase  in  the
percentage  of children up to one year old vaccinated with the six PhiV
vaccines, compared with a declining trend in the previoUs yc ars.
In 1987.  between 47.% and 64% of children were vaccinated. As is to be
expected,  percentages were higher in c-ities and urban areas (frorrm 70l%
to 907%)
Frenatal and birthing care--together with the monitoring of the growtth
of children Up to four years of age--has generally maintained its
L HF. ()-)l-- PIG - 7



- 64 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 12
percentage coverage of the target grCUp,  in spite of the reducttion in
the health network and general instabi lity.  CUFrrently,  somewjhat less
than  half of pregnant women receive prenatal attention.  and only one
third  give  birth in health Ltriits.  Family plar-ining  activities  have
considerably increased, mainly in urban areas.
Personnel Training and Distribution
1C0.   The  numbers of health personnel have gradutally increased  since
independence. in spite of a falloff in certain categories in recent
years.  The number of doctors incre-ased from 171 in 15975 to a  ma X1muM
of 385 in 19823.  the 1986 figure being 3-022.  In 1988, the launching of
the  district  rehabilitation   program.  wjith the assistance  of  rion-
governmental organizations,  aqain increased th-,e nUmber of doctors  in
rural  areas,  althoutgh concefntrationis are still lower-r in rukral  areas
because of the lack of Security.
From 1980 to 1986,  nursing personnel increased by 25.%. and the number
of SMI midwives and nurses doUbled. Trends in the nutmbers of midwives,
nurses,  medical technicians and health work:ers have favored the rutral
areas,  and  differenceE  amongc provinces have generally  become  less
marked.
11.   The  Ministry  of  Health has aivven high priority  to  training,
specialized  training  and  retraining.   T'he  closing  down  of   the
"peripheric" health network,   together with budgetary constraints have
broucght  cuts  in  personnel tr-aining.  StLtdents  utndergoing  training
(excluding  doctors),  retraining and specialized  training   increased
from 276 in 1976 to 1.001 in 185. and fell to 612 in 1987. Ctrr-ently,
the  program   for  trai,inirig tthe-  AF'Es  (Elen,heritary-Level  Mcl t lpitr pu(e
Health Workers) is being reviewed,  there being fewer than 2C) trainees
per year.
AFE  wori:ers are inhabitants of rural areac selected and maintained by
the community so that they can engage in health promotion and  disease
prevention  activities,   while  treating  some  of  the  more  common
diseases.
Financing and ResoUrce Allocation
12.      In Mo7ambiqUe,  all hr-alth care fc-r the- civilian  population  is
the  responsibility  of the Mini-try of Health,  and thte  e-ercise  r.f
private  medicine is not permitted.  The hr7a]th AuLthorities are  still
little  ac:qUainted  with  the activities of  traditional  healers  and
LHF'. C)(:)1- FANG - 4



-65 -                      ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 12
midwives, although the latter do participate in the SMI/PF Program in
several parts of the country.
13.     Since independence, the government's serious commitment to the
development of the social sector has been reflected in its increasing
allocations to health services in the current budget. These have risen
from a 4.6% of the General State Budget in 1975 to 11.9% in 1981 (i.e.
2.4% of GNP).
Unfortunately,   the  economic  and  financial  crisis,   the  war  of
aggression  and  the drought have forced a gradual  reduction  in  the
allocation  to  5%  in  1987  (about 1.4%  of  the  GNP).  Per  capita
expenditure on health simultaneously increased from US$1.70x in 1975 to
a  maximum  of  US$5.60 in 19862   and then fell to  US$0.99  in  1987.
Investiment has followed a similar pattern, with a decline from 1985.
14.    In recent years, donors have made a significant contribuition to
the import of medications, vaccines, basic medical and surgical
materials  and equipment,  etc.,  thus helping offset the shortfall in
the goverhment budget.  Although an accurate assessment cannot yet  be
made,  less  revenuie  than expected has been produced by the  measures
adopted in 1987 under the Economic Rehabilitation Program, which
sought to m,ale certain aspects of medical attention no longer entirely
free of charge, reduce expenditures on health, increase revenue, and
impose discipline on the access to health care, particularly in the
cities.
It is planned to study the system established for collecting revenue,
with a view to refining it, or, if necessary, changing it.
15.     In  general.  the  application  of  resources  from  both  the
investment  budget  and  the current budget  reflects  the  policy  of
prioritizing primary health care.
Instead of large hospitals,  simple health units have been built (i.e.
health posts and centers), so that the coverage provided under primary
health care programs can be rapidly increased, the purpose being to
solve  many  health  problems at local  level.  Studies  conducted  in
1986/87 indicate that 38% of operating costs (i.e. salaries and
recurrent expenditures) were incurred at primary level. If the costs
of rural and general hospitals are included (i.e. the secondary
level), the figure is abOut 60%.
The Future Development of Health Services
16.     Unfortunately,  the country s achievements in the provision of
LHF.0)C)1- FAG - 5



-66 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 12
health  services  and  their  future  progress  have  been   seriously
jeopardized by two ftndamental problems.  Obviously,  the first is the
climate of instability and insecurity prevailing in certain areas of
the country, and the second is related to the short, medium and long-
term financing of Mozambiqute's health services.
The intention is to continue to work--over the long term--for "Health
for All" while making the necessary adaptations over the next five
years (i.e.  the medium term),  dLuring which no significant change  is
expected in the current economic environment.
17.    The established policies and priorities will be maintained. The
SNS   (National   Health  Service)  will  remain  unified  under   the
supervision of the Ministry of Health.  The prim,ary level will  remain
the  "Universal  Door"  to  the system   in spite  of  differences  in
coverage and reference.  This 1S the only way to achieve equity in the
access to the various levels of health care.
Alternative Approaches and Strategies
18.      In the next three or five years, all resources will have to be
chanieled toward the reconstruction and reestablishment of the health
Lunits that have been destroyed or damaged, solely in order to regain
the degree of coverage provided between 1982 and 1984.
Lower-cost alternative facilities have already been identified, in the
form of tents and prefabricated structures. These will enable a prompt
response to be: made to the needs of the displaced communities, and may
be Lused to replace the hr-alth Units have been destroyed.
19.     Specific programs will be prepared for reducing morbidity  and
mortality among the displaced persons, who totaled about I million by
the early months of this year. The latter are Mozambicans who have
been obliged to escape from their homes, mainly in rLtral areas,
because of terrorist acts by the armed bandits.  and who have lost all
their possessions.
2l0.      Freventive  proQrams  will  receive  priority,  and  stricter
efficiency and impact criteria will be applied.
One e :ample will be the SMI. with the degrees of inportance attributed
to  its  various  components  and  the age  groups  targeted  for  the
reduction of infant and material mortality, and programs for the
ccrntrol  of endemic diseases (e.g.  leprosy),  wJhich must focus on the
areas where these are most prevalent.
LHF.001- PAG - 6



-67 -                      ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 12
Special attention will continute to be given to medical services and
rehabilitation for displaced commuinities and the victims of the armed
bandits.  No  financial resotrces will be available for latnching  new
healh programs. except for the expansion of the workers' health
program partially financed by enterprises.
-1.    In light of these priorities, the basic services to be provided
by the primary health units m_-tst also be reviewed.
Moreover,   the   continuation  of  acts  intended  to   bring   about
destabilization  makes it necessary to give priority to the  following
activities:  (i)  increasing the hospitals' surgery,  traumatology and
physical therapy capabilities;  (ii) rehabilitating the disabled, both
physically  and  socially;  (iii)  ensutring the  sLurvival  and  social
reintegration of displaced persons.
Productive Use of Resoutrces
22.    EBecause "peripheral" health units have been closed down, there
is now an accumulation of personnel in district and provincial
centers.  This staff's productivity is low, and the problem is further
aggravated by a lack of eqtipment.  Consequently,  personnel  training
will  emphasize  the  need  to offset losses  resulting  from  various
factors (e.a. death, flight or expulsion) and provide retraining and
trainirig  for  existing  personnel,    including  instructors.  Greater
attention will be paid to improving qLuality and to filling vacancies
at the various levels of the profession by providing upgrading
Coutrses. Systematic training in the organization and management of
resources must be provided for personnel at central, provincial and
district level.
97..   Simu(ltaneoUsly, an inventory will be made of trained personnel,
including  identification of those currently working,  their places of
origin and type of work-.  This study will permit more realistic;  plans
to be prepared to meet future needs.
The  utse  of  "folk  resources"  such as  APEs  and  practitioners  of
traditional  midwifery  and  medicine will be  increased  as  much  as
possible.
24.     Efforts  will be made to reduce the dropout rate from training
by means of a detailed stutdy of the cautses. The Institutes of Health
Sciences will be rehabilitated, especially as regards accommodation
and catering (i.e. rooms. kitchensq laLundries. dining rooms, etc.).
LHF . 0o1- PAG - 7



- k>8 -                  ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 12
25.      The  supply  and  distribution  of  basic  consumables  (i.e.
medications, reagents, and medical and surgical materials) wjill be in
line   with  the  principle  of  giving  absolute  priority  to  those
classified as essential/vital. Similarly, priority must be given in
the  replacement and maintenance of hospital equipment to those  items
that are fundamental for the eXecUtion of the hospitals' basic
functions.
Investment in Hospitals
26.     Studies are in progress for deteri-.-ing the rehabilitation and
upgrading needs of the hospital system.
The  various  forms of investment possible would affect operating  and
maintenance costs in different ways.
The objectives are to increase the efficiency and improve the quality
of  services without a large increase in recurrent e:penditures in the
short term.  However,  it should be noted that. in view of the current
poor condition of physical infrastructure and equipment, investment is
likely to become increasingly burdernsome over time.
227.    The  rural and general hospitals are essential as  an  initial
level of reference for primary health care. especially as regards
emergency surgery,  obstetrics and traulmatology,  and must  be properly
rehabilited and maintained.
28.     Investment in the provincial hospitals.  including the central
hospitals in Nampula and Beira, must foc:us on the following: (i)
rehabilitating  basic  infrastructure;  (il)  ensuring  the  efficient
operation of the four basic specialties (i.e. internal medicine.
pediatrics,  obstetrics  and  surgery)!  together  with  traulmatology,
physical  therapy,   intensive  care  and  emergency  services-  (ill)
improving  the  quality of the auL.iliary support for  basic  diagnosis
(i.e. radiography and clinical laboratories) and blood banks; (IV)
improving support services (kitchens, laundries, etc.).
29.      Investment  in  the  Maputo  Central  Hospital  --which   has
nationwide status and is a teaching hospital-- will be intended tco
partially r-educe the flow of patients to other countries.
From  2C) to 300 patients per year leave the country through  official
channels.  and  this  results  in  an averaqe  annual  ex:penditure  of
US$ 50.0(:)(:).  In  addition  to financial  criteria,  the  phychological
Impact  (i.e.  the  citizens' sense of security) must  be  taken  into
accoLunt.
LHF .(:)C)1- r NG - 8



- 69 -                     ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 12
In order to ensure the qLtality of teaching,  particularly at  graduate
level, it will be necessar-y to invest in certain specalities that are
not absolutely indispensable for the provision of medical care (e.g.
endocrinology,  computerized support resources.  pathological anatomy,
cardiology, pneumology. nephrology, etc.).
Budaetarv Prospects
30.    Detailed investment costs are being prepared with regard to the
rehabilitation of health training units and the storage of medications
and other products. It is also planned to invest in increasing the
maintenance and repair capability for hospital and other equipment.
In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank.
studies have already begutn as part of the Fublic Expenditure Review to
calculate additional needs under the current budget resulting from the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the health system.
?2.    The  government'  s  increase in the health budget  (albeit  a
comparatively moderate amoLint) will contribute to the sector' 's
financial needs.
At this jutncture, the contribution of the international community is
significant,  and will continue at the same level for next five years,
at  'east.  It  will be used mainly for imports such  as  medications,
reagents  and  chemicals,   radiographic  plates,  basic  medical  and
surgical  materials and equipment,  hospital equ4ip.rent,  vehicles  and
motorized bicycles, etc., as identified in clearly defined projects to
be  finar-nced through bilateral arrangements or by the UN  Agencies  or
non-governimental    organizations.    ReligioLus    and    Humanitarian
Organi 2ations.
Measures   are  currently  being  adopted  to  increase  control  over
donations   and  to  utilize  materials  more   rationally.   avoldind
dispersion and dLuphication.  The attention of donors has been drawn to
the need to address to the real problems of country and reduce the
excessive bUrden of administrative procedures,  since these up much of
the time of the Ministry's higher-level staff.
37;.    The  other source of financing consists of fees for  services,
all of which can be used by the health units that collect  them,  with
the  exception of revenue from medications.  As already indicated,  in
the first year of operations revenue was small,  amounting to only  3%
of the cutrrent bUdget for 1987,  The results from 1988 and the stLldies
to  be carried oLtt with World Bank support will provide an opportutnity
LHF'. 1- FAG - 9



-70 -                       ANNEX i
page 11 of I2
for examining the possibility of expanding the system and changing it
so as to increase its efficiency and collect more rovwnwm wit out.
however, exacerbating thie position of the most underprivil>god groups
in the population.
34.     Finally,  the Ministry of Health will pay particular AttrntlOn
to the necessary improvements for increasing efficiency and taking
steps to reduce waste while increasing the useful litf of the
resources suplied to the various sectors. The training currently
provided for supervisory staff in the planning, organization and
management of resources and in hospital administration will certainly
contribute to the achievemenit of these objectives.  The coot reduction
resulting from these measures, even if not sigrnificant, will also be
of importance because of its educational value.
Conclusions
35.     The  distortions  due  to  security  situation  have  xomewhat
disrupted  the  progress made by the Ministry just after  indepedendc
towards   improving  conditions  in  rural  areas  and  reducing   the
differences among the provinces. The health authorities in Mozambique
will always seek to bring about the gradual disappearance of th@es
disequilibriums and a return to the proper balance between the various
levels of health care provision, between urban and rural areFs, and
between curative and preventive o.edicine.
36.     All  the  above  proposals are complex and  will  requiri   the
already  overburdened health authorities to make additional efforts to
find  successful solutions for the health problems of  thea Mzambicar,
people.
Such  solutions will be possible cnly if a number of factors  favorina
economic, social and cultural development can be o5tablistaed. In
particular,  peace  is fundamental for MozAmbique's wconomic prourpeg,
and without economic development it will not be posoible to improve
the standard of living of the MozAmbican people.
Nevertheless,  while  this agression and terrorism continyes-,  riouA5
LW,01 vFps='A  = Vi,f



-71 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 12
efforts will still be made under the Economic Rehabilitation Program
to develop the country's economy.
Maputo, August 1988
On behalf of the Ministry of Health
Dr. Jose Maria Igrejas Campos
(Vice-Minister of Health)
LHP.(:)1:)l- FAG - 11



HEALTH AND NUTRITTQN PR91ECT
TWE S1RUCUIRE OF THE  INISTRZ  OF COHVERCE
|MINISTER
OF HEALTH
INISTER VCE                                                VICE
SECETRIATJ               MINISTER                      MINISTER
DIRECTORATE      DIRECTORATE      DIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE        SNSP             DEPARTMENT
OF INTERNAL      OF INTERNAT.    OF EXTERNAL           OF CUSTOMS                          OF HUMAN   I  DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE         RELATIONS        COMM. OPERAT.                                            RESOURCES  |  FOOD SECURITY
DIRECTORATE  |FOR DETAILS SEE  I
OF ECONOMICS                                                             'PAGE 2 OF ANNEX 7,         -
AND COMMERCE                                                              - - - - - - - - -
DEPARTMENT
OF ADMINIST.
AND FINANCE                                                                                         DEPARTMENT OF
SHIPPING & TRANSP.
DELEGATE FOR              DELEOATE FOR
NORTHERN REGION            CENTRALRCO
Sourc: ministry of Comerce
rD Z
z
0



MINISTRY OF COMMERCE
DEPARTHENT OF FOOD SECURITY
DIRECTRE       _  SECRETARIAT
PROJECXLOGISTIC                  INFORMATION             COUNTERPART          FOOD
COORDIN R  |C  PLANNING   ll                  FUNDS      I     RESERVE
Administrative
Officer                                                                          _.1
Secretary            PROVINCIAL           DATA                  PROJECT          PLANNING
Messenger            COORDINATION       PROCESSING              APPRAISAL        OF FOOD
RESERVE
10 PROVINCIAL      PLANNING                 PROJECT
COORDINATORS                              SUPERVISION       FINANCIAL
SUPERVISION                              MANAGEMENT
FINANCIAL
PUBLICATIONS            MANAGEMENT
Source: Ministry of Commerce
O>
" -4
ul



- 74 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Ministry of Commerce (MOC) - Implementation Arrangements
(a)  Project Coordinator/MOC
The Director of the Food Security Department of MOC, through the
designated Project Coordinator/MOC, shall be responsible for the
overall coordination, management and supervision of the
implementation of the food security/nutrition components of the
project.
(b)  the Project Coordinator/MOC shall be responsible, inter alia,
for the following:
(i) day-to-day management of project activities;
(ii) participating in the selection and employment of staff and
consultants necessary for project implementation;
(iii) interfacing with the appropriate government agencies,
enterprises, donors and the Association;
(iv)  preparation of all project evaluation and progress reports;
and
(v) meeting regularly with MOC staff involved with project
implementation.
(c) In discharging his/her responsibilities the project
Coordinator/MOC shall be assisted by:
(i) Administrative Officer, who shall be responsible, inter
alia, for: keeping financial accounts for MOC project
components, preparing withdrawal credit applications for
signature of the authorized representative of Bank of
Mozambique and reconciling Special Account bank statements
in accordance with the Association's disbursement
instructions; liaising with the appropriate Department in
the Ministry of Finance; preparing expenditure accounts,
quarterly reports, annual financial plans and submission of
accounts for audit; providing other necessary financial
assistance; reviewing procurement arrangements for project
implementation; packaging procurement lots for: vehicles,
equipment and furnishing; reviewing bids for international
and local competitive bidding, and international or local
shopping; reviewing certification of contract awards;
maintaining quarterly updating of unit costs of materials,
supplies and equipment; liaising with the enterprise and
retailers in Maputo and Beira; maintaining weekly
procurement schedules;
(ii) Secretary; and
(iii) Messenger.



75                            ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
INVESTMENT PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
(GABINETE DE COORDENACAO DE PROJECTOS DE INVESTIMENT - GACOPI)
MINISTER
OF HEALTH
I
PLANNING
DEPARTMENT
INVESTMENT
PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION
UNIT (GACOPI)I/
ST
STE ERING 
COMMITTEE
PROGRAM_ 
COORDINATOR            SECRETARIAT
2 secretaries
1 computer operator
1 messenger
1 driver
TECHNICAL
ADMINISTRATIVE
DEPARTMENT
1 procurement officer
1 financial controller
1 senior architect
2 junior architects
1 civil engineer
1 field engineer
2 draftsmen
1 quantity surveyor
1/   GACOPI will be headed Director of Planning (Project Director) of the
Planning Department.
Source: Ministry of Health.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 8
Page . of 4
Ministry of Health (MOH) - Implementation Arrangements
(a)  Project Director/MOH
The Director of Planning, in his/her capacity of project
Director for the MOH, shall be responsible for the overall
coordination, management and supervision of the implementation
of the health components of the project.
(b) Steering Committee
(i)  In discharging his/her responsibilities, the Project
Director shall seek the advice of a steering committee
composed of the Heads of all technical departments and
units of MOH responsible for project implementation
including the following: Department of Administration and
Finance, Directorate of National Health, Directorate of
Planning, Maintenance Section, Pharmaceuticals and Medical
Supplies Section and Directorate of Human Resources.
(ii) The Steering Committee shall meet at least once every two
months under the chairmanship of the Director of Planning.
(iii) The Steering Committee shall be responsible in its advisory
capacity, inter alia, for monitoring overall project
progress, reviewing plans and budgets for all project
health components and resolving any issues affecting the
achievement of project objectives and implementation.
(c) Investment Program Implementation Unit (GACOPI)
(i)  GACOPI, established within the Directorate of Planning of
MOH, shall be responsible for planning, managing and
supervising MOH's investment programs, particularly the
implementation of the reconstruction program referred to in
Part B of the project.
(ii) GACOPI shall be headed by the Director of Planning of MOH.
(iii) GACOPI shall have the following qualified and experienced
senior, technical and support staff:
-  Senior Staff:
Program Coordinator shall be responsible, inter alia,
for:  coord'nating all project act.vities within MOH
and with the Ministry of Finance, Bank of Mozambique
and other Government agencies, official entities and
the Association; ensuring appropriate compilation and
maintenance of project documentation or files; overall
supervision and day-to-day management of GACOPI and
its staff; supervision of project financial aspects
and accounts and preparation of evaluation and



- 77                ~               ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
progress reports as well as all action plans related
to the project; preparing records and accounts
necessary for project evaluation and audits, with the
support of the technical assistance deemed necessary
to do so; supervision of the overall implementation of
the project, including procurement arrangements; and
meeting regularly with GACOPI's technical
administrative staff and reporting to the Project
Director, MOH and Stearing Committee.
Technical Administrative Department:
Procurement Officer, who shall be responsible, inter
alia, for carrying out procurement arrangements
necessary for the acquisition of equipment, supplies
and services including the preparation of tender
documents, reviewing bids and contract awards in
accordance with Bank's Guidelines and other parallel
cofinancing agencies.
Financial Controller, who shall be responsible, inter
alia, for: keeping financial accounts for all project
components; preparing withdrawal credit applications
for signature of the authorized representative of Bank
of Mozambique and reconciling Special Account bank
statements in accordance with the Association's
disbursement instructions; liaising with the
appropriate Department in the Ministry of Finance;
preparing expenditure accounts, quarterly reports,
annual financial plans and submission of accounts for
audit. He/she shall also, provide other necessary
financial assistance.
Senior Architect, who shall be responsible, inter
alia, for: selecting and awarding consultants'
contracts; evaluating and following up of design
activities; supervising field engineering staff and
performance control; outlining quality standards to be
achieved in design, construction and equipment supply;
evaluating rehabilitation needs and corresponding
specifications; establishing basic programs to be
followed by consultants; and procurement advisory
activities.
The Senior Architect shall be assisted in discharging
his/her responsibilities by: two Junior Architects,
who shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
implementing the rehabilitation programs for the
health facilities; ensurilAg the correct interpretation
of program designs and architectural and civil
engineering executive prcjects; programming and
drafting alterations to the existing drawings and
plans of the health facilities under rehabilitation,



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
in order to ensure appropriate operational and
functional aspects of the hospital services monitoring
the execution of the projects implemented by other
consultants contracted under the project; physical
planning for the health facilities; participating in
the evaluation of projects and designs submitted by
other consultants; participating in the supervision of
the designs under construction; and participating in
the evaluation of tender documents;
Civil Engineer, who shall be responsible, inter alia,
for: assisting the Project Coordinator in supervising
the implementation of the construction and technical
aspects of the project; participating in the selection
and appointment of engineering, planning and
architectural consultants; approving designs and other
technical studies; supervising all tendering and
contractual procedures, payment certifications and
acceptance of all civil works and equipment; preparing
and implementing systems of control and critical path;
monitoring the physical progress of each component of
the Project; and establishing an appropriate
communication network with the field stiff; and
-  Field Engineer under the supervision of the Civil
Engineer and Senior Architect shall be responsible,
inter alia, for: ensuring that site preparation works
have been carried out; participating in the day-to-day
implementation works; and participating in the
i.3calization of works.
- Draftsmen (2) under the supervision of the architects,
shall be responsible, inter alia, for: drafting
engineering and architectural plans; drafting the
alterations introduced in the original designs and
plans; calculating the amounts of materials, works and
other inputs for the construction; and
- Quantity Surveyor under the supervision of the Civil
Engineer shall be responsible, inter alia, for
assisting the other technical members of the team in
working on the sites taking the necessary measurements
and preparing draft designs for the project drafting;
calculating the volume and amounts of materials, works
and services required for the execution of the
designed plans; and evaluating the amount of work and
materials used in the construction.
- Secretariat
Secretaries (2)
Computer operator
Messenger
Driver.



ANNEX 9
- 79 -                         Page 1 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HOSPITAL EFFICIENCY MEASURES AND
PHASING OF HEALTH FACILITIES REHABILITATION
One of the key objectives of the Ministry of Health (MOH) in
rehabilitating health facilities is to improve their efficiency. Whilst
some efficiency gains will only be attained following rehabilitation, and
others would require the implementation of improved management practices
and technology to be introduced in the Hospital Efficiency sub-component,
there are some efficiency measures which can be implemented immediately.
The Government and IDA have therefore agreed that the release of funds for
the second phase of health facility rehabilitation (60 percent of the total
funds for the rehabilitation of the three central hospitals in Maputo,
Beira and Nampula) would be contingent upon the prior attainment of
specified monitorable efficiency gains outlined below:
(a) average length of stay (ALOS) for patients in selected services
of the hospitals; and
(b) the number of meals served per patient day.
1.  ALOS
(a) ALOS will be measured in accordance with the existing admission
and discharge procedures currently in use in Mozambique.
(b) The current values of ALOS (1987 averages) for the three main
hospitals and targets to be achieved by the average values for
the six-month periods prior to and including December 1988, June
1989 and December 1989 are given by category of medicine and
hospital in Tables 1, 2 and 3 below.
(c) Substantial attainment of the ALOS proposed for December 1989
will be the condition of disbursement for the release of the
funds for the second phase of the Rehabilitation of the Health
Facilities subcomponent. Actual attainment could occur before
or after December 1989 in accordance with tho hospitals efforts
to promote the efficiency gains. 1/
1/ In reviewing the attainment of the ALOS objectives (Tables 1, 2 and 3)
both MOH and IDA would take into consideration any improvements in the
referral system which could cause an apparent increase in ALOS in the
medical categories of obstetrics, gynecology and general surgery -- given
that in a functioning referral system a higher proportion of admissions
would be complicated cases, probably requiring longer hospital stay.
Indicators of this phenomenon would be: i) declining numbers of simple
cases in these categories admitted to the Central Hospitals; and ii)
increasing numbers of simple cases in these same medical categories
admitted at the primary and sezondary levels.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
(d) Review of the attainment of these objectives would be undertaken
jointly by the MOH and IDA. IDA would confirm in writing that
the efficiency gains had been met and authorize the release of
funds for the second phase of the rehabilitation of facilities.
Table 1: ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ALOS FOR MAPUTO HOSPITAL
PROPOSED ALOS
No. of    ALOS             Dec.       June       Dec.
Medicine Category         Beds       1987            1988       1989       1989
Internal Medicine           80        7.9               7.1      6.9         6.8
Chest                       44        9.5               8.0       7.7         7.5
Gastroenterology            48        13.8             13.0      12.8       12.5
Neurology                   42       20.7              19.6      18.6        17.6
Cardiology                  31        15.0             14.8      14.3       14.0
Dermatology                 33       22.5              19.5      18.5       17.5
Psychiatry                  24       12.1              10.5      9.0         7.5
Oncology                    30       44.7              37.0     36.5        35.0
Surgery I                   48       16.2              15.1     15.0        14.5
Surgery II                  18       16.4              12.8     12.5        12.0
Surgery III                 48       11.6              10.5     10.0        10.0
Surgery IV                  25       20.1              20.5     19.0        17.5
Plastic Surgery             13       35.5              20.5     20.0        19.5
Urology                     24       13.1              13.0     12.5        12.0
Ophthalmology               52       11.0               9.2      9.0         9.0
General Pediatrics         322        7.7               7.5      7.0         6.5
Neonatology                 75        8.2               8.2      7.8         7.2
Gynecology                  87         7.1              7.1      6.6         6.1
Problem Pregnancies         25        4.4               4.0      4.0         4.0
Normal Labor                92        2.2               2.1      2.0         2.0
Probleia Labor              30        6.1               6.0      5.8         5.6
Orthopedics I               76       37.8              35.5     33.5        31.5
Orthopedics II              68       39.3              39.3     38.0        36.0
Orthopedics III             37        11.0              9.0      9.0         9.0
Physiotherapy               28       59.1              37.5     37.0        36.5
Resuscitation               28        2.0               2.0      2.0         2.0



- 81                               ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
Table 2: ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ALOS FOR NAMPULA HOSPITAL
PROPOSED ALOS
Services                No. of    ALOS              Dec.       June       Dec.
Beds       1987             1988       1989      1989
Medicine I                   36       11.9               8.0       7.5        7.5
Medicine II                  33       10.6              10.0       9.5        9.5
Surgery I                    33       15.8              13.0      10.0       9.0
Surgery II (Orthopedics)   33         14.5              12.0      11.5       11.5
Surgery III                  33       11.3              10.3      10.0       9.0
Surgery IV                   37       12.1              11.5      10.5       105
Obstetrics I                 25        1.0               1.5       1.5        1.5
Obstetrics II                32        1.0               1.5       1.5        1.5
Gynecology                   26        8.3               7.3       7.0        7.0
Pediatrics                   60        5.0               5.0       5.0       5.0
Resuscitation                12        2.1               2.1       2.1        2.1
Nursery                      16        6.1               6.0       6.0       5.5
Table 3: ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ALOS FOR BEIRA HOSPITAL
PROPOSED ALOS
No. of    ALOS               Dec.      June      Dec.
Beds      1987               1988      1989      1989
Medicine                   114        16.2              14.0      12.0       12.0
Surgery                     96        14.9              14.0      13.0      13.0
Med. Pediatrics             45         8.9               6.0       5.0        5.0
Surg. Pediatrics            45       23.4               22.0      16.0      16.0
Orthopedics                118       28.2               26.0      24.0      24.0
Urology                     22       20.7               16.0      15.0       14.0
Ophthalmology               30        13.3              12.0      10.0       10.0
Dermatology                 28       39.3               35.0      25.0      20.0
Psychiatry                  32       80.7               25.0      20.0      20.0
Chest                       71       61.3               60.0      40.0      30.0
Gynecology                  39        6.2                5.2       5.0       5.0
Obstetrics                  89        5.6                4.0       3.0       2.5
Nursery                      8        8.2                8.0       8.0       8.0
Resuscitation                9         2.0               2.0       2.0       2.0



- 82 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
2. Meals Served per Patient Day
The number of meals served in the three major hospitals in
Mozambique frequently exceeds the numbers required for patients by a
significant margin. Two meals should be prepared for each patient for each
day of stay; (including mothers of accompanying children in pediatric
wards), and by law, for each staff member of the hospital on ward duty.
Government and IDA agree to the following:
(a)   The basic premise is that the number of meals (defined as lunches
and dinners) prepared for patients (including mothers of
accompanying children in pediatric wards and staff on duty) during
a certain time period, for example one month:
N - 2P+2SD, or N/2(P+SD) = 1
where  N  = Number of lunches, dinners prepared per month.
P = Number of patient (including mothers
accompanying children in pediatric wards) days
in the same month.
SD = Number of staff days of those on ward duty in
the same month
(b)   The condition for disbursement is that the ratio N/(2P+2SD) should
be equal to one for all three hospitals for a sustained period of
at least six months. The ratio will be measured on a monthly
basis from October onwards.
(c)   Review of the attainment of these objectives would be undertaken
jointly by the MOH and IDA.



- 83 -                               ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
PHASING OF HEALTH FACILITIES REHABILITATION
MAPUTO              NAMPULA                BEIRA
Phase 1  Phase 2    Phase 1 Phase 2    Phase 1 Phase 2
A. Renovation of Wards:
- Sanitary installations   220                   150                   95
- Roofs, floors, ceilings,
painting                           280                   300                  350
B. Renovation of Departments:
- Sanitary installations   150                   200                   55
- Roofs, floors, ceilings,
painting                           535                   350                  394
C. Renovation of kitchen,
including equipment       230      130                               15
D. Renovation of laundry,
including equipment                180                               15
E. Sterilization Department/
equipment                 380                   55                   96
F. Maintenance Facilities/
supplies                             16                   19                   29
G. X-ray and other ancillary
departments                                     20       46          29
H.  Reconversions/extensions              220                                       178
I.  Sewage network, rehab.                                                  6
J.  Water supply                                      20                   85
K. Electric installation
overvolt. light            43                   23                   88        50
L. Refuse disposal/
incinerator                96                   70                   90
M. Steam plant/supply
water heaters                       121                                        10
N. Telephone and
communication                                             75                   30
0.  Medical gas supply                                          20                   20
P. Equipment for X-ray
and other ancil. depts.                         20      236         200
Q. Equipment for other
other ancil. depts.       220      310          20      400          72        65
R.  A/C and various equip.                225                   59         38
TOTAL BY PHASE                 1339      2017        678      1605        884      1126
TOTAL BY HOSPITAL                  3356                 2183                 2010
% OF TOTAL PHASE               39.9     60.1        31.0      69.0       44.0)    56.0
PHASE 1:  Urgent repairs related to hygiene, public health and security
PHASE 2: Improvements of infrastructure efficiency and amenities for the patients



- 84 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
VEHICLES FOR FOOD DISTRIBUTION - TERMS OF TRANSFER
Introduction
In order to further the objective of increasing food security
for low-income urban households in Maputo and Beira, the project will
provide for the acquisition of 100 small (3 to 5 tonne) trucks for private
sector retailers (IG for retailers in Maputo and 30 for Beira) as well as
eight 10 to 12 tonne trucks, ten 5 to 8 tonne trucks, and two 3 to 5 tonne
trucks for EAiCM and EACB, to be used for the transportation of food within
the food ration scheme NSA and other consumer goods.
It was a-reed that:
Selection of Recipients
A) EACM and EACB
i)   The allocation of vehicles to EACM and EACB will be as
follows:
a) EACM - four 10 tonne trucks, five 5 to 8 tonne trucks;
and
b) EACB - four 12 tonne trucks, five 5 to 8 tonne trucks,
two 3 to 5 tonne trucks, plus one 4 wheel drive vehicle
and 5 motorbikes.
B) Private Sector Retailers - Maputo and Beira
ii)    As the quantity of vehicles is insufficient to provide one
to each retailer, recipients would have to meet the following criteria;
a) confirmed status as a food retailer under the NSA, 1/
b) previous timely acquisition of food by the retailer
concerned under the NSA,
c) number of registered consumers of the retailer
concerned, and
d) geographic location and transport access.
iii)    Vehicles will be allocated to those retailers qualifying
according to the criteria above in all the urban districts of Maputo and
zones of Beira. The number of vehicles allocated by GOAM (Maputo) and DPCS
(Beira) per Urban Di3trict or Zone would be based on population served,
1/vehicles would be sold both to individual retailers and legally
constituted consumer cooperatives (Cooperativas de Consumo)



- 85 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
number of NSA shops and the distance from the main NSA supply point (i.e.
from the EACM or EACB supply depots). Using these criteria the anticipated
distribution would be as follows:
MAPUTO                                     BEIRA
Urban District 1    10                     Zone 1    8
2    11                         2    4
3     7                         3   12
4     7                         4    4
5    12                         5    2
6     7
7     8
8     8
Sub-Total            70                               30
Total No. Vehicles: 100
Procurement
i) All vehicles for the private sector would be procured through
ICB. Procurement of vehicles for EACM and EACB would be in accordance with
IDA procedures and the specific agreements of the Development Credit
Agreement (including ICB for all packages of US$70,000 and above).
ii) Each bidder would be required to provide after-sales service,
provide spare parts, and to sell the vehicles to qualifying
individuals/consumers, cooperatives through agents based in Mozambique.
Terms of Transfer / Process of Sale
i) Each vehicle would be sold by egents (MOC) at a price to
cover full cif costs plus port handling charges and customs duties, all at
the prevailing exchange rate, together with the normal marketing margin of
the agent.
ii) Those qualifying to purchase the vehicles would receive
evidence to this effect from GOAM or DPCS and would present such evidence
to the sales agents.
iii) Recipients would pay in cash or utilise credit provided by the
banking system.
iv) Each recipient would sign an agreement with GOAM (in Maputo)
or DPCS (in Beira); or a) acknowledging full responsibility for the
vehicle, including maintenance and operation, b) undertaking to use the
vehicle for the purposes intended, namely the transportation of food under
the NSA ration scheme and other consumer goods, and c) and agreeing to
operate the vehicles in accordance with the applicable hygiene standards.
v'i Spare parts ordered with the vehicles would be sold either to
recipients or registered truck dealers in Maputo and Beira, on same terms
as i) above.



- 86 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
Flow of Funds
i) Payment in foreign exchange to the winning bidder(s) would be
made from the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
ii) The local sales agent would pay the full costs of the imported
vehicles in local currency (Meticais), at the prevailing exchange rate to
the Banco de Mocambique, which would transfer this to the Ministry of
Finance.
iii) The pre-selected customers (i.e. the qualifying private
retailers) would buy the vehicles from the sales agent(s) at full cost.
Monitoring Arrangements
i) The MOC will oversee the implementation of the arrangements of
the arrangements outlined above in accordance with the Maputo and Beira
Food Security Agreements.
ii) The MOC through GOAM and DPCS will monitor the use of the
vehicles in accordance with the project objectives.



- 87 -                                                   ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 14
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Sunnmary Accounts by Tear
Base Cost Is
IMETICAIS "iIionl                            Foreign Exchange
.. .... .  .. ... ... .   ...... .. .  -----   .. .  .    ..   I..   .  . . .. . ..   . ... ..   ..    .. .  - - - -  .. ................. ..
1989/1990 1990/1991  1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1994  Total              I      Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A CIVIL WORKS
BUILDING PROJECTS                           1.515.2   1,624 8   1,604.0         804 8       318 8  5.867 5      79 3   4,654.9
ENGINEERING PROJECTS                          209 6       378.6      253 4      210 9        66 4  1, 118 9    79.3        887.7
............. . ...     . ... ... ..     ..........     ..........     . ..    .....    .......     .... .....  -- --   -- - - -
Sub- Total CIVIL IORKS                          1.724 8   2,003 4   1.8!7 4   1,015 7          385 2  6.986 S    79.3   5,542.6
B. FURNITURE                                       64 2       76 3        17.8           -          -    158.2    39 0         61.7
C  EQUIPMENI                                      714 8   1.105 3        536 4      288 4       29 0  2.673 9    94 8   2,534.9
0. SUPPLIES                                     1. 910.9   1, 677.0   1, 304.0      252. 2      28.6  5, 172. 7    94 8   4, 903. 7
E. VEHICLES                                       639 4      718 5       399 1       72.2           -  1.829 2    94.8    1 734.1
F. IECHNICA' ASSISIANCE                           952 3      869 0       384 4      134 7      260 7  2.601 1    94.8   2.455.8
G. PROJECI MANAGEMENT                              14 6        14 6       14 6       14.6        14.6      73 1   100 0        73. 1
H. LOCAL SALARIES S INCENTIVES                     47 3       39 5        37 5       36 2       36 2    196 6        0 0        0.0
1. TRAVEI 8 PER DIEM                               44 9       52 1       21 6           -           -    118 6       0.0        0 0
J. TRAINING 3 WORKISHOPS                           11. 1      57 7        30.1          -           -    158.9    19 3         30.3
K. PROJECT PREPARAIION FALILITY                   470 6           -          -           -          -    470 6    94 8        446.2
--- --- -   - --- --- --- --  .   ..... ....     .... .... ..     .... .... . - - -   - - - -
Total INVESIMENT COSTS                             6.655. 1   6.613 3   4.602 9   1.814 0          754 2 20.439.6    87.1  17, 793.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATIONS S MAINTENANCE               32.0       67.9        87.9       91.5       91.5    370.6    85 0         315.0
B. EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS A MAINTENANCE             35 7      103 6       135 9      150.3      151 8    577 4    70 0         404.2
C. BUILDING OPERATIONS A MAINTENANCE              63.2      134.2      202.4       243.0      258 5    901.3    40.0         360.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                130.9       305 8      426 2      484.8       501 7  1,849.4    58.4   1.079.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                6.786.0   6.919 I   5,029 1   2,298.9    1,255.9 22,288.9    84.7  18,872.8
Physical Contingencies                             455.8      512.4       349 8      166 S       44 3  1.528 8    87 2   1,332.4
Price Contingencies                              3,859. I   S,339.9   6.251.7   3,650.0   2.279.3 22, 380 1    85 4  19. 123 8
Total PROJECT C3STS                                11.100 9  13,771 4  11,630 6   6,115.3   3.579 6 46. 197.8    85 1  39,329.0
Foreign Exchange                                9.891.7  12.028.8   9,872.2   4.893.2   2,643. 1 39.329 0             0.0        0.0
January 31. 1989 14:46



- 88 -                                                      ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 14
PROJECI COST SUMMARY
iMETIC I S it I ioni                                      luSt '000)
A total                                              I total
I Foreign  Base                                      I foreign  Base
local  Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs           local   Foreign    total   Exchange    Costs
A  SIRENGtIHENING POLICY FORMULATION A MANAGEMENI
1. HEAtLTH POLICY SIUDIES A IhPiELENIATION                             112 9      393 0    505 8            78         2      A82 1    633 8      815 9           78        2
2. MANAGEMENT  Of THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH                                163 3  1.283 9  1.447 1             89         6    263 4  2.070 7  2.334. 1              89         6
3  fOOD SECURITY POlICIES AND INFORMtATION                              45 5      398 0      443 5          90         2      73 3      642 0     715 3           90         2
....    --- - --     -- -- -    -  --- --- -   -- - -   -------   .. I- - -   -- -- -   . .....  . ...   ...   . ... .. ... .  . ..
Sit-Total STRENGTHENING POtlICY FORMULATION II MANAGEMENT                  321 6  2.074 9  2.396 5              87        11    518 7  3.346 6  3.865 3              87        TI
a   IMPROVING EfFICIENCY A QUALITY Of SERVICES
1. REHASILITATION OF HEalTH FACILITIES                               1,246 9  4.672 2  5,919 1              79       2?  2.011 2  7,535 8  9.547 0                79       27
2  HOSPITAL EFFICIENCY                                                  121.8     835 3    957 1            87         4     196 4  1.347 2  1,543 7              87         4
3  HEALTH fACILITY M411TlENMANCE                                       142 9  2.456.4  2.599 3              95        12    230 5  3.961 9  4.192 4               9S       12
4. PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY                                               714.3  2.505 6  3.219 9              78        14  1.152 1  4.041 3  5. 193 4              78        14
5  HEALTH MANPOWER TRAHINiG/EFFECTIVENESS                              266 3   3.071 6  1.337 9             80         6     429 6  1.728 4  2.157 9              80        6
6  URBAN fOOO DISTRIUllotN SYSTEM                                      577 8  4.810 7  5.388 5              89        24     931 9  7.759 1  8,691.1              89       24
.......      ........    .......   ..... ............    ......... .   .......    ....   ..  ......    ........    . ... ..  . ...    .... ... . ...
Sttj-Total IMPROVING EfFICIENCY A QUALITY Of SERVICES                   3,070 1 16.351 7 19.421 8              84        87  4,951 7 26.373 7 31,325 5               84        87
C  PROJECI PREPARATION fACltilY                                             24 5    446 2    470 6              95        2       39 5     719 6      759 1          95         2
.....  ...    . .....  . ...    . ........  ..........  .   .........   ..    .. ..    ..   .........    ........    ........... ........ .........
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                       3,416 2 18.872 8 22.288 9              85      300  5.5I  0 30.439 9 35.949 9               85      300
Physical Contingencies                                                    196 4  1.332 4  1.528 8             87         7     316 7  2.149 0  2.465 8              87         7
Price Contingtencies                                                   3.256 3 19 323 8 22.380 3              85       300     270 8  3,849 8  4.120 6              93        It
total PROJECI COSIS                                                        6.868 9 39.329 0 46. 197 8             85      207  6.097 5 36.438 7 42.536 2                86      118
...................     .......         . . .. ..... ...... ......... ...................................   ........................................................
Janury  31.  1989        14 46



Sum"'t hcco,at by P,o).ct cvq*oomt
IROIICAISNI,o.
STRONGIEN8ING POLICY FORH1ILATIOII A  ANAFJGIERT                                 INPROVIiX EFFICIEACY A QUALITY Of SERVICES
HEALIH POLICY      RAN8GEIIENT OF  FO0D SECURIITY                                         EAtTII                                                  TRSN F0W0        PROJECT                Contt,incgwwe
STUDIES A        TIHE NiISITRY   POIICIES AND   REHABILITATION Of   "OSPITAI    fACItLTy    PYIARNACEUTIC*L             IIEALT" rAaPmiaR       DISTRI1mU,IOm  PREPARATION                -------
iKtPLEENNITA I ON    Of MERLIN       INFORNiIIOM   hEALT" FACILITIES  EFFICIENCY  RAIR1VNAMCE            SUPPLY        TRAOINGR/EfFEC71VENESS        SYSTEM       FAtC tIITy    total       2 Aou"
IINVESTVEUT COSTS
A CIVIL IWOS
8UIIIOIRG PROJIECIS                                                     189 4                              3.081 2-                                     2.234 1                      317 0           7a                    5.867 5   toO        888a
ENINOIEERING  MIJECIS-.-                                                                                     783 6                                         1  2. 6                                  322 7              -   1l11  9   To 0   III 9
S.h-Tolal CIVIL WORKS                                                      189 4                              3.834 9                                      2.246 7                      317 0          3984                    5.988 8   to0      w6e..5
B  FURNI EO9                                                -               64?                 .                                                                                        as- 89           SI                     Ise32   100       Is5a
C. EQUIPMNT                                              56.8              118?e            25 T              1.254 B         63 7     ~ 48.4                422?                       393 3           lIS               -   2.673 9   tOO   267 4
0  SUPPlIES                                              7583              1683             48 6                     -       352 3        1.938 3                                       142 6        2.4473                    S. 172 7    83   272 5
VEhICLES                                                                  78             226                                              8 79                                        3 7 7        1. 6738                  1.829 2   ISO    274 4
F  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                 257 3             7944             294 9                 62 8        448 1         3840              IS06                       171 3            377                  2.601 1    00         0.0
G  PROJIECT NAIAGEIIERI                                                     875            s1  7                                                                                                                                  7321    00        0.0
II OCAI SAlARIES 8 INCEIIIIVES                                             18 2             a 8a                                                                                         98 a           62                      198 6    00        0 0
I  IRAVEt A PER DIEIM                                    26 I               4 7              3 3                     .        43 7              .40 9                                                                            li8 6    3 0      0 0
.1  18810190 a IORVSIIOPS                                77 7                I 0            12 9                               16 2                                                       88a            283                     Ise89    00        0 0
A  PRO.JECI PREPARfiTtINI fACIU,IY                          .                  .470 e                                                                                                                                            470 6    00        0 0
Total lIRVESINERI COSTS                                    492 8            I 420 4           431 9              8 152 4        944 0        258886           269198                     f 207 2        4942 1           470 6  20.479 6    78t .5288a
IT RECUJRREIM COSTS
A  VEhIClE OPERATIONOS A MAINTENGANCE                                       I 7             8 6                     .                       is 4                 .7 5                                  340 4             .      370 9    0 0       0 0  %
8  EQUIPNSNI OPERATIONS 8 MAINTENANCE                   13 0               28 i             6 0                247 I          13 0          25 4             86 a                       78) 0          108 0                    577 4    0 C       0 0
C  BUIILDING OPERATIONS A ILAINTENANCE                                                                         5 19 6                                       3336                        48 2                                    901 3    00        0 0
loate  RECURRENT COSTS                                      13 0               26 8             ti 6               766 7          13 0          40 7             A0DD4           ~10 7                     446 4                  1.849 4    0 0       0 0
loIal BASELINF COSIS                                        808, 8           I 447 1           443 8              S. 919 I       987 I        2.889 3          3 219 9                    1.337 9        8.388 8          470 6  22.288 9    6 91.5288A
Phys,cal Co.II-genc,s                                     13 2               88 I            10 8                509 0         41 6          221 B            266 I                       99 8           310 6                  1.828 8    0a0    0.0
P-,co Co.mi, go.,,es                                     401 8            1.409 4           370 8              6.426 8        887 3       2.8571 8          3.560 2                    1. 317 6       5. 2587          2068   2 2.380 1    64 1. 423 1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         920 8            2. 911 6          828 I             12.854 8       1.886 0       5.393 0           7. 047 0                  2.788 4        10.924 8         67`94  46.197 a    8 4 2.951 9
fome.goE4Change                                          72785            2.620 1           744 6             10.367 8      1.661 3       8 104 6           5.493 i                    2.214 0        9.741 0          684 9  39.322 0    6 62.5886
JIon.way 31. 1989 14 46
OIt
0



BREAKDOWNH OF SUMMARY ACCOUNTS
INETICAIS NulIt,on)
Base Costs                           Phyacal Cent,          so's                   Price Cortuge1C'5                              Cotat IktsCBtsPhCosta
Local                           Local~~~~~~~~..   .. ..... ....              Local                                         local                          Price Cont    Price ConI
tscil  DteA                                   El    ste                                   t        sleA                                Ecl OteAonptys'~al    on, Base
For  Etch  latesl    Tates Total      o     ahlts            ae  For            For   ach.tatsI    latas           Total      For  E.ch  Taxesl    Taxes          oa           Cort            Costs
I UWs1Rnti COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
BUILDING PROJECIS                               4.654    1. 212 6              5.867 5          465 5  121 3                 586 B       5.1fit 6 1.120 6               6. :32 t    10 23?  2.454 4                  12.686 4         1 153 3         11.533 I
ERCGINEERING PROJECTS                             687 7   231 2                I 118 9           84 8    23 I                III 9       1.046 4     2567 2              I302 6        ?.022 8   51-O B               2. 53324          230 3         2. 303 I
S,6-ToteI CIVIl WORKS                              5 542 6fi  443 9                6 986 5         554 3  144 4                  698 6      6 158 01. 376 7              .7 534 7         12 254 9 2965 0                IS 219 9        I 383 6          3 83r6 2
B. fRIIIMIURE                                          61 7    96 5                  158 2            6 2     9 7                 IS B          53 9      75 4                 128 7         121 8a    18i B                303 7            21 6            27761
C   gulepntut                                      2.54         139 0              2673 9           2513 5    13 9              267 4        26207    133 I                 2. 7538       -5408  1   286 0                5. 695  I          I? 517S.M74
0aSUPPLIES                                         4.903 7   268 9                 5. 172 7         25  4    14 2               272 5       4.549 3 2265                 .  4 777 8       9 711 4   511 B                 023051                              1 
8  VEI9ICL(S                          ~~~~~~~~ ~~1.734  I    95  I    1829 2           260  I   14 3               274 4         .7269       866               I. 813 5       3721 1   196 0              .391?  1            510 9          3.40b2
f  FECEUICAL ASSISTANCE                            2.465 B    135 2                2,601 I                                                  2 251 3 102 2                   2.353 4       4.717 1   237 4                  .95  5                          .5 
G MJFCI HAKAGEMNI  73 1        73 1                                                      sa5                            as 5           6, 7       00 ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'61 7  00             1617
0. LMAL SAIARIES 3 INCENIIVtS  196 6           196 b ~~~~~216 2                                                                    -    216 2               . 412 8                   412 8               .412 8
N.LOAL SALAERDIES8IMCE   9S196 6                                                     196POEIMNGM   3I13 6                                       88 5                           88 4           6        207 0                 0   12
JIR1AINIG PE WORKSOP3  8                                        118 6                11 8 6                                                     24 7      92 7           .     117 4          55 4   220 9                  276 3             00            2'6 3
a  PRO,JtCl PRIP'ARAIlON FACl1117                     446 2      24 5                470 6                                                     208 8                          208 8          654 U      24 5                 679 4                           6794
Iotal IRVOSIMINI COSTS                                17 793 0 2646 6                20. 4346 b        332 4  196 4               I 538 8      17 661 8 2.400 3               20 082 2       38i 807 35 743 2               42 090 5         2 951 9        39.098 6
II  RtI3JR9ENI COSTS
A  VEICLE OPEB8TIOIFS A 1NAINIEN8IICE              315 0      55 6                370 6                                  .419 8                        70 7                490 5          734 8    126 3                 861 I             0 0            661 I
EQUPNNT  PEATINSS MINENACE           4042    1732             .     577 4               .                                     5514    2260                   777 4          955 6    3993 2              1.35486                         1.3548
EQIPEN   PRAIN   AMITEAC                                                                                                                                                                                               14      30 0                     1.931 3
C  BUItLING OP'ERATIONIS AMAINTENANCE                3610 5   540 8                 901                                                       470 6 559 3               .1 030 0            831 2 1.1001 1.3 
total RECURELNT COSIS                                  1.079 8   769 6                I. a.494                                 .                1.4419   856 I                 2.397 9        2. 521 6 1. 625 7              4.4 147 3           '0;7
Total                                                  18 872 83.416 2                22 2889         1 332'0  196 4               1 1528 8     18.,123832563                .22.3801         39 329 06. 8689              .4619I7a           291519          43259
in-a"Nr 31. 1989   14 46
0
ZI-



BREAKDOWN Of SUMMARY ACCOUNTS
Base Costs                         Physical Icanlt i-gen eas                   Price Contigencies                          Total.Inc 1  Cont                  Physical
...... ......   ...  . .....   ..  .    . .....   cost   Plus    Base   costs
Focal                          Foc~~~~~~~~lal                            Local                                      tLoaI                          Price Cant   Price Cont
(ECcc I Buttes A                           tEoc IButtes 8                            (ltdc   Duties 8                           (ECccl   Buttes              ot Physica I      On Base
For  fitch  latest    la-es      Total    For  Eiich  lasesI   Taxes   Tota2         Fo"  Etch  Tatesl   Taxes       Toito     For  Fich. ta..si    Ta.es        totel         Cost           Ctost
IKVEMSIKIUI COSTS
A. CIVIL SWMS
BIJILDIROG PBOJEFCS                           7. 507 9 t.955 8              9- 9463 8       7508   195 6           - 946 4           9795   42 3             -1.017 8         9.234 722.193 7            - 1.428 0         I 038 9        t0. 389 I
fUIMLEntRING PB0JFCIS                         f. 43t 8   373 0              f. 804 7        143 2   27 3                IS805        223 7   4328-    2665s                   1.799 6   453 t               2.251            704 7         2.047 0
Sub-TotaF  CIVIl WO0RK6                          8 939 7 2. 3288              tI 268 5         894 0  2329               i 126 8       1. tS9 2   851 I1284 3                      039.4836772 43                                             124367
8FUNSIIURE                                         99 6   155 7           -     255 2          10 0   Is 6                25 5          ItI3    9 0           -      20 3         120 9   180 2                 301O  I          74             7 
C  EG9FPFU14086 242                                                       -4328               486 1                       3            56 8   20 0            -     576 8      5.054 2   286 7                5.320 8          483 7         4.837 2
o  Supniis        7 909 3   433 8               8 343 0         416 7   2~~~ 9              439 6         966 9   3t17           -     998 6      9 292 9   488 3               9.?Bt 2           489 &         9.29t1
I  STRiIdES                                      2. 7969    153 4              2950 3          4t9 5   230            - 442 5            3659    119                  377 7      3.5824    188 3            -   .70               9t83.2 68
f  IBOFRIICAE ASSISIANCO                         3. 977IF  218 i               4 195 2                                          -        432 7    5 6                438 3       4 409 9   223 7               4. 633 6               -        4 63 
6  PROJBCTN8NAGEMENI                                ttAO                          1t8 0             --190                                                       -      19 0         137 0         -.              137 0                          1370 
IF  local SaLARIES  INCENTIVES                              317 2                317 2                                                           366                  36 6                  353 8               353 8                           30235
I  IR5581 8T PER DIEM                                        191 4          -    191 4              -                 .         .                  l3                  11I  3               202 6           -    202 B                            0 
J  IRAiIFRG B RORKLSROPS                             49 6   206 7                236b 1                                                    5 2   1Ii i                     4         54 8   217 9                272 7                           277 7
K  PROJ6CO PREPARATIOU FACIFIII                     719 0    39 5                 is9                       .                                -  -126                   12*   6      7t9 6    26 9           .     7465 S                         7465S
TeEal INVESFKOMT COSTS                             28. 6984 4.2686               32 967 0       2 149 0  3167               2.465 8       3 557 0  2098                3. 766 8    34.4045 4. 7951               39 I"           3.3              643
II  RECUJRRENT COSTS
B   fRICIE OPFR8IIONS B naMAF NAwr8FF            908 1    89 7                 597 8                      -903   131                                               103 4         584 102 7                -     022                            012 2      ,.
a  BOUIPIfxiR  OPERAFTORS 8 MaINIFRARCE           b5' I9   279 4                93t 3                                                   II$8   42 3                  160 9        770 5   321 7               1 092 2                -1.543 2
C  BUILDING OPERAIIOMS & MAl"ITRBAICE             Sol 5   872 3               I 853 8                                                    83 8    5 7                  89 5        665 3   878 01543                           1.543 3       .....
Iota1 RECURRENT COSTS                                17415S1 241 3                2982 9                       -2927   SF 0                                              353 8      2034 31302 4                  3 3368                          3.36
Totld                                                30.4399 5.510 0              35. 9499       2. 149 0  3167              2.465 8       3. 8498  2708            -4 120 6        36. 4387 6097 5               42.536 2         2.738 F        39.800 1
.Jastery 31. 1989  14 46
UtET



Project Components by year
Totals Includintg Contingencies                                          totals Includ,ng Cont?rngencies
IMETICAIS "fl lioni                                                           1uS$ '000)
1989/1990  1990/1991 1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1994   Iola)               191%9/1990 1990/1991 1991/1992 1992/1993  1993/1994   total
a  STRkNGIHENING POLICY  FORHIULATION A MANAGEMENTY
I  HEALIII POIICY STUDIES A INPIFENCIAIION                                 414 4       351 1         80 4        34 8        40 I    920 8           455 3       334 7        69 0         26 9        27 9      913 9
2  RANAGEHN1N  Of THET MINISTRY Of IIEALIH                               1.040 3        556 6.      379 6       335 7       5j99 5  2.911 6        1, 143 0      530 6       326 0        259 6       417 7  2.676 9
3  1000 SFCURITY POLICIES AN0 INFORISAlIJON                                 346 3       268 2        24 9        20 7        164 9     825 1         380 5       255, 7       21 4         16 0       114 9      788 5
Sub lotal SIRENGIKEFIING POlICY FORNIULATIIN 3 MqANAGEMENT                   1. 801 0    I. 175 9      484 9        391 2       804 5  4. 657 5       1.978 9    1. 121 0        416 4       30? a       560 5   4.379 3
6  IMPROVING EfFIICINCY A QUALITY Of SERVICES
I  REI88IIIIATION Of HEALTH FACILITIES                                   2. Ft39 4   2.242 9    2. 240 4    3, ?13 5    1. 818 5  12. 854 8       3. 119 9   2. 138 1   1. 923 7   2. B72 3    1.267 0  11.321 0
2  "0OSPIlAI EffiCIENCY                                                    4)9 1        8755b       4835b        80 2        27 7   i. 686 0         450 5       834 b       415 2         52 0        19 3  1.791 6
1' FIEAITIl YACIIITY NAINTIOANrT                                         1, 555 5    1 7 35 3    1. 199 5       86888         34 0   5.393 0       1 709  1   1 654 2    1.030 0          672 0        23 7  5.089 0
4  PHARLAC(U-ZAt SUJPPLY                                                    72 1 3   2.419 3   3.047 3          496 9       362 3   7. 04 7 0        792 5    2. 308 3    2. 616 6        364 3       252 4  6.352  1
5  918A111 MANPOWER TRAIN!liG/EFFSCIIVENESS                                 472 4    1.429 6        603 6       127 4        122 3  2~755 4          519 I   1 362 8         518 3         98 6        85 2  2.584 0
6  URBAN FOOD DISTRIBUIION SYSIEM                                        2. b12 8   3.893 0    3.571 4          432 3       410 2  10.924 8       2.870 9    3. 711  2    3.05666         338 2       285 8  10.272 8
I   .. . .. .   . . . . . . .   . .. .   .  -   - - -   - -- - --  - - -- -- - -- - - - - -   - - - - -- -   - - - -- --   - -   -- - - - - - - -0
St*ib otal IMIPROVING EFFICIENCY A QUALITY Of SERVICES                       8. 620 5   12.595 5   11.145 7    5. 724 1   2. 775 0 40.860 9           9.472 0  12.007 2   9.570 4    4. 427 4    1.933.4 37.410 4                            '
C  PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                                679 4            -            .                             679 4        746 5                                     .            -    746 5
total PROJECT Costs                                                           11.100 9   13.771 4  11.630 6    6. 115 3   3.579 646.197 8    12. 197 4   13. 128 2    9.986 8    4.729 9    2.493 942.536 2
JawAnry 31.  1989   14 46
10
,-ll-
I-.



Suary Accounts by Yra
Totals Including Contingic isa                                    Totals Including Contingencies
IMETICAIS Million)                                                     4usS '000)
1989/1990 1990/1991 1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1t94  Total    1989/1990 1990/1991 1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1994  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
BURlGING PROJECTS                          2.431.5   3.204.6   3.824.8   2.213.9   1,011.6 12. 686.4    2.671.7   3,054.9   3,284.2   1.712.4                704.8 11,428.0
ENGINEERING PROJECTS                         358.8      779.4      604.3      580.2       210. 8  2,533.4       394.3      742.9      518.9      448.8       146.9  2, 25. 7
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                         2,790.3   3, 983.9   4. 429. 1   2. 794. 1   1, 222.4 15, 29. 9    3, 065. 9   3,797.8   3. 803. 1   2. 161. 1    851.7 13.679.7
S. FURNITURE                                     106.7      155.0       42 1          -           -    303.7        117 2      147.7       36.2          -          -    301.1
C. EOUIPMENt                                  1,237.2   2,287.0   1,282.5         796.0       92.4  5. 695. 1    1, 359.5   2. 180.2   1. 101.2      615. 7      64.4  5,320.9
D. SUPPLIES                                   3, 179. 0   3,316.4   2,940.6      696. 1      91.0 10,223.0    3,493. 1   3, 161. 5   2,525.0        538.4       63.4  9 781. 2
E. VEHICLES                                   1, 157. 0   1. 554.3     997 6      208.2           -  3.917.1    1, 271. 3   1, 481. 7    856. 6      161. 1         -  3.770.6
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       1.496. 7   1,633.0       833.7      338.0      653. 1  4,954.5     1,644.5   1.556. 7      715.9       261.5      455.0  4,633.5
G. PROJECT MtANAGEMENT                            23.1       27.6       31.8       36.7       42.4    161 7         25.4        26 3       27.3       28.4       29.6    137.0
H. LOCAL SALARIES A INCENTIVES                    69.3       72.0       80.2       89.0      102.4    412.8         76 2       68.6        68.8       68.8       71.3    353.8
1. TRAVEL S PER DIEN                             65.9       95.0        46.1          -          -    207.1         72.4       90.6       39 6           -          -    202.6
J. TRAINING S WORKSHOPS                          105.8      105.8       64.6          -           -    276.3        116.3      100.9       55.5          -          -    272.7
K. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                 679.4           -          -          -           -    679.4       746.5           -          -          -          -    746.5
- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -
Total INVESTIMENT COSTS                          10, 910 5  13,229.9  10. 748. 3   4.958. 2   2. 203. 6 42. 050.5   11 , 988 3  12. 611.9   9.229 2   3,835.0   1.535 3 39, 199. 6
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATIONS A MAINTENANCE             50.0       127.3      190.6      229 0      264.2    861.1         54.9       121 4      163 7      177. 1     184. 1    701.2
B  EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS B MAINIENANCE           55.2       193.4      294 1      375 2      436.9  1,354.8         .0 7       184 4     252.6      290 2       304 4  1.092.2
C  8UILDING OPERATIONS & MIAINTENANCE           85 I      220 8       397.6      552.9      674 9  1,931.3         93.6      210 5      341.4      427 6       470.2  1,543.3
Total RECURRENT COSIS                               190.3      541.5      882.4   1.157. 1   1,376.0  4,147.3         209.1       516 2      757 7      895.0      958 7  3.336 6
Total PROJECT COSTS                               11, 100.9  13.771.4  11,630. 6   6, 115. 3   3. 579.6 46. 197.8   12, 197 4  13, 128 2   9,986.8   4, 729.9   2,493.9 42.536.2
January 31. 1989  14:46
Co >
(D
-JET
0
4I-
I-'i



- 94 -                                                 ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 14
Project CnVronents by Year
lMETICAIS Million)
Base Costs                                Total
- -   - - - - - -   - - - - -   - - -   - _   - - - - - - - - --. .  .. . ......... . .   .. .
1989/1990 1990;1991 1991/1992 1992/1993 1993/1994  METICAIS (US$  000)
A  STRENGTHENING PULICY FORMULATION & MANAGEMENT
I HEALTH POtlICY STUDIES & IMPELMENTATION                           261 3       183 6       35 2       12 9       12.9      505.8       815.9
2. MANAGEMENT OF THE MINISTRY Of HEALTH                              630. 1     286.5      172.9      131. 7     226.0   1. 447. 1    2.334. 1
3. FOOD SECURITY POLICIES AND INFORMATION                            211.1      141 8       11 4        8 2        71.0      443 5       715.3
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING POLICY FORMULATION S MIANAGEMENT              1, 102.5     611.9      219.5       152.7      309.8   2.396.5    3,865.3
B. IIPROVING EfFICIENCY A QUAtlTY OF SERVICES
1. REHPBIEITATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES                            1, 767.3   1. 180.7      969.7   1. 387. 1     614.4   5, 919. 1    9, 547.0
2. HOSFITAL EFFICIENCY                                               255.4      445 8      214.4       32.0         9.6      957.1    1.543.7
3. HEALTH FACILITY MAINTENANCE                                      905 7       856.7      511.2      313.9        11.8   2,599.3    4.192.4
4. PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY                                             427 2   1. 186. 6   1,290.0      191. 1      125.0   3. 219.9    5, 193.4
S. HEALTH MANPOWER TRAINING/EFFECTIVENESS                            286 7      697.7      259.9       51.0       42.5   1,337.9    2, 157.9
6. URBAN FOOD OISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                  1, 570.6   1,939 7   1,564.4       171.0       142.8   5, 388.5    8. 691. 1
Sub-Total IMPROVING EfFICIENCY 8 QUALITY Of SERVICES                  5,212.9   6,307.2   4,809.5   2,146. 1         946.1  19,421.8   31.325.5
C. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                         470.6           -          -                     -      470.6       759. 1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                    6,786.0   6. 919. I  5.029 1   2,298.9   1. 255. 9  22,288.9   35,949.9
Physical Contingencies                                                 455 8      512.4      349.8       '66.5       44.3   1,528.8    2,465.8
Price Contingencies                                                  3. 859. 1   6.339.9   6, 251.7   3, 650.0   2.279.3  22, 380. 1    4, 120. 6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    11.100.9  13,771.4  11.630 6   6.115.3   3,579.6  46. 197.8   42.536.2
foreign Exchange                                                     9,891. 7  12,028.8   9.872. 2   4,893. 2   2. 643. 1  39, 329. 0   36. 438. 7
January 31, 1989  14:46



Financing Plan By Disbursement Category
fuss 10OO)
GOVERNMENT Of
IDA         SWITZERLAND        NORAD            WFP            UNICEF      I AEFICIARIES   MOZAMBIQUE              Total                        local
----- ----- --  -- ----- ---  - ----- ---  - ----- ----  ----- ----  --   - ----- --  -- ----- ----  ----- --E-- -  .ED utiesies S
Amount    %      Amount   1    Amount  2    Amount   2    Amount   %              Aftount   I    Amoutnt    %       Amount    I    for  (Ext.  laxes)          lazes
A. CIVIL WORKS                           6.985 8  51.1  4.431 0 32.4.                                     1,962 814 3        150 9    I 1    143.2    1 0   13.679.7  32 2        11,032.9  2.646 8-
B. FURNITURE                                283 0  940 -             ---                                        -      -         -      -      18.0   6.0       301 1   0 7          120.9      180.2 
C. EQUIPMENT                             4,437.4  83 4       861.2 16 2                                                          -      -      22 3   0 4    5.320 9   12 5        5.054 2     266.7-
D  SUPPLIES                              5.358 8  54.8            -                       4.395.? 44.9           --                     -      26 8   0 3    9.781 2  23.0         9.292 9     488 3-
E. VEHICLES                              3.751 8  99 S --                              --                         --   -                       18 8   0 5    3,170.6   8.9         3,582.4      188.3-
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  4. 364 9  94 2          -          268 7  5 8                           --                     --               -   4.633. 6  10 9       4.409 9    223. 7-
G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       137 0 :00 0 -            ---                                 --                      -      -                 -     137.0   0 3          137.0          --
H. SALARIES                                     -       .---- -                                                                               353.8 TOO 0       353 8   0 8               -    353 8-
1. TRAVEL                                       -          ----                                                                 -       -    202.6 100.0        202 6   0 5               -    202.6-
J1. TRAkINING                              272 7 100.0 -             ----                                                                       0 0   0 0       272 7   0 6           54 8    217 S-
K. PROJECT PREPARAT ION FACILITY            746 5 100 0 -            ----                                                                                -      746.5    1 8         719 6      26.9-
IVEHICLE OPERATION                             -      --                   --                        --                      1.8    1 7    689 3  98 3        701 2   1.6          598.4      102.7-
M. EQUiPMENT MAINTENANCE                    621 8  56 9 -             ---55 9   5 1    414.5  38.0    1.092 2   2 6                                                                  770 5    321 7 
N. BUILDING MAINTENANCE                         -       --                    --                         --                      -      -    543 3 100.0    1.543.3   3.6            665.3    878.0             -O
Total Disbursement                        26,959.6  63.4  5.298 3 12 5   268. 7  0 6  4, 395.17 10. 3  I. 962.8  4.6    218.7   0. 5  3, 432. 6   B. I  42,536.2 100.0              36,436.?  E.097 5-
January 31. 1989 14: 46
%.OET



Tinencuing Plan by Summary Accounts
fuss I @W)
GOVERNMENT Of
IDA         SWITZEREAND        NORAD0          NIP            UNICEF      BENEFICIARIES   MOZAMBIQUJE            Total                       Local
------ ----- ----- -----  ---- -----  ---- ----- -  --- ----- --  -- ----- ----  ----- -----  ---- ---E----          D ut D ties  
maounl    2    Amunt   II   amount  1    Amount               Amo~unt   2      hbUont   I    kount    II          kcunt    %    for-. Excti.  Taxes)    taxte
I. IUVSTNyENI COSTS
A. CIVIL NORKS
SIIIIDINIG PROJECIS                        4.803 6  42 0  4.412 3 38 6            -    -         -     -1.962 8 1  2    1SO09    I 3          98 4   0 9   11.42860  26 9         9.234 2  2. 193.7-
EdGlNFERiNG PROJIECTS                      2.182 1  96 9       24 8   I I         -    -         -     -         - -        -           -     44.8   2.0   2.251.7   5 3          i. 798.6    453. I 
Swh-lotsl CIVIL WORKS                         5. 985 8  51 I  4.437 0 324                                     1 .962.8 14 3     150 9    I1.1    143 2    1 0  13. 679.?7  32 2     l11032.9  2.646 8
B. FUUNI1URE                                    283 0  940                                                -                                -      18.0   6.0       301 1   0 ?          120.9     180.2-
C. EQUIPMENT                                  4.437 4  834    861 216 2                              --                                           22 3   0 4   5.320 9  12.5         5,054.2    266.? 
0. SUPPLIES                                   5.358 8  548                  .                 4.395 744.9                                  -      26.8   0 3   9.781.2  23 0         9.292 9    488 3
E  VEHICLES                                   3.751 8  995 -            ---                                    -       -       -S 18   0 5    3.770 6   8 9                          3.592 4      19883
F. TECNNICAt ASSISTANCE                       4.364 9  942                      268.7  5 8           -                                                      -   4.63386  10 9        4.409 9     223.7-
G.  MSJECT MANAGEMENT                            137 0 1,000 -          ---                                     ----                                        -      137 0   03           137 0-
MI. LOCAL SALARIES 8 INICENTIVES .            .....                                                                                              353 8 100 0       353 8   0 8              -    353.8 
I  TRAVEL 8 PER DIEN                                 -         ----- -                                                                          202 6 100 0       202 6   0 5                    202 i 
J1. TRAININKG  WORKSHOPS                       272 7 1000 0-----0 0   0 0                                                                                         272 7   0 6          54 8    217. 9-
IL. PQD.ECT PREPARATION FACIL ITY                746 5 1000 0---- ,                                                                        --               -      746 5    I 8        719 6       26.1 
Total IU3VESIMENT COSIS                         26.337 8  67 2  5.298 3 13 5   268 7  0 7  4.395 7 1i 2  1.962 8  5 0              150 9   0 4      785 5   2 0  39.19965  92 2        34.404 5  4.795.1-
II. RECUROENI CCSTS
a VEhICLE OPERATIONS 5 8 MAINTENANCE                -   -1?-                                                             - i 8  I 7   689 3 98 3   701 2I 6                           596 4   102 7 
8. EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS 8 MAINTENANICE         621 8  569 955 9   5 1    414 5  38 0   1.092 2   2.6                                                                                  770.5    321.7-
C  BUILDING OPERATIONS  MAINTENANCE                       .         -    -         -    -         -     -         --                     -  1,543 3 100 0   1,543 3   3.6            665 3    878 0 
Total RECURRENT COSTS                               621 8  18 6---67 7   2 0  2.647.1  79 3   3.336 6   7.81                                                                            2.034 3  1.302 4-
Total Disbursemenait                             26.,959_6  63 4  5.298 3 12 5   268 7  0.6  4.395 7 10.3  1.9628S  4 6             218 7   0 5  3.432 6   8. I  42.536 2 100.0    36.438.?  8.097.5-
January 31. 1989 14-46
0  l-



ftFbnec ing Plant by Pro)ett Componets
GOVERIIENEI Of
IDA         SNITIERLND         bORaD           Nip            UNICEf      BENEFICIARIES   N0ZAR8IQUE             Total                        lo"al
Amount    2    Ahmgnl   I    6Rgn1   I          wouat   I    Amun~t   I         Amciun    I       nwt   I           iAmoun   I     for  E,xch    taxs.)    lases
a  STRENGTHIENING POLICY FORNUJLAlICON A NANAGENENI
I  11EA1.11 POlICY STUDIES A INPLENENrAIIOII                        859 2  94 0                                                                                 -      54 7  6 0       913 9   2 1          721 0      I"2 0-
2  PIANAGENENT OF WINE MNIISTRY OF 111*At14                        2 602 6  97 2                               .-74 1  2 8   2.676 9   6 3                                                                2.391 5       M884-
3  FOOD SECURAITY POtICIES AND INFORNATION                           751 3  95 3..                                                                                      37 2  4 7       788 5   I 9         712 7       TS a 
s%&-Totil STRENGTHENING POlICY IOQfltAlIOa a MANAGEMENT               4 213 3  962                           -                                    -                -       G660  389   4.379 3  10 3         3.826 I      1533             -
6  INPROVIUIG EFFICIENCY aI QUAL ITY OF SERVICES
I  RENASILIrITION Of 11E61.IN fACILIlIIS                          8.225 2  72 7 -              --1.962 8 17 3                                                   - 1. 133 I 10 0  13.321 0  26 6          9.213 5   2.10? 5 
2  HOSPITAL EFfICIENCI                                             i 702 5  95 0                                         -.89 I  5 0   1.791 6   4 2                                                      1.577 3      214 3 
3  NEAIIII FACILII?Y NAINIENIANCE                                  5.016 9  98 6           -                                                   -    -                   70 0  1 4   5.089 0  1? 0         4.820 I      2M.9 
4  PIIARNACEUTICAL SuPPLY                                            105 3    1 7  5.298 383 4    268 7  4 2                                   .679 8 10 7   6.352 I  14 9                                4.t-4 *   1.3511 I-
S  HlEALTH NINPONER TRAINING/EFFECTIVENESS                         2.306 4  892.-                                                                                      277 6 10 7   2.584 0   6 I         2.0&8 4      405 S             
6  URBAN FOOO DISTRIBUTlION SYSTEM                                 4. 6414A  452                --4.395 742 8                            -218 7   2 1    1. 017 1  9 9   10.272 8  24 2                   9.20917   1.063 I
S.,b  otal IMPROVING EFFICIENCY A QUlALTiY Of SERVICES               21.999 7  5886  5.298 3 14 2   268 7  0 7  4.395 7 It 7  1.952 8  5 2    218 7   0 6   2.266 6  8 7  37.410 4  87 9    31. 893 1  S. 51? 4 
C  PROJECT PREPARAIION FACILITY                                         746 5 100 0....                                                                            .           -    -      746 5   I a         719 6       2n  9
total 0,saursemet                                                      26.959 6  63 4  5.298 3 12 5   268 7  0 64.39S 710 3   1.962 8 46                  218 7   0 5   3.4132 681  42. 536 2100 0            36.43517   60615 
jIamAty 31. 1989 14 46
o1  >-
I-.
.6



- 98 -                                                 ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 14
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
1115$ ' 0001
GOVERNMENT Of
IDA    SWITZERLAND NORAD       IfP   UNICEF  BENEFICIARIES  MOZAMBIQUE          Total
Amount       Amount  amount Amount  Amount              Amount         Amount   Amount
I    Foreign                 24, 436 3      4. 360 3  255 3 4. 175 8 1. 678 I           170 1         1, 363 0 36.438 7
II.  Local (ExcI  laxesl   2,523.3            937 9   13.4   219.9   284.7               48.6         2,069 6  6,097.5
III  Taxes                           -             -                         -               ----
Iotal Project                 26.959 6       5.298 3  2r4 7 4,395 7 1. 962 8             218 7         3.432 6 42.536 2
January 31. 1989  14 46



- 99 -                                                     ANNEX 11
Page 13 of 14
Disbursement By financior By Somester
US$ 'o0001
OVERlNNfET OF
IDA     SWIT2ERtANiD  aOR8D      WFlP   UNICEf  BENEFICIARIES   MOZAMBIQUE           Total
Amount        Amount  Amount Amount  Amount                 Amount          Anount   Amount
Semester
I             4 4159. 9       326.6    43 4   705 2   659 8                  19.0           184. 8  68 098. 7
2             4,2 59.9         328 6   43 4   705 2   659 8                  19.0            184 8  6.098 7
3             4,080.6        1,034 1   67 5   731 4   321 5                  17.6           311.3   6.564.1
4             4,080.6        1,034 1   67 5   731.4    321.5                 17 6           311 3  6.564  1
5             2.590 6        1.186 6   23 4   761 3             -            54.0           377 5  4,993.4
6             2.590.6        1.186 6   23.4    761 3           -             54.0           377.5  4,993 4
7             1,854.5           86.3        -         -        -              9.1           415. 1  2,365.0
8             1, 854 5          86 3        -         -        -              9 1           415  1  2. 365.0
9               794.2            5. 6       -         -         -             95            427.7  1. 247.0
20               794.2           2S 6                           -95                          4277   1.247 0
Total                26. 959 6       5.298 3  268.7 4.395 7 1.962 8                 218 7         3,432 6 42.536.2
January 31. 1989   14 46



- 100 -                                                  ANNEX]11
Page 14 of 14
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
IMETICAIS Million)                                     (usS '000)
I Totall                                           2 Total
% Foreign  Base                                   It Foroignl  Baso
Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs          Local  foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
IINVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WIORKS
BUILDING PROJECTS                         1, 212 6  4.654 9  5,6867. 5          79       26  1, 955. 8  7,507 9  9.463 8           29       26
ENGINEERING PROJECTS                        231.2    887 7  1,118.9            79        5    373.0  1,431.8  1.804.7             79         5
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                        1.443. 9  5,542.6  6.986 5            79       31  2,328.8  8. 939.7 11.268 5            79       31
B. FURNITURE                                     96 5      61. 7    158.2          39        I    155. 7      99. 6    255. 2         39        1
C. EQUIPMENT                                    139 0  2. 534 9  2. 673 9          95       12    224 2  4.088 64 4312. 8             95       12
D. SUPPiL ES                                   268. 9  4. 903 7  5. 1 72 7         95       23    433.8  7. 909. 3B8. 343. 0          95       23
E. VEHICLES                                      95. I  1, 734. 1  1. 829. 2       95        8     153.4  2.796 9  2.950. 3           95        8
F. TECHNICAt ASSISTANCE                         135.2  2.465 8  2.601 I            95       12    218.1  3,977.1  4,195 2             95       12
G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                               -      73. 1     73.t         100        0         -    118.0      118.0         IOU        0
H. LOCAL SALARIES AT INCENTIVES                 196.6         -    196.6                     1    317.2           -    317.2           -        I
I. TRAVEL A PER DIEM                           118. 6         -    1 18. 6          -        I    191.4          -    19 1.4                    1 
J. TRAINING II WORKSHOPS                        128.2      30.8     158 9          19        I    206.7       49.6    256.3           19 
K. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                  24.5    446 2    470.6            95        2      39.5    719.6    759.1            95        2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           2, 646. 6 17,793.0 20. 439. 6        87       92  4,268.6 28. 698 4 32,967.0            87       92
Physical Contingen-ies                          196 4  1,332.4  1, 528. 8          87        7    3116.7  2,149.0  2,465.8            87        7
Price Contingencies                          2, 400.3 17,681.9 20,082.2            88       90    209 8  3.557 0  3,766.8             94       IC
TotalI INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  5. 243.2 36,807.3 42. 050 5           88      189  4.795. 1 34,404.5 39, 199.6           88      109
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATIONS A M4AINTENANCE           55.6    315.0    370 6             85        2      89.7    508.       597.8          85        2
B. EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS A MAINTENANCE          173 2    404.2    577 4            70        3    279 4    651.9    931.3             70        3
C. BUILDING OPERATIONS A MAINTENANCE          540.8    360.5    901.3             40        4    872.3    581.5  1,453.8             40        4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              769 6  1,079.8  1,849.4            58        8  1.241.3  1, 741. 5  2,982.9           58        8
Price Contingencies                            856. 1  1, 44 1.9  2,297.9          63       10      61. 0    292.7    353.8           83        1
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    1.625 7  2.5 2 1 6  4,147.3          61        19  1.302 4  2.034 3  3,336 6            61        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                              3.416f;2 18.872 8 22,288 9           85       tOO  5.510 0 30.439 9 35.949 9            85      100
Physical Contingencies                           196 4  1,332.4  1,528 8            87        7    316.7  2,149.0  2.465. 8            87        7
Price Continvgencies                          3. 256 3 19. 123 8 22.380 1           85      100    270.8  3,849.8  4.120 6             93       TI
Total PROJECT COSTS                               6,868 9 39.329 046.197 8             85      207  6.097 5 36,438.7 42.536 2             86      118
January 31. 1989 14.46



- 101 -                        ANNEX 12
Page I of 6
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989      1990       1991       1992      1993        1994
1 2 3 4    1-2 3 4   1 23 4   1 2 3 4  1  2 3          1-2 3 4   1  2 3  4
Project
Board Presentation
Credit Effectiveness
Project Completion                                                                            _
Credit Closing                                                    -         -           -
A. STRENGTHENING POLICY
FORMULATION AND
MANAGEMENT
1. Policy Studies and
Implementation
a) Cost Recovery Study
& Implementatio:
- Study
- Review
- Implementation                                 -
b) Manpov'er Develop-
ment Plan
- Study
- Review
- Implementation
c) Development of Cost
Control Measures
- Study
d) Strategic Plan for
Health Sector
Computing
- Study
2. Strengthening of the
MOH
a) MOH Reorganization
- Study
- Review
- Implementation
b) Improving Financial
Management &
Control



- 102 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989     1990       1991       1992      1993        1994
12 3 4    i12-3 4   1 2-3 4   1 2-3 4  1234    1 2 3 4   1  2 3  4
- Study                          - _ _ _
Training                             - - - ~
- Implementation                            -                                          ___ ,  _ .
c) Program Implement-
ation Unit
- Consultants                                                                 - _  .  . _ _
- Local Staff                 __._.
3. Food Security Policies
& Programs
a) Food Pricing Policy
- Consultant
- Local Staff        -_._.__.,_
b) Food Management
Information System
- Consultant____
- Implementation                            _ _ _                                        ____  _.   
B. IMPROVING EFFICIENCY
AND SERVICE QUALITY
1. Health Facilities
Reconstruction
a) Maputo Hospital
- Final Design              _ _ *
- Tendering
- Civil Works                                             -
b) Beira Hospital
- Master Plan
- Final Design              _     -_
- Tendering
- Civil Works _
c) Nampula Hospital
- Final Design              _ _   -
- Tendering
- Civil Works                                     _       -       ..



- 103 -                           ANNEX 12
Pate 3 of 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989      1990       1991       1992      1993        1994
12 3 4    1 2 3 4   1               2 3 4  1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1  2 3  4
d) Primary & Secondary
Facilities
- Tete-Civil Works
- Manica-Civil Wrks                              -       -
- Sofala-Civil Wrks                                              _
2. Hospital Efficiency
a) Improve Hospital
Management Opera-
tions
- Consultant                             _             _ _ _ _ -         _ _
- Implementation                       -                   -          --
b) Design New Admis-
sion & Discharge
Procedures
- Design
- Implementation           _             Aft
c) Improve Management
Capability &
Computer
Installation
- Study
- Implementation                             __
d) Create Demonstration
Site
- Establishment
- Trainiog
e) Improve Clinical
Coding
- Consultant                           _
- Preparation
- Training
f) Improve Laundry &
Food Services
- Consultant
- Training
g) Improve Organiza-
tion of Laboratories
- Consultant
- Training                                        --



- 104 -                          _AN21EX 12
Page 4 of 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989      1990        1991       1992      1993         1994
1234   1234  1234  1234 1234  1234  1 23 4
h) Establish Manpower
Productivity
Control System
- Consultant
- Training                                 _      -
i) Reinforce Management
Capability
- Consultant
j) Improve Cost Contro
- Consultant
- Equipment
- Training
k) Design Utilisation
Review System
- Consultant
- Develop Materials                            -
- Training
1) Establish Discharge
Methods
- Consultant
- Training
3. Health Facility
Maintenance
- Mairs.enance Kits
- Supplies
- Management Expertise                      -         -         -        -
4. Pharmaceutical Supply
a) Maputo Pharmaceu-
tical Store
- Final Design
- Tendering
- Construction
- Management                                      -
Expertise
b) Beira Pharma-
ceuticals Store
- Final Design
- Tendering
- Civil Works



- 105 -                           ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989      1990       1991       1992      1993        1994
1 2 3 4     1  2 3     1234    1 2 3 4  1 2 34   1 2 3 4   1  2 3  4
5. Health Manpower
and Training
a) Pre-Service
Training
Rehabilitation
ICS - Maputo
- Final Design
- Tendering
- Civil Works
Rehabilitation
ICS - Beira
- Final Design
- Tendering
- Civil Works
Rehabilitation
ICS - Nampula
Final Design
- Tendering
Civil Works
Supply of Didactic
Materials to ICS
Training of Trainers                                -
Production of Training
Materials
Refresher Training                                  -
Supplies and Textbooks
to Faculties of
Medicine                                _
b) In-Service Training
- Functional
Analysis
- Refresher
Training Plan
- Support to DRH
6. Urban Food Distr.
a) Ration Program
Management
- Install Computers



- 106                             ANNEX 12
Palo 6 of 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1988        1989      1990       1991       1992      1993        1994
2 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    12i,4  T                   1    4 -3     2 3  4
- Trainin g
- Consultant
b) Easing Urban
Transport Shortage
- Procurement of
Vehicles 6
Equipment
c) School-Feeding
Program
- Procurement of
Vehicles
- Food Supply
d) Workers Canteens
- Procurement of
Equipment
- Civil Works
C. REFINANCING OF PPF



- 107 -                          ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQ_U
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS ON THE PROJECT FILE
A. Prolect Related
1.  Proposals for Improving Hospital Manatement and Operations
2. Assessment of Health Facilities in Maputo and Nampula, Dansk
Sygehus Institute, Copenhagen, June 1988
3. Health Facilities Rehabilitation - Appraisal Mission Summary
4. Maintenance Center - Documents for the World Bank, Ministry of
Health, Maputo, January 1988
5. Proposal for Project Financing for the Maintenance Center at the
Central and Regional Level with the National Maintenance Plan
6. Composition of Maintenance Kits, Ministry of Health, Maputo, 1988
7. Interim Report on Beira and Maputo Pharmaceutical Stores
8.  Project Proposals - Manpower Development and Trainin*, Ministry
of Health, Maputo, June 1988
9. Health and Food Improvement Pro1ect - Final Report
10. Detailed Cost Tables, World Bank
B. Background
1. Mozambique Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Report, World
Bank, Report No. 7422-MOZ, September 1988
2. Mozambigue - Agricultural Sector Survey, World Bank, Report No.
7094-MOZ, May 1988
3. Strategy and Program for Economic Rehabilitation, 1987-90,
Government of Mozambique, Maputo, June 1987
4. The Emergency Situation in Mozambique - Priority Requirements for
the Period 1988-1989, GOM and UNDP, Maputo/New York, April 1988
5. Saude Para Todos no Ano 2000 (Health for All by the Year 2000),
Ministry of Health, Maputo, 1979
6. Informacao Estatistica (Statistical Information), Ministry of
Health, Maputo (various years)



- 108 -                               ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
7. Programa de Accao Para 1986, 1987, 1988 (Action Program for 1986,
1987, 1988), Ministry of Health, Maputo (appropriate years)
8.  MeetinR of Interested Parties for the Support of the AIDS Control
Program in Mozambique, WHO, Maputo, May 1988
9. Distribution of Medicines - Consultancy Study in Mozambique, Viak
Consultants, Stockholm, November 1986
10. Boletim de Informacao da Situacao Alimentar e Nutricional
Trimestral (Quarter!.y Bulletin on the Food and Nutrition
Situation)
11. Estrategias de Sobrevivencia na Cidade de Maputo: Uma
Investigacao Antropologica (Strategies for Survival in Maputo
City: An Anthropological Investigation), Lundin, I.B.,
University of Eduardo Mondlane, Maputo, July 1986
12. Food Aid Pledges and Shipments, Department of Food Security,
Ministry of Commerce, Maputo (various years)



;;     \1 344                                             e                        380                        400                 420
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+, /% v r > w eo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MocIroncia cia Proj.
12_
Mo_uebiq.oe
16'        \            g 4                                                          Elr</<)Ano 6
Nh...I.b.4              t       )PbN.
HARARE                                                            Nicuddli 
'N/                                                                          OOULIMANE
,Chide
Susndengo5  mo         @
200 
20q-
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
g 2 ~~~~~M..tmb..                                        PROJECT ACTIVITIES
/  %   -o W nheoro                                      E3~...,   REHABILrUTION - REALTH FAaUTIES
/   /   (          \                             23      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAINTE-NANCE KITS
22   /    2               S)           WO vuanculos                  @       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REHA81UTATION - HEALTH TRlAINING CENE RS
22/                                                                                                     UR8AN FOOD SYSTEM STRENGTHENING
~~~~~~~<  \      X            X          t ~~~~~~~~~~---------   PAVED ROADS. UNDER CONSTRUCTION
\   X                    \                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IARTH ROADS
0 Ys % \ * __ +- ~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYfS
9                 9        )                          ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~+ INENTOALAIRPORTS
/  ANE  Bela    0                    ~INHAM BANE                                RIVERS0 P2RTS
24'Ms2gr                                      g                                                *8       SWAMPS                                         24t'
S C U T H"                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITALS
A F R                                C A         usioPROVINCE BOVNDARIES
M asua AI                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
u0     3g0           4Z  -Ar D  l
Bw     3                         SOUTH AFOICA _        3300                                           33                     4004 



