Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18103
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH AN]D NUTRITION PROJECT
(Credit 1989-MOZ)
June 29, 1998
Africa Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Arica
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
US$1 = 620.00 Meticais (at time of appraisal, June, 1988)
US$1 = M 11,604.00 Meticais (at time of ICR, January, 1998)
MEASURES
Metric System
1 Meter (m) = 3.28 Feet
I Square Meter (sq m) = 10.76 Square Feet
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB                African Development Bank
BA                  Beneficiary Assessment
BDM                 Banco de Mo9ambique
CIR                 Country Implementation Review
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DNPC                Direc,ao Nacional de Planificacao e Cooperagao
DPCS                Provincial Directorate of Commerce of Sofala
EACB                Empresa de Abastecimento a Cidade de Beira (Supply Company for the city of Beira)
EACM                Empresa de Abastecimento a Cidade de Maputo
ERP                 Economic Rehabilitation Program
GACOPI              Gabinete de Coordinacao de Projectos de Investimento
GOAM                Organizational Secretariat for Supply in Maputo
GOM                 Government of Mozambique
GTZ                 German Technical Cooperation
HMDP                Health Manpower Development Plan
HNP                 Health and Nutrition Project
HSRP                Health Sector Recovery Program
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
MEDIMOC             Parastatal Import/Export Enterprise for Medical Supplies
MOC                 Ministry of Commerce
MOH                 Ministry of Health
mOPF                Ministry of Planning and Finance
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NHDP                National Health Development Plan
NPC                 National Planning Commission
ODA                 Overseas Development Agency
PAHO                Pan-American Health Organization
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
SAF                 Social Action Fund
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SIP                 Sector Investment Program
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
TA                  Technical Assistance
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
WFP                 World Food Program
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice-President:           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:           Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader:         Kees Kostermnans    L



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................                                                              i-vi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................                                         1
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ..............................................I
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................I
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..............................................6
BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................................8
BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................................                                                              8
ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME ..............................................:.                                                9
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  AND  FUTURE OPERATIONS ..............................................9
KEY LESSONS LEARNED .............................................                                                              10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .............................................                                                 13
Table 2:  Related Bank Credits .............................................                                                  14
Table 3:  Project Timetable .............................................                                                      14
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements .............................................                                                   15
Table 5:  Schedule of Activities in Project Implementation .............................................                       15
Table 6:  Key Indicators in Project Operation .............................................                                   20
Table 7:  Major Studies Included in Project .............................................                                     21
Table 8A: Project Costs .............................................                                                         23
Table 8B: Project Financing .............................................                                                     24
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................                                           24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .............................................                                             25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................                         28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................                                          28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .............................................                                              29
APPENDICES
Appendix A:    Mission's Aicle-Memoire
Appendix B:    Borrower's Comments on the ICR
Appendix C:   Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH ANqD NUTRITION PROJECT
(Credit 1989-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health And Nutrition
Project in Mozambique, for which Credit number 1989-MOZ in the amount of SDR 21.0 million
(US$ 27.0 million equivalent) was approved on March 14, 1989, and made effective on October
30, 1989. Soon after the project became effective, the DCA was amended, in March 1990, to
introduce a new Component C to the project related to Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
activities, with US$ 10.5 million in grant funding.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997. The original closing date was December 31,
1994. At the time of project closing, the credit was over 99% disbursed, and the last
disbursement took place on January 7, 1998. A balance of SDR 9617.0 was canceled.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Govemment of Norway, the Government of
Switzerland, UNICEF and WFP. Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) activities were
financed by the Governments of then-West Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom.
The ICR was prepared by K. Kostermans (Public Health Specialist); R. Silveira (Sr.
Economist); S. Nellemann (Consultant); N. Moncada (AFTHI), and E. Boostrom (EDIHR), with
the assistance of J. Murphy (Consultant). It was reviewed by R. Kagia (Sector Manager,
AFTHI) and P. Pomerantz (Country Director). The document was also sent for review to the
following people: N. Sirur (EDIHR); S. Agarwal (AFTS1); S. Bell (AFMMZ); D. Berk, 0.
Pannenborg (AFTH4); D. Cotlear (LCSHD); E. Elmendorf (AFTH3); M. Sugar (LOAAF), and
K. Uprety (LEGAF). The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendices to the
ICR.
This ICR was based on the findings of the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
and on materials in the project files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing completion summaries, contributing views reflected in the missions' aide memoire, and
commenting on the draft ICR.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. The Health and Nutrition Project (HNP) incorporated the first World
Bank credit to the health sector in Mozambique. The project was conceived in the context of the
Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERF') and the then-ongoing war which disrupted services in
large parts of the country. The project was supposed to: (a) play a major role in helping to lay the
foundation for continued provision of sustainable and efficient basic social services, (b) to assist
in the development of measures that addlressed the uneven burden of adjustment and help offset
the transitional costs that were borne disproportionately by the poorest segments of the
population.
2.    To help improve the health and nutrition status of the Mozambican people, the project
had four objectives: (a) strengthening capacity in policy formulation and management on health
and food security issues, with special attention to resource mobilization, institutional
development, information systems, and planning and analysis; (b) improving efficiency, to
enhance the impact of services within the tightly constrained budget; (c) improving service
quality to enhance the provision of basic needs to the population; and (d) helping to mitigate
some of the social costs of adjustment, to help sustain the ERP. In order to meet these objectives,
the project had two main components: (i) policy formulation and management strengthening, and
(ii) improving efficiency and quality of services.
3.    The objective of the new Component C (SDA), added to the project shortly after
effectiveness, was to strengthen the National Planning Commission's (NPC) capabilities for
social planning for poverty reduction. The objective was to be achieved through: (i) carrying out
social policy studies, (ii) data collection complementing then-current information on the poor and
on the impact of interventions, and (iii) a Social Action Preparation Program. This program
aimed at (1) preparing programs and policies geared to provide short-term poverty alleviation of
vulnerable households through improvernent of their food security, increased access to basic
services and other means to improve theiir economic welfare; (2) experimenting on a small-scale,
with projects and programs proposed for poverty alleviation; and (3) financing the initial stages
of large programs to increase progressively, allowing for learning-by-doing.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Overall, the project has substantially achieved its
major objectives. The objectives related to policy formulation provided very valuable support to
the MOH at a time during which circumstances changed dramatically in Mozambique.
Improving efficiency was and continues to be of extreme importance in the constrained
Mozambican environment. However, the security situation at the beginning of the project made
it impossible for these components to be implemented beyond the level of central hospitals.
5.    Considering the institutional weaknesses surrounding the SDA component, it was
unrealistic to expect that the enormous task of creating a poverty-conscious planning process
could be tackled sufficiently within the project. The task of the SDA staff was made more
difficult by the absence of clarity in the project's objectives.
6.    During Negotiations, assurances were obtained for: (a) a joint Ministry of Health
(MOH)-International Development Association (IDA) review of a cost recovery report and an
action plan to implement the recommendations no later than April 30, 1990; (b) completion and
review of a manpower development plan by October 31, 1990; (c) a MOH reorganization study



Evaluation Summary                                                              ii
review by January 31, 1990; (d) a resettlement plan for families located on the site of a proposed
pharmaceutical warehouse; (e) transfer of trucks to private retailers and to the Empresa de
Abastecimento a Cidade de Beira (Supply Company for the city of Beira) (EACB) and the
Empresa de Abastecimento a Cidade de Maputo (EACM); and (f) adequate housing for resident
consultants employed under the project. The activities under covenants (a), (b), (c) and (e) were
carried out or fulfilled, although with some delay. The resettlement plan was abandoned because
of resistance by the involved population. Covenant (f) was re-negotiated since more attractive
alternative housing arrangements became available.
7.    Implementation Experience and Results: Achievement of Objectives. Project
objectives were substantially achieved and some (e.g. National Health Manpower Development
Plan) exceeded original aspirations. However, as a project designed to do what was achievable in
the context of a protracted war --urban facility rehabilitation, improved planning, management
and training-- its direct impact on overall health outcomes was not expected to be substantial or
readily measurable, especially since the Project initially did not build capacity to monitor
outcomes. The Project had positive impacts on:
*  Improving tertiary/quaternary health care facilities and their efficiency through rehabilitation
and partial re-equipping of three urban hospitals, including efficiency-enhancing
modifications, and through other technical assistance (TA) to improve efficiency.
*  Strengthening human resources planning and training in the health sector, through
development and implementation of the National Health Manpower Development Plan
(HMDP), rehabilitation and refurbishing of three training facilities, provision of training
equipment and learning materials for all training facilities, training of training institutions'
staff, long-term training of health workers, revision of job descriptions for health personnel,
and provision of TA to strengthen curriculum development and training management.
*  Improving sector planning, management, information, and project implementation through
the establishment and, later, strengthening of the MOH's investment project coordination unit
[Gabinete de Coordina,co de Projectos de Investimento (GACOPI)], supporting MOH-led
sectoral planning and donor coordination, and supporting health information system
development and implementation.
*  Improving pharmaceutical supplies through participation in coordinated donor financing of
essential drugs and supplies and through technical support for drug system planning,
management and cost recovery. The Project strengthened the organization, management and
logistics of central and provincial drug and supply distribution systems.
8.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. Given the difficult
circumstances and deficient project preparation, project implementation has been satisfactory,
with a high degree of MOH commitment from the start. Nevertheless, substantial accumulated
delays in implementation resulted from: (a) poor performance of some consultants and
construction firms, (b) Borrower's initial lack of knowledge of Bank procedures, particularly in
procurement, (c) generally weak implementation capacity, and (d) insufficient responsiveness of
the Bank in the early years. Although the performance of MOH and GACOPI improved, serious
and unresolved problems in the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF) and Banco de
Mocambique (BDM) continued to cause serious delays. These delays were especially due to
delays in contract approval and payments to contractors. Bank procurement staff provided much
needed training and expedited the documentation clearance process. However, even after several
Country Implementation Reviews and numerous specialized disbursement and procurement



Evaluation Summary                                                             iii
missions, many of the problems at the MOPF and BDM have not been resolved. Initially, MOH
delays in preparing documents such as terms of reference and procurement lists affected
implementation. Implementation was further hampered by turnover of key high level staff and by
several shifts in implementation priorities which occurred as a result of the rapid evolution of the
political environment and the launching of the peace process. Subsequently, flexibility and
prompt support from the Bank allowed project modifications, including necessary extensions.
9.    Project Sustainability. The Project's achievements will be sustained through the
successful implementation of the Health Sector Recovery Program (HSRP), which continues to
finance and build upon actions initiated under the first credit. Long-term sustainability will be
contingent on regular maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, incentive systems for
personnel, availability of recurrent cost financing for the operations of service and training
facilities, effective supervision and support, and further institutional development. Given the low
level of Government finances available tD the sector, sustainability of the program will continue
to largely depend on long-term commitmrent from external financiers. Working towards a sector-
wide approach, all major external financiers of the sector have now shown such commitment.
10.   Bank Performance. In accordance with GOM development strategy, efforts were made
during identification and preparation to adapt project design to national realities, keeping in mind
that this was a pioneering operation in the sector. However, both overall project preparation and
appraisal were deficient (see Table 1). In retrospect, the rate of implementation of the project, as
estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was overly ambitious. In addition, the SAR's lack
of clear performance targets made it difficult to monitor implementation. Supervison of project
implementation was satisfactory, both in terms of time spent on supervision and the close
association that evolved between Bank, (GACOPI and MOH staff. Relationships of trust
developed during the supervision years. Mission participants were generally well chosen, both
for their technical ability and for their sensitivity and flexibility towards the Mozambican culture
and reality. Increased involvement of the Bank's Resident Mission improved procedural issues
with regard to procurement and disbursement. Relocation of a public health specialist to Maputo
also improved implementation.
II.   Borrower Performance. During project identification and preparation, the Borrower's
lack of knowledge of Bank guidelines and procedures and weak institutional capacity hampered
performance. This improved during implementation, with the strengthening of the team at
GACOPI responsible for procurement, financial management, monitoring of civil works, and by
improving the support for coordination ofthe project. The team's knowledge of project
execution has been invaluable in the implementation of other donor-supported projects and in the
preparation and launching of the HSRP and the IDA credit supporting it. The project faced
continuous obstacles caused by weak institutional capacity in other directorates of the MOH and
by often-faulty processes in the central GOM apparatus. However, there is no doubt about strong
MOH ownership of the project.
12.   Future Operation. Based on some of the accomplishments achieved under the HNP, the
HSRP continues to build upon actions initiated by MOH and several donors, including the Bank,
helping to ensure successful operations and continued development in the sector. The HSRP is
designed as a Sector Investment Program (SIP) and the Bank is supporting it through a credit
from the International Development Association.



Evaluation Summary                                                                 iv
13.   Summary of Key Lessons Learned. The key lessons that emerge from the experiences
associated with this credit are:
*  Project simplicity and realistic objectives are important factors in project success, especially
in an environment of great uncertainty and recognized weak capacity such as prevailed in
Mozambique in the late 1980s. Project design also needs to be flexible to accomodate
evolving country conditions.
*  A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within a ministry's Directorate of Planning can work
effectively with other ministerial departments, central ministries, and donors, to coordinate
and monitor donor-supported projects and programs; and help assure their mutual
compatibility and coherence within national strategies, and support development of a sector
wide program approach. However, such a PIU should remain a small administrative unit to
facilitate communication with external financiers, and should not take over genuine functions
of other departments in the ministry, or activities that can best be carried out by the private
sector. One could therefore speak of a Project Administration Unit instead of a PIU.
*  Care needs to be taken when designing projects with more than one implementing sectoral
ministry. Implementation is likely to become complicated; multiple implementing ministries
should be avoided if feasible.
*  With the sectoral ministry clearly taking the lead in conceptualization and strategy
development, donor coordination across the sector can be built around growing coordination
in sub-sectors or sub-areas (e.g. human resources/training, pharmaceutical supply/financing,
technical assistance, decentralization of financing).
*  To effectively monitor implementation, clear and monitorable performance targets need to be
set at appraisal.
*  Continuity of technical assistance, often crucial to a project's success, can be achieved in the
medium-term by ensuring repeated presence of the same advisors. This can also be achieved
in the long-term with good communications access between visits.
*  E-mail communications between MOH/GACOPI and Washington-based Bank staff, which
became available during implementation, greatly facilitated and sped up communication and
decreased HNP communication costs.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
I.    Macroeconomic Setting. During the first half of the 1980s, Mozambique experienced a
marked and continued decline in output and an aggravation of economic distortions and financial
imbalances. These were the result of adverse exogenous factors and internal disruptions caused
by widespread armed attacks and inappropriate economic policies. In 1987, GOM launched a
far-reaching Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) with measures to increase reliance on
market signals, improve economic incentives, and strengthen demand management through
appropriate fiscal, monetary, exchange rate and external borrowing policies. By 1989, the ERP
had begun to reverse the economic decline of previous years. It was well recognized that the
ERP could have considerable short-term costs for vulnerable groups in the population. The
project aimed to assist Government in mreeting these challenges in the areas of health and
nutrition.
2.    During implementation of the project, Mozambique made the transition from war to
peace, and from a one-party state to a multi-party democracy: A peace agreement was signed in
October, 1992, and general elections were held in 1994. Annual inflation tumbled from a three-
digit to a one-digit level. These enormous changes meant that the project, with its limited
objectives, acquired the image of being under-ambitious in scope, while being perhaps over-
ambitious with regard to implementation capacity.
3.    Bank's Role in the Sector. During the design of the project, many health facilities in the
rural areas had been destroyed by the war, which targeted inter alia health infrastructure and
health workers. Health services coverage, among the best in Africa before the war, had been on
the decline, as were quality and efficiency at the secondary and tertiary levels of care. The
project was designed to support activities that were feasible under the economic and security
constraints. It was intended, as the first IDA investment in the sector, to selectively respond to
immediate needs while assisting in developing a better knowledge of the health system
requirements and a comprehensive sectcr strategy. IDA's involvement in the health sector began
with a mission in mid-1987. Preliminary recommendations of a sector study (Report 7422-MOZ)
led to the identification of the Project.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The main original project objectives were three-fold: (a) to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity in policy formulation and management of health and food security issues, (b) to improve
quality and efficiency of services in health and food security sectors, and (c) to help the Borrower
to mitigate some of the social costs of acljustment to help sustain the ERP.
5.    Under objective (a) the project would:
Strengthen policy formulation capacity by (i) facilitating the development of improved health
policies in the areas of cost recovery, (ii) designing and implementing an action plan based
on the recommendations of the said study, (iii) preparing and implementing a Health



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  2
Manpower Development plan for MOH staff, and finally by (iv) strengthening the
operational efficiency of MOH health facilities.
* Strengthen the managerial and planning capabilities by: (i) conducting a study to analyze
MOH's organizational structure and implement the recommendations of said study, (ii)
conducting studies to prepare future projects in family planning, health and nutrition sectors,
(iii) strengthening GACOPI within the Directorate of Planning and Cooperation, and finally
(iv) strengthening MOH's financial management capacity by: (1) streamlining accounting
and budgeting procedures and (2) developing a financial information system.
* Improve the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) food security policies and information system by:
(i) developing a food price policy by: (1) conducting a study of the Borrower's food needs,
supply and access, (2) strengthening the capabilities to carry out policy analyses, acquisition
of transport, and office equipment and supplies for MOC's Department of Food Security;
and (ii) improving the information systems by: (1) integrating several food security
information systems and (2) improving the provision of training for MOC staff in planning
and utilization of food aid. In addition management capacity would be strengthened to
coordinate and manage project activities and to carry out studies to plan for future projects in
the area of food security.
6.    Under objective (b) the project would:
* Rehabilitate health facilities by (i) reconstructing or rehabilitating health posts, health centers,
provincial and rural hospitals in the provinces of Manica, Tete and Sofala; (ii) financing the
rehabilitation of hospitals at Maputo, Beira and Nampula in two phases; (iii) procuring
priority hospital equipment and supplies, including spare-parts and pharmaceuticals.
* Improve hospital efficiency through: (i) procuring administrative equipment and supplies; (ii)
undertaking a reorganization of the hospitals at Maputo, Beira and Nampula; (iii) improving
provision of assistance to and training for hospital staff in implementing procedures and
systems to strengthen overall hospital management (including admissions and discharge
procedures, cost accounting and control, clinical coding, materials and manpower
productivity control).
* Improve health facility maintenance by: (i) strengthening health facility and equipment
maintenance centers at the central level in Maputo and provincial level in Beira and
Nampula, (ii) improving inventory control, (iii) procuring and replenishing maintenance tool
kits, and (iv) procuring vehicles and motor bikes for the involved centers.
* Improve pharmaceutical supply by: (i) constructing, furnishing and equipping of central
pharmaceuticals warehouse complex for MEDIMOC in Maputo; (ii) implementing a
resettlement plan for the persons living in the sites assigned for the construction of the
warehouse; (iii) developing drug management procedures; (iv) increasing on-the-job training
for MEDIMOC staff; and (v) renovating, furnishing and equipping the MEDIMOC regional
store in Beira.
* Improve the efficiency and quality of pre-service medical, nurse and paramedical training
through: (i) the Health Manpower Training program by: (1) upgrading physical facilities,



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  3
including boarding and lodging facilities and acquisition of furniture for the ICS's at Maputo,
Beira and Nampula; (2) strengthening curriculum development at the ICS's; (3) acquiring
vehicles, office and teaching equipment, textbooks, teaching and learning materials for the
ICS's; (4) launching teacher training for about 65 ICS teacher candidates; (5) launching
refresher training for about 80 appointed trainers; (6) acquiring medical textbooks, equipment
and supplies for the Faculty of Med.icine at Eduardo Mondlane University; and through (ii)
the development of an in-service training program by: (1) designing the program and (2)
revising, printing and disseminating job descriptions for MOH's health personnel.
Improve efficiency and quality of services by supporting an urban food distribution system
by: (i) strengthening the management of urban food supply systems in Maputo and Beira
through: (1) strengthening of program management, data processing and analysis; (2) training
for Organizational Secretariat for SUpply in Maputo (GOAM) and Provincial Directorate of
Commerce of Sofala (DPCS) staff in management procedures and computer use; (ii)
acquiring vehicles for food transport; (iii) strengthening school feeding programs; and (iv)
conducting a pilot operation to improve the workers' canteen program by improvement of the
facilities and acquisition of equipment.
7.     The objectives of the project were in conformity with Mozambique's war situation and
insecurity in the countryside. The project was overly complex if one takes into account that this
was the first IDA investment operation iin the country's health sector and that implementation
capacity was weak. The objectives of the project were clearly stated and consistent with IDA's
country strategy at the time of appraisal, which emphasized assistance to safe areas of the country
to minimize risk to infrastructure. Soon after the Project became effective, the DCA was
amended in March, 1990, to introduce a new Component C to the project related to Social
Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) activiities -- the third objective of the project.
8.    Under objective (c) for which then-West Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom provided extra finances, the project would:
*  Carry out social policy studies to: (i) support development of options for policy measures and
targeted interventions in the areas of(1) food security, (2) access to basic services, and (3)
enhanced participation in the economic recovery of the absolutely poor; (ii) provide the
necessary elements to allow ex-ante and ex-post social dimensions evaluation of major
economic policy decisions and program interventions; and (iii) identify the size and
composition of the absolutely poor and vulnerable and monitor the effects of institutional
changes and macro-economic and sectoral policies, on specific groups of households; and
(iv) support the Borrower's effort to integrate within the activities of its line ministries, and
within the national budget, all activities presently dispersed under the areas of Rehabilitation,
the Emergency Program, and Social Dimensions of Adjustment.
*  Carry out: (i) data collection complementing present information on the poor and on the
impact of interventions, and (ii) a Social Action Preparation Program. This program aimed
(1) to prepare programs and policies aimed to provide short-term poverty alleviation of
vulnerable households through improvement of their food security, increased access to basic
services and other means to improve their economic welfare; (2) to experiment on a small-



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  4
scale with proposed policies and programs for poverty alleviation; and (3) to finance the
initial stages of large programs to increase progressively, allowing for learning-by-doing.
9.     The project was amended formally in May, 1993, and September, 1995, to better respond
to changed political and economical Borrower circumstances and priorities.
10.   Achievement of Project Objectives. Overall, the project has substantially achieved its
major objectives.
11.   The Strengthening Policy Formulation and Management component focused on
institutional development. Assessments of organization and management needs by
internationally-recognized consultants were used by the MOH in new organizational and policy
papers. The Cost Recovery Study, the Health Manpower Development Plan and the Hospital
Efficiency Studies were baseline studies for strengthening MOH operations during the project.
Those three consultancies had positive and lasting results in terms of aligning policy measures
and long term strategies. Results of those studies also were used later for the preparation of the
new HSRP.
12.   The Improving Efficiency and Quality of Services component was successful in:
* The rehabilitation and extension of primary rural health facilities, under cofinancing of other
donors and UNICEF, contributed to (i) the prompt stabilization of the population in secure
areas during the war, (ii) the creation of social conditions and services for displaced people,
and (iii) the resettlement after the war. The IDA credit's direct inputs were mainly focused
on central-level strengthening and technical organization for planning and management of the
initiatives and for donor coordination.
* Improving the adequacy of the central hospitals. By default, these had become the most
important health units during the war, both as referral facilities and because they were located
in the most secure areas -- which tripled their populations during the conflict. The
supervision of the civil works was far from adequate, and this has sometimes led to poor
results. However, overall performance of the contractors was more or less satisfactory.
* Achieving some of the initial objectives regarding maintenance, although the highest level of
achievement was realized through the studies on hospital efficiency conducted for the central
hospitals. These studies strengthened central hospitals' management in Maputo and Beira.
The Central Hospital of Maputo, by far the largest facility in the country, particularly
benefited from the TA. All services and functions in the hospital are now budgeted and
information is computerized, except (unfortunately) for the financial flows with regard to the
"Special Clinics". The studies also contributed to the improvement of the health information
system, which now covers all tertiary and secondary levels of care, by providing inputs and
pilot work for the design and testing of those aspects of the information system covering the
hospital network.
* Improving pharmaceutical supplies, through participation in an increasingly coordinated
donor financing of essential drugs and supplies and through technical support for drug
system planning, management and cost recovery. The project strengthened the organization,
management and logistics of the central and some provincial drugs and supply distribution



Project Implementation Assessment                                               5
systems. Strengthening of the peripheral distribution system will continue with support from
other donors under the HSRP. Implementation of the initial objectives for the rehabilitation
of the pharmaceutical warehouse in Beira and construction of a new MEDIMOC central
warehouse and offices in Maputo (see Table 5, point 4) had to be canceled under the Project,
since the cofinancing donor withdrew support for it. This created a major inefficiency in the
project, since the IDA credit had, at that time, already financed the construction of alternative
housing for the population living on the location scheduled for the new MEDIMOC
warehouse, while another cofinancing donor supported management improvement of
MEDIMOC. Although the donor repeatedly confirmed to the Bank that it was still
committed to financing the construction of the warehouse, this never materialized. The
problem was partially due to lack of resolution of the resettlement question and the selection
of the site that should have followed the resettlement study.
Improving health manpower training through development and implementation of the HMDP
was successful. The rehabilitation of three training facilities was completed, although with
many delays and imperfections. Training equipment and learning materials for all training
facilities was provided. Long, inte:rmediate, and short-term workshops and seminars for
trainers and training management staff of all training centers were held. Long-term training
of many cadres of health workers and revision of job descriptions for health personnel were
carried out, as was the provision of TA to strengthen curriculum development and training
management.
13.   The Urban Food Distribution System sub-component was phased out in 1992, and
canceled after the project was restructured. This was done under mutual agreement, as the initial
objectives under this component were found to be unsuitable and inappropriately designed to
address the actual needs. This was further supported by the 1990 Mozambique Food Security
Study which recommended programs that were not included under this component (e.g. instead
of a school feeding program, the study recommended programs on de-worming, iron
supplementation and indirect targeting Df food products like yellow-maize). The provision of
free trucks/vehicles was delayed, and finally implementation was halted after a number of
donors, including the Bank and WFP, and the Government found it unsuitable to give away
trucks/vehicles for free, particularly as the transport situation and availability of trucks was
improving. Studies prepared under the aegis of the project had, and still have, a significant
impact on the development of the sector strategy. In particular, background work on human
resources development provided vital inputs in the preparation of the HSRP and the IDA credit
now supporting it.
14.   Finally, general project implementation capacity was significantly enhanced within the
MOH through strengthening of GACOPI, including a team of local management professionals
with expertise in financial management, procurement and civil works monitoring. This expertise
has greatly increased over the life of the project. MOH staff were the main actors. The
implementation unit, as part of the Planning Directorate, has a key role in the coordination of
other donors, especially in the development and implementation of the MOH investment plan.
15.   For the SDA component, considering the institutional weaknesses foreseen during
appraisal of the project, it was unrealistiic to expect a newly-formed institution to tackle the
enormous task of creating a poverty conscious planning process. A lack of reliable statistical



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  6
data, the separation of economic and social planning, and the absence of institutional mechanisms
to influence policy all acted to weaken the integration of social concerns into the economic and
social planning process. Besides, the task of the SDA staff was made difficult by the absence of
clarity in the project's objectives. The Social Action Fund (SAF) was handicapped by a lengthy
sub-project appraisal and approval process. The lengthy process of recruiting technical staff,
their lack of integration into existing functional departments, the absence of national counterparts
for TA, and the high turnover of key project-related personnel in both the Government and World
Bank seriously undermined the formulation and delivery of a coherent implementation strategy.
16.    However, the SDA project component made a considerable contribution to the policy
analysis area. It produced a poverty framework paper, studies on safety net for the poor,
informal sector, minimum wage, national reconstruction plan, etc., although appropriate
dissemination was often lacking. More importantly, the project created an enabling institutional
environment to discuss and debate the issue of poverty in Mozambique. The Poverty Alleviation
Unit in MOPF stands out as the single most important institutional by-product of this intersectoral
dialogue which was nourished by the SDA project.
17.   The Social Action Fund (SAF) was never intended to be a full-fledged targeted poverty
program. It was conceived as a pilot program under which sub-projects would be tested.
Because of the small size of the portfolio of projects and the lack of socio-economic data on
individual projects, it is difficult to assess SAF's impact. However, the impression is that this
impact was small. The limited scale of the subcomponent made it difficult to justify, on a cost
basis, the minimum critical number of staff required to make the operation function.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   Although enormous delays were experienced during the project, the implementation
record for the project should be rated satisfactory given the difficult war circumstances. The
Government was highly committed to the project objectives from the start. When
implementation issues were raised during project execution, they were discussed and addressed at
the highest level of Government. As a result, a meaningful working relationship has been
established between IDA and MOH staff.
19.   Despite delays in most project activities, the project managed to fulfill virtually all
objectives by its eventual closing date, with support from substantial Bank technical assistance
from HQ and the Resident Mission. The following factors caused major delays in civil works
and technical assistance:
* A lack of knowledge of the standard and internationally accepted rules for project
implementation activities, such as preparation of terms of reference and preparation of tender
documents.
*  Tender documents prepared early in the project needed to be adapted to changing national
realities. Similarly, changes in the content and circumstances of key consultancies already
underway contributed to delays in their implementation and also required extension of their
duration.



Project Implementation Assessment                                               7
*  In civil works, consultants sometimes did not follow the agreed work programs and
schedules. MOH also experienced problems with the low productivity of some contractors,
while corrections of low quality work sometimes led to further delays.
*  Implementation was further hampered by turnover of key staff. All National Directors
directly involved in the project, were replaced several times during preparation and
implementation. The project was irnplemented under three different Ministers of Health.
Turnover of key staff in the implementation agencies also limited the agencies' institutional
capacity to carry out project-supported activities.
20.   Implementing agencies' general level of understanding of the Bank rules and procedures
was always weak. With rapid evolution of the political environment and the launching of the
peace process, shifts in implementation priorities also slowed implementation and presented
obstacles to the implementation of the initial targets and objectives. Subsequently, flexibility and
prompt support from the Bank allowed project modifications which also justified the extensions
that were needed. Problems with communications (i.e. telephones, mail services even within
Maputo) and transport further complicated implementation problems, as well as MOH and Bank
efforts to deal with them. Communications improved through e-mail and increase of Bank staff
in Maputo.
21.   Beneficiary Assessments. Formal beneficiary consultations at the design stage of the
project, along with more extensive stakeholder consultations, might have helped establish a more
realistic implementation timetable for a] l aspects of the project. However, the MOH staff and the
Bank's implementation review team often made extensive field visits to consult on project
progress and issues, thereby helping project implementation. For the SDA component, and
certainly for the SAF, a client consultation (beneficiary assessment) would have been even more
crucial, but this was not carried out in a systematic way. However, client consultations were not
yet part and parcel of Bank operations at the time of project design, and it must be noted that the
project has moved the discussion on systematic client consultations forward in Mozambique.
22.   Costs and Financing Arrangements. Project costs and financing compared favorably
with estimates at appraisal, as shown in Tables 8A and 8B, of the Statistical Annex. Total actual
IDA financing amounted to US$30.2 million equivalent, compared to the original US$ 27.0
million. Actual Government contributions totalled US$3.9 million compared with the US$ 3.7
million estimated at appraisal. Disbursements, slow in the first years of the project, steadily
improved over the life of the project. The amount of IDA credit funds available increased due to
exchange rate fluctuations.
23.   Actual financing of the SDA components totaled US$6.4 million equivalent as shown in
Tables 8A and 8B, with contributions from Switzerland, the Netherlands, ODA (UK) and GTZ
(then-West Germany).
24.   The Project was audited annually as required in the DCA, and the general findings of the
Audit Reports were favorable as to the procedures and practices of accounting within the project.
However, in August, 1993, IDA suspended use of SOEs after the audit was nine months late.
Auditors' remarks criticized the Special Account management and discrepancies in
disbursements, problems which continued from year to year without adequate measures being



Project Implementation Assessment                                               8
taken by the Banco de Mocambique (BDM), the responsible Government agency. Only towards
the very end of the project did BDM make a reconciliation of the accounts to allow for the final
disbursements under the project. The audit reports for the SDA component were unqualified.
Disbursements and procurement procedures were conducted in accordance with practices
recommended by the Bank, except in cases when IDA provided a waiver.
BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   Bank support in project preparation and appraisal proved less than satisfactory by not
recognizing enough the Borrower's low level of capacity. Bank support during supervision was
satisfactory. The Bank was especially mindful during identification that project goals be set in
accordance with Government's overall development strategies. Additional preparation of civil
works components and efforts to keep this first project simple, especially in its first years, would
have been warranted during project preparation.
26.   The average time devoted to project supervision was about 20.6 staff weeks per year over
the life of the project, although from 1993 onwards this was complemented by preparation and
later supervision of HSRP. The composition of the missions was adequate to the needs of each
particular visit. The Bank's response time on project related correspondence, such as no-
objections, decreased significantly when the team began using e-mail. The SAR's lack of clear
performance targets made it difficult to monitor implementation, and supervision missions in the
project's early years could have taken a more proactive approach in seeking and -- with MOH --
confronting the causes of implementation delays and slow disbursement.
27.   Despite several changes in task managers in the first two years of implementation, much
less change took place among disbursement and legal staff connected to the project. The Bank
team, certainly in later years, was generally considered flexible and pro-active in introducing
changes when Government priorities changed or when processes were found to be lacking or
inappropriate.
28.   For the SDA initiative, Bank performance was less satisfactory. Frequently changing
task managers caused shifts in thinking, and changes in priorities. The bureaucratic fund
disbursement procedures seriously hampered the SAF implementation.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   Given the low capacity and the difficult circumstances in the country, Borrower
performance was satisfactory. During project identification and preparation, the Borrower's lack
of knowledge of Bank guidelines and procedures and weak institutional capacity hampered
performance. This improved during implementation, with the strengthening of the team at
GACOPI responsible for procurement, financial management, monitoring of civil works, and by
improving the support for coordination of the project. A strong team was formed in the project
implementation unit (GACOPI) which now excels in all crucial areas of project execution,
including procurement, financial management, and monitoring of activities (principally civil
works). Substantial experience during this project proved invaluable in the preparation of the
HSRP and the IDA credit which supports it as a SIP. Despite substantial progress in the MOH,
the project faced continuous obstacles imposed by faulty processes in the broad government
apparatus. The most severe obstacles were disbursement-related ones at the BDM and contract



Project Implementation Assessment                                               9
approval impediments at the MOPF. UJnfortunately after several Country Implementation
Reviews and countless specialized disbursement and procurement missions, the problems still
were not resolved, especially in the case of contract approvals. High turnover of staff in MOH
contributed to performance problems. However, in general, MOH authorities were eager to
establish good working relationships with the Bank to address implementation issues as a team.
30.   The SDA initiative was also pllagued by many staff changes on GOM side. Insufficient
counterpart staff was provided to work: with foreign TA. However, the Poverty Alleviation Unit
established itself very well within Government over the duration of the project.
ASSESSMENVT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
31.   Overall, the project has achieved good results against original goals, despite initial
slowness in implementation. However, since this was a relatively small investment operation its
direct impact on overall health outcomes is not expected to be substantial. Furthermore, since the
project did not build capacity to monitor outcomes, its impact is not directly measurable. The
project did support implementation of a health infornation system which directly contributes to
that capacity, but in addition, validity of available data on health outcomes was low at the start
and impossible to attain due to the war and later due to the low capacity of staff collecting the
data.
32.   Construction and rehabilitation work at hospitals and training institutes, which accounted
for the bulk of the budgeted expenditures, was successfully carried out. Training of trainees and
of health workers (initial and in-service) was also successfully implemented and will undoubtedly
contribute to better service delivery if the appropriate incentive and salary structures are now put
in place. The institutional development sub-components of the project, including the
strengthening of the planning process of the MOH and of the implementation team within MOH
were successfully carried out. Together with the TA and completed studies, these are considered
to be extremely important activities and made the design of the HSRP possible.
33.   The SDA component had limited impact as far as actual mini-projects under the SAF are
concerned. The main impact of the project is that it created the possibility to mainstream poverty
discussions into the general political debate.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
34.   HNP's achievements will be sustained through the successful implementation of the
HSRP. This sustainability is likely due to MOH's high commitment to the HSRP. Long-term
sustainability will be contingent on regular maintenance of infrastructure and equipment,
appropriate incentive systems for personnel, availability of sufficient recurrent cost financing for
the operations of training facilities, effective supervision and support, and further institutional
development. In the Government budget, allocations for maintenance have increased enormously
in the last few years, and recently a new maintenance policy has been developed. Various
institutional development activities uncler the project have led to positive changes in the operating
procedures of the MOH. Since the projilect itself is fully integrated within the health services
system and the sector as a whole, its sustainability depends on the sector's overall prospects.



Project Implementation Assessment                                               10
35.   Given the present level of economic development of Mozambique, sustainability will
also much depend on long-term commitment from bilateral and multilateral donor and
cooperating agencies. A follow-on IDA credit in support of the HSRP, along with other donors'
support, has ensured continuity of financing for all of the priority activities of the first project.
Working towards a sector-wide approach, all major external financiers of the sector have now
shown such long-term commitment.
36.   As far as the SDA is concerned, the Poverty Alleviation Unit is now well established in
MOPF and well integrated in the government's machinery, and it has good potential of
influencing policies and coordinating actions aiming at ameliorating the conditions of the poor.
The SAF has not yet grown into a full-fledged Social Action Program, as was intended.
However, in the health sector a country-wide Health Development Fund is now providing funds
for small health infrastructure.
37.   Future Operations. As the first Bank operation in Mozambique Health, this project
"opened a door" to the sector. The trusting relationship between the MOH and the Bank's team,
together with the general trend towards more sector-wide approaches, made it possible to prepare
the future IDA support to the sector as a SIP, providing broad, large and flexible support for the
Ministry's HSRP.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The key lessons that emerge from the experiences associated with this credit are:
Design issues
*  Care needs to be taken when designing a project that involves more than one implementing
sectoral ministry. This is likely to make implementation complicated and should be avoided
whenever feasible.
*  Project simplicity, realistic objectives, and flexible design are important factors in project
success, especially in an environment of great uncertainty and recognized weak capacity such
as prevailed in Mozambique in the late 1980s.
Planning, management and coordination issues
*  Effective planning and strategy development can be done on the basis of limited data, with
adjustment and updating on the basis of new information and implementation experience.
*  With the sectoral ministry clearly taking the lead in conceptualization and strategy
development, donor coordination across the sector can be built around growing coordination
in sub-sectors or sub-areas (e.g. human resources/training, pharmaceutical supply/financing,
technical assistance, decentralization of financing).
*  A Project Implementation Unit within a Ministry can work effectively with other ministerial
departments, central ministries, and donors, to coordinate and monitor major donor-supported
projects and programs, help ensure their mutual compatibility and coherence within national
strategies, and support development of a sector program approach. However, such a PIU
should remain a relatively small administrative unit and not start taking over genuine



Project Implementation Assessment                                                 11
functions of other MOH departments. One could therefore speak of a Project Administration
Unit instead of a PIU.
*  More thorough and detailed planning during project preparation could have avoided many
major delays in project implementation and disbursement, especially with a Borrower and a
sectoral ministry new to IDA procedures and requirements.
*  Close contact between the operational team and the disbursement staff is important to make
sure that the decisions made by one of the teams are fully supported by the other.
Implementation issues
*  To effectively monitor implementation, clear and monitorable performance targets need to be
set at time of appraisal.
*  Project preparation and implementation planning need to consider carefully linkages within
and among various subcomponent's activities. Such considerations are facilitated by the
commitment of the ministry and of major donors to a sector-wide approach. Consideration of
such linkages is also facilitated by the development and use of linkable relational databases
and appropriate use of professional program planning and management tools (ZOPP,
Microsoft Project) for sub-sector planning (WHO-developed models for projection of
manpower availability and requirements, WHO/PAHO developed tools for pharmaceutical
system planning and management), and tools for tracking and coordinating multi-source
support for development efforts. Some of the tools mentioned have been used during
implementation and for the preparation of the HSRP.
*  Greater involvement of beneficiaries, and participants could have helped in planning and
achieving more realistic implementation rates for civil works, more relevant TA, or
appropriate focus in training and continuing education, more appropriate relative emphasis in
learning materials, and earlier detection of strong resistance to resettlement.
*  Government commitment to the project is fundamental in achieving objectives, but success is
also highly dependent on the implenientation capacity of staff.
*  Good implementation is dependent not only on the quality and motivation of staff at the
project implementation unit but also on the capacity and commitment in all departments in
the sectoral ministry and central ministries. Strengthening those capacities is needed for the
functioning of the overall system, rather then circumventing those departments or finding
alternative temporary solutions.
*  Mozambique's centralized system of contract approvals and handling of project accounts
requires the availability of specialized capacity in MOPF and the BDM. Such capacity
remains weak and delays continue to occur in all projects, in spite of continuous supportive
efforts by the Bank, MOH and others. Therefore, consideration should be given to giving
more authority to sectoral ministries to approve contracts, with MOPF retaining audit and a
posteriori monitoring of contract responsibilities.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              12
*  Mid-term review and adaptation of a project can not only greatly improve implementation
and disbursement, but also demonstrate IDA commitment and flexibility and effectively
support development and implementation of a sector strategy by a sectoral ministry. It is
hoped that recognition of this during HNP implementation will lead to the MOH's inclusion
of pro-active, multi-donor annual reviews of the HSRP.
*  E-mail communications between GACOPI and Washington-based Bank staff, which became
available during implementation, facilitated and sped up communication and decreased HNP
communication costs. Internet-based worldwide networking, which has since become
available to selected ministries through Mozambique's Eduardo Mondlane University, with
Bank support, has been particularly used by GACOPI for file transfers and will increase in
value as its use by other ministries and agencies working with Mozambique increases.
External arrangements and technical assistance
*  "Twinning" and other institution or team focused technical assistance/support arrangements
require careful selection and adequate counterpart involvement and management by the
sectoral ministry.
*  Technical assistance effectiveness is heavily dependent upon both the
quality/adaptabil ity/appropriateness of the TA and the "match" and the relationships between
the technical advisors and key Borrower officials as counterparts.
*  Continuity of TA, often crucial to its success, is achievable through repeated medium-term
presence of advisors (e.g. repeated 3 to 12 month periods of TA in Human Resources/
Training Development and, with good communications access between visits, repeated I to 3
weeks visits by an architect/planner) as well as through long term continuity.
Sectoral issues
*  Increased payments to temporary trainers in the health training institutions helped resolve
problems (e.g. serious delays in course completion) due to their originally-low motivation
and irregular participation. These changes indirectly improved the working situation of full
time trainers.
* Slower than expected MOH/GOM salary growth has contributed to decreased morale and
motivation. Inter alia, salary levels and available salary funding need to be considered in
revising the NHDP and the HMDP.



Statistical Annexes                                                              13
PART II- -STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table :1: Summary of Assessments
B''?,fiij f '. .'bstan1iF - S  -;  :  :
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                          X
Sector policies                   X
Financial objectives                            X
Institutional development         X
Physical objectives               X
Gender concerns                                                                 x
Other social objectives                         X
Environmental                                                                   X
Public sector management                        X
Private sector management                                                       X
Other                                                                           X
B. Project Sustainability                                                                     .
..   g.u0 .,: . . . . .
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                   x
Preparation                                                     x
Appraisal                                                       X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                     X
Implementation                                   X
Covenant compliance                              X
ig hly    I Satisfa      U -; --g- .
SatisfEmctory  _    _       __tcome  X
E. Assessment of Outcome                            X



Statistical Annexes                                                             14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
I. Preceding        .This was first operation in sector.
Operations
II. Following
Operations
Food Security    2487-MOZ   6.3         Strengthen national capacity to     1993        Ongoing
confront and deter major causes of
household poverty and food insecurity.
Health Sector    2788-MOZ   98.7        Increase coverage and quality of health  1995   Ongoing
Recovery                                care; strengthen institutions
responsible for providing health care to
the population; develop human
resources in delivery of health care
services.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Lete of. Prset p-Bfor DevlopA ; inDSg Helt Care                August 1988 
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  January 1988      January 1988
|Preparation                              |April 1988          April 1988l
|Appraisal                                 lMay 1988     0     June 1988l
|Letter of Prospects for Developing Health Care |August 1988l
|Negotiations                              lNovember. 1988  
Board Presentation                         December 1988      March 1989
Signing                                                       April 28, 1989
Effectiveness                              February 1989      October 30, 1989
Project Completion                         March 30, 1994     December, 1996
Credit Closing                             December 31, 1994  June 30, 1997



Statistical Annexes                                                                     15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
. .- /v.t-S  ;  .- FY89  F90   F91 - -    _
Appraisal         4,160   12,401   19,072    23,517  26,165    27,000
Estimate                                   _       _                             _
Actual            0       2,766   3,537      4,499   6,290       10,816   20,032    24,867   29,623   30,204
Actual as % of    0       9.8%     12.5%      16%     22%       38%       71%        88%      105%      107%
Date of final disbursement: January 7, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key ImpIemientdatin1ndk tr4   fl fd"ii. 
A. Strengthening Policy Formulation and Management
1.  Policy Studies and Implementation
a. Cost recovery study
-  study completed                              mid 1989       Oct. 1989
-  review with IDA                              end 1989      Nov. 1990
-  implementation                               1990-1994      1992-1995
b. Manpower development plan
-  study completed                              mid 1990       Dec. 1991
-  review with IDA                              end 1990         1992
-   implementation                              1991-1994      on-going
c. Development of cost control measures
-  study completed                              end 1990       on-going
d. Strategic plan for health secltor computing
-  study completed                              end 1989     under revision
2.  Strengthening of the MOH
a. MOH reorganization
-  study completed                             March 1989      Sep. 1989
-  review with IDA                              end 1989       Nov. 1990
-  implementation                               end 1990         1991
b. Improving financial management and control
-  study completed                              end 1989       on-going
-  training completed                           mid 1990       on-going
-  implementation                               1990-1994      1991-1995
3.  Food security policies and programs
a. Food pricing policy
-  study completed                              Feb. 1989      Sep. 1989
-  TA completed                                 mid 1991       End 1991
b. Food management information system
-  TA completion                                end 1990       End 1991
-  implementation                                        1990-1994        1992



Statistical Annexes                                                                      16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
B. Improvin d Efficiency and Service Quality
.  Health facilities reconstruction
a. Maputo hospital
-   master plan completed                        end 1989     May 1992
-  final design completed                        mid 1990     Nov. 1993
-  tendering completed                           mid 1994     Aug. 1994
-  civil works completed                                      Dec. 1997
b. Beira hospital
-  master plan completed                        Sept. 1989    May 1992
-  final design completed                       Mar. 1990    Nov. 1993
-  tendering completed                          Sept. 1990    Aug. 1994
-  civil works completed                         mid 1994     Dec. 1997
c. Nampula hospital
-  final design completed                        end 1989     Nov. 1993
-  tendering completed                           mid 1990     Aug. 1994
-      civil works completed                     mid 1993     Dec. 1997
d. Primary and secondaly facilities
-  Tete civil works completed                    end 1990        1992
-  Manica civil works completed                  mid 1991        1992
-  Sofala civil works completed                  mid 1992        1992



Statistical Annexes                                                                   17
Table 5: Key Indicators iFor Project Implementation (continued)
Key Implementation Indicatoiri.eflcd 
2. Hospital efficiency
a. Hospital management operations
- consultant employed                             Jan. 1989    mid 1992
- implementation                                  1989-1994    1993-95
b. Design new admission and discharge procedures
- design completed                                 End 1989      1993-94
- implementation completed                         mid-1994      1996
c. Hospital computerization
- complete needs assessment                       mid-1990       1995
- complete installation and training               End 1991      1996
d. Create demonstration site
- complete establishment                          Sept. 1990    Maputo:
- complete training                                mid 1992      1992
e.  Improve clinical coding
- complete preparation                            Early 1990      1996
- complete training                                mid 1991      1996
f.  Improve laundry and food service
- consultant employed                             Oct. 1989    mid 1992
- training completed                              End 1991       1996
g.  Improve organization of laboratories
- consultant employed                             Jan. 1990    mid 1992
- training completed                              End 1991       1996
h.  Establish manpower productivity control
system
- consultant employed                             Oct. 1989    mid 1992
- training completed                              End 1991       1996
i.  Reinforce management capability
- consultant employed                             Oct. 1989    mid 1992
j.  Improved cost control
- consultant employed                             Jan. 1990    mid 1992
- equipment procured                              mid-1990       1994
- training completed                              End 1991       1996
k.  Install design utilization review system
- consultant employed                             Jan. 1990    mid 1992
- materials development cornpleted                 mid 1990      1992
- training completed                               End 1990      1996
1.  Establish hospital discharge method
-  consultant employed                             Jan. 1990    mid 1992
-  training completed                              mid 1990      1996
3. Health facility maintenance
-  maintenance kits procured                      Oct. 1988    mid 1992
-  management expertise employed                   mid 1989     1993-94



Statistical Annexes                                                                        18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
~~  Key Implementation IndiCatoi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pme
4. Pharmaceutical supply
a. Maputo pharmaceutical store
-  final design completed                            mid 1989      Dec 1993
-  tendering completed                               End 1989       Cancel
-  management expertise employed                     Jan. 1990      Aug 94
-  construction completed
b. Beira pharmaceuticals store
-  final design completed                            mid 1989      pending
-  tendering completed                               End 1989      pending
-  civil works completed                             mid 1990      pending



Statistical Annexes                                                                   19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Key ImplementationI ndicatoD       it                         .   _
5. Health manpower and training
a. Rehabilitation ICS Maputo
- complete final design                            mid 1990    Nov. 1993
- complete tendering                              End 1990    Aug. 1994
- civil works completed                           Apr. 1992    June 1997
b. Rehabilitation ICS Beira
- complete final design                           mid 1990    Nov. 1993
- complete tendering                              End 1990    Aug. 1994
- civil works completed                           Apr. 1992    June 1997
c. Rehabilitation ICS Nampula
- complete final design                          March 1990   Nov. 1993
- complete tendering                               mid 1990    Aug. 1994
- civil works completed                           End 1990    June 1997
d. Other measures to improve pre-service training
- procurement of didactic materials to ICS        mid 1989      mid 1992
- training of trainers begins             .       mid 1989      Feb. 1990
- production of training materials completed      mid 1991
- refresher training carried out                  1990-1992    Mar. 1991
- procurement of textbooks for Faculties of Medicine    mid 1989
e. Improvement of in-service training
- functional analysis completed                   End 1989
- refresher training plan coimpleted              Mar. 1990
- support to National Diractorate of Human        Jan. 1990     Late 1992
Resources in place
6. Urban Food Distribution
a. Ration program managemenil
- installation of computers begins                Jan. 1990    Apr. 1991
- training begins                                 Sept. 1989    Early 1991
- consultant employed                             Sept. 1989    Aug. 1991
b. Easing urban transport shortage
- procurement of vehicles and equipment           mid-1989      Cancelled
c.  School-feeding program                                         Cancelled
- procurement of vehicles                         mid-1989      Cancelled
- food supply                                     1989-1991
d. Workers' canteens                                               Feb. 1991
- procurement of equipment                        Jan. 1990     Cancelled
- civil works completed                           End 1990      Cancelled



Statistical Annexes                                                                           20
Table 6: Key Indicatoirs for Project Operation
Orthopedicsqygg 1                                           1.1N
A. Average length of stay (days) in Maputo hospital for selected
categories of treatments
Intemal medicine                                                6.8                NA
Dermnatology                                                    7.5                NA
Plastic surgery                                                 19.5               NA
Orthopedics I                                                  31.5                NA
B. Average length of stay (days) in Nampula hospital for
selected categories of treatments
Medicine I                                                      7.5                NA
Surgery I                                                       9.0                NA
Obstetrics I                                                    1.5                NA
C. Average nenbth of stay (days) in Beira hospital for selected
categories of treatments
Medicine                                                        12.0               NA
Surgery                                                         13.0               NA
Chest                                                          30.0                NA
D. The number of lunches and dinners served in a hospital (N)
should equal the number of patients (including mothers
accompanying young children in pediatric wards) (P) and staff on
duty (SD).
Maputo hospital                                            N/2(P+SD)=1             NA
Nampula hospital                                           N/2(P+SD)=1             NA
Beira hospital                                             N/s(P+SD)=l             NA
Note: The indicators have not been followed as the data were not available in the first years of project
implementation. Afterwards, the limited character of the indicators and the lack of a strong correlation
with the project outputs made following of the indicators inappropriate. Under the Health Sector Recovery
Program the Ministry of Health will introduce an information system for the tertiary and quatemary level
of care. For indicator D: In concordance with Hospital Management and MOH, the hospital efficiency
sub-component did not address the issue of hospital feeding. It was thought that on a budget for food of
less than US$ I per day, little efficiency gains could be made.
The broader objectives of the Health and Nutrition Project are not measured by the above indicators.
During the life of the project, major improvements were, however, achieved in making services available
to the population in a more equitable manner. The project's support to policy formulation certainly
contributed to this. The project's impact on training of health workers is shown for example by the
following general MOH data:
Average Numbers of Several Cadres of Health Workers per Level of Care
llealth Post       Small Health Center  Large Heath Center   Rural Hospital
Level of
Training             1990     1')5      1990    .>19       1990      1995     1990      1995
University               0         0        0        0.1       0       0.4       0.5 .    Z.4
Mid-level                0       0.1       0.1       0$.      0.4      -2.2      3.2 7    -
Basic                   0.4      0.4A      2.1 2A.            9.2       8.      27.5     20.8
Elementary              0.4      0.6       1.5       L,i      5.8  .~2'          6.4
Average team            0.8        1       3.7  I..5         15.4      16$      37.6
Data on health service utilization over the nineties show increasing equity. This is as much a result
of the transition from war to peace, as an effect of the policies of MOH. Likely, the trends have
reinforced each other.



Statistical Annexes                                                                   21
Table 7: Stiadies Included in Project
Ud                       Purpose       -                      *w |                         ;
1. Health     Assessment of health referral    Complete   Not all recommendations could be implemented
Referral       systems in the three major cities:          due to lack of funds. Some recommendations
Maputo, Beira and Nampula.                  currently being implemented in Beira with AFDB
funding.
2. Cost        Identification of needed policy  Complete   Highly influential in defining the cost recovery
Recovery       modifications and institutional             strategy currently being implemented under the
requirements for effective                  Sector Investment Program (SIP) supported by a
implementation.                             follow-up credit.
3. Manpower   Development of realistic manpower  Complete   Became the basis for manpower planning in the
Development   plan for MOH relating manpower               health sector.
Plan           needs by category of health worker
to affordable training and
employment scenarios.
4. Cost        Development of appropriate cost  Complete  Incorporated in a more comprehensive expenditure
Control        containment measures for each level         review of the sector which became the basis for
Measures       of facility, taking into account            policy actions being implemented under the SIP.
tradeoffs between coverage, equity,
cost-effectiveness and quality of
care.
5. Strategic   Development of simple mechanisms  Complete
Plan for Health  and procedures to increase    /on-going
Sector         accountability and allow for routine
Computing      monitoring of cost containment
effort.                       _
6. MOH         Identification of ways to improve    Complete  Internal discussion of study recommendations has
Organizational  functional efficiency of Ministry of      led to defacto changes in MOH organization (not
Structure      Health.                                     all of which have been formalized) which have had
a positive impact on efficiency.
7. MOH         Streamlining of existing accounting   Complete  Study recommendations currently being
Financial      and budgeting procedures within             implemented under follow-up Health Sector
Management   MOH and development of simple                 Recovery Project.
financial information system for use
by MOH managers.
8. Food        Development of appropriate food  Complete
Pricing Policy   pricing policie- in the ration systern,
taking into account issues such as
the existing large differentials
between producer and consumer
prices, the suitability of current
marketing margins and possibilities
for adjusting pricing policies or
designing other suitable
interventions to ensure minimum
food intake by the poorest families.



Statistical Annexes                                                                      22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (continuation)
!  iTPurpose                             .1t                                   I , r
9. Food Security   Developmenit of a food security  Information       The information system is now fully
Information System  information system which        system was        operational with support from the Food
integrates information being    initiated under the  Security Capacity Building Project
collected by the Ministry of     SDA component
Communications with the early
warning system of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the nutrition
surveillance system of the MOH.
10. Health Facility  Identification of priority needs for   Cowplete  Identified priority areas for investment
Reconstruction     reconstruction or rehabilitation of                later incorporated in the SIP.
Needs              health sector facilities.
11. Hospital       Development of a series of       Complete          Successfully computerized data and
Efficiency         measures to improve efficiency at                  trained staff in areas of personnel, finance
the Maputo, Beira and Nampula                      and accounting, patient management,
Central Hospitals in areas such as                 drug and supplies management, quality
admissions and discharge                           control and information management. By
procedures, cost accounting and                    end of project, however, still only scanty
control, clinical coding and                       evidence that data being successfully used
materials and manpower                             for policy purposes.
productivity control.
12. Drug           Development of effective         Complete          Successfully computerized stores
Management         procedures for inventory control                   management, commercial and financial
and drug management at the central                 data, and stock management at central
pharmaceuticals warehouse.                         level. By end of, roject. impact still
weak or absent at orovincial and district
levels.
13. Curriculum     Development of improved          Complete          Output was unsatisfactory. Little impact.
Development        curriculum for pre-service training
_  of health staff.
14. Functional     Analysis of the present functions of  Complete     Objectives achieved.
Analysis of Rural    a selection of rural facilities and the
Facilities         suitability of staff skills to cope
with expected workload;
identification of training needs; and
development of in-service training
program.
15. Social Policy    Development of options for policy   Complete     Poverty assessment and other studies had
Studies            measures and targeted interventions                tremendous impact on thinking of policy
in areas of (a) food security, (b)                 makers in country, leading to successful
access to basic services, and (c)                  development of multi-sectoral approach
enhanced participation in economic                to poverty alleviation.
recovery of the absolutely poor.



Statistical Annexes                                                                        23
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Component                         Apprabi1l3stiat       iti
Local    Foreign    Total        Total
costs     Costs      Costs      Costs
A. As defined in SAR
1. Civil works                                      2.2        9.2       11.4       14.0
2. Vehicles, equipment, furniture, supplies         1.1        18.1      19.2       20.8
3. Consultants' services, studies, audits           0.7        6.2        6.9        11.2
4. Training                                         0.2        0.1        0.3        1.3
5. Operating costs                                  1.8        2.1        3.9        2.7
6. Refund Project Preparation Advance               0.1        0.7        0.8        0.3
Subtotal                                               6.1       36.4       42.5       50.3
B. Social Dimensions of Adjustnent Activities
1. Goods                                                                 N/A.        1.9
2. Consultants' services                                                 N/A.        2.5
3. Training                                                              N/A.        0.9
4. Operating costs                                                       N/A.        1.1
Subtotal                                                                    10.5        6.4
TOTAL                                                                       53.0       56.8



Statistical Annexes                                                                  24
Table 8b: Project Financing
(US$ million)
A. Original Project          _
IDA                             27.0 (SDR 2 1.0 m)            30.20 (SDR 20.99 m)
Switzerland                      5.3 (SF 7.2 m)                0.12 (SF 0. 19 m)
Norway                           0.2 (NK 10.6 m)               I1.47 (NK 10.46 m)
World Food Program*              4.4                           4.4
UNICEF*                          1.9                           1.9
OPEC Fund*                                                     8.5
Beneficiaries                    0.2                           0.0
Government of Mozambique         3.7                           3.9
Sub-total                    42.5                           50.3
B. SDA Initiative
Switzerland                      3.1 (SF 4.75 m)               0.02 (SF 0.025 m)
Netherlands                      3.15 (G 6.0 m)                 3.29 (G 5.69 m)
ODA (UK)                         1.35 (L 0.6 m)                0.92 (L 0.59 m)
GTZ (Germany)                    2.9                           2.2
Sub-total                   10.5                            6.4
TOTAL                              53.0                          56.8
Note: Available information does not allow breakdown between local and foreign costs.
* Parallel financing. All these projects expanded in time and scope during the implementation of HNP.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Although no economic rate of return was calculated for this project at the time of
appraisal, it is clear that the project focused on areas of prudent investment, i.e. health
facilities in the relatively safe cities, spared by the war, and training institutes which
would produce cadres of mid-level health workers, generally recognized as most needed
for the efficient delivery of basic services. The project further focused on building
institutional capacity, which is key for sector effectiveness.



Part III Statistical Annexes                                                                                                               25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
ecfiky..,'~9vnan6              rigina  Autrtui                ti
Agreement.V Sec  n       venanteet              fillet  Fulfiment             Descrip on o Covena t                      Cr       s
Type      Status       Date         Date
DCA          2.02 &    2             CP      Continuous                The Borrower shall maintain three     The Special Accounts were established
Sch. 4,                                                   Special Accounts in dollars. Deposits   in Citibank-London whose
5 and 7                                                   into and payments out of the Special  administration, however, proved
Accounts shall be in accordance with  deficient. Audits regularly cited
the provisions of Schedules 4, 5 and 7    descrepancies, including non-
of DCA.                               reconcilable items and wrongful
transfers out of special accounts.
DCA          30 &    5               CP      Continuous                The Rnrrnwer shall carrv out the Project  Proiect coordination and management
Sch. 6                                                    in accordance with the Implementation    arrangements within the Ministry of
Program set forth in Schedule 6 of    Health worked reasonably well, but
DCA.                                  the Ministry of Commerce and
Ministry of Planning were unable to
devote the resources which would
have been required to properly
manage their components.
DCA          3.03      10            CD      (a)10/31/89  (a) 1 1/90    The Borrower shall (a) exchange views   The cost-recovery study proved
(b) 4/30/90   (b) 1/91    with IDA on recommendations of cost-  invaluable in defining policy actions
recovery study, and (b) implement     implemented under the follow-up
action plan arising therefrom.        sector investment program (SIP).
DCA          3.04      10            CD      (a)7/3 1/90   (a) 12/91   The Borrower shall (a) complete and    The manpower development plan
(b)10/31/90  (b)  ?       furnish to IDA with MOH's comments   became the foundation for an
(c)  ?       the MOH health manpower               extensive redefinition of health staff
development plan, (b) review said plan   functions and training plans being
jointly with IDA, and (c) promptly    implemented under the SIP.
thereafter implement training programs
in plan as agreed with IDA.
DCA          3.05      10            CD      (a)10/3 1/89  (a) 9/89    The Borrower shall (a) complete and    The study of MOH's organizational
(b) 1/31/90  (b) 11/90    furnish to IDA results of the study of  structure, after intense discussion
MOH's organizational structure, (b)   within the ministry, becarne the basis
review the recommendations thereof    for an extensive restructuring of the
with IDA, and (c) promptly implement   Ministry implemented under the
____________   _______________________________    ___________  ____________  agreed  recommendations.  follow-up  project.



Part III Statistical Annexes                                                                                                           26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
e        Status i     Dt           D     K,                  
DCA         3.06      7            NC                                The Borrower shall take all necessary  The resettlement plan, completed in
measures to implement a resettlement  1991, proved unacceptable to persons
plan, acceptable to IDA, for persons  effected, and construction of the ware-
effected by the construction of the  house complex was postponed, pending
pharmaceutical warehouse complex for   identification of another site.
MEDIMOC.
DCA         3.07      10            C      Continuous                The Borrower shall take all necessary  Although the original plan to purchase
measures to provide housing to lodge the  housing proved unfeasible, adequate
resident consultants employed under the   arrangements were made to house
project.                             resident consultants in rented property.
DCA         3.08      12           CP    8/30/90                     The Borrower shall establish and      Done.
maintain an Interministerial Commission
on the Social Impact of the Economic
Rehabilitation Program in accordance
with procedures discussed with IDA.
DCA         3.09      5            CP      12/30/90                   The Borrower shall appoint and       For the most part, local staff proved to
maintain qualified local staff to act as  be well qualified, but staff turnover
counterparts to expatriate advisors  proved to be a problem.
employed under Project.
DCA         3.10      10            C      By July 31                The Borrower shall conduct annual     Done regularly.
annually                  implementation reviews jointly with
IDA to monitor progress in
implementing Part C (SDA), to assess
utilization of the German, Swiss, U.K.
and Dutch grants therefor, and to update
timetables and cost estimates.
DCA         4.01(a)   1            CP    Continuous                  The Borrower shall maintain adequate    For the most part, the project
records and accounts of operations,  management units maintained good
resources and expenditures in respect of  records, but reconciliation with BdM's
the Project.                         records proved troublesome.
DCA         4.01(b)   1            CD    By June 30                  The Borrower shall furnish to IDA each   After the first audit was several years
annually                  year certified audit of project accounts.   late, audits were produced in a timely
manner.



Part III Statistical Annexes                                                                                                               27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Original      Actual                                       . _
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment   Fulfillment             Description of Covenant     :Coments
Type      Status      Date          Date              :_:_.:_:_:::_-___.
DCA         4.01 (c)   I             C      Continiuous                The Borrower shall maintain detailed   Project expenditure records for SOEs
records for all project expenditures  were adequate.
withdrawn from credit on basis of
statements of expenditures and include
l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                     _     _    __such expenditures in annual audit.
Covenant Types                                                                                Present Status
I Accounts /audit                      8. Indigenous people                           C   -  Covenant complied with
2. Financial performance/revenue       9. Monitoring, review, reporting               CD -  Complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries       10. Other project implementation               CP -  Complied with partially
3. Flow and utilization of project funds    11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC -  Not complied with
4. Counterpart funding                     other resource allocation
5. Project management                  12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/
6. Environmental covenants                institutional action
7. Involuntary resettlement            13. Other



Part III Statistical Annexes                                                               28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Note: No evident deviation from applicable Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs*
Tlirou-h appraisal                   26.3               102.5
Appraisal - Board                     6.5                16.8
Board - Effectiveness                  2.4                 6.4
Supervision                        155               460.9
Completion                         5.6                18.0
TOTAL                           195.8              604.7
S Staff and consultant costs, plus travel.



Part III Statistical Annexes                                                                                                             29
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
number    Days in   $peeIaizd S-taff Skillsh`fonanc  ~tig
C y cle                   P e rs o n s _ .  _             bf             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __. ..  .  _
Implementation Development
Status        Objectives
Identification    1/88             3           12         E, D, PH
Pre-appraisal     4/88             4           12         E, FS, MD
Appraisal         6/88             6           19         E, PS,A,PH, MD,FS
Supervision       9/89             1           9          MD
Supervision       11/89            5           6          E, M-D, A  IIf, L               2
Implem.Asst.      1/90             1           11         A
Implem.Asst.      3/90             2           5          E, A
Supervision       7/90             2           7          E, PH                           2               2
Supervision       8/90             2           18* *      E,E
Implem.Asst.      8/90             1           7          E
Implem.Asst.      10/90            1           5*         IS
Supervision       11190            5           19         E, A, PH, IS, PS                1               2                 d/
Supervision       2/91             4           11         E, E, PH, FS
Supervision       2/91             2           10**       E,E
Implem.Asst.      3/91             1           4*         IS
Supervision       6/91             2           10**       E, SS
Supervision       8/91             3           17         E, PH ,PA                       2               2                 d/
Supervision       9/91             3           8**        E, P, PF
Supervision       5/92             3           12         E, PH, PH                       2               2                 d/
Supervision       6/92             1           12**       E
Supervision       9/92             3           18*        E, PH SA                        3               3                 e/
Supervision       3/93             3           8*         E, A, FS                        2               2
Implem.Asst.      5/93             1           5 *        p                                 _
Audit Assist.     11/93            1           4*         PF
Supervision       11/93            2           18*        E, A



Part II Statistical Annexes                                                                                                            30
'table 13: Bank Resources - Missions (continued)
Supervision      5/94            2          25*        E, PHl                  S                HS
Supervision      11/94           2           14*       E, E, PH, PH]           S                HS
Supervision      6/95            3          9*         PH, A, PSc              S                HS               f/
Supervision      12/95           2           10*       PH, A                   S                 S
Supervision      3/96            1          5          PH
Supervision      7/96            3          20*        PH, A, PH               S                 S
Impl.Review      12/96           3           12        PH, E, A                S                 S               /
Note:  In addition, disbursement officers visited the field about once each year to discuss disbursement issues with and give training to project
implementation staff for this and other projects.
Footnotes on following page.



Part II Statistical Annexes                                                                                         31
a/ Missions marked by single asterisk were multi-tasked; those marked by double asterisks were supervising only the SDA
component of the project.
b/ E=economist; D=demographer; PH=public health specialist; FS=food security specialist; MD=manpower development specialist;
PS=pharmaceutical specialist; A=architect; HM=health management specialist; L=lawyer; IS=implementation specialist;
DO=disbursement officer; PA= policy analyst; PF=public finance specialist; P=procurement specialist; PSc=political scientist;
SA=social anthropologist; SS=social scientist.
c/ From Form 590: 1 or HS=highly satisfactory; 2 or S=satisfactory; 3 or U=unsatisfactory
d/ Slow pace of implementation.
e/ Slow pace of implementation. Food security component dormant. By September 1992, only 30% of credit funds had been
committed or conitracted for, leading to decision to restructure project.
f/ Poo performnce of cntractor. Resettlen1Snt not progressing.
g/ Poor performance of contractor and supervising engineer. "Special clinic" excluded from financial analysis of Maputo Central
Hospital. Houses built for population to be resettled still vacant after eight months.
h/ Failure to procure some hospital equipment in timely manner holding up completion of rehabilitation works.
i/ Hospital rehabilitation still progressing slowly. Awaiting Government decision regarding houses built for population to be
resettled. "Special clinic" finances still a "black hole."



Part 11 Statistical Annexes                                               32
Appendix A. Mission's Aide Memoire
The ICR mission was combined with the final supervision mission of the Bank for
the Health and Nutrition Project. Repeated delays in the completion of some
components, and the continuous presence of Bank staff in the field towards the end of the
project, made a separate ICR mission impractical and somewhat superfluous.



APPENDIX B
REPCRBLUCA :DE MOCAMBIQTJE
MISTE]RIO DA SA(TDE
DRECCAO DE PLANlFICACAO E COOPERACAO
HEALTH AND N1JTRITTON PROJECT
Credit rio. 1989-MOZ
BORROWER'S COMMENTS TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE



BORROWER CO0O4ENT TO Tl{E ICR - PROQ2CTO SAlYDE E ?uThjAO
BORROWER'S COMMENTS TO THE
hIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit no. 1989-MOZ
The Health and Nutrition Project HNP) jwas th: first Credit made available by an
intemational lending organization to the health sector in Mozambique. The Government
carried out the preparation phase of this credit during the late eighties coinciding with the
preparation of the Econromic Rehabilitation Program (ERP). This preparatory phase took
place while the civil war was still going on and many services were dismpted in large parts
of the country.
These facts were taken into account xvhilc designing the project. The project was mainly to
address urban facility rehabilitation, improved planning, management and training that were
achievable in the context of a protracted war.
Its direct impact on the health status of the Mozambican population or even on
strengthening National Planning Commission's capabilities for social planning and poverty
reduction was not expected to be substantial.
MoH does agree that the credit was supposed to play a major role: (a) to help lay the
foundation for continued provision of sustainable and efficient basic social services, which
was critical for developing Mozambique's human capit  and (b) to assist in the
maintenance of a social consensus on the desirability of the ERP through measures that
addressed the uneven burden of adjustment and helped offset the transitional costs that were
hardest on the poorest.
The rapid evolution in the political environment and the launching of the peace process led
to several shifts in implementation priorities that slowed implementation and presented
obstacles to the implementation of the initial targets and objectives.  Subsequently,
flexibility and prompt support from the Bank allowed project modifications that also
justified the necessary extensions.
The project suffered from delays in implementation caused by rather poor performance in
civil works and technical assistance by factors such as: (i) lack of knowledge of the standard
rules for project implementation activities, (ii) lack of experierLce in the preparation of terms
of reference and preparation of tender documents, (iii) the need for alteration-s introduced in
the documents prepared early in the project to be adapted to changing national realities.
Similarly, later changes in the content and circumstances of key consultancies, which began
early in the project, contributed to delays in their implementation and also required
extension of their duration.
Under the civil works component the consultants did not follow the agreed work programs
and calendars. MoH also experienced problems with the low productivity and low
A:w,,,-                     ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~1                      t



performance of some contractors, whilc corrections of low quality work sometimes led to
fiuther delays.
Unfortunately implementation was also affected by rnover of key MoH staf. As it is
referred to in the ICR, key MOlH staff directly involved in the project, were replaced several
times during preparation and implementation. The same problem has affected the
implementation agencies and has limit:ed the strengthening the agencies' institutional
capacity to carry out project activities. In addition agencies had a limited general level of
understanding of the Bank's rules and procedures.
As it is stated in the ICR, project objectives were substantially achieved and some (e.g.
health manpower development plan) exceeded original targets. Thanks to the Bank's
understanding of the constant changes in the macro and sector conjuncture, and various
amendments introduced in the DCA, this flexibility has successfully contributed towards
improving the adverse implementation conditions. The Bank staff frequently assisted in
adapting the project to changing needs and showed readiness to discuss possibilities to make
implementation as smooth as possible.
Given the difficult circumstances, project implementation can be considered as satisfactory.
The implementation has had a reasonable degree of MaH commitment from the start..
Nevertheless. MoHl's iritial lack of knowledge of Bank procedures, particularly in
procurement, and weak implementation capacity, contributed significantly to substantial
arcumulated delays in implementation, which also contributed to the poor performance of
some consultants and contractors. Thanks to the Bank's procurement staff who provided
much needed training and expedited the documentation clearance process, this situation
improved during the lifetime of the project.
The objectives with regard to policy formulation contributed to suppornng the Ministry at a
time during which circumstances changed constantly and drastically in Mozambique.
Improving efficiency was important in the constrained MozAmbican environxnent.
However, the security situation in the beginning of the project meant that these components
were not implemented beyond the levels of more secure areas such as the main cities of
Maputo, BeeLra and Namnpula.
With regard to the SDA component, considering the institutional weaknesses it was
unrealistic to expect that the task of crealting an overall poverty strategy could be carried out
within the project. The task of the SDA activities was made more difficult by the absence of
claxity in the project's objectives.
It is greatly expected that the Projec:t's achievements will be sustained through the
successful implementation of the Health Sector Recovery Program (HSRP), which
continues activities initiated under the first credit.
in the longer term, it is also expected, that MoH and the Government will be capable to
sustaining the project's outputs. It will be contingent on regular maintenance of
infrastructures and equipment, improving incentive systems for personnel, increasing
availability of recurrent cost financing for the operations of service and training facilities,
enhancing effective supervision and support, and further institutional development.
2



BORROWER COroETS TO TIC - PROrECrO SAODE E NiwAo
Anyhow the Government is aware that because of the low level of finances available to the
sector, it still has to depend on long-term commitment from external fmanciers for a large
part of its programs in order to acquire the envisaged sustainability of the health sector.
The key lessons learned from the HNP will be taken into consideration and will contribute
to the successful implementation of the activities under the HSRP.
Based on the previous experience from the implementation of the HNP, MoH implemented
several of the institutional strengthening recommendations and during the preparation of the
HSRP. The MoH's HSRP, which continues to build upon actions initiated by MoH under
the HNP, several donors and the Bank, helps to assure successful operations and continued
development in the sector, based in part on the accomplishments of the HNP. The
integration of major donors in the planning of the sector's activities and programs and the
decentralization of the planning and implementation of these activities is now a key factor
which will contribute to the improvement of the performance of the MoH. Other projects are
now integrated in a sector wide program, which is in broad terms in conformity with the SIP
approach.
Multidisciplinary missions and the support of the Bank staff were very much appreciated.
The continuity of staff, the mission flexibility and increased involvement of the Bank's.
Resident Mission improved procedural issues with regard to procurement and disbursement.
MoH do stress that the relocation of a public health specialist to Maputo Resident Mission
contributed very much to the improved implementation.
MoH is convinced that the project has achieved good results agai.ist original goals, despite
initial slowness in implementation and the various constraints which are pointed out but
which also constituted a "hard" lesson for the future.
Maputo. Junc 11 1998
r. AbdlI Razek Noornahomed
Vice-Minister of Health
3



340,                    310                      3i0                      40                 42
=  J 3     zow.s     )              (             ~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A N I A 
Moolmb. P11411
120
S  .lLAVYl                                      .. =   t                   : p-            r BMA
_14       Z A M B I A4
> a \ 0 * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mecubori                                           ,       &\MirguriQ 4C
l         Magor       A      \CFh    /<d.                                                  -b1   
eDuoni                                                                           MP LA-
180                                            1,80 ,EE                                                i 
20                            S    usHARARE20
20'
gng>.b .              -.                                      MOZAMNQUE
IHEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
g  )    =non.                                 ~~~~~~~PRO>JECT AC:TfVITtES
Inh-   o                   *       34HAUTX    - IAMtH FACUS
-22/
-     PAV-               -   
\  X   \         \         \                        _______~~~~~~------   pAVEMRO#AO   Rt   CllTR
\~~ f.)      RTH RADS--
\ : ,  SV  \ / AN                                                             RALWAV!i
-21' ~    ~        >          AS       ,a/,                       ,  ,- .i                   -A:              -     ,:.,   ,n     ,.
S O U T H               Chk - 
A F R I C A                  /               -fuieoPROtNlmE KkttE0S                                                      --,
M.        g      d : ..                                               INTERtSATIGNsALB QoUt4AlxES               0,  
U 26'           9'ZA
0               /  M8ABANE        1                                                            0          100        200        300 KILOMETERS        -
D      300                                         340                    364                    380                   400                    42      _



