Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1989 MOZ
                  (Health and Nutrition Project)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 28, 1989
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE   (the   Borrower)    and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Switzerland (Switzerland) a grant  (the Swiss Grant) equivalent to
$5,300,000 to assist in  financing  Parts  B(4)(a)  and (e) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
Switzerland;
     (C)  the  Borrower  has  contracted  from  the  Government of
Norway Development Agency  (NORAD)  a  grant  (the NORAD Grant) to
assist in financing Parts B(4)(c)  and  (d)  of the Project on the
terms and conditions set  forth  in  an agreement (the NORAD Grant
Agreement) dated June 30,  1987  entered  into by the Borrower and
Page  2
NORAD;
     (D)  the Borrower intends to contract  from UNICEF a grant to
assist in financing Part B(1)(a) of the Project; and
     (E)  the  Borrower  intends  to   contract  from  World  Food
Programme  (WFP)   a   non-reimbursable   contribution   (the  WFP
Contribution) to assist in financing  Part B(6)(c) of the Project;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
     (b)  "MOC" means the Ministry of Commerce of the Borrower;
     (c)  "E.E. MEDIMOC"  and  "MEDIMOC"  mean  Empresa Estatal de
Importacao e  Exportacao  de  Medicamentos,  the Import-Export and
Distribution Agency  for  drugs  and  medical  supplies,  a public
enterprise of the Borrower,  established and operating pursuant to
its statutes approved by Decree  No.  35/77 of the Borrower, dated
August 16, 1977;
     (d)  "NSA"  means  Novo  Sistema  de  Abastecimento  the food
supply system operating in the territory of the Borrower under the
administration of MOC;
     (e)  "GOAM" means Gabinete de  Organizacao do Abastecimento a
Cidade de  Maputo,  the  organizational  structure responsible for
food distribution in Maputo  established and operating pursuant to
Resolution No. 4/80 of  the  Council  of Ministers of the Borrower
dated May 28, 1980;
     (f)  "DPCS" means Direccao Provincial  do Comercio de Sofala,
provincial directorate of MOC operating in the province of Sofala;
     (g)  "EACM, E.E." and "EACM"  mean Empresa de Abastecimento a
Cidade de Maputo, an  enterprise  of  the Borrower established and
operating  in  Maputo  pursuant  to  Despacho  No.  23/89  of  the
Borrower, dated March 15, 1989;
     (h)  "EACB, E.E." and "EACB"  mean Empresa de Abastecimento a
Cidade da Beira,  an  enterprise  of  the Borrower established and
operating in Beira pursuant to Despacho No. 24/89 of the Borrower,
dated March  15, 1989;
     (i)  "ICS" means Instituto de  Ciencias  da Saude, any of the
Health  Training  Institutes  of   the  Borrower  established  and
operating pursuant to  Decree  No.  25/76  of  the Borrower, dated
June 19, 1976 amended by  Decree  No.  15/78 of the Borrower dated
October  19,  1978,  and   Diploma  Ministerial  No.  98/78  dated
September 16, 1978;
Page  3
     (j)  "GACOPI" means Gabinete  de  Coordenacao de Projectos de
Investimento, the Investment  Program  Implementation Unit created
within MOH  by  Ministerial  Order  dated  October  10,  1988, and
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (k)  "MEDIMOC   Agreements"   means   the   agreements  dated
September 15, 1988, entered into  between MOH and MEDIMOC pursuant
to Section 3.01(b)(i) of this Agreement for the import, export and
distribution of drugs and other medical supplies from the regional
stores in Maputo and Beira;
     (l)  "Maputo Food  Security  Agreement"  means  the agreement
dated October 28, 1988, entered  into  between MOC, GOAM and EACM,
pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement;
     (m)  "Beira  Food  Security  Agreement"  means  the agreement
dated October 28, 1988, entered  into  between MOC, DPCS and EACB,
pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(iii) of this Agreement;
     (n)  "Special Account A"  and  "Special  Account  B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters,  dated  April  5, 1988 and May 3, 1988,
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (p)  "fiscal year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31; and
     (q)  "Metical" and the plural "meticais" mean the currency of
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent   to   twenty-one   million   Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 21,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars two  special accounts in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  Special Account A shall  be opened for the purposes
               of Parts A(1),  A(2),  B(1),  B(2),  B(3), B(4) and
               B(5) of the Project; and
         (ii)  Special Account B shall  be opened for the purposes
               of Parts A(3) and B(6) of the Project.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Schedules 4 and 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Page  4
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15,  1999  and  ending  September  15, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 15, 2008, shall  be  one  percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
Page  5
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts A(1), A(2),
B(1), B(2), B(3), B(4) and  B(5)  of  the Project through MOH; and
(ii) Parts A(3) and  B(6)  of  the  Project  through MOC; with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health
and nutrition practices,  and  shall  provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement and,  to  this  effect, shall take all necessary
measures to enforce:
          (i)  the  MEDIMOC  Agreements,   for   the  purposes  of
               carrying out Part B(4) of the Project;
         (ii)  the Maputo Food  Security  Agreement,  for the pur-
               poses of carrying out Part B(6) of the Project; and
        (iii)  the Beira Food Security Agreement, for the purposes
               of carrying out Part B(6) of the Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the MEDIMOC
Agreements, the Maputo Food Security  Agreement and the Beira Food
Security Agreement to protect  the  interests  of the Borrower and
the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and,
except as  the  Association  shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate  or waive the said Agreements or
any provisions thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods, works and consultants' services,
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
October 31,  1989,  exchange  views  with  the  Association on the
recommendations of the study carried  out  by the Borrower for the
purposes of Part A (1)(a) of  the  Project; and (b) not later than
April 30, 1990, implement the  action  plan  referred to in Part A
(1)(b)   of   the   Project,   taking   into   consideration   the
recommendations arising out of said exchange of views.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 31,
1990 complete and furnish to  the Association with MOH's comments,
the plan prepared  by  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Part A
(1)(c) of the Project; (b) not  later than October 31, 1990 review
said  plan  jointly  with   the   Association;  and  (c)  promptly
thereafter implement the training  programs included in said plan,
as agreed with the Association.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
October 31, 1989,  complete  and  furnish  to  the Association the
results of the study carried out  by the Borrower for the purposes
of Part A(2)(a)(i) of the Project;  (b) not later than January 31,
1990, review the recommendations  of  said  study jointly with the
Page  6
Association;  and   (c)   promptly   thereafter   implement  those
recommendations satisfactory  to  the  Association,  on  terms and
within  a  timetable   agreed   between   the   Borrower  and  the
Association.
     Section  3.06.  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of
carrying out  Part  B(4)(a)  of  the  Project,  take all necessary
measures to implement in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
the resettlement  plan  for  persons  to  be  relocated  under the
Project, referred to in Part B(4)(b) of the Project.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of
Part A(2)(d)  of  the  Project,  take  all  necessary  measures to
provide, during the execution of the Project, housing to lodge the
resident consultants to be employed under the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made,  on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
Page  7
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  MOH or MEDIMOC shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the MEDIMOC Agreement;
     (b)  MOC, GOAM or EACM  shall  have  failed to perform any of
their  respective  obligations  under  the  Maputo  Food  Security
Agreement;
     (c)  MOC, DPCS or EACB  shall  have  failed to perform any of
their  respective  obligations  under   the  Beira  Food  Security
Agreement;
     (d)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  MEDIMOC, GOAM, DPCS, EACM or
EACB, as the case may be, will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the MEDIMOC  Agreement, the Maputo Food Security
Agreement or the Beira Food Security Agreement;
     (e)  Decree No. 35/77 of the Borrower, dated August 16, 1977,
Resolution No. 4/80  of  the  Borrower,  dated  May  28, 1980, the
legislation referred to the  establishment  and operation of EACM,
EACB, DPCS and  the  GACOPI  shall  have  been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed,  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially or
adversely the ability of  the  Borrower, MEDIMOC, EACM, EACB, GOAM
and DPCS to perform any of their respective obligations under this
Agreement; and
     (f)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  concerning the Borrower's health and
nutrition policies that would  materially and adversely affect the
objectives of the Project.
     Section  5.02.   (a)   any   of   the   events  specified  in
paragraphs (a), (b),  or  (c)  of  Section  5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and  shall  continue  for  a  period  of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have  been  given  by  the Association to the
Borrower; and
     (b)  any of the events specified  in paragraphs (e) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the study referred to  in  Part  A (1)(a) of the Project
has been completed and  its  results,  as  well as MOH's comments,
have been furnished to the Association; and
     (b)  the study referred to  in  Part A(3)(a)(i) to be carried
out  by  MOC  has   been   finalized,   taking  into  account  the
recommendations made by the Association, and has been furnished to
the Association.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Page  8
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the MEDIMOC Agreements have been duly authorized by
and are legally binding upon MOH and MEDIMOC;
     (b)  that the Maputo  Food  Security  Agreement has been duly
authorized and is legally binding upon MOC, GOAM and EACM;
     (c)  that the Beira  Food  Security  Agreement  has been duly
authorized and is legally binding upon MOC, DPCS and EACB; and
     (d)  that  this  Agreement  has  been  duly  ratified  by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers  and  is  legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Governor  of  Banco  de  Mocambique of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                          6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                          By /s/ Yasmin Patel
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  9
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  under Parts            2,090,000       100% of foreign
          B(1)(b)(i),                            expenditures and
          and B(5) of                            90% of local
          the Project                            expenditures
     (b)  under Part             2,640,000       100% of foreign
          B(1)(b)(ii)                            expenditures and
          of the                                 90% of local
          Project                                expenditures
     (c)  under Part               230,000       100% of foreign
          A (2)(d)                               expenditures
          of the
          Project
(2)  Vehicles, equipment,
     furniture and
     supplies:
     (a)  under Parts            6,820,000       100% of foreign
          A(1), A(2),                            expenditures,
          B(1), B(2),                            100% of local
          B(3) and                               expenditures
          B(5) of the                            (ex-factory
          Project                                cost) and 90% of
                                                 other local
                                                 expenditures
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (b)  under Parts            3,260,000
          A(3) and
          B(6) of
          the Project
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     services,
     studies and
     audits:
Page  10
     (a)  under Parts            3,020,000
          A(1), A(2),
          B(1), B(2),
          B(3), B(4)
          and B(5) of
          the Project
     (b)  under Parts              390,000
          A(3) and
          B(6) of
          the Project
(4)  Training:                                   100%
     (a)  under Parts              160,000
          A(1), A(2),
          B(1), B(2),
          B(3) and
          B(5) of the
          Project
     (b)  under Parts               80,000
          A(3) and
          B(6) of
          the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Operating costs:
     (a)                           390,000
          (i) Equipment                          60%
              operation
              and main-
              tenance:
              under Parts
              A(1), A(2),
              B(1), B(2),
              B(3), B(4)
              and B(5) of
              the Project
         (ii) Project                            100%
              management
              under Part
              A(2)(c)
              of the
              Project
     (b)                            80,000
          (i) Equipment,                         60%
              operation
              and mainte-
              nance:
              under Parts
              A(3) and
              B(6) of
              the Project
         (ii) Project                            100%
              management
              under Part
              A(3)(c)(i)
Page  11
              of the
              Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Resettlement                   20,000       100% of foreign
     Plan under                                  expenditures and
     Part B(4)(b)                                90% of local
     of the Project                              expenditures
(7)  Refunding of                  630,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                 1,190,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 21,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower, or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "training"  means  costs  of workshops, courses
and travel to be undertaken as  part of training and other related
training costs to be financed under the Project; and
     (d)  the  term  "project  management"  means  cost  of salary
supplements paid  in  foreign  exchange  to  staff responsible for
Project implementation, in accordance with terms and rates agreed,
from time to time, between the Borrower and the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures under Category (1)  (b) unless the Associa-
tion, after an  exchange  of  views  with  the  Borrower, has been
satisfied with the  implementation  of  procedures  and systems to
improve hospital efficiency pursuant to  Part B(2) of the Project;
and
     (c)  expenditures  under   Category   (1)   (c)   unless  the
Association:
          (i)  has received evidence  satisfactory  to it that the
               sites  necessary  to  carry  out  the  civil  works
               referred to in Part A  (2) (d) of the Project, have
               been legally attributed to MOH; and
         (ii)  has  approved  the  designs,  architectural  plans,
               financial terms  and  timetable  to  carry  out the
               civil works referred to in (i) above.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  12
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  strengthen the Borrower's capacity in policy formulation
and management on health and food security issues;
     (b)  improve quality and efficiency of services in the health
and food security sectors; and
     (c)  help the Borrower to  mitigate  some of the social costs
of adjustment  in  the  territory  of  the  Borrower, with special
emphasis on the cities of Maputo and Beira.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time.
Part A:   Strengthening Policy Formulation and Management
1.   Policy Formulation in the health sector.
     (a)  Carrying  out  a  study  to  evaluate  the cost-recovery
system of the health sector;
     (b)  design and implementation of an action plan based on the
recommendations of said cost-recovery study;
     (c)  preparation  and  implementation  of  a  health manpower
development plan for MOH staff; and
     (d)  strengthening the operational efficiency of MOH's health
facilities.
2.   Strengthening of MOH's managerial and planning capabilities.
     (a)  Studies:
          (i)  carrying   out   a    study    to   analyze   MOH's
               organizational structure and  implementation of the
               recommendations of said study; and
         (ii)  carrying out studies to  prepare future projects in
               the family planning, health and nutrition sectors;
     (b)  strengthening of MOH's financial management capacity:
          (i)  streamlining accounting  and  budgeting procedures;
               and
         (ii)  developing a financial information system;
     (c)  strengthening of the GACOPI  within MOH's Directorate of
Planning; and
     (d)  construction of  housing  to  lodge  expatriate resident
consultants.
3.   Strengthening of MOC's Food Security Policies and Information
System.
     (a)  Food pricing policy:
          (i)  carrying out a study  of the Borrower's food needs,
               supply and access;
         (ii)  strengthening  MOC's  capabilities   to  carry  out
               policy analyses; and
        (iii)  acquisition   of   a   four   wheel-drive  vehicle,
               computing   equipment   and   supplies   for  MOC's
               Department of Food Security.
Page  13
     (b)  Information systems:
          (i)  integration of food security information systems;
         (ii)  acquisition   of   a   four   wheel-drive  vehicle,
               computing   equipment   and   supplies   for  MOC's
               Department of Food Security; and
        (iii)  provision of training for  MOC  staff in the imple-
               mentation of the  integrated information system and
               the planning and utilization of food aid.
     (c)  Strengthening MOC's Food Security Department:
          (i)  to coordinate and manage Project activities; and
         (ii)  to carry out studies  to prepare future projects in
               the area of food security.
Part B:   Improving Efficiency and Quality of Services
1.   Rehabilitation of Health Facilities.
     (a)  Reconstruction and/or  rehabilitation  of  health posts,
health centers, provincial and rural hospitals in the provinces of
Tete, Manica and Sofala;
     (b)  carrying out  works  to  rehabilitate  the  hospitals at
Maputo, Nampula and Beira in two phases:
          (i)  first  phase,  sanitation,   works,  public  health
               related and emergency rehabilitation; and
         (ii)  second phase, other high priority civil works; and
     (c)  acquisition of priority hospital equipment and supplies.
2.   Improving Hospital Efficiency.
     (a)  Acquisition of administrative equipment and supplies;
     (b)  undertaking a reorganization of the hospitals at Maputo,
Nampula and Beira; and
     (c)  provision of  assistance  to  and  training for hospital
staff in implementing procedures and systems to strengthen overall
hospital management,  including  admissions  and  discharge proce-
dures, cost accounting and  control, clinical coding and materials
and manpower productivity control.
3.   Health Facility Maintenance.
     (a)  Strengthening health facility  and equipment maintenance
centers at the:
          (i)  central level, in Maputo; and
         (ii)  provincial level, in Nampula and Beira;
     (b)  improvement of management and inventory control;
     (c)  acquisition and  replenishment  of  maintenance kits for
the provincial maintenance centers; and
     (d)  acquisition of four wheel-drive vehicles and motorcycles
for the  central  and  provincial  maintenance  centers at Maputo,
Beira and Nampula.
4.   Pharmaceutical Supply.
     (a)  Construction,  furnishing  and  equipping  of  a central
Page  14
pharmaceuticals warehouse complex for MEDIMOC in Maputo;
     (b)  implementation of a  resettlement  plan  for the persons
living  in  the  sites  assigned   for  the  construction  of  the
pharmaceuticals warehouse complex for MEDIMOC;
     (c)  development of drug management procedures;
     (d)  on-the-job training for MEDIMOC staff; and
     (e)  renovation,  furnishing  and  equipping  of  the MEDIMOC
regional pharmaceutical store in Beira.
5.   Health Manpower Training.
     (a)  Improvement of the efficiency and quality of pre-service
medical, nurse and paramedical training:
          (i)  upgrading physical  facilities,  including boarding
               and lodging facilities and acquisition of furniture
               for the ICSs at Maputo, Beira and Nampula;
         (ii)  strengthening  of  curriculum  development  at  the
               ICSs;
        (iii)  acquisition  of   vehicles,   office  and  teaching
               equipment,   textbooks,   teaching   and   learning
               materials for the ICSs;
         (iv)  teacher  training     for   about  65  ICS  teacher
               candidates;
          (v)  refresher  training  for  about  80  appointed  ICS
               teachers; and
         (vi)  acquisition  of  medical  textbooks,  equipment and
               supplies for  the  Faculty  of  Medicine at Eduardo
               Mondlane University.
     (b)  Development of an in-service training program:
          (i)  design of an in-service training program, including
               the definition  of  the  categories  and numbers of
               staff  to  be  trained,  an  action  plan  for  the
               implementation  of  the  training  program  and the
               production of training materials; and
         (ii)  revision,  printing   and   dissemination   of  job
               descriptions for MOH's health personnel.
6.   Urban Food Distribution System.
     (a)  Strengthening the management of urban food supply system
in Maputo and Beira through:
          (i)  acquisition of small  main-frame computers for GOAM
               and DPCS;
         (ii)  strengthening   of    program    management,   data
               processing and analysis;
        (iii)  training for  GOAM  and  DPCS  staff  in management
               procedures and computer use; and
         (iv)  acquisition  of   office,   storage   and  handling
               equipment and furniture  for  GOAM,  DPCS, EACM and
               EACB;
     (b)  acquisition of  vehicles  for  the  distribution of food
supplies in urban areas;
     (c)  strengthening of the school feeding program; and
Page  15
     (d) carrying out a  pilot  operation  to improve the workers'
canteen program:
          (i)  improvement of canteen dining and rehabilitation of
               kitchen facilities; and
         (ii)  acquisition of kitchen equipment.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts for vehicles, equipment
and supplies shall be  grouped  in  bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $70,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Mozambique
may be granted  a  margin  of  preference  in accordance with, and
subject to, the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     Civil works estimated to  cost  less  than $100,000, per con-
tract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent of
$2,400,000, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   International or Local Shopping:
     Equipment, furniture,  supplies  and  vehicles,  estimated to
cost less than $70,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $500,000,  $500,000,  $800,000 and
$200,000, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Force Account:
     Works necessary to carry out site preparation under Part B(4)
(a) of the Project may  be  carried  out  by the Borrower on force
Page  16
account.
4.   Direct Contracting:
     Textbooks and  learning  materials  under  Part  B(5)  of the
Project may be  procured  under  direct contracting, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  civil  works contract estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and other contracts esti-
mated to cost the  equivalent  of  $70,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the Special Accounts A and B, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to  the  Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to  the  Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of  Special  Accounts  A and B in respect of
such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out  of Special Accounts A and B such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph 4 of Schedules 4
and 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Special Account A - MOH
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2)(a), (3)(a), (4)(a), (5)(a) and  (6)  set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A(1), A(2), B(1), B(2),  B(3),  B(4) and B(5) of the Project
and to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time  to  the  eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  17
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,700,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into Special Account  A  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of Special  Account  A shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to replenish
Special Account A shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit in Special Account A such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of  Special  Account A, the Bor-
                rower shall  furnish  to  the Association requests
                for  deposits  into  Special  Account  A  at  such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                Special Account  A  such  amount  as  the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made out of Special  Account A for eligible expen-
                ditures. All such  deposits  shall be withdrawn by
                the Association from the  Credit Account under the
                respective eligible Categories, and in the respec-
                tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
                fied by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by  the Borrower out of Special Account
A, the Borrower shall, at such  time as the Association shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Association  such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into Special Account A:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for Parts A(1), A(2), B(1), B(2),
B(3), B(4), and B(5) of the  Project,  less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered  into  by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02  of  the  General Conditions with respect to
Parts A(1), A(2), B(1), B(2), B(3), B(4), and B(5) of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of  twice  the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from  the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories for Parts A(1),  A(2),  B(1), B(2), B(3), B(4), and
Page  18
B(5) of the Project shall  follow  such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after  and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in Special Account A as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               and
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
               (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence  as  the
                    Association may request; or
               (B)  deposit into  Special  Account  A  (or, if the
                    Association shall  so  request,  refund to the
                    Association) an amount equal  to the amount of
                    such payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
                    eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                    shall otherwise agree,  no  further deposit by
                    the Association into  Special  Account A shall
                    be made until  the  Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made  such  deposit  or refund, as
                    the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  Special  Account  A  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
Special Account A.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Special Account B - MOC
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories" means Categories (2)(b),
(3)(b), (4)(b) and (5)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A(3), and B(6) of the Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into Special Account  B  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of Special  Account  B shall be made exclusively
Page  19
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to replenish
Special Account B shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw  from  the  Credit   Account  and  deposit  into  Special
Account B  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of   Special  Account  B,  the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits into Special Account B at such inter-
                vals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               Special Account B such amount as the Borrower shall
               have requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence  to have been made out
               of Special Account B for eligible expenditures. All
               such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
               from  the  Credit   Account  under  the  respective
               eligible   Categories,   and   in   the  respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
               said documents and other evidence.
4.   For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  Special
Account B, the Borrower  shall,  at  such  time as the Association
shall reasonably request,  furnish  to  the Association such docu-
ments and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into Special Account B:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of  the  General  Conditions  and Section 2.02 (a) of
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories  for  Parts  A(3) and B(6) of the
Project, less the  amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
entered into by the  Association  pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with  respect  to  Parts  A(3)  and B(6) of the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter withdrawal, from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries for Parts A(3)  and  B(6)  of  the Project, shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit  in  Special Account B as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligi-
ble expenditures.
Page  20
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               and
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
               (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence  as  the
                    Association may request; or
               (B)  deposit into  Special  Account  B  (or, if the
                    Association shall  so  request,  refund to the
                    Association) an amount equal  to the amount of
                    such payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
                    eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                    shall otherwise agree,  no  further deposit by
                    the Association into  Special  Account B shall
                    be made until  the  Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made  such  deposit  or refund, as
                    the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  Special  Account  B  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
Special Account B.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                      Implementation Program
1.   Ministry of Health (MOH)
     (a)  Project Director/MOH.
     The Director  of  Planning,  in  his/her  capacity of Project
Director  for  the  MOH,  shall  be  responsible  for  the overall
coordination, management and supervision  of the implementation of
Parts A(1), A(2), B(1), B(2), B(3), B(4) and B(5) of the Project.
     (b)  Steering Committee.
          (i)  In discharging  his/her  responsibilities, the Pro-
               ject Director shall seek  the  advice of a steering
               committee composed of  the  heads  of all technical
               departments  and  units   of  MOH  responsible  for
               Project  implementation  including  the  following:
               Department of  Administration  and Finance, Direct-
               orate of National  Health, Directorate of Planning,
               Maintenance  Section,  Pharmaceuticals  and Medical
               Supplies   Section   and   Directorate   of   Human
               Resources.
         (ii)  The Steering  Committee  shall  meet  at least once
               every two  months  under  the  chairmanship  of the
               Director of Planning.
Page  21
        (iii)  The Steering Committee shall  be responsible in its
               advisory capacity, inter alia, for monitoring over-
               all Project progress,  reviewing  plans and budgets
               for all Project health components and resolving any
               issues  affecting   the   achievement   of  Project
               objectives and implementation.
     (c)  Investment Program Implementation Unit (GACOPI)
          (i)  GACOPI, established within the Directorate of Plan-
               ning of  MOH,  shall  be  responsible for planning,
               managing and supervising MOH's investment programs,
               particularly the implementation  of the reconstruc-
               tion program referred to in Part B of the Project.
         (ii)  GACOPI shall be headed  by the Director of Planning
               of MOH.
        (iii)  GACOPI shall have the following qualified and expe-
               rienced senior, technical and support staff:
                 -   Senior Staff;
                     Program    Coordinator,    who    shall    be
                     responsible,  inter  alia,  for: coordinating
                     all Project  activities  within  MOH and with
                     the Ministry of  Finance,  Bank of Mozambique
                     and  other   Government   agencies,  official
                     entities   and   the   Association;  ensuring
                     appropriate  compilation  and  maintenance of
                     Project  documentation   or   files;  overall
                     supervision  and   day-to-day  management  of
                     GACOPI and its  staff; supervision of Project
                     financial    aspects    and    accounts   and
                     preparation   of   evaluation   and  progress
                     reports as well  as  all action plans related
                     to  the   Project;   preparing   records  and
                     accounts necessary for Project evaluation and
                     audits, with  the  support  of  the technical
                     assistance deemed necessary  to do so; super-
                     vision of the  overall  implementation of the
                     Project, including  procurement arrangements;
                     and meeting regularly with GACOPI's technical
                     administrative  staff  and  reporting  to the
                     Project Director, MOH and Steering Committee.
                 -   Technical Administrative Department:
                     Procurement Officer,  who  shall be responsi-
                     ble,   inter   alia,    for:   carrying   out
                     procurement  arrangements  necessary  for the
                     acquisition   of   equipment,   supplies  and
                     services including the  preparation of tender
                     documents, reviewing bids and contract awards
                     in  accordance  with  Bank's  Guidelines  and
                     other parallel cofinancing agencies;
                 -   Financial Controller, who  shall be responsi-
                     ble,  inter  alia,   for:  keeping  financial
                     accounts for all  Project components; prepar-
                     ing withdrawal credit applications for signa-
                     ture of the authorized representative of Bank
                     of Mozambique and reconciling Special Account
                     bank  statements   in   accordance  with  the
                     Association's    disbursement   instructions;
                     liaising with  the  appropriate Department in
                     the Ministry  of  Finance; preparing expendi-
                     ture  accounts,   quarterly  reports,  annual
                     financial plans  and  submission  of accounts
                     for audit. He/she  shall, also, provide other
                     necessary financial assistance;
Page  22
                 -   Senior Architect,  who  shall be responsible,
                     inter alia, for:  selecting and awarding con-
                     sultants' contracts; evaluating and following
                     up of  design  activities;  supervising field
                     engineering  staff  and  performance control;
                     outlining quality standards to be achieved in
                     design,  construction  and  equipment supply;
                     evaluating rehabilitation  needs  and corres-
                     ponding  specifications;  establishing  basic
                     programs to be  followed  by consultants; and
                     procurement advisory activities;
                     The Senior  Architect  shall  be  assisted in
                     discharging his/her responsibilities by:
                     two Junior Architects, who shall be responsi-
                     ble, inter alia, for: implementing the rehab-
                     ilitation programs for the health facilities;
                     ensuring the  correct  interpretation of pro-
                     gram  designs  and  architectural  and  civil
                     engineering  executive  projects; programming
                     and  drafting  alterations  to  the  existing
                     drawings and plans  of  the health facilities
                     under  rehabilitation,  in  order  to  ensure
                     appropriate   operational    and   functional
                     aspects of the  hospital services; monitoring
                     the execution of  the projects implemented by
                     other   consultants   contracted   under  the
                     Project;  physical  planning  for  the health
                     facilities; participating  in  the evaluation
                     of projects  and  designs  submitted by other
                     consultants; participating in the supervision
                     of  the   designs   under  construction;  and
                     participating  in  the  evaluation  of tender
                     documents;
                 -   Civil  Engineer,  who  shall  be responsible,
                     inter  alia,   for:   assisting  the  Project
                     Coordinator in supervising the implementation
                     of the construction  and technical aspects of
                     the Project;  participating  in the selection
                     and appointment of  engineering, planning and
                     architectural consultants;  approving designs
                     and other technical  studies; supervising all
                     tendering and contractual procedures, payment
                     certifications and  acceptance  of  all civil
                     works and equipment; preparing and implement-
                     ing systems  of  control  and  critical path;
                     monitoring  the  physical  progress  of  each
                     component  of  the  Project;  establishing an
                     appropriate  communication  network  with the
                     field staff;
                 -   Field Engineer, under  the supervision of the
                     Civil  Engineer  and  Senior  Architect,  who
                     shall  be   responsible,   inter  alia,  for:
                     ensuring  that  site  preparation  works have
                     been carried out;  participating  in the day-
                     to-day implementation of the construction and
                     rehabilitation  works;  participating  in the
                     fiscalization of works;
                 -   two drafstmen  under  the  supervision of the
                     architects, shall be responsible, inter alia,
                     for: drafting  engineering  and architectural
                     plans; drafting the alterations introduced in
                     the original  designs  and plans; calculating
                     the amounts  of  materials,  works  and other
                     inputs for the construction; and
                 -   Quantity - Surveyor, under the supervision of
Page  23
                     the civil engineer, who shall be responsible,
                     inter alia, for assisting the other technical
                     members of the team  in  working on the sites
                     taking the necessary measurements and prepar-
                     ing draft designs  for  the project drafting;
                     calculating the volume  and  amounts of mate-
                     rials, works  and  services  required for the
                     execution of the designed plans; and evaluat-
                     ing the amount of  work and materials used in
                     the construction.
                 -   Secretariat
                     Secretaries (2).
                     Computer operator.
                     Messenger.
                     Driver.
(2)  Ministry of Commerce (MOC)
     (a)  Project Coordinator/MOC
     The Director of the Food  Security Department of MOC, through
the designated Project  Coordinator/MOC,  shall be responsible for
the  overall  coordination,  management  and  supervision  of  the
implementation of Parts A(3) and B(6) of the Project.
     (b)  the Project Coordinator/MOC  shall be responsible, inter
alia, for the following:
          (i)  day-to-day management of Project activities;
         (ii)  participating in  the  selection  and employment of
               staff  and   consultants   necessary   for  Project
               implementation;
        (iii)  interfacing with  the  appropriate government agen-
               cies, enterprises, donors and the Association;
         (iv)  preparation of all  Project evaluation and progress
               reports; and
          (v)  meeting  regularly  with  MOC  staff  involved with
               Project implementation.
     (c)  In  discharging  his/her  responsibilities  the  Project
Coordinator/MOC shall be assisted by the following staff:
          (i)  Administrative Officer,  who  shall be responsible,
               inter alia, for: keeping financial accounts for MOC
               Project  components,  preparing  withdrawal  credit
               applications for signature of the authorized repre-
               sentative of  Bank  of  Mozambique  and reconciling
               Special Account bank  statements in accordance with
               the   Association's    disbursement   instructions;
               liaising with  the  appropriate  Department  in the
               Ministry   of    Finance;   preparing   expenditure
               accounts, quarterly reports, annual financial plans
               and submission  of  accounts  for  audit; providing
               other  necessary  financial  assistance;  reviewing
               procurement      arrangements      for      Project
               implementation;  packaging  procurement  lots  for:
               vehicles, equipment and  furnishing; reviewing bids
               for international  and  local  competitive bidding,
               and  international  or  local  shopping;  reviewing
               certification  of   contract   awards;  maintaining
               quarterly  updating  of  unit  costs  of  materials
               supplies   and   equipment;   liaising   with   the
               enterprise  and  retailers  in  Maputo  and  Beira;
Page  24
               maintaining weekly procurement schedules;
         (ii)  Secretary; and
        (iii)  Messenger.
