Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCLAL USE ONLY
X      ~~~M  I (_ W(           'l 14,      (    t
,A* :iiY.J                        '                       Report No. 9647
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1359-CA)
JUNE 14, 1991
Population ai.d Human Resources Division
Ccuntry Department I
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
An                Aesocotioen de Drente d'dl6wse
Patnts Association
BOPE              Dureau de coordination du urolet ddueation
Educateon Project Coordinaticn Unit
CABIJN rDUC       Cabinet du HDUe
Cabinet of MIKU=
CAIC&&            Central African Republie
A
CCC              Cr_itf de coordilation et do control.
Coordination and Suprrwsisoa Omittee
CPAW              Afrles Financial Coeainty Franc
bcDZs             Direction de le ^ceetruction et de lentretien des
bAtitsuto ecolaires
Departa nt of School Building and Maintenance
DCES              Direction dos ecostructlene et dee g4uipements
ecolairee
Department of School Construction and Equipment
tlTOS             Direction do le valuation. de l'inforetuion et de
l'orlentation scolsires
Department of Educational Evaluation.
Infoaation eand Orientation
DEPP              Directioa des Otudes. de la planification et de la
xmroRr _tio«
Department of Studies. Planning eand Prograxsing
DEMS              Direction des Etude., de La Dlanification et des
setatietioues
Planning Unit of the KINEDUC
DSCS              Directilen des atatisti!ugt et de la carte scolaire
Department of statitics and School Mapping
Mt?               Ecole ormale dinatituteurs
Primary Teachers College
CDP               Gross Doneetic Product
tffiA             international Develoqnt Association
1331              Lestitut Rational d'education et de formation
Rational Institute of Education and Training
UalP              Institut national d'action et de recherche
p6da goglues
National Institute for Pedagogical Research and
Actioz
MEW or MOmNS       Minist6re de l1education nationale
Ministry of Education
PAS               Prormse d'atust n_t structurel
Structural Adjusttat Program
FCM               Project Conpl.tion Report
FDVA              Proarame de dEparts volontsire. assltsts
Assisted Voluntary Departures Program
PNA               Progr ae national d action tl982-.5)
National Actio  Prgram
PP?               Project Preparation Facility
RCK               Rinublioue Centrafrica5ne
Central African Republic
SCQS              Serwice de construction des bAt_manto  colaires
School luilding Service
SUR               Special Draring lights
SEES              Service d'entratien des bitiments seoLlires
Sehool Maintenance Service
SCIMIHEDme        Secretary General of HlbEIUD
mmDP              United Nations Developwnt Program
UNESCO            UnLted Nations Educational. Scientific oad
Cultural Organlzation
UNICEf            United Nations Cbildren fund.



FOR OFFICIAL1 USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directon-Ge..raI
Operations Evaluation
June 14, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Second Education Proiect (Credit 1359-CA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Central African Republic: Second
Education Project (Credit 1359-CA)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office -qith Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
'~~
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Second Education Project
e                                        (Credit 1359-CA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .    .  i
EVALUATION SUMNARY    ..iii
Part I   REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . .            1
I.  Project Identification and Key Indicators . . . . .         1
II.  Socioeconomic Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
III.  Project Objectives and Description.  . . . . .  . .         2
IV. Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . .          3
V. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          5
VI. Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
VII. Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         10
VIII.  IDA Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
IX. Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12
X.  Project Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        13
XI.  Consultant Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        13
XII.  Project Documents and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . .        14
PART II  REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE              15
I.  Project Execution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
II.  Developmental Impact of the Project . . . . . . . .        20
III. Lessons Learned .20
IV.  Relationship With the World Bank    ..23
V.  Conclusion  ....  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .   .  .  .    .  23
*      Tables:   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
*      "Organigramme du Minist4re de l'Education
Nationale" (1/86) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        27
*      "Organigramme du Minist4re de l'Education
Nationale et de l'Enseignement Sup6rieur" (3/88)           28
*      Government's Comments on PCR  . . . . . . . . . . .        29
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         30
1. Related IDA Credits .30
2.  Project Timetable  .      . . .       . . . . i . . . .       30
3.  Cumulative Disbursements, estimated and actual . . .          31
4.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
5. Project Results .34
6.  Status of Credit Agreement Covenants . . . . . . . . .        35
7.  Use of IDA Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
ANNEXES  1 - Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         39
2 - Related IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        40
3 - Exchange Rate Fluctuations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
*                                         (Credit 1359-CA)
PREPACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Education
Project in the Central African Republic. Development Credit 1359-CA, in the
amount of SDR 10.1 million, was approved on May 10, 1983 in support of this
project. The Development Credit was closed as sc.heduled on December 31, 1988,
and the last disbursement was made on July 21, 1989. The Credit was fully
disbursed.
The PCR was jointly prepared by consultants under the supervision of
UNESCO's Operational Policy and Sector Analysis Division in the Bureau of
Coordination of Operational Activities (Parts I and III), and by the Borrower
(Part II). IDA (Occidental and Central Africa Department, Population and
Human Resources Division) prepared the Glossary, Preface and Evaluation
Summary and revised Part I to reflect the subsequent comments of the
Government (See Part II). There were no cofinancing agencies.
Preparation of the PCR was initiated during IDA's final project
supervision mission in April 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1359-CA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project oblectives and description
1.       The project's main objectives were to strengthen the Government's
capacity for education planning, evaluation and implementation, and to improve
the quality of primary education in rural areas. While these objectives
matched sector priorities, project design did not address a number of broad,
systemic constraints, mainly in the areas of resource availability and
allocation, which put in doubt the long-term sustainability of project
results.
2.       The credit agreement, for a total of SDR 10,100,000, was signed on
May 19, 1983, and the project was implemented between 1983 and 1988. Its main
components were:
(a)       strengthening of the Department of Construction, Repair and
Maintenance of School Buildings - DCEBS (which became during
the course of the project the Department of School
Construction and Equipment - DCES), through the financing of
premises, building materials, equipment, technical assistance,
local specialist services, fellowships and operating costs, to
enable it to: (i) supervise the rehabilitation of the primary
school classrooms, (ii) implement future school building
programs, (iii) initiate a maintenance program, and (iv)
establish sound accounting practices;
(b)       primary school rehabilitation (civil works, furniture and
equipment), through: (i) reconstruction of about 300 primary
school classrooms. (ii) construction of about 100 houses for
primary school principals, and (iii) distribution of
educational materials to approximately 54,000 students and 800
teachers;
(c)       support for planning, evaluation and future project
preparation through the financing of equipment, technical
assistance,local specialist services, and fellowships, in
order to: (i) strengthen the MINEDUC Planning Unit (DEPS), to
improve its data collection and school mapping capacities,



- iv -
(ii) establish an evaluation capacity within the National
Institute of Education and Training (INEF) to test the impact
of the improved learning environment on primary student
achievement and on the internal efficiency of the system, and
(iii) prepare future education projects.
Proiect #mnlementation and results
3.       Project implementation was satisfactory in terms of number of
buildings constructed, observance of projected deadlines and cost estimates,
adherence to project duration and costs. At the time of project startup,
numerous diff.culties were encountered in such areas as personnel management,
inventory manabement and control, certain unwarranted interventions, financial
and accounting management. This necessitated some administrative
restructurings and at the end of 1987 an iducation Project Coordination Unit
vas set up and the Coordination and Supervision Committee dissolved (see paras
5.1 and 5.2). Although these problems considerably hampered project activities
during the initial years, the Government and IDA undertook to identify and
solve them within the framework of constructive dialogue, resulting in an
appreciable improvement in project execution, to the satisfaction of both the
Government and IDA. By its efforts to get the Second Education Project back
on its feet, the Government demonstrated yet again the importance it attaches
to education reform, which continues to be evident within the framework of the
Third Education Project.
4.       DCES component: The main weakness of the component was
maintenance, an aspect that did not function efficiently or with any real
possibilities of continuity. As of project completion, there was still no
real capacity for maintenance of I4NEDUC's assets. The actions designed to
equip users to assume greater responsibility for maintenance had very limited
impact (see paras. 6.6, 6.7 and 6.8). The functions of DCES. which were
revised at the time of the various MINEDUC reorganizations, are extremely
broad. very imprecise, and lacking any real relation to its available human
and physical resources (see para. 6.3). At present, the main role cif DCES is
to provide technical support for the various projects receiving external
financing and possessing their own management team.
5.       Rehabilitation component: The quantitative goals of the component
have been exceeded. However, weaknesses are appearing as a result of the
complexities affecting startup of the civil works (see paras. 5.4 and 6.10),
and of the lack of care taken with certain buildings (see paras. 6.13, 6.14
and 6.15). All of the schools received supplies of educational materials, but
the books for the teachers do not always seem to have been chosen very
carefully (see para. 6.18).
6.       Planning and evaluation component: The project strengthened
planning capacity only very slightly: data were collected and a statistical
yearbook was published every year for four years, but (a) the staff assigned
to DSCS were of insufficiently high level to receive any training in planning;
(b) the technical assistance fell short of the country's requirements. The



- v -
situation was aggravated by the administrative separation and physical
dispersal of the teams handling statistics and planning. The goals of this
subcomponent are far from beiig achieved (see paras. 5.7 and 6.17). On the
evaluation side, however, it was possible to initiate a stable group in survey
and analytical methods; but having the data processed abroad, with the
participation of only one Central African staff, despite the availability of
the fellowships, was regrettable (paras. 5.8 and 6.18).
*        Sustainability of results
7.       While the project achieved positive results in terms of physical
implementation, the sustainability of the project's impact is limited by the
fact that a number of broad, systemic issues and constraints were not
addressed in the project's design. These constraints include teacher
availability, provision of pedagogic materials, development of community
maintenance programs, budgetary allocations to MINEDUC and budget reallocation
within HINEDUC. An unfortunate consequence of this failure to address these
key issues will probably be a substantial decline in the project's positive
impact. Thus, the major lesson to be learned from the implementation
experience is that failure to address these broad, systemic issues -- which
are often outside the direct control of the implementing agency -- greatly
reduces the long-term impact of the project. The Third Education Project
contains a major policy component in the form of a sector Action Plan which is
addressing the major sectoral issues.
8.       The project achieved good results in the areas of: (a) school
building rehabilitation and construction of houses for teachers; (b) supply of
educational materials; (c) training of an evaluation team. The efforts made
in the area of mz.ntenance do not hold out any promise of useful long-term
impact, since they were not sufficiently oriented toward identifying and
treating the causes of deterioration of the physical plant or with providing
users with the necessary preliminary training for effective participation.
Summary of actions taken and lessons to be learned
9.       To ensure that the impact of the project's achievements can be
sustained, it is important for MINEDUC to: (a) introduce a plan to provide
information and training in the area of building maintenance; (b) prepare
teachers' manuals to ensure optimum use of the textbooks distributed to the
students; (c) maintain and utilize the evaluation team. It is also necessary
to reverse the trend started by the second education project, namely a process
of infrastructure construction that relieves the inhabitants of a large part
of their responsibilities in the area of school construction. These issues,
as well as the broader, systemic issues of resource allocation mentioned
above, are being addressed through the Third Education Project, currently
under implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1359-CA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM -HE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Prolect identification and key indicators
Name of project:           Second Education Project
Credit:                    1359-CA
Country:                   Certral African Republic
Sector:                    Education
Subsectors:                (i) Primary education
(ii) Planning and management of the education
sector
Amount of credit:          SDR 10,100,000 (US$ 11.0 million)
Board approval:            May 10, 1983
Effectiveness:             June 28, 1983
Original closing date:    December 31, 1988
Actual closing date:       December 31, 19881/
II.   Socioeconomic framework
2.1         The Central African economy is essentially rural: the agriculture,
livestock and forestry sectors represent 40 percent of GDP and 60 percent of
export earnings, and provide employment for 85 percent of the population
(i.e., of a total of 2.7 million inhabitants at the end of 1986). The poor
productivity of the agriculture sector is due to inadequate supplies of inputs
and to deficiencies in terms of suitable modern equipment and transportation.
The forestry sector is underexploited because of the country's landlocked
situation. With respect to the country's mining resources, only minerals such
as diamonds, which have a high value added, are exploited, for the most part
without government supervision. Trade represents 20 percent of GDP, while the
industrial sector (agricultural food processing, lumber, textiles) accounts
for only a small share of GDP (7.3 percent in 1985). The balance of payments
shows a structural deficit, and, despite a tightening of public finances, the
CAR has not been able to finance most of its investment program, and the
country continues to suffer a serious economic and financial crisis, partly as
a result of the international economic situation.
l/Requests for disbursement were accepted through June 30, 1989, and the
last disbursement was effecteu on July, 1989.



2.2         Following the "National Action Program"--PNA--(1982-85), the Five-
Year Plan (1986-90) aims to improve: (a) the management of government
personnel, (b) budgetary and tax policy and public sector management, (c) the
education and training system with, as general objectives, (i) a sustainable
increase in production and individual income, (ii) reestablishment of the
major macroeconomic equilibria, (iii) reorganization of the central
authorities and of certain public services. The Second Education Project-like
the Third, now in process of execution--provides some response to this third
objective. The objective of Structural Adjustment Programs I and II are; (a)
rehabilitation of the bases of the economy: achievement of balance of payments
and public finance equilibrium, and (b) growth. Both of these objectives are
in line with the Plan's first two objectives.
2.3         The objectives of the Second Education Project matched the
Government's concerns, which have now become national priorities within the
framework of the 1986-1990 Five-Year Plan: rehabilitate the physical plant of
the national education sector and improve management of the system, through
the strengthening and organization of the agencies involved and the training
of technical staff to ensure optimum execution of the rehabilitation programs.
III. Prolect obiectives and descriDtion
3.1         The project's main objectives were to strengthen the Government's
capacity for education planning, evaluation and implementation, and to improve
the quality of primary education in rural areas. However, as will be seen,
these objectives failed to address a number of broad, systemic constraints,
mainly in the areas of resource availability and allocation, which put in
doubt the long-term sustainability of project results.
3.2.        The project, scheduled to be implemented over a five-year period,
comprises the following components:
(a)   strengthening of the Department of Construction, Repair and
Maintenance of School Buildings (DCEBS) through the financing of
premises, building materials, equipment, technical assistance,
local specialist services, fellowships, and operating costs, to
enable it to: (i) supervise the rehabilitation of primary school
classrooms, (ii) implement future school building programs, (iii)
initiate a maintenance program, and (iv) establish sound
accounting practices;
(b)   primary school rehabilitation (civil work's, furniture and
equipment), through reconstruction of about? 300 primary school
classrooms, construction of about 100 houses for primary school
principals, and distribution of educational materials to
approximately 54,000 students and 800 teachers;
(c)   support for planning, evaluation and future project preparation
through the financing of equipment, technical assistance, local



- 3 -
specialist services, and fellowships, in order to: (i) strengthen
the MINEDUC Planning Unit (DEPS), specifically its capacity to
collect education data, undertake school mapping and review the
allocation of education funds, (ii) establish an evaluation
capacity within the National Institute of Education and Training
(INEF) to test the impact of the imprcved learning environment on
primary student achievement and on the internal efficiency of the
system, and (iii) prepare future education projects.
IV.   Prolect design and organization
4.1         The project was clearly designed and its objectives well perceived
by the Central African authorities, since it was intended to help overcome a
major deficiency affecting the entire education system: the dilapidation of
the physical plant (the number of primary schools having risen from 735 (3,181
classes) in 1975 to 894 (3,311 classes) in 19832a, resulting from the
combined absence of any maintenance policy or planning and of a shortage of
human and physical resources at DCEBS. The technical and organizational
strengthening of that Department was therefore essential. As emphasized in
the appraisal report, this was the project's principal objective. Decree 391
of March 10, 1983. previously submitted to IDA, provided the institutional
framework by setting up within the Department (i) the School Building Service
(SCBS), and (ii) the Repair and Maintenance Service for School Buildings
(SEBS).
4.2         The project provided for the financing of 25 years of local
specialist services, technical personnel training (16 taonths of fellowships).
preparation, publication and distribution of a Repair and Maintenance Guide,
and, to cut down on distances, three regional SEBS services at Bangui, Bambari
and Berb6rati. For the rehabilitation operations, the rural regions were
wisely chosen, since Basse-Rotto, Ouham and Ouham-Pend6 represent one third of
the country's rural schools and almost one fourth of all primarv-school
students. In light of the key role played by DCEBS, its director was the
Project Director, and he was allocated 66 months of technical assistance, 30
months of local specialists, and 18 months of training fellowships. The civil
works and construction operations were supplemented by the supply of furniture
and educational materials for both students and teachers.
4.3         These activities were supplemented by a course of action designed
to improve MINEDUC's capacities in the areas of collection of school
statistics, school mapping, and education planning, with a view to providing
the decision makers with efficient tools to monitor the development of the
system--and also to plan future rehabilitation and maintenance operations--and
to provide for humen and physical resource planning. There were no background
data available: there had been no regular collection, processing or analysis
2/In 1988, there were 1,014 schools and 3,665 classes, and in 1989,
1,040 and 3,779, respectively.



of statistics, and no school mapping had been done; nor did MINEDUC have the
necessary inputs to foximulate development scenarios for the system or to make
informed choices. The project made provision for the human resources (36 -
months of technical assistance, 9 months of consultancy, 12 months of
fellowships) and physical resources needed to solve those problems and to lead
to a rational grouping of activities formerly scattered among several
different services.
4.4         The project had also planned to develop the system's evaluation
capacities by strengthening the Department of Educational Evaluation,
Information and Orientation (DEIOS) of the National Institute of Education and
Training (INEF) and getting it to evaluate whether improvement of the
educational environment and the provision of appropriate educational materials
actually enhanced the quality of education. For this purpose, the project
estimated 9 months of technical assistance, 18 months of fellowships, and
physical resources for the local specialists.
4.5         The three project components were mutually compatible and
complementary; they matched the government's priorities, and to a certain
extent foreshadowed the 1986-90 Five-Year Plan. The Government had given
assurances on the competence of the local technicians selected, and on the
location and characteristics of the schools to be rehabilitated, with a view
to optimum project performance and a good return on the project investments.
It might perhaps have been advisable to have had more stringent requirements
for assessing the appropriateness of certain choices in advance. For example,
the Repair and Maintenance Guide could have been reviewed before its
publication, better-quality wood could have been required for the desks,
teachers' guides could have been requested to facilitate optimum use of the
student textbooks.  Those few imperfections, now being corrected under the
Third Project, do not alter the cohesiveness and appropriataness of the
overall project.  The way the components are formulated and the projected
resources should make it possible to achieve the expected results.
4.6         In view of the importance of the maintenance and rehabilitation
activities, DCEBS was entrusted with project management and implementation,
supervised by a Coordination and Supervision CommAttee (CCC) composed of the
directors of the sectors concerned (MINEDUC Order No. 3..) of August 10, 1983).
4.7         The only action directed toward the users (teachers and parents)
was preparation of the Repair and Maintenance Guide for their use. But no
community participation was planned, when it was in fact essential to
associate the communities with the project (maintenance or reconstruction) in
order to change the commonly-held image of the school. If the community is to
assume greater responsibility for the infrastructure, then the school must be
perceived as belonging to it, and not regarded as a gift from the State.
Furthermore, the architectural proposals available at the time of the
appraisal did not take sufficient account of the need to design buildings with
a view to reducing future maintenance requirements.



5-
V.    Proiect implementation
5.1         The satisfactory appearance of certain indicators (number of
buildings constructed, publication of the evaluation report, project deadline
respected) must not be allowed to conceal the difficulties of project
implementation between 1983 and 1987.  First of all, operation of the Project
Unit was not up to standard. Because of mediocre performance at project
management level, the project suffered from defective administration, poor
management of personnel at different levels, instances of unwarranted
interference, external pressures and constraints, and noncompliance with
decisions takea. In particular, inadequate accounting procedures and staffing
allowed a substantial overconsumption and misuse of construction materials and
fuel which attracted IDA supervision missions' attention.
5.2         Although these problems considerably hampered activities during
the initial years of the project, the way in which they were solved is
indicative of the positive approach to its implementation. In 1986/87, the
Government and IDA, working in close collaboration and within the framework of
constructive dialogue, undertook to identify the constraints on project
execution. To this end, they requested various supervision reports, a special
audit report, and reports from local officialsa!. Once the constraints were
identified, the Government and IDA decided to abolish the CCC and to create a
new Education Project Coordination Unit (BCPE). This unit would handle the
reactivation and normal conduct of activities, acceleration of disbursements
with a view to complete utilization of the credit funds, and the efficient
conduct of the Third Project. The Government subsequently expressed
satisfaction in regard to the way in which the situation had been managed.
Thanks to its efforts to get the Second Education Project back on its feet,
the Government once again demonstrated the importance it attaches to education
reform, which continues to be evident within the framework of the Third
Education Project.
5.3         MINEDUC was reorganized twice during the project, but without any
positive fallout on the project components, particularly the planning
component. In a first attempt to regroup planning related activities, Decree
86.016 of January 21, 1986 created the Department of Studies, Planning and
Programming (DEPP) with three services (See Part II): studies and planning,
school statistics, school mapping and programming, under the authority of
SG/MINEDUC, as a replacement for DEPS (MINEDUC's previous Planning Unit).
Decree 88.100 of March 31, 1988, however, abolishes DEPP and replaces it by
(i) a Department of Statistics and School Mapping (DSCS) under the authority
of SG/HINEDUC. and (ii) a Cellule de R6flexion et de Prospective, to which all
planning activities have been attached, and which reports directly to
CAB/MINEDUC;  moreover, the two services are physically separated, and the
V/Rapport sur l'6valuation du IIe projet 4ducation RCA/IDA-Banque
Mondiale of September 4, 1987, prepared by two charg6s de mission from
HINEDUC, and one charg4 de mission from the planning Secretariat.



- 6 -
data processing unit is located at CAB/MINEDUC, far from the Statistics
Department (MINEDUC assures that this is a transitory situation, see Part II).
5.4         Rehabilitation component.  The project objectives were: (a) to
create local construction companies, through the use of force account (as
initial training), and (b) to privatize the small companies set up in this
way. Because of the complexities involved in getting the civil works
(executed by direct labor) under way, and following a brief initial period of
success, the project management found itself unable to strictly supervise the
hiring and managemer: of a very large staff. In addition, handling of the
construction materials supplied by the project was subject to inadequate
control (inventory management, organization of distribution, onsite
supervision). This situation led to various adjustments at project management
levels. with a heavy turnover of key personnel, and to a considerable erosion
of the Project Director's authority pending complete reorganization of the
project management by MINEDUC.
5.5         This also affected the construction process.  It became necessary
to rely more and more on solidly established companies as a means of relieving
the project of some of its management problems. While this had a very
positive effect on unit costs, the original plan was not observed; by the end
of the project, the companies being used were medium-sized or large
contractors, instead of small enterprises set up by the craftsmen used and
trained under the direct-labor arrangement at the start of the project.
5.6         Maintenance component.  The principal weaknesses of the project
are found in the maintenanca component, which did not manage to function
efficiently or with any prospects of sustainability. In addition,
conservation of the educational infrastructure was incorrectly estimated in
the rehabilitation component. Greater efforts should have been made in
connection with the design and location of the buildings, and with the
programs for training the users and making them responsible for this aspect.
5.7         Planning component.  The planning component progressed with some
difficulty: the local personnel were too numerous (some twenty teachers) and
of too low a lejel to receive effective training. Moreover, the expert did
not live up to expectations, being quite weak on the technical side, although
the authorities never issued any formal complaint about him, apparently for
fear of further complicating the already difficult progress of the project.
The institutional changes-DEPS, then DEPP, and lastly DSCS and the Cellule de
R4fle.-ion et de Prospective-did not result in any improvements in quality.
The physical separation of DSCS and the data processing unit was a hindrance
to the work; DSCS should have been equipped with basic data processing
equipment to handle its own data, or else all the agencies involved in
statistics and planning should have been housed under the same roof. Survey
quest..onnaires were prepared, but apparently no reliable collection service
was set up. As a result, the goals of this component were not achieved, and
everything still has to be done in this area. The reduction of DSCS staff
from 20 to 8 at the end of 1989 represents a start toward remedying the
situation.



- 7 -
*        5.8          Rvaluation component.  The evaluation component enabled a stable
group of six Central African nationals to begin to learn methods of taking
surveys and analyzing results. The initial work plan was disrupted by the
consultant's delays and by delays in the rehabilitation process to which the
study related, since the object was to measure the impact of improvements in
the physical environment on the quality of teacher and student performance.
This activity was appreciated by the participants; it is regrettable that the
data processing was done abroad, with the participation of only one local
specialist (the Director of the newly created Evaluation Department, DEIOs),
since this restricted such aspects as training and the creation of national
capacities in the area. On the other hand, the abolition of INEF and the
creation of the DEIOS (Decree 88.100 of March 31, 1988) did not disrupt this
activity.
5.9         Generally speaking, the Second Project did not adequately exploit
the training provisions. Very few of the fellowships were used: for the
planning component, 6 months out of 12, for the evaluation none of the 18
months estimated, while it was important to have a large number of nationals
participating in the data processing activities in Montreal.
VI.   Proiect results
Maintenance Comgonent
6.1         One of the project's main objectives was to set up a school
buildings maintenance program. This program, initially financed out of the
project funds, was to continue with funding from MINEDUC's budget. The three
geographic zones of maintenance set up as planned were in fact closed down
(between January and July 1987), even before the end of the project. As of
project completion, there was thus no real capacity for maintaining MINEDUC's
physical plant throughout the country other than that being set up in the new
regions under the Third Education Project.
6.2         There were many reasons why those geographic zones were closed
down so quickly. In addition to the difficulties of securing local
counterpart funding, there was never any clear or cohesive organization of
maintenance activities. It is difficult to identify the concerns on which the
choice of activities was based. The rehabilitation work varied widely in
scope (small works, large-scale rehabilitation works, even actual
construction). These were executed by different procedures (contracting,
direct labor, or the maintenance service's own resources).
6.3         The two reorganizations of MINEDUC and its services (November 1987
and March 1988) changed the functions of the Department of School Building and
Equipment (DCES). DCES mainly provides technical support for the various
projects being executed with external financing and possessing their own
individual management teams. DCES includes a Service des Normes Techniques et
de Gestion, (Technical and Management Standards Service), which plays a
consulting and programming role and serves as a documentary research center,



and the School Building and Maintenance Service, which is in charge of
technical document preparation and onsite supervision. DCES is limited in its
human resources and potential for action, and its role is not well identified.
Taking into account its limited budget of CFAF 16 million, DCES should assign
greater priority to actions to prevent dilapidation of MINEDUC's existing
physical plant, rather than mainly dealing with rehabilitation.
6.4         Operations in the three geographic zones of maintenance
(infrastructure, equipment, materials) affected a total of 320 classrooms, or
50 percent of the objectives contained in the working documents (an average of
200 classrooms in each of the three sectors). The average unit costs of this
component (overall cost/number of classrooms rehabilitated) are around CFAF
4.66 million, i.e., 75 percent higher than the appraisal estimate (CFAF 2.65
million). The effective cost of operations per classroom is impossible to
determine in the absence of proper accounting for each operation and also
because the costs include very large sums representing the initial
establishment of the three maintenance sectors and strengthening at the
central level (equipment and technical assistance).
6.5         While the main purpose of the works was rehabilitation of the
infrastructure, this did not necessarily include addressing the underlying
causes of the dilapidation. Certain operations. begun shortly before the
decision was taken to shut down the maintenance sectors, were stopped before
they could be completed.
6.6         As a result of the closing of the Bangui ENI, only very few
personnel were reached by the maintenance information program. Some 60
student-teachers received two hours of training and information. A few school
principals and inspectors were able to attend information meetings on the
subject. The scope of the program was too narrow to have any real impact on
the capacity of the users to assume responsibility for the physical plant.
6.7         The project intended to provide the schools with basic tools to
enable users to maintain the school furniture. This equipment was actually
purchased during the project, but no equipment was visible in the schools
visited by the completion mission.
6.8         Ten thousand copies of the Repair and Maintenance Guide were
distributed among the three maintenance sectors during the project. The
distribution was not efficiently performed (in the various regions visited,
none of the teachers possessed or had even heard of the publication). In
Basse-Kotto, the Guides were held up at the Inspector's offices at Alindao.
Furthermore, the technical and graphic qualities of the publication could have
been improved. It should probably have been redesigned before its publication
was authorized.
Rehabilitation component
6.9         The project's initial targets have been exceeded: at the final
tally, a total of 367 classrooms and 87 houses had been constructed. The



- 9 -
first of these were built by force account, with locally-hired skilled workers
supervised by DCEBS. The quality of the work is good.
6.10        For the second phase, the project instituted competitive bidding
among the skilled artisans used during the first phase. Those artisans had
already received training in organization and management.  However, this
experiment did not benefit from the expected lessons of the first phase. The
artisans, suddenly finding themselves elevated to the level of entrepreneurs,
experienced difficulties in managing their operations, and remained very
dependent on the project management. To avoid any resultant conflicts of
interest, the last phase was executed in a more conventional manner, with bids
solicited from pre-qualified small and medium-sized contractors.
6.11        The unit costs of construction ran from CFAF 65,000 to 40,000 per
m2, depending on the method of construction. The average unit cost, including
construction, furniture and equipment, but not including teachers' housing or
the schools constructed in the Bangui area (at the end of the project), is
CFAF 94,000 per student place.
6.12        Although imprecise, since substantial transfers of materials from
one region to another took place upon completion of each phase, the unit costs
of construction decreased when the procurement method switched progressively
from force account to contracting through competitive bidding. Rehabilitation
of more classrooms than planned (See par. 6.9), within budget and overall
quality specifications, indicates an effective control of costs.
6.13.       The quality of construction, however, decreased as the phases
progressed, the final period having suffered from inadequate supervision. The
Project Unit was at that time undergoing a complete overhaul, with its staff
busy on the preparation of the Third Project.
6.14        The major problem results from the fact that the school design did
not take sufficient account of the need to reduce future maintenance and to
make the users themselves responsible for the largest share of this
maintenance. At the schools visited. no steps had been taken to protect
against storm water runoff or to collect rainwater from the roofs, and serious
soil erosion problems, potentially harmful to the buildings' durability, was
encountered in the majority of cases. Damage had also occurred as a result of
the buildings being erected too close to the surrounding trees (the metal
roofing was sometimes found to be twisted or punctured).
6.15        The educational materials delivered are useful and of good
quality; the students' textbooks could be put to better use if teachers'
guides had been provided. The works selected for the teachers' libraries are
not always pertinent to their interest (the teachers are not really concerned
with non-directional pedagogy, simulation games in school, or the history of
education in France), and do not help them to resolve the practical problems
of managing their classes and of communicating with students within their
particular environment. To improve their general cultural background, it
would also have been a good idea to select some titles by African authors.



- 10 -
Planninje and evaluation component
6.16        DSCS has produced survey sheets for the various levels of
education, and, on the basis of the information collected, has published four
statistical yearbooks. The data have been questioned by the HINEDUC Cabinet,
however, which feels that the data collection network was unreliable. It also
seems that the methodological training received by 20 members of the DSCS
staff was not very beneficial or efficient, being unsuited both to the
requirements and to the existing level of experience. The project did not
succeed in grouping together the various agencies in charge of statistic's,
school mapping and planning: DSCS, Cellule de R6flexion et de Prospective.
data processing unit. Despite some useful output, with room for upgrading,
HINEDUC is unable to give a clear statistical profile of the education system,
and does not make use of the available statistics in the decision making
process. This component has not therefore attained its objectives.
6.17        The evaluation team produced a voluminous document concluding that
improvement of the physical framework (rehabilitation of the premises) cannot
by itself raise the level of education; action must be taken in other areas,
such as the academic and professional level of the teachers (question of
initial and continuing training), their motivation (question of their status
and pay), and the quality of the teaching materials. The wrap-up report is
however, a little confused (tables almost illegible) and does not give a clear
response to all the points carefully highlighted in the evaluation mission's
working papers; for example, it is not clear whether average school attendance
and promotion rates improved or not. All the components of the tests are not
perhaps very pertinent (graphic representation, level of language). The most
positive result of this component was the methodological training of a
homogeneous national group of six individuals who will be able to pursue the
evaluation activities. This training would have been more complete if the
fellowships provided had been used to facilitate participation in the data
processing in Canada (see also para. 5.8 above).
VII.        Sustainability of Droiect impact
7.1         While the project achieved positive results in terms of physical
implementation, the sustainability of the project's impact is limited by the
fact that a number of broad, systemic issues and constraints were not
addressed in the project's design. MINEDUC did not assume sufficient
responsibility for teacher availability, renewal of certain educational
materials and maintenance of infrastructure and furniture. The country's
financial situation and the reduction in its budgetary resources have affected
availability of the funds needed by MINEDUC to cover its operating costs. At
the same time, HINEDUC's limited operating budget remains skewed towards
higher education and the provision of scholarships, at the expenses of needed
pedagogic materials at the primary level. An unfortunate consequence of this
failure to address these key issues will probably be a substantial decline in
the project's positive impact. Thus, the major lesson to be learx.ed from the
implementation experience is that failure to address these broad, systemic



- 11 -
issues which are often outside the direct control of the implementing agency
greatly reduces the long-term impact of the project. The Third Education
Project coa-tains a major policy component in the form of a sector Action Plan
which is addressing the education sector's major constraints, including
teacher availability, provision of pedagogic materials, development of
community maintenance programs, budgetary allocations to MINEDUC and budget
reallocation within NINEDUC.
7.2         The principal benefits deriving from the project are in the area
(a) of rehabilitation of the physical plant and housing construction, despite
the reservations expressed earlier, (b) supplies of educational materials, (c)
training of an evaluation team. To avoid anything that might negate the
project's achievements, it is essential that MINEDUC: (a) implement a
maintenance information and training program, (b) prepare teachers' guides to
ensure optimum utilization of the textbooks distributed to the students, (c)
maintain and make use of the evaluation team.
7.3         One of the more undesirable effects of the project is the method
of school construction initially used. This process relieved the inhabitants
of a large share of the responsibility for school construction, and played a
large part in demotivating local groups (parents associations, APES). With
the exception of certain experiments conducted with villager participation in
the Ippy region, the experimental actions carried out during the Second
Project to test the new school model proposed for the Third Project served to
test building quality rather than the validity of the process; the schools
were constructed entirely by construction firms. It will be necessary to look
into ways of involving the population in the construction process selected for
the Third Project, with a view to increasing local community accountability in
primary school construction, management and maintenance.
7.4         The actions conducted under the heading of maintenance do not hold
out the hope of any interesting long-term impact, since they were not
sufficiently concerned with identifying and treating the origin of the
dilapidation, o-n the one hand, or with providing the necessary preliminary
training to t1'.e users (who are supposed to become the keystone of the
maintenance process), on the other.
VIII. IDA's Performance
8.1         During the project design phase, IDA failed to take into account
systemic issues and constraints which nov limit the sustainability of the
project's impa.t (See para. 7.1). IDA supervision missions, however, clearly
identified problems like the difficulties initially affecting the maintenance
subcomponent, and their aide-mnmoires frequently alluded to the need for it to
be restructured.  Each of the supervision missions also emphasized the need to
get the fellowships program under way and improve organization of the planning
sector in order to enhance project outcotmes. It might perhaps have been a
good idea to review the reference materials (the Repair and Maintenance Guide



- 12 -
and the statistical yearbooks) prior to their publication. and to provide
better methodological support for the evaluation.
8.2         IDA was right to approve the Government's decision to stop
maintenance activities in two geographic zones.  Nonetheless, it would have
been advisable also to emphasize the actions to be taken at different levels
(design, location, development and maintenance of the approaches to the
buildings), with a view to ensuring or facilitating proper preservation of the
physical plant.
8.3         With a view to future projects, it would be a good idea to stress
the need to provide users with information and training in the area of school
building maintenance, through the parents associations (APEs), and to arrange
for decentralization of that activity. But this aspect is partially taken
into account in the Third Project. It might perhaps have been advisable to
suspend the allocations to a given component if the Government was not taking
the necessary steps for its satisfactory implementation (rational
reorganization and choice of local personnel in the planning sector, for
example).
IX. Borrower performance
9.1         Borrower performance fell short of the standard expected because
of the weaknesses in project management already mentioned, and also because of
inadequate attention by MINEDUC to the project staff appointments, both at
project management level and within the services involved in construction and
planning.
9.2         In 1989, at the end of the Second Education Project. MINEDUC was
particularly affected by the "Assisted Voluntary Departures Plan" (PDVA)
introduced as part of the government reform component of the second Structural
Adjustment Program. Many confirmed teachers in the middle selary range took
advantage of the sum of money offered to them to set up a business or
enterprise. This phenomenon was aggravated by retirements and deaths, which
were not offset by any new teacher recruitments because of the country's
budgetary constraints. It is therefore difficult at this time to provide
teachers for all the rehabilitated classes, and in certain regions the
student-teacher ratio has reached 100-1. MINEDUC is mounting an urgent search
for qualified personnel to ensure capacity use of the premises. Under the
Third Education Project and the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project, it
will be possible to deal with the problem of hiring new teaching staff and of
ensuring a rational allocation of existing teachers.
9.3         Generally speaking, MINEDUC has not adequately addressed the
question of user maintenance of its infrastructure. The problems linked to
preserving the physical plant are not perceived, and the necessary action at
the local level (pruning of tree branches hitting the roofs and erosion
control through the planting of vegetation, etc.) have not been confronted.
There would consequently seem to be an urgent call for action in terms of



- 13 -
revising of the maintenance guide, and providing information, and assigning
greater responsibility to users.
X.    Relations established within the oroiect framework
10.1        Following identification by the Government and IDA of the many
problems affecting project management and the restoration of a satisfactory
course of project implementation in 1987, a climate of confidence has grown up
between IDA and DCES, which has completed the Second Project and is currently
executing the Third Project (see para. 5.2). The same applies to the MINEDUC
Cabinet, which has paid heed to the technical comments made by the project
completion mission. With a view to acting on the recommendations of the
present ex-post evaluation, the Minister has asked the mission for a
memorandum containing comments and suggestions. It seems that the right
conditions presently exist for IDA to propose realistic and workable
guidelines to MINEDUC.
10.2        The Ministry of Planning is currently being reorganized, and is
awaiting startup of the UNDP human resources support project. This is perhaps
the reason why it did not pay as much attention as might have been desired to
the activities of the Second Project, particularly its planning component. it
is also true that interaction should be one of goals of senior Ministry staff.
10.3        Under the Second Project, UIlICEF was required to purchase part of
the educational materials for the schools; positive relations have been
established, and it might perhaps be desirable to get the agency more involved
in developing working contacts with the inhabitants (i.e. the APES, for the
maintenance of school buildings and their approaches), since it is intimately
acquainted with the local situation.
XI.   Consultant services
11.1        Architectural studies.  The lessons drawn from the experiences of
the Second Project were useful for the preparatory studies for the Third
Project, vhich envisages a building model that will allow for effective local
participation by the inhabitants in the construction process. This
participation could, however, be expanded by additional specific studies
dealing with preconstruction site preparation or with post-construction site
development. In addition to increasing local involvement in the school
construction process (without any danger of disturbing the sites), those
activities would have a direct impact on the buildings in terms of improving
comfort and durability.
11.2        Contractors.  The use of established building contractors at the
end of the project reduced costs and simplified management tasks for
DCEBS/DCES. However, since the financial and management capacities of such
enterprises are often limited, it is important to strengthen the supervision



- 14 -
mechanisms set up by the project to ensure that lower costs do not mean
poorer-quality construction.
11.3        Technical assistance.  The Central African authorities were not
satisfied with the technical assistance for the planning/evaluation component.
The planning expert went for three years without establishing a stable and
operational team with the necessary expertise. The conditions under which he
had to operate were certainly not the easiest (low-level and poorly-motivated
local staff, three successive Project Directors during the course of the
project). But this does not explain the very poor result of this component.
The consultant in charge of the evaluation activities had more success fitting
into the local team, but he did not involve it sufficiently in the work
preparatory to the site survey (determination of the operational goals of the
survey on the basis of the evaluation mission's working papers), or in the
examination and analysis of the data. The training aspect of those activities
was minimal.
11.4        Audit.  The project accounts were verified by a succession of
different auditors. The services provided by the last firm may be regarded as
very satisfactory to the extent that, in addition to simply verifying the
accounts, they identified and provided a detailed analysis of the problems
facing the project management. This anal.ysis, accompanied by a set of
recommendations on useful management tools to be set up and by proposals for
redefining the activities and tasks of the project personnel, served as a
basis for restructuring of the project management and restoration of its
authority.
XII. Project documents and data
12.1        The appraisal report represented a cohesive framework for
execution of the project and credit agreement. In its Article III, the credit
agreement clearly spells out the obligations of the parties (commitments to be
fulfilled by the Borrower, supervision by IDA). It is likely that the project
would have benefitted from greater vigilance on both sides in the fulfillment
of certain obligations (see Part III, section 6, 3.02 (b), 3.03, 3.04, 3.05,
3.07 in particular).
12.2        The documents necessary to preparation of the project completion
report were relatively difficult to obtain, despite the good will and efforts
of the present project management and the Cabinet. The locally-collected data
were inadequate to allow for a detailed analysis of the costs incurred during
the various stages of the project, since the accounts were kept mainly with a
view to managing expenditures by category rather than by component. The
various Project Directors did not worry about keeping records. The management
of the Third Project is attempting to create order out of confusion by finding
and filing the pertinent documents.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT rhvtEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Credit Agreement 1359-CA requires that the Government provide its
own retrospective evaluation of the Second Education Project six months after
its completion. This report, drawn up by the Project Unit, is now given
below.
The key objectives of the project were:
1.    To strengthen the Ministry of Education's Department of
Constructior., Repair and Maintenance of School Buildings
(DCEBS) so that it would possess the capacity to design,
implement and manage construction, repair and maintenance
programs efficiently and economically.
2.    To improve the quality of primary education in tural areas.
3.    To strengthen the Ministry of Education's capacity for
educational planning, evaluation and project preparation.
I.    PROJECT EXECUTION
A.    Strengtheninz of DCEBS
Management of the Second Education Project was made the
responsibility of DCEBS. Over the period 1983-1986, therefore, this
Department handled:
-     project administrative and accounts management;
-     tfehnical supervision of the construction and maintenance
works in school districts outside Bangui;
-     orientation/training of firms and artisans participating in
maintenance or construction works.
In 1986, following a series of management problems, an Education
Project Unit was set up as an entity independent of DCEBS and with a staff of
three coordinators took over the execution of project works in the Ouham-P6nd6
region. Expatriate technical assistants and national specialists were also
assigned to it.
Although the Project Unit made it Possible to accomplish the key
goals of the project, its creation did not eliminate conflicts with DCEBS,
because of the lack of clearly defined procedures.



- 16 -
Currently, DCEBS is still not capable of designing, impleraenting
and supervising construction works efficiently and economically.
B.    Maintenance Program
Three maintenance geographic zones were designated:
Bangui                   1984-1987
Alindao                  1985-1986
Bossangoa                1986-1987
These three sectors incorporated Bangui, Ombella-M'poko, Lobaye,
Ibingui-Economique, Ouaka, Basse-Kotto, M'bomou and Ouham. As of June 30,
1987, they were dispensed with. Maintenance was carried out on approximately
170 classrooms, to which must be added new construction.
It cannot be stated that any maintenance policy has really been
brought into place at this point in time. The cost of maintenance works was
too high and the counterpart budget funds earmarked for financing them were
not always available, because of cash flow difficulties. Participation by
local communities has not been taken into account. Repair and Maintenance
Guides have not been distributed as widely as intended.
C.    Rehabilitation of Primary Schools in the Prolect Area
In the designated project zones, namely Basse-Kotto, Ouham and
Ouham-Pend6, 300 classrooms and 100 houses for primary-school principals were
built, as planned. To them must be added about 65 new classrooms in Bangui.
From the quantitative viewpoint, project objectives were accomplished and even
exceeded.
D.    Furniture
All schools built were provided with furniture, although not with
equipment. In some schools, the local Parents Associations saw to the repair
of furniture, but in others there was no such contribution.
E.    Instructional materials
As part of the project, textbooks and classroom supplies were
distributed to all schools in Basse-Kotto, Ouham and Ouham-Pend6. There is no
sign of the medical kits purchased through UNICEF in any of the schools in the
project area - despite the fact that the chief accountant and the purchasing
officer at the time took delivery of 492 packages, as may be seen from the
Project Unit's provisional acceptance voucher No. 724 of September 10, 1986.



- 17 -
F.    Evaluation of Planning and Preparation of a Future Proiect
(1) Education Planning
Obiective: Internal reorganization of the Studies and Planning
Department, purchases of equipment, and training of a group of staff members
in educational planning and cost analysis.
Preparation by the Projects and External Relations Department of
detailed plans for implementation of the country's education development
strategy, in particular: (a) a school location plan; and (b) a comprehensive
financing plan focusing on the reallocation of resources to primary education.
Project education planning goals were not accomplished despite the
allocation of significant logistical resources and technical assistance
support for the purpose. At the present time, planning is the function of the
Cellule de R6flexion et de Prospective, a unit attached to the Office of the
Minister of Education. Project technical assistance arrangements proved
unsatisfactory, as the personnel assigned through them to planning tasks were
often not adequately qua±ified.
Only some of the funds allocated for traineeships and training
visits were utilized. The two individuals who undertook long-term
traineeships currently still occupy positions of responsibility on the staff
of the Statistics and School Mapping Department.
As a result of the Second Education Prcject, statistical yearbooks
have been published annually since 1986; in addition, the technical services
for planning and for collection of school mapping data have been decentralized
to the School Inspection Offices at both the prefecture and region levels.
The staffing plan adopted by the Ministry of Education has led to a
"reduction" in personnel. Although an education planning capability is still
lacking, the groundwork has been done for institutional strengthening of the
planning, statistical and school mapping functions.
(2) Evaluation
Obiective: Evaluation by the National Institute of Education and
Training of the impact of the school environment and education materials on
the success of pupils and the professional performance of teaching personnel.
This evaluation program was carried out in Basse-Kotto and Ouham.
Measurements were taken of the etfect of change in the physical and learning
environment on pupils, teachers, parents and community authorities.
The data compiled were processed in Canada with the participation
of a local specialist. According to the findings obtained, the impact of
improvements in the learning environment (permanent buildings, textbooks,
school supplies) has been positive to a slight extent:



- 18 -
(i)   Pupil performance impr(..4edi by 14% in Basse-Kotto and by 9% in
Ouham.
(ii) Among teaching personnel, the effects of the change are
imperceptible.
(iii) As far as parents are concerned, the existence of permanent
buildings has had a very positive effect in the sense that the
image of their school is enhanced and they can be confident their
children are working under good physical conditions. There is
also a positive effect where the children themselves and further
education goals for them are concerned.
The Second Education Project was clearly a classic type of project
calling for school construction and furnishing and for providing textbooks and
educational supplies for pupils and their teachers.
The new buildings in themselves are not a sufficient factor of
change. Teachers who are properly trained and adequately motivated (career
possibilities, working conditions), as well as pedagogically sound
curriculums, are also necessary.
At the majority of schools which had benefitted under the Second
Project building program, the PCR evaluation team noted in the course of its
inspections that parents played no part in school life, probably denoting the
lack of any promotional efforts directed toward them.
Achi-vement tests were conducted by a team of MINEDUC's evaluation
department (DEIk'.') staff members which did not experience the same turnover as
other Ministry of Education units involved in project execution. Since this
is a group with enthusiasm for the work of evaluation, the Ministry can
continue to use its services in pursuing the evaluation program.
(3)   Preparation of new education projects
Enough preparatory work has been done to put a Third Education
Project into the pipeline. The process has involved Department Heads and
other senior management staff of the Ministry of Education, and has
incorporated the lessons learned from the now completed Second Project.
G.   Suiervision of Proiect Management: Management Autonomy
Regular progress reports on project execution were submitted to
.he CAR authorities and to the World Bank.
Audits were conducted either by intra-departmental supervisory
entities (Coordination Committee), the Office of the Inspector-General (Report
No. 011/88), or external audit firms.



- 19 -
However, the project was troubled by interferences, pressures and
other constraints in the management environment which neither facilitated the
work of those responsible for the implementation process nor allowed rational
management at given moments.
B.    Coordination Committee
The supervision of project execution was placed in the hands of a
Coordination and Supervision Committee whose intervention in the management
process caused the Project Unit to lose all authority over its own staff.
Initially, the Committee was to have a monitoring function. But since its
area of competence was ill-defined from the outset, or was not adjusted
periodically, it extended to over-zealous encroachments which proved
destructive as far as the implementation process was concerned.
I.    Specialist Services and Fellowships
(1)   Specialist services
(i)   The project was to finance 117 man-years of specialist services,
of which 14 man-years were reserved for expatriate specialists.
These expatriate services cost a total of approximately US$1.3
million, an extremely high foreign exchange item.
(ii)  The qualifications and motivation of local staff will continue to
be an important element in the future sound performance of the
apparatus set up under the project.
(2) Fellowships
These fellowships were used p.rtially for training in planning,
but not for the kind of training needed to strengthen DCEBS or for training in
evaluation.
J.    Construction Strategy
The same strategy was not followed in all the prefectures targeted
by the project:
(1) Basse-Kotto: Works were carried out on a force-account basis.
Manpower, materials and the transportation of materials were charged entirely
to the project. Major losses of materials were sustained in the
transportation process and from storage facilities.
(2) Ouham: Here, works contracts were let to artisans who were
required to meet only manpower costs.



- 20 -
(3)   Ouham-Pend6: Contracts *,ere awarded through a competitive bidding
process and covered manpower, concrete fillers and transportation of
materials. The materials themselves were purchased by the project after calls
for bids. Provided with Project Unit orders authorizing them to take delivery
of materials, contractors did so at suppliers' warehouses, which meant that
district storage facilities could be dispensed with.
Delays at worksites in Ouham, Ouham-Pend6 and even in Bangui were
comensurate with the Project Unit's ability to coordinate activities and with
the financial and organizational capacity of local contractors. The latter
were sometimes reluctant to accept the idea of paying for the services of an
architect or construction engineer.
II. DEVELOPMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
Improving the quality of primary education in rural areas, with an
annual enrollment increase of 52, was one of the goals of the 1982-1985
National Action Program.
(i)   The tests organized by evaluation personnel show a 16% improvement
in students' results in Basse-Kotto and a 9% improvement in Ouham.
(ii) Student promotion, repeat and drop-out rates between 1980 and 1989
show that the Second Education Project, by increasing the number
of classrooms and raising enrollment rates, has made it possible
to reduce the student/classroom ratio, cut drop-out rates, and
keep more children in school. Repeat rates, however, have
increased, to the detriment of promotion rates.
The Second Project opted to use the services of local
entrepreneurs. Construction, transportation and furniture-making services
were procured from them, a total of US$4.3 million being spent on building
materials and transportation and US$0.5 million on furniture. As a group,
such firms therefore enjoyed a considerable boost in earnings.
III. LESSONS LEARNED
(1)   Stren thening of DCEBS
(i)   This Department still needs the kind of strengthening that will
enable it to design, implement _4nd manage school construction,
repair and maintenance programs economically and efficiently.
(ii) Financial administration and accounting responsibilities should be
assigned to another administrative entity.



- 21 -
(iii) Execution of the technlcal components of future projects should be
entrusted to the relevant technical departments of the Ministry so
that they become integrated into their usual activities.
(2)   Maintenance Program
(i)   Treasury financing capacity must be taken into account where any
future action is concerned.
(ii)  Some participation by local communities should be incorporated
into the plans for forthcoming maintenance programs.
(iii) Some modifications are called for in the Repair and Maintenance
Guide.
(3)   Rehabilitation of Primary school Facilities in the Proiect Area
(i)   As there is still considerable need for temporary structures,
which are built by parents, methods should be devised and
communicated to school principals whereby building techniques can
be upgraded and use made of materials available close to the
village and school.
(ii)  Rely on community participation in forthcoming school building
programs. Besides resolving maintenance problems, this would make
communities feel that their schools belonged to them and counted
on them. Communities should be drawn into project preparation
from the outset.
(4)   Furniture
(i)   Review desk design and the use of ayous (a softwood).  Other
solutions might be to use concrete for the legs and sapelli (a
hardwood) for the tops. Teachers themselves should be consulted
on the question of whether to locate desks in the open air.
(5)   Education Materials
(i)   Some of the textbooks purchased have been written and published
abroad; others have been developed by INRAP (although royalties
are retained by the foreign publishing house). A local textbook
development capability should be fostered, with bids being sought
only for printing; copyright would be purchased by the Ministry of
Education.
(ii)  Where school supplies are concerned, adequate funds should be
appropriated from the national budget so that problems at the



- 22 -
start of the school year can be avoided. Encourage local
manufacture of certain supplies (e.g. wooden rulers and
compasses).
(6) Evaluation and Planning
(i)   In the effort to improve pupils' academic results. reliance
should be placed on:
1.    Such supervisory entities as the Regional School
Inspection Offices, the Basic School Inspection
Offices (Level 1), the Centres PWdagogiques.
2.    Teachers' manuals and guidebooks and their contents.
3.    Well-trained teaching personnel motivated by Setter
working conditions.
(ii) Institutional improvement goals should be pursued. not only for
the Ministry of Education's planning apparatus but also its other
departments.
(7)  flanasement Autonomy
(i)   Bodies responsible for supervising project management should
be limited to supervision only.
(ii) The project executing agency should be vested with all the
powers required for the conduct of a modern economic entity.
(iii) The output capacities of a project should be utilized within
the context of itt social objective.
(iv) The project executing agency should be uncompromising, a
quality that is essential if:
-     execution costs are to be held down;
-     budget overruns are to be avoided;
-     delays in the execution process are to be kept to a
minimum;
-     the Credit Agreement is to be respected.
(8)   Specialist Services and Fellowships
(i)   The percentage of project funding spent on expatriate specialists
should be cut back. Selection of such specialists should be
rigorous, and they should effect a real transfer of know-how.



- 23 -
(ii) In recruiting CAR nationals as permanent personnel, the social
objective of the particular project should be borne firmly in
mind. Where ad hoc studies are concerned, CAR specialists should
be chosen on the basis of their qualifications and abilities in
the field in which their assistance is required.
(iii) Sustained attention should be accorded to human resources training
through systematic use of fellowships. Candidates should be put
through a rigorous selection process and then assigned to the
posts they have been trained for in accordance with their
qualifications and abilities.
(9)   Construction Strategy
(i)   Issue invitations to bid on general works contracts.  Encourage
contracting firms to participate in these proceedings, which would
lead to their organizing themselves appropriately.
IV.   RELATIONSHIP WITH THE WORLD BANK
The World Bank team responsible for supervising the execution of
the Second Education Project helped ensure that it went ahead as planned, that
its objectives were adhered to, and that adjustments were made as necessary.
It would be ideal if supervision missions were less frequent, since
this would place full accountability on the national counterpart apparatus
(Ministry, project executing agency). However, some form of quasi-permanent
contact should be maintained so that the delays on the part of the Bank in
responding to the questions necessarily put to it by the project execution
agency can be kept to the very minimum. This is of particular importance
where the results of bidding procedures are concerned, since completion of the
series of events involved can sometimes be delayed by more than six months.
IDA Procurement Guidelines are somewhat out of touch with local
realities, so that there is a risk of their leading to results other than
those intended.
V. CONCLUSION
Implementation of the CAR/IDA Second Education Project has made the
following clear:
(i)   There is a need to keep the administrative and financial
management of technical units separate. This would presuppose a
very high degree of autonomy and responsibility for the project



- 24 -
executing agency, an entity which has only one goal, namely the
success of the project.
(ii)  There is a need to set up a "team" at the level of the technical
units which is fully aware of the importance of the actions that
need to be taken with regard to the "physical" conduct of the
project so that the entire group of actors involved in its
implementation will perform in a forceful, dynamic fashion.
(iii) There is a need to reduce the Government's contribution to project
financing. In the particular case of the Second Education
Project, the arrangements for national counterpart funding upset
the execution of parts of the project because of a lack of
regularity in depositing funds to the project accounts.
Similarly, cofinancing of an expenditure category (national
counterpart/IDA) can bring the execution process to a standstill
in instances where the executing agency is unable to pay surpliers
because national counterpart funds have not been made ava.lable to
it. It remains one of the Government's priorities to advance the
development of basic education so that it is accessible to the
greatest possible number of school-age children.
Planning of all aspects of education, both quantitative and
qualitative, is always essential.
If the internal efficiency of the primary education system is to
improve, there must be a convergence of several factors:
(i) human resources, meaning teacher training;
(ii) curriculum content and teaching methods;
(iii) teaching materials;
(iv) school construction.



- 25 -
Table 1:  Com2arison of Schooling Faqilities Available. 1980 and 1989
Prefectures    Year    No. of    No. of         No. of   Pupils        Classes
Schools   Classrooms   Classes   per            per
Classroom   Classroom
Ouham         1980         80        235          443         94            1.9
1989        88        378           588         65            1.6
l        10X        61X           33X          .
growth
Ouham-Pende   1980        -79        245           429         58           1.8
1989        90        273           468         66            1.7
Z        14X        llX            91          .
Basse-Kocto   1980         76        254           281         58           1.1
1989        86        299           444         56            1.5
- 133               18X           58X .
SOURCE:  School Mapping Division, Mizistry of Education
Tal,:  CoMnoarison of Enrollment Rates. 1980 and 1989
Prefectures                            1980    1989   Absolute   Index of  Average
Change    Growth    Growth
per year
Ouham          Npils enrolled         22,072  24,728   2,656           112          1.1
e1w pupils e*rolled    4,077  4.066         -11         99.7        -0.03
Ouham-Pende   Pupils enrolled      14,280  17,893   3,613              125          2.3
New pupils enrolled   3,480   4,277         797        123           2.1
Basse- Kotto   Pupils enrolled        14,619  17,215   2,596           118          1.6
New pupils enrolled    2,667    3,227       560         121          1.9
SOURCE:  School Mapping Division, Hinistry of Education



- 26 -
ComDarative Table of Primary-CvcLe  Promotion.  ReReat and Drop-Out Rates.  1980 and 1989
|_ _ _  IC.!.       C.P.           C.E.1         C.E.2         C.N.1        C.r.2
PrefecturOS   Rates        80      89     80     89     80    89      so     89     80     89     80      89
Ouham        Promotion      52     56     60     69     55    48      53     50     63     53      is    27
Rep at        25     33     23     27    25    38       22      32     27     32     43    50
Drop-out      23     13     17      4     20    14    25        18    10    15    41        23
Ouham-Pend6   Promtion      35     56     40     79    34    48    41        56     33             14    26
Repeat        29     43     27     20     30    46      29     42      27    35      56    55
Drop-out      23      1     33      1     36      6      30      2     40      1     30     19
Basso-Kotto   Promotion     55     50     64     63     56    46      65     54      67     58     20     42
Repeat        35     39     28    31      30    36       27     34     28    31      43    44
Drop-out      10     11      8      6      14    18       8     12      5     11     37    14
SOURCE:   School Mapping Division,  Ministry of Education
T.N. C.I., Cours d'initiation (First grade)
C.P., Cours pr4paratoire (Second grade)
C.E., Cours elementaire (Third and Fourth grades)
C.M., Cours moyen (Fifth and Six grades)



- 27 -
ORGANIGRAMME DU MINSTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE (1/86)
X                       ,3
~51               I                I   (       
m7 XLS ! ;   W   - 3
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"



s    s   ~~~*  . ^   '=    I.             S.             V      -'     r>       >          .   nw
ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
ET DE L' ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR
(3/88)
...~~~~~-
IM.  N      I 5 T R E
.                                      .. - 
CABINET                             ._ 
~I    I   N   II '.'          I
at L                  12C PIrJet _Education                              1<,*
- ~     ~       .      -
_ N                C                         SECRETAIRE GENERAL_
!EWAL                         O. V(MMTSVO
C"I IANWS                              Ks f.A<C%
^c 43                           ,           _
owetvc               Ot -1ur                        I -te"swees_^  I~~~~~~~~~~~~
eowrX-5                    ffo[sfvCts                    I         ,      - - I~~Z
..    I
l   '    '    '   l    '         I          I               5          I         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
S I X ; f X W  XA    ii! '! 'S ''~~~~~~~~34



MINISTERB DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE - 29       HEPUBLIQUE CENTRAPRICAINE
SECONDAIRE ET TECHNIQUE                    Unitd-Dignit6-Tvavai1
C A B I N E T
BUREAU DE COORDINATION U 3° PROJET
EDUCATION RCA/IDA BANQUE MONDIALE
T  E  L  E  C O  P  I  E            n 4/ME:PST/CAB/BCP.
DATE : 2 3 MARS 1991
EXPEDITEUR    t MAPAME DANIELE tIMBASSA, CHARGEE DE MISSION, COORVINATRICE AU
CA3llhET VU MEFSTCJS - FAX No 61.64.94 - BANGIUI IR.C.A.)
DESTINATAIRE : MONSIEUR MICHEAL PALE IN, CHEF DZIISZON POPULAnTON ET RESSOURCES
HUMAINES - DEPARTEMENT DE L'AFRIQUE OCCIDENTALE ET CEnTRALE
BANQUE MONVlALE - FAX N°(202) 473-81-45
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----
OBJET : RAPPORT ACHEVEMENT 3EME PROJET EDUCATZON, PARTIE REDZGEE PAR LA BANQUE
MONDIALE.
TEXTE : ACCUSONS RECEPTION DU RAPPORT V'ACHEVEMENT DU 2EME PROJET EDUCATION CREDIT
1359-CA-N'AVONS PAS D'OBJECTION QUANT A L'ESSENT1EL DU RAPPORT QUE NOUS
APPROUVIONS.
CEPENDANT NOUS RELEVONS LES POINTS SUIVANTS
1 - PAGE 6 SUITE PARAGRAPHE 5.3 :
LA SEPARATION ENTRE LA DIRECTION DES STATISTIQUES ET DE LA CARTE SCOLAIRE,
ET LA PLANIFICATION EST MOMENTANEE. L'lNTEGRATlON SE FERA QUAND LE MINISTRE
LE JUGERA UTILE.
2 - PAGE 7 - PARAGRAPHE ff:
LE TRAITEMENT DES DONNEES S'EST FAIT AU CANADA AVEC LA PARTICIPATION
EFFECTIVE DU VIRECTEUR DE L'EVALUATION EN LA PERSONNE VE MONSIEUR LUC
DEABA, ENCORE EN POSTE.
3 - PAGE 10 - PARAGRAPHE 6.12
IL SERAIT NECESSAIRE DE SPECIFIER QUE DES OBJECTIFS EN NOMBRE DE CLASSES ONT
ETE VEPASSES ET CE A L'INTERIEUR (-It) DE L'ENVELOPPE INITZALE. CECI
PROUVE UNE MAIlTRISE CEITAINE DES COUTS SANS QUE CELA AZT ETE FAIT AU
DETRIMENT VE LA QUALITE tES CONSTRUCTIONS
SALUTATiONS DISTINGUEES
A SIGNATAIRE
-sf,  V



- 30 -
PART III.STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related IDA Credits
IDA's credit operations in the education sector in the Central
African Republic relate to the following projects;
-     The First Education Project (Credit 308-CA), effective 1973 and
completed 1981, in the amount of US$3.9 million, a supplemental
credit (Credit 1073-CA) for US$0.9 million being granted in 1981
for secondary education, designed to provide skilled labor for the
"modern" sector.
-     The Third Education Project (Credit 1863-CA).
-     A table summarizing ongoing related credits is given in Annex 2.
2.    Prolect Timetable
Planned date         Actual date
Sector study                                        02/01/1979
Identification                                       11/01/1981
Application                                          05/01/1982
Appraisal                                            08/01/1982
Negotiation                                          03/01/1982
Board Approval                                       05/10/1983
Credit Agreement                                     05/19/1983
Credit Effectiveness           08/23/1983            06/28/1983
Credit Closing                  12/31/1988           12/31/1988
Final Disbursement                                   07/21/1989
Disbursement continued for 7 months after closing date instead of the
normal 6 months.



3.      Cudlative dIburseuents, easited and actual (in SDR million)
I_"~~~~  _ _   .___ _                                                _     ,___                                 ,   ..___  .____                  I __________
Calendar                                              1985               1986               1987               1988                 1989
year            1983              1964                             _
IDA Fiscal      63       198                1985               1986               1987               1988               1989                  1990
arter           IV       It        IV       11        IV       11        IV        It       IV        11       IV        11        IV         11
Estimted                 0.00      1.15     2.06      3.35    14.75         6.19   7.67     9.00     9.87      9.94      10.10
Actual            0.22   0.72      1.40     2.62      3.46     5.01         6.15   6.60     6.91      7.4      8.19       9.14      10.06     10.10
Actual I of                        122      127       103      105         99.3   86.0      76.7      75.3     82.4      90.5      99.6       100
Eatimted~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



4.     Proiect costs nd VWf3ini3In
4s.    EML2e1 csMf  (CFAF '000)
Str.ngthenfng of OCEiS        Primary Education               Plamning and Evaluation              TOTAL
Estimated    Actual   Diff.   Estimated      Actual   Diff.   Estimated     Actual  Diff.  Estimated      Actual  Diff.
Costs      C4ts    In X  _     Costs       Costs    fn X      Costs       Costs   in X      CostS       Costs   in S
Conrtruction     2r 193      71I 21   '16X    1,960,155   1 878 254     -51          0     32,599   -      2,007348   1,982,674    -1S
Furniture         8.343          0              206.433    174,317    -16X           0          0           214.776     174,317   -191
Equlpmnt        118,286    223,978     891      228,230    316,239  2 391       52,647     96.173 2/ 83S    399,163     636,390 2/ 59X
A Veles      __s
National        262,026    297,040     131           0                          53,6B9     50,043    -71    315,915     347.,83 . 1OX
Special fats                                      _           .
Expatriate      414,640    311,602    -25S           0                         232,170    354.300 3/531    646,810      666.102     3X
Operating       328.482    363,106      115          0                               0     26,814           328,482     389,920    19X
National        1CO,05      69,94 4/ -52X            0                               0                      18U,505      89,984 4/-52S
Staff          _      _           _                                                                                             .
Other           245,021    135,625 4/ -451           0                               0                      245,021      135,625 4/-451
Costs
TOTAL          1,592ZA96 11L493 356    -61    2,414,618  2,368.810     -2X     338,706    5596929   X65   4,346,020   4,422.095 2X
Sourcv: prepared by the mission. 
1/ Construction of 3 regional warehouses for construction materials was added to the project.
2/ The need for more equipment, pedagogical supplies and vehicles than appraised was agreed upon during the project
owing mainly to the dispersion of rehabilitation and maintenance components, the absolute lack of educational
aids, and the preparation/start-up of the Third Education Project.
3/ More cxpatriate specialists services than appraised were needed for the restructuring/strengthening of project
management (See Part I, V, 5.1 and 5.2), and for the preparation of the Third Education Project.
4/ National Staff and Operating Costs have been reduced by the early closing down of maintenance activities in 2
of the 3 geographic zones (See Part I, IV, 6.1 and 6.2).



4b.     Proec financina and total cost In SDR US$ and CFAF
Category                        Appraisal       IDA |   of  |        Revised  |  IDA              Final    IDA l X of
estimte (SDR)         X  total i   feb. 9, 1987 |    X                (SDR) |          X    total
_    Civil works,                              3,otruction mtorists  3,950,000  39X  4,850,000.00    481  4,865,589.22    48X
tranmportetion, excePt for pert *3
2. Furniture                                     460.000        SX-               352.000.00      31        365,124.92      4X
3. Vehicles and Equipeent                         U30,000       8X                999,000.00    101        1,444,149.43    141
4. Specialist ervices  nd training,             1,750,000       17X             2.425,000.00    24X       2.367,804.12    23X
except for part A3                                                                               _ -
S. !Erstjng costs, except for part A 3           650.000        6      -          794,000.00      81        843,610.20  61
6. Reiixar nt PPF advances                        740.000       71                220,000.00      21        219,621.05      21
7. Initial 4kpos1t in Special Account            460,000        S                 460,000.00    5S           -6,198.94      OX
8. Nonallocated                       1_260.000                12X                           _              _           . _
TOTAL                        10.100,000      100 . 901   ;  10,100,000.00   1001 _  10,100,000.00   100Q          95X
2. 2Gvorroant                                     1,140,749                                    _              550,330.74
TOTAL (1.2)  In SOR                       11,240,749      -        -                         -       10,650,330.74
in USS                       12.242,300                                    _            12,232,193.48
in CFAF '000                  4,346,017                                                  4,422,095.00    _
*or US$ 11,600,123.71



- 34 -
5.     Projct Results
Indicators                   AppraisaL estimsto                PCR Estimtes
1. Strengthen OCEBS          1.1 Cacity to supervise           1.1  Inadequacies of technical design and
primary classroom                 aagement
rehabilitation
1.2  Capecity to execute         1.2  Inadequacies of technical design and
future school building           mngent
construction program
1.3  Capacity to undertake a     1.3  Presently nonexistent
maintenance progrm
1.4  SourJd magent and           1.4  Inadequate during course of project
accounting practices
2. Primary school            2.1 Reconstruction or             2.1  Wiumrical goal exceeded   367
rehabilitation               rehabilitation of 300                  quality:  inadequate, architectural and
classro                               technical weaknesses
2.2  Construction of around      2.2 Construction of 87 houses
100 houses for primary school
principals
2.3  Distribution of             2.3  Largely cenplated; sau  additional
educational materisas to         delivwries in progress, some book titles
arourd S4,000 students and       qestioroble
800 teachers
3. Plaming, evaluation,    3.1 Strengthening of DEPS           3.1 - Weak
future project                                                     - DEPS divided into a statistics and
preparation                                                    school mapping department and a Cellule de
Riflexion. Prosnective et Planification
- Staff training inadequatio
- Production of four statistical
yearbooks
3.2  Creation of evaluation      3.2  Creation of an Evaluation, Information
capecities at ISEF               and School Cuidance Departmen
3.3  Study of the ipact of      3.3  * Executed
an improved learning                  - Evaluation tern set up
enwi rronnt on student
results wd internal
4. Operation of Project      4.1 ProJect mwnomnt by             .1  AdainistratIve, financial and acmounting
Unit                         OCEBS                                 n  e l higly i        Oaut: creation of
BCPE in 1987 fo k*nprove tie saiuubon and
prepare wt #*d poject



- 35 -
6.   Status of Credit Aareement Covenants
E   executed
PE   partially executed
ME   not executed
No.              Covenant Description                      Status                    Comments
2.03        Special Account                                PE       aecause of unfamiliarity with the rules,
expenditures chargeable to the Project
Borrower shall operate the Special                     Account were paid out of the Special
Account in accordence with Schedule 4 to               Account.  The sums involved were repaid.
the Credit Agreement.
3.01        Cb) Counterpart fWfa                           PE       Partial, delayed payment of counterpart
funds, owing to the Goverrsent's
A revolving Pr ject Account shall be                   financial difficulties.
established, maintained and replenished
each year to finance local currency costs
in the following 12 months.
3.02        Consultants and experts                        E
The consultants and experts hired within
the framework of the Project shall be
accospenied by Central African
counterpart staff acceptable to IDA.
3.03        Eduotien. pteming                               PE      Consultant delays.
A school location plan shall be submitted
by December 31, 1984, together with a
long-term education financing plan. The
school location plan and financing plan
shall be ipplemented in accordance with a
timetable approved by IDA.
3.04        Locl specialists                               F        Oualifications not always verified prior
to hiring.
Borrower shall, not later than Deceaber
31, 183, appoint heads of SEBS and SC8S
ihose qualifications shall be acceptabLe.
3.05         (b) Payment of pwtfornme inrantives            E
An appropriate perforawne incentive
shall be paid to thos local specialists
who have exceeded the perfor mnce
standard set for their respective jobs.
3.06        ChIof  of  thools                               E
gorrower shll, not later than Deceober
31, 1M, furnish to IDA a list of
classroo to be rehabilitated and house
-o be constructed.
3.07        DMPS reorgf,zotion                              E       Executed in January 1986.
the mnagecmnt structure of DEPS shell be
reorganized not later than December 31,
1983.



- 36 -
3.08         Feltambips                                     PE       Very few fellowships assigned.
Borrower shall award fellowships to
suitably qualified persons for training
progress, wnd shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that the
benefic -ies will serve in the positions
for which they are trained during a
period of at least five years.
3.09         Evaluatfon                                     E        Evaluation performed and national team
trained.
Evaluation of the results shall be a
priority of INEF's work program and
entrusted to w.il-qualiffed staff in
adequate nhmars.
3.10         tb) Use of goods                               E        Thefts and disappearances occurred during
the project. These Losses were
Borrower shill cause all soods and                      reimbursed by the Govermment.
services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
3.11         Reporting
Borrower shalt furnish to IDA the bidding      E
doeuents, plans and construction
schodules; it shall report on all costs
incurred.
Borrower shall shbmit the quarterly            E        Occasional delays.
progress reports prepared by the CCC and
the antual evaluation reports prepared by
INEF.
Borrower shall furnish to IDA a report on    E
project execution, not later than six
months after the Closing Date.
4.01         Accsumt  *nd *dit
Borrower shall keep the necessary              E        Executed at the end of the project.
accounts in accordanse with appropriate
sccounting practices.
Borrower shall have the accounts audited
by independent auditort at the end of           E
each fiscal year, and shall furnish the
audit reports to IDA not lster than three
months after the ed of eah fisena year.
4.02         oUiugint am mi ntin0--
Bornowr shall cau   each institution           PE       Suspect mwagemmnt at the start of the
incltued in the Project to moage its                    project led MEN to ask the State
affairs in acordnce with soud                           In spector Genersl's office to supervise
practifcs, and shalL provide the                        the project *Anagement, which
necessary resources to each such                        su6saquently isproved.
institution.
Borrower shall cause the buildings,            PE                  Makowlaneo Ofpdmnay
furniture and *qipilent of the                           school is just begintig
institution ineluded in the project to
be adequately maintained.



- 37 -
7.    Use of IDA Resources
A.    Staff participation
Preparation
1977-83            103.4 staff-weeks
Supervision        79.6  staff-weeks
1983-90
Fiscal year        83    84    85    86    87    88    89    90        Total
Staff-weeks       1.7   11.2  16.0  21.5   9.4   9.0  10.6   0.2        79.6



- 38 -
B.    IDA missions
Missions         Month/  No. of   Specialists    Staff-weeks  Performance
year   pers.    represented       in the          audit
field
Supervision   I          7/83     2      (A, GE)              3        1
Supervision  II          3/84     2      (A, GE)              2        1
Supervision  III        10/84     3      (A, GE, P1)          6        2 1
Supervision  IV          3/85     1      (A)                  1        2  M F
Supervision  V          10/85     3      (A, Cpt, P1)         7        2  M F
Supervision  VI         12/85     1      (A)                  1        2  M F
Supervision  VII         3/86     2      (A, A)               2        2  M F
Supetvision  VIII        5/86     1      (GE)                1,5       2  H F
Supervision  IX          7/86     1      (GE)                 1        2  M F
Supervision  X          10/86     1      (GE)                 2        3  H F
Supervision  XI          4/87     2      (A, GE)              2        3  M F
Supervision  XII         7/87     1      (GE)                 1        3  M F
Supervision  XIII       11/87      1     (GE)                 2        2
Supervision  XIV         2/88     1      (GE)                 1        2
Supervision  XV          5/88     2      (A, GE)              2        2
Supervision  XVI         9/88      3     (A, GE, SpO,         5        2
C_.s
Supervision  XVII        2/89     1      (A)                  1        1
Supervision  XVIII       3/89      1     (SpO)                1        1
Supervision  XIX         9/89     1      (SpO)                1        1
TOTAL                                                42.5
LEGEND:     A - Architect, Cpt   Accounting expert, GE  2General educator, P
- planmer, CXs - School equipment consultant, SpO - Operations
specialist, H - management problems, F - Financial problems,
1 - situation good,S2 - situation stable, 3 - situation
deteriorating



PROJECT TIMETABLE
AIISEX 1
1982            1963             1984             1985            1986             1987             1988
1 2 3  4         1 2  3  4       1 2 3  4         1 2 3 4         1 2  3  4        1 2 3 4          1 2 3 4
CoCmnets
OCESS AMD PROJECT NMANAEXNT
etiCUwi qpec1i011cts
Xbrpoen"t                    +"HF vXKKXXlooXXKXXXKXKKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxKxxxxxxxxxxxxKxxxxxxxxxxXXXXXX
Nainterualce Service,                                                      ... ++++++++++ XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXEKKXXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXxx
Sector  i  (san gul)                                                            __n  ______w    ________
Sector 2 (Atird)nnnn
Sector 3 (Sabesri)                                                                                ---------- W 1_
Expatriate specialf Uts
Assistant Director           ++,K*+XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKXXXXXXxxxXXXXXXx
aintmatunc. spe let st             .....+...X......XXXXX. XXXXXXXXXiXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
PRIMARY EDUCATION
(a) 6  sso-Kotto .. .ub...XX...... ++ ..+..+XXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
nnonnnnntnnonannnn-rlnnn
(b)   OuAme                                                             +*+$s...+.*+...*..XxxICxxxxxxxxxxxXXKX
Cc)   Ouh8-Pad6                                                                           ,++*+*+*+4*... +++XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
PLANNING AND EVALUATION
Expatriate specialists
(a)   Piameing                              *++.t++,+.., +++.,.XXXXKXXXXXXXXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
(b)   Evaluation                                                      XKXXXKKK          XXXXX            XXX            XXXX
00       0o0              00             00              0
tc)   PreparatIon                                                                                                       XXX  Xxx
0000000        00   00
****4* Estimted preparation end consuttancy detes
XXXXXX Dotes estimated by approisat mission
00000 Actual dote8
Source: Appraist report and mission



Related IDA Credits
AnNEX 2
CsdLin                                                                               liar        Statws of            Coents
Wovoed    disburseent
Credit 1863-CA               1.       Rehabilitate the eiacation system to           1968        At 3/31/90.          Undisbursed
Third Educatfon                        wprove the quality and efficiency of:                     SDI 2.133.295        belance
Project                                        primary education                                 disbursed out of    SDR 11,966.705
highe education at  wangui                         SOR 14,100,000
University                                                              Closing:  1995
2.      Improve setor *wnegement with a vfew to
better use of resource.
at Ninistry of Education level
at the higher education level
Credit 1916-CA               Absorb key bottlenecks at the sectoral and              1968         Fully disbursed:
Second Structural              acec       c levels with a view to achieving real
Adjustment Credit            CDP growth of 4 percent by 1991.                                     SDR 28,900.000
out of i.e.
Wr"x. S0O
Credit 1971-CA                Improve econmic maneaement nd strengthen               1969        At 3/31/M0           Undisbursed balance                   0
Economic                      implementation of the structural adjustment                        SOR 962.300          SOR 9.337.700
_angmnt Project              progrm  through:                                                     disbursed out of    Closing:  1994
strengthening of the core                                             Delay in hiring of experts
ministries responsible for                         SOR 10.300.000
m*naging the country's economy
-       wpport for the civil servant
reduploy ent progrem
-       support for restructuring of the
state enterprise sector
-       Institutional support for the
promotion of private-sector
activity
-       sectoral plaming studies
Source: prepared by the mission.



- 41 -
Exchange Rate Fluctuations                                      ANNEX 3
At appraisal       Apr-83      US$1         =      CFAF 355
CFAF 1000   =      US$2.82
Average for the year    1983          SDR 1 =      CFAF  406
Average for the year    1984          SDR 1 =      CFAF  447
Average for the year    1985          SDR 1 =      CFAF  464
Atverage for the year    1986         SDR 1 =      CFAF  405
Average for the year    1987          SDR 1 =      CFAF  390
Average for the year    1988          SDR 1 =      CFAF  397
Average for the year    1989          SDR 1 =      CFAF  407
Source: IDA
Average over disbursement period    SDR 1 =        CFAF  415.21
US$ 1 =     CFAF  361.51
Source: Computed from Table 4.b above



