Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4280-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
April 18, 1983
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           =   CFAF 355
CFAF 1 million        US$2,817
SDR 1             =   US$1,0891 1/
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                            British/US Equivalents
1 meter (i)                   =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)              =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)              2,204 pounds (lb)
_/ on March 22, 1983



FOR c'FFcitA  USE ONLY
CfU,t -S - aL_lAFRI1.,A.N REPUBLIC
L- IPUR TSAL_REDPORT
S~CC T ECATION P-ROJECT
OAE   F COTNTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY-                                 .........         0*        0&    l
6
BASIC D....... ...                                               ....,    iv
p     , C'~40&fl  SCTOR2....
Aco ,               .ic  .u .,._........  5
P.  Th.t~,    Au iA,ru  ,.   rae i, y  .for       ......    
E.  'hp, Bank Gr'rwQ-,-'  Role i1n the Sector ........
A.  Project- Objectives~ and Sunmary .............    11
B    P r. o j  .   t Co '   O  e  r -5opata s e.......          11- .   ei
-Strengthening of the DCEBS ..                             12
Planning, Evaluation and Future Project
~~~~~~PepaTin . , l: I. k " 't I ¢.- . w9.'.A.............. - ........ J   L 5vrS  ro@o       rr  
II.    PROECT COST AND FINANCiNG PAN: .. ..............    17
IV.    PROJECT  D.L...T.IO               .  .o,,o.....,.             20
V.    PROJEC"T BEIE71Tr PSANDRiLISKSoe...,, -..... -......    26
VI.    AGRLEEXMEFTS REACH:1EED AND PRjOiThENDATIONS.... ...*.          28
This re-port -o            on T     - 4   nildings aa   an appraisal mission that visited
the CentralP kferican P       h      froziaug, u    2 r Go 24, 19982.  The mission members
Cere Mes-srs. J.Ce Lair                  edr i sines   , *o * 0. de Messc*res (archiitect)
Mrs. S. Lockwood ( eat. no           azl-so  ae~secre ta in the preparation of the report.
Thir dcu-zist hueas a,                    c,. .rw a s Z ,   nts only in the performance of
their S- fi--W Loc uwo r- 7ts iok.    a soda.   ins e n  wilthourt Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.    Comparative Education Indicators
2.    Structure of the Education System
3.    Enrollment and Staffing Details
4.    Comparison of Recurrent Costs per Student in Selected West
African Countries
5.    General Education Enrollment Pyramid
6.    Primary Education - Students and Teachers by Region
7.    Local School, Classroom and Course Data by Region
8.    Cost Summary Table
9.    Summary Account by Project Component
10.    Financing Plan
11.    Summary of Specialist Services
12.    Summary of Fellowships
13.    Summary of Local Specialist Services
14.    Project Implementation Schedule
15.    Schedule of Disbursement
16.    Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
17.    List of Related Documents and Data Available in Project File



GJLOSSAR7f
AfDB        African Developrment Bank/Barquie Africaine de D6veloppement
CAR         Central African  Cerublic/Republique Centrafr4icaine
CCC         Commiltee for the Coordinat.ion and Supervision of the DCEBS
Activities/Comiit  de Coordination et ae Contr5le des
Activities de la DCEBS
CIFP        Interprofessional Center for Vocational Training and
Upgrading/Centre Interprofessionnel de Formiation et de
Perfectionnement
CPR         Regional Educat-ion Center C/Oentre Pedagogique Regional
DCEBS       Department of Construc.tion, Repair and Maintenance of School
Buil dings/Direction de la Construction et de l2Entretien des
Batiments Scolaires
DEPS        Planning Unit/Direction des Etudes et de Ia Planification
EEC         European Economic c`ormrrunity/Communaut6 Econon`ique Europeenne
INEF        National Institute of Education and Training/institut
National d'Education et de Formation
IUTA        University Institute for Agricultural Technology/Institut
Universitaire de Technologie Agricole
MINEDUC    Ministry of Education/Ministere de l'Education Nationale
SCBS        School Building Service/Service de Construction des Batiments
Scolaires
SEBS        Repair and Maintenance Service of School Buildings/Service
d'Entretien des BAtiruents Scolaires
UNCDF       United Nations Capital Development  Fund/Fonds diEquipement
des Nations Unies (FEiNU
UNDP        United Nations Development Program/Programme des Nations
Unies pour le DSveloppement,



- iv -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
BASIC DATA
General (1981)
ILr per capita                                 US$298
Lana Area                                      626,000 km2
Popoulation                                   2.5 million
o' ?whiocho  urban                           755,000
rural                            1,745,000
Population growth rate                         2.5%
u-rban                           4%
Life expectancy at birth                       44
Literacy rate                                  20%
Enrollment in Education (1980-1981)
Gross
Theoretical                         Enrollment   Pupil/Teacher
Level                   Age Group   Enrollment  % Female    Ratio              Ratio
Primary                   6-11      246,174           36.7%       64%          59.6
Lower Secondary          12-15       33,774           27.6%}      11%          n.a.
Upper Secondary          16-18        8,037           13.2%5
Technical Education    16-18           1,018           n.a.      n.a.           17.8
Higher  Education        18-23        1 ,505           9.1%      n.a.           3.6
Education Expenditures (1980/81)
Recurrent expenditure on education as %
of total government recurrent budget          21%
Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Educationi Expenditures
Primary                                          61%
Secondary (including technical education)   15%
Higher Education                                20%
Ad ainistration                                  4%
% of
Average Annual Cost per Student                       US$        GNP per Capita
Primary                                            55              19%
Sec ondarv                                       177              39%
Higher Educatioa,                               1,517             509%



I.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SEC*OR
A. Social and Economic Background
Population
1.01     The Central African Republic (CAR) is among the least developed
countries in the world, with a population of about 2.5 million (1980) and a
GNP per capita of US$298. The annual population growth rate is about 2.5%.
About 30% of the population live in urban areas, most of them in the political
and administrative capital of Bangui (population 338,000 in 1980). Life
expectancy at birth is 44 years (among the lowest in the world), and infant
mortality rates are still high at 30% of the 0-4 age group.  There is only one
physician for every 17,600 people and only about 10% of the population -- all
in urban areas -- have access to a safe water supply.
1.02     The average population density is 3.7 persons per square kilometer.
Most of the population is concentrated in the cotton farming areas of the
northwest, in Bangui, and in the Oubangui catchment area, where economic
activities and the road network are relatively well developed. By contrast,
the north and northeast are almost uninhabited. This dispersed population,
coupled with a young age structure -- about 40% of the population are under
age 14 -- and an adult literacy rate of only 20%, makes the provision of
adequate education and training opportunities a substantial burden on the
Government budget.
1.03     The population is composed of over 80 ethnic groups, but three of
them account for 70% of the population: the Banda (35%), the Baya-Mandjia
(28%), and the Mbaka (7%). While each ethnic group has its own language,
Sangb is the lingua franca spoken by all Central Africans. French, however,
remains the official language and is also used as the medium of instruction at
all levels despite an increasing use of Sangb in the first two grades.
The Economy
1.04     The largely subsistence agricultural sector involves 85% of the
active population and provides about a third of the GDP (35% in 1980). Cotton
and coffee are the leading export crops.   Although producer prices to cotton
growers (some 300,000 families) have risen since 1975, poor management, a lack
of trained technical personnel, poor fertilizer distribution, and the deter-
ioration of farm-to-market roads have caused a decline in production, and the
share of coffee and cotton in the country's total export earnings declined
from 61% in 1977 to about 36% in 1980. Timber traditionally accounts for 25%
of export earnings, and diamonds accounted for a third of the country's total
exports in 1980.
1.05     GDP growth since independence has been irregular.  After growth of
about 4.5% a year during the 1960s, when most economic activities were in the
private sector, the GDP decreased by 3% a year between 1970 and 1981 because
of poor economic management at a time of world-wide inflation.  Agricultural
and industrial production declined and investments fell. Serious mismanage-
ment of the country's public finances, inefficient public enterprises, and
rapidly increasing expenditures resulting from the fast growth of the civil



- 2 -
service caused increasing budgetary deficits. Between 1977 and 1980, budge-
tary deficits increased from US$25 million equivalent to US$43 million equi-
valent, representing 43% of revenues. The balance-of-payment and external
debt situations also reflected the inadequacy of domestic fiscal policies.
The current-accounts deficit rose from US$42 million equivalent in 1976 to
US$136 million equivalent in 1980, and the Government has paid only 40% of its
debt-service obligations in recent years.
Development Trends
1 .06    To curb this rapidly deteriorating situation, the Government (under
the guidance of the IMF and France) is implementing long-term austerity
measures to reestablish fiscal discipline and reduce budget deficits. In
addition to reducing the size of the civil service (about half of the 50,000
salaried workers in the country in 1981 were civil servants) by freezing new
recruitment, the Government is cutting wasteful expenditures and augmenting
revenues by increasing various taxes. The Government is also strengthening
the collection of taxes in general and customs duties.
1.07     Cash-crop production is expected to increase in response to the rise
in producer prices for cotton and coffee. Cotton production may improve from
1983 onwards, when an integrated rural development project already appraised
by IDA and several other donors will begin to have an impact, and when world
market prices are expected to recover from their present low levels. Also,
expanded production of timber and diamonds and the forecasted rise in timber
prices are expected to lead to improved export and budget earnings. Improved
collection of export taxes should also increase public revenues. The Govern-
ment appears to be making a start towards reversing the country's fiscal
problems, and by 1985 the growth in revenue is expected to be higher than the
growth in expenses for the first time in several years. Thus, though there is
a good possibility that the Government's scope for raising additional revenues
may begin to improve slowly in coming years, development project financing
will continue to need foreign assistance in the medium term.
Human Resources
1.08     Of the CAR's total labor force, (about 55% of the total population in
1980), 88% are employed in the agricultural sector. The rest are employed in
the services sector (8%), and the industrial sector (4%). The most striking
feature of employment in the CAR is the increase in the number of employees in
the civil service over the last six years. The civil service grew from 14,700
in January 1973 to 25,600 in September 1979, while employment in the private
sector decreased from 29,700 in 1975 to 25,000 in 1978.
1.09     The increase in public sector employment was caused by the Govern-
ment's policy of absorbing into the civil service all post-primary school
graduates who did not have job offers from the private sector, a policy which
was only recently abolished (para. 1.06). This policy resulted in large
increases in Government personnel expenditures and contributed to the large
deficits.  As a result, the Government failed to pay its debts to private
businesses, leading to business failures which became one of the reasons of
the decline in private sector employment.



B.  The Education System
1.10     The structure of the education system in the CAR (Annex 2) is similar
to that of other West Africani countries formerly administered by France.  Six
years of pri-ary education are followed by four years of lower secondary
school. Students can continue their st-udies in general upper secondary educa-
tion or in one tec3nical secondary lycee in Bangui, both of which prepare
students for the baccalaureate and entrance to institutions of higher educa-
tion.  (Enrollments and staffing details are shown in Annex 3.)  Vocational
training is offered at three schools in Bangui and eleven rural vocational
training centers. An Interprofessional Center for Vocational Training and
Upgrading (CIFP), under the Ministry of Public Works, offers technical train-
ing for specific vocations. Agricultural education is administered by the
Ministry of Agriculture, and is offered at three vocational centers which
train agricultural extension agents, and at one post-secondary institution,
the University Institute for Agricultural Technology (IUTA), which trains
agricultural engineers, all of whom are employed by the Government after their
graduation.
Organization and Management
1.11     The Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) has overall responsibility for
formal education up to the university level, except for agricultural education
and the CIFP (para 1.10). Decision-making responsibilities are centralized in
Bangui and delegated to the heads of eight departments respectively responsi-
ble for: (a) primary education, (b) secondary and technical education,
(c) higher education, (d) educational planning and school mapping, (e) educa-
tional research, curriculum development and teacher training, (f) construc-
tion, repair and maintenance of school buildings, (g) staff administration,
and (h) accounting and budgeting.  The Primary Education Department delegates
some of its responsibilities to 20 regional inspectors who supervise and
manage primary education in their respective administrative areas.
1.12     Implementation of the Government's educational policy is planned and
developed through three of the above-mentioned eight departments.  The first
is the Planning Unit (DEPS), responsible for educational planning, school
mapping, educational statistics, and analysis of the financial implications of
the various alternatives for educational development. The second is the newly
reorganized National Institute for Education and Training (INEF), which is in
charge of educational research, curriculum development, educational evalua-
tion, textbook printing and distribution, and teacher training. The third aS
the Department of Construction, Repair and Maintenance of School Buildings
(DCEBS).
C.  Main Issues in Education
1.13     The most acute problem facing the education system is the rapid
deterioration of the inputs, which has now reached such a critical point that
the future of the education system itself seems to be at stake. It has
affected not only the quality of teaching at all levels (paras. 1.l7-1.18) 5
but also physical installations, school furniture, teaching equipment acd



- 4 -
educational materials (paras. 1.20-1.21), and is jeopardizing even a minimally
acceptable level of instruction. This continuing deterioration is
attributable to:
(a) Inefficient allocation of the resources available in the recurrent
education budget, which allocates a large share to the costs of
fellowships and higher education and neglects non-salary expend-
itures, especially at the primary level (paras. 1.14-1.16);
(b)  The low external efficiency of the technical education system, which
despite high enrollments, is unable to meet employers' demands for
skilled workers and technicians (para. 1.19);
(c)  Neglect of primary education, the quality of which has declined
rapidly because of poorly qualified teachers, lack of teaching
materials and equipment, and the progressive deterioration of school
buildings, which in turn has had an adverse effect on primary school
access and attendance in rural areas (paras. 1.20-1.21); and
(d) The weakness of key institutions, which affects both coherent sector
planning and project preparation capacities, as well as organization
of the development and protection of capital investments in the
sector (paras. 1.22-1.25).
The Government is well aware of the seriousness of the situation and has
started to implement some remedial measures. The country's financial situa-
tion is such, however, that it is doubtful whether the present trend of
disintegration can be halted and rehabilitation started without external aid.
Educational Costs and Financing
1.14     In 1981 the cost per student was estimated at about US$55 for primary
education (18% of GNP per capita) and US$117 for secondary education (39% of
GNP per capita). Both can be considered low by West African standards. In
comparison, the cost per student at the university level, which amounts to
about US$1,517 (509% of GNP per capita) is high because of a generous scholar-
ship policy (scholarships for secondary and higher education absorbed 22% of
the total education budget in 1981), and high salaries for university teachers
(about US$7,764 per year, or 26 times the GNP per capita).
1.15     In its 1982 budget, the Government allocated CFAF 7.6 billion (about
US$22.9 million) to education, representing 23% of the total recurrent budget,
a large proportion. Government funds are spent almost totally on teachers'
salaries and fellowships (93%), primary teachers' salaries being 11 times the
GNP per capita on average, and those of secondary teachers, 17 times the GNP
per capita. Only 7% of the total education budget is allocated to capital ex-
penditures, which include outlays for educational materials and maintenance
expenditures and which have been heavily concentrated in secondary and higher
education. In addition, significant contributions to recurrent and capital
expenditures for education are financed by external agencies. 25% of the se-
condary teachers and 65% of the university teachers are expatriates and have



- 5 -
their salaries paid by their home countries. In 1977, 80% of capital expendi-
tures were financed by external donor agencies and, although a precise break-
down by educational level is not available, most of this money went to second-
ary and higher education according to Government officials. In spite of con-
siderable external budgetary support, higher education is syphuning resources
from primary and secondary education and the percentage of the education bud-
get spent on higher education increased from 9.3% in 1974 to 20.9% in 1981.
Most capital investments in primary education are self-help efforts by rural
area parents who build and furnish classrooms for their children.
1.16     Implementation of the Government's policy to improve access to
primary education and the quality of education at all levels (paras. 1.18,
1.21 and 1.26) would require increased allocations to primary education from
the recurrent budget. The Government's financial difficulties (para. 1.05),
which are likely to persist throughout most of the 1980s despite the slight
improvements now expected (para. 1.07), make it unlikely that, in real terms,
available public funding for education can increase substantially during the
mid-1980s. Under these conditions, the Government will have to implement
measures aiming at a more efficient use of existing resources. Specifically,
it will have to increase its return on education expenditures and to free
resources for financing the planned quality improvements in rural area primary
education.  These measures could include:  (a) limiting the annual increases
in primary education enrollments to 3% per year while reducing repetition
rates; (b) increasing the rural area student/classroom ratios from the current
46:1 to 55:1 by using multigrade teaching and the double-shift system more
efficiently (para. 1.21); and (c) persuading the external agencies to
reallocate to the DEPS, INEF and DCEBS part of the resources now used to
finance recurrent expenditures for secondary and higher education, as those
departments of the Ministry of Education play key roles in primary educational
development and quality improvement and are currently understaffed and
underfinanced (paras. 1.22-1.25).
Quality and Efficiency of Education
1.17     The quality of instruction is poor throughout the entire education
system. In primary education, 20% of the students drop out at the end of the
first year, and only 44% of a cohort entering the first grade reach Grade 6
(the last year of primary education). In 1980-81, the repetition rate in
Grade 6 was 42%, and only 39% of the children passed the examination permit-
ting entry to lower secondary education. Despite large increases in enroll-
ments in secondary education, in 1973, 60% of the students in the final year
of the lower secondary schools (Grades 7-10) and 44% of the students in the
final year of the upper secondary schools (Grades 11-13) passed the final
exam, compared with 39% and 36% respectively in 1980.
1.18     The Government is aware of the low internal efficiency of the
educational system. However, measures to improve the situation are being
implemented slowly, because of financial constraints and because several
deficiencies need to be addressed simultaneously. First, teacher quality
should be improved by using training programs which are less theoretical and
which emphasize practical professional training. Second, teaching programs



should be improved at all levels: in primary schools, environmental improve-
ments and education programs should be linked, and in secondary education,
mathematics and science should be emphasized. Third, overcrowding of urban
classrooms (para. 1.21) should be reduced by new approaches, such as expansion
of the double-shift system already in use in some primary schools, and the use
of peer-teaching and individualized instruction in secondary education. A
special effort is needed to improve the students' working environment, parti-
cularly in rural area primary schools, where courses are frequently taught in
the worst possible facilities, with no books, supplies or protection from
harsh weather conditions, which frequently interrupt lessons and shorten the
academic year. Even the best teachers cannot make up for the adverse impact
of these conditions on student achievement.
External Efficiency
1.19     The emphasis on general education at the secondary and higher levels
has created imbalances in the labor market. About 95% of the students are
enrolled in general education, and shortages of technically skilled workers
are widespread. Furthermore, the low level of educational achievement is
adversely affecting worker productivity. The government is, with external
assistance conducting studies on ways to improve the quality of instruction in
technical education and vocational training.
Neglect of Primary Education
1.20     With enrollments growing during the last ten years at an average rate
of 5.6% for primary education, 10% for lower secondary education and 19% for
upper secondary education, the Government has made an impressive but costly
effort to improve access to education. This rapid growth has, however, been
unbalanced. First, despite the country's gross enrollment ratio of 64%,
primary educational opportunities for children in rural areas are still
limited, the rest of the country's enrollment ratio being half that of
Bangui's. Enrollments in rural areas have been constrained by the lack of
facilities. At their own expense, parents build crude primary school
buildings, most of them made of matts, and make furniture from tree trunks for
their children. Investments financed mainly by external agencies have focused
on secondary and post-secondary education (para. 1.15) at the expense of
primary education. Finally, the emphasis on rapid expansion has led to
neglect of building maintenance, and some schools are in an advanced state of
disrepair, leading to closings of classrooms and decreasing enrollments.
1.21     The poor teaching conditions in schools in rural areas result in high
dropout rates and decreased primary student attendance. Whereas in Bangui 22%
of the students entering the first grade drop out before they reach the third
grade, in the rest of the country 52% drop out. This has contributed to the
overcrowding of classes in urban areas, and the student/classroom ratio in
Bangui is almost double that of the rest of the country (46:1, compared with
81:1 in Bangui).  Increasing the student/classroom ratio in rural areas would,
with only minimal additional recurrent costs, have a substantial impact on
access to primary education. This could be done by using more multigrade
teaching and the double-shift system.



-7
Institutional Weaknesses
1.22     As in many other West African countries, the weakness of several key
institutions in the CAR's education sector (DEPS, DCEBS, Ministry of Education
administratinn (para. 1.12)) is a serious obstacle to needed improvements in
the educatioi. system.
1.23     Because of the country's current economic situation, the CAR needs to
give high priority to developing a comprehensive strategy for the development
of the education system, taking into account financial constraints, manpower
priorities and the need for quality improvements at all levels. To move in
this direction, a complete reorganization of the DEPS is needed. DEPS' links
with the Human Resources Department of the embryonic High Commission for
Planning (para. 1.28) should be redefined.  In the meantime, DEPS staff should
be increased and trained, and should include specialists in planning, school
mapping, statistics and education financing.
1.24     The INEF's capacity to improve educational programs, develop curri=L
cula and print textbooks appears to be adequate. France is already assisting
the INEF with equipment and expertise for printing and with specialized
services for curricula development, teacher training and linguistic studies.
However, the INEF's capacity for educational evaluation is limited and needs
to be expanded, particularly by proper training of the existing staff.
1.25     The Department of Construction, Repair and Maintenance of School
Buildings (DCEBS) is among the weakest of the Ministry of Education's insti-
tutions.  Currently, its staff is limited to a director and two administrators
and they are inadequately trained. Consequently, the DCEBS has not been able
to build enough classrooms, or to carry out preventive maintenance and repair
dilapidated structures.  These activities are essential for improved access to
education, as well as for the quality and efficiency of education (paras. 1.18
and 1.21). A major effort is urgently required to reorganize this institu-
tion, hire new staff specialized in school construction and repair, train them
and provide them with the materials to start work.
D. The Government's Strategy for Educational Development
1.26     The Plan for National Recovery (1980-81), initiated on an emergency
basis because only 16% of the 1976-80 Development Plan's goals had been met,
gave priority to agricultural and rural development, which is considered the
fundamental source of the country's development. This emphasis was repeated
in the recently published National Action Program for 1982-85. Consistent
with these overall economic objectives, the Government's plans for the
development of the education sector include:
(a)  improvement in access to primary education in rural areas, with an
annual enrollment increase of 5% per year, while enrollment growth in
secondary and higher education is to be decreased;
(b)  improvements in quality, particularly in rural primary education,
through improving teachers' qualifications, revising curricula,
building classrooms to replace crude shelters, and providing teachi-ng
materials and textbooks;



(c) training of local teachers to replace expatriate teachers in
secondary and higher education;
(d) better coordination between the output of the technical education and
vocational training systems and the country's manpower requirements;
and
(e) development of the Government's capacities for planning, school
mapping and education cost analysis.
1.27     To implement these objectives, the Government has already:
(a) built 457 primary classrooms in rural areas;
(b) frozen secondary and higher education enrollments at their current
levels;
(c) designed and experimented with a primary education reform focusing on
the introduction of Sango, the lingua franca as the language of
instruction (para. 1.03). (The Government has adopted a curriculum
developed in consultation with the villagers, who advised on the
subjects they considered useful for contributions by their children
to village development);
(d) launched an "in-service" primary teacher training program based on
distance teaching and seminars in four regional education centers
(CPRs), two of which are already built and two of which are under
construction;
(e) built one primary teacher training school in Bambari and one lower
secondary teacher training college in Bangui; and
(f) conducted several studies designed to provide information on how the
outputs of the technical education and vocational training systems
could be better meshed with manpower requirements, particularly if
the regional vocational training centers were strengthened, the
Interprofessional Center for Vocational Training and Upgrading (para.
1.10) expanded, and technical eduction programs established in close
cooperation with future employers.
1.28     The Government's general objectives are sound, although the objec-
tive for the expansion of primary school enrollments may be too ambitious
under the present circumstances and a number of measures aiming at improved
resource utilization need to be implemented (para. 1.16). The implementation
of the strategy has begun and no specific targets or cost estimates for
implementing the strategy have been prepared. Furthermore, political autho-
rities have frequently modified educational policies without due consideration
for operational or manpower requirements. (Even since the fall of the Empire
in September 1979 there have been three different Ministers of Education in
charge of implementing an educational strategy.) In August 1982, the Govern-
ment decided to make a first, important step forward by reorganizing the Human



- 9 -
Resources Department of the Ministry of Planning (which became the High Com-
mission for Planning under the direct responsibility of the CAR President on
August 5, 1982). The High Commission will delegate one specialist in human
resources planning to the Ministry of Education to work with the newly
appointed Director of the Planning Unit (DEPS) (paras. 1.12 and 1.23). These
measures are expected to result in a complete reorganization of the Planning
Unit and the adoption of a detailed plan of implementation of the education
sector's development strategy.
Assistance From Outside the Bank Group
1.29     Several donors are providing assistance to CAR's education sector.
France is financing secondary and higher education fellowships for post-
secondary students, construction and equipping of printing facilities, French
textbooks for primary and secondary students, and specialized services (along
with the UNDP and Unesco) for the INEF (paras. 1.12 and 1.24). The AfDB and
the UNCDF are providing support for primary classroom construction in rural
areas. The AfDB is also financing the construction of a Primary Teachers
Training School and a Faculty for Medical Sciences. The UNCDF is building
four Primary Teacher Upgrading Centers. The EEC and France have financed
studies for recommendations on the improvement of technical education (paras.
1.19 and 1.26). They have also contributed to the operating costs of Bangui's
technical institutions.
E. The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
Previous Investments
1.30     The First Education Project, financed with a US$3.9 million IDA
Credit 308-CA, effective in January 1973, then with a Supplementary Credit of
US$0.9 million (Cr. 1073-CA), effective in May 1981, was completed on
December 31, 1981. About eleven years ago, when the project was identified
and appraised, and when the country's financial situation and development
prospects were considerably more favorable than at present, the Government's
major objective was to improve secondary education by (a) introducing a well-
balanced curriculum at the lower level; (b) strengthening the sciences at the
upper level; (c) improving technical and commercial education; and (d) estab-
lishing a training college for secondary school teachers. The First Education
Project was intended to assist the implementation of this objective by financ-
ing (a) the construction of four lower secondary schools; (b) additional faci-
lities for sciences and practical subjects in four lycees; (c) extensions to
the existing technical lycee; (d) the construction of one secondary teacher
training college; and (e) technical assistance for the preparation of a long-
term education plan.
1.31     Physical implementation of the project suffered considerable
delays. A lengthy start-up period in combination with worsening internal
economic conditions, higher than expected world wide inflation, and the
depreciation of the US dollar led to substantial cost overruns which
necessitated in 1977 a reduction in the scope of -the project. The construc-
tion of the secondary teacher training college and of two lower secondary
schools was eliminated. The Project Completion Report issued on June 23, 1982



- 10 -
stresses the importance of careful and advanced project preparation including
the timely recruilment of technical assistance personnel and concludes that
the project's educaticnal impact was uneven.  Due to the political uncertain-
ties that prevailed during the course of project implementation, the develop-
rient of a long-term educational plan was seriously delayed, but although it
did not fully come to grips with the CAR's education problems, it did help the
Government to develop the sector strategy included in the 1980-81 plan for
nat.ional recovery. The curricula for science and technology appear, after two
years of opera-tion, to have been well designed. Technical education programs,
however, may have to be revised when a broad new policy corresponding more
closely to identified manpower needs for technical education and vocational
training is adopted by -the Government.
Lending Priorities
1.32     The Government's National Recovery Plan and National Action Program
(para. 1.26) give priority to agricultural development to strengthen and
diversify the country's renewable resource base, stimulate export earnings and
improve rural population income levels. The low quality of education, with
its consequent high dropout rates and large decrease in school attendance is
resulting in high illiteracy rates among adults (para. 1.02).  Recent educa-
tional research indicates that a direct correlation exists between basic
education and each of the following: an increase in agricultural and indus-
trial productivity and earnings, acquisition of modern economic behavior,
adoption of modern health, family planning and nutrition practices and an
increase in the degree of "trainability." Consequently, improving the quality
of primary education in rural areas is essential to the CAR's economic and
social development and should be a priority for the Government's educational
development policy and for Bank Group lending in particular since several
other external agencies are interested in supporting vocational training and
technical education.
1.33     Successful implementation of the Government's sectoral plan (para.
1.26), and especially the program for improving the quality of primary educa-
tion, with an emphasis on rural areas, will be largely contingent upon the
success of efforts to contain costs and allocate resources more efficiently
within the sector (paras. 1.16 and 1.28). The Government has indicated that
it is willing to consider such a reallocation, and the financing plan that
will be prepared by the DEPS (para. 2.20) would include measures to reallocate
resources to primary education.
1.34     In the short term, IDA should assist the Government to implement its
main sectoral objectives, focusing particularly on: (a) institutional devel-
opment to create a capacity to prepare long-term sectoral plans and prepare
realistic implementation strategies; (b) meeting the most urgent needs for
quality improvements in primary education; and (c) establishing a mechanism
for further expansion of the system by strengthening the construction and
repair capacities of the Ministry of Education.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Summary
2.01     The project's main objectives would be to strengthen the Govern-
ment's capacity for educational planning, evaluation and implementation and to
improve the quality of education in rural areas. Specifically, the project
would assist the Government to:
(a) strengthen the DCEBS so that it will be able to conceive, implement
and manage construction, repair and maintenance programs efficiently
and economically;
(b) improve the quality of primary education through improving primary
school environments in rural areas by rehabilitating, over a three-
year span, dilapidated facilities representing approximately 30% of
the CAR's existing rural facilities; and
(c)  strengthen MINEDUC's capacity for educational planning, school
mapping, cost analysis, evaluation and project preparation.
2.02     Because of the country's tight budgetary situation, which is likely
to persist for several years (para. 1.05), the project has been designed so
that its recurrent cost implications would be minimal and that maximum use
would be made of the existing DCEBS staff. As far as school construction is
concerned, no expansion of the existing system is foreseen under the project,
and the number of teachers in institutions affected by the project would
remain the same.
B. Project Components
2.03     The project would be implemented over the 1983-88 five-year period
and would include the following components:
(a) Strengthening of the Department of Construction, Repair and Main-
tenance of School Buildings (DCEBS). The project would provide
construction, building materials, furniture, equipment, technical
assistance, local specialist services, fellowships and operating
costs to strengthen the DCEBS to enable it to: (i) supervise rehabi-
litation of the primary school classrooms, (ii) implement future
school building programs, (iii) initiate maintenance, and (iv) estab-
lish sound management and accounting practices.
(b) Primary school rehabilitation. The project would finance civil
works, furniture and equipment for the reconstruction and/or
rehabilitation of about 300 primary school classrooms to replace
existing dilapidated ones, the construction of about 100 houses for
primary school principals (to attract qualified personnel to rural
areas), and the distribution of instructional materials to approxi-
mately 54,000 students and 800 teachers.



- 12 -
(c) Planning, evaluation and future project preparation. The project
would provide equipment, technical assistance, local specialist
services, fellowships and operating costs for:
(i)  strengthening the MINEDUC Planning Unit (DEPS), specifically its
capacity to collect education data, carry out school location
planning, and review the allocation of resources in education;
(ii)  establishing an evaluation capacity within the National Institute
of Education and Training (INEF) to test the impact of the
improved learning environment on primary student achievement and
on internal efficiency; and
(iii)  preparing future education projects.
These components are described below in detail.
C. Project Description
Strengthening of the Department of Construction, Repair and Maintenance of
School Buildings (DCEBS)
2.04     Background.  A MINEDUC decree created the DCEBS in October 1976  to
construct new school buildings and repair and maintain existing ones. With a
staff limited to a Director -- a former civil engineer in the Ministry of
Public Works -- and two teachers, the DCEBS has not been able to carry out its
tasks adequately. The funds earmarked in the Government's budget for con-
struction, repair and maintenance have remained undisbursed each year since
1976. In fact, during its six years of existence, all the DCEBS has done is
supervise the implementation of two primary school construction projects
financed by UNCDF and AfDB. The UNCDF project, now completed, financed the
construction of 164 primary classrooms, most of these in the Bangui area, and
two Regional Education Centers (CPRs) in Bambari and Berberati. The objec-
tives of the AfDB-financed-project, now underway, are to build 287 primary
classrooms, 67 houses for school principals, and one teacher training college
in Bambari.
2.05     Although formally under DCEBS responsibility, the UNCDF and AfDB fi-
nanced projects were implemented independently, each with its own staff, man-
agement, construction strategies and programs. Therefore, the DCEBS did not
gain much project implementation experience, and it remains as weak as it was
in 1976. The proposed project's main goal is to assist in reorganizing and
strengthening the DCEBS so that it can execute and manage construction pro-
grams and repair and maintenance activities efficiently.
2.06     Reorganization of the DCEBS.  During negotiations, the Government
presented a ministerial decree, which was submitted to IDA for review
(No. 391, dated March 10, 1983), signed by the Minister of National Education,
which reorganizes the DCEBS and establishes its two departments: the Con-
struction Service (Service de Construction des Batiments Scolaires - SCBS) and
the Repair and Maintenance Service (Service d'Eutretien des Batiments
Scolaires - SEBS). The decree specifies that all DCEBS staff, will be under



- 13 -
contract.  During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would
appoint, before December 31, 1983, two technicians acceptable to IDA who will
be responsible for SCBS and SEBS administration.
2.07     The School Building Service (SCBS) would be resnonsibJe for the
design, implementation and supervision of all construction and/or rehab-
ilitation work on school buildings. To provide optimal working conditions for
the SCBS, the project would finance construction, materials, furniture, and
equipment, and 25 man-years of local specialist services to coordinate the
delivery of construction materials and equipment to the construction sites and
supervise construction, as well as 16 man-months of fellowships to train the
coordinators, who would supervise the rehabilitation of about 300 classrooms
in three regions (para. 2.12-2.18).
2.08     The Repair and Maintenance Service of School Buildings (SEBS) would
be responsible for the repair and maintenance of school buildings, furniture
and equipment. This service would be decentralized into three units for which
the project would finance the construction of warehouses, specialist services,
equipment, and operating costs. The staff for each SEBS Unit would be limited
to a storekeeper, an assistant storekeeper, a mason, a carpenter, a driver,
and a watchman, none of whom would be incorporated into the civil service.
Instead, they would be under contract with the DCEBS, enabling the SEBS Chief
to dismiss workers if their work proved unsatisfactory. Draft contracts have
been submitted during negotiations and found accepable.
2.09     Maintenance program.  The three SEBS Units would be located so as to
serve the areas where there is a concentration of school buildings in need of
repair: one in Bangui, scheduled to open in 1984; a second one in Bambari,
scheduled to open in 1985; and the third in Berberati, scheduled to open in
1986. The SEBS program would be implemented as follows. In all teacher
training schools in the country, simple preventive maintenance practices would
be taught in technical seminars and courses -- for an equivalent of 14 man-
months. A "Repair and Maintenance Guide" would be printed and distributed to
all inspectors, school principals and teachers. Principals would report annu-
ally, pointing out the major repair and maintenance work needed for the
schools they work in. On the basis of these reports, the SEBS Chief, assisted
by an expatriate specialist, would establish a list of work priorities and
develop a monthly work plan and schedule.  Each region's plans would be sent
by the SEBS to the chief of the regional unit, and inspections would be made
every six months. In case of major repairs or specialized work, contracts
could be awarded to local contractors, through invitation of quotations or
local competitive bidding, depending on the size of the work.
2.10     Management.  Since project implementation would require the same
management techniques used to undertake construction, repair and maintenance
programs in general, the DCEBS' staff would be responsible for project imple-
mentation. The DCEBS' Director would act as Project Director, and the admin-
istrator/accountant would be in charge of project accounts and disbursements
procedures. Since the new administrator appointed by the Government to the
DCEBS was administrator/accountant for the IDA-assisted First Education
Project, he is already fully aware of the Bank's procedures.



- 14 -
2el 1    To strengthen the DCEBS' management, the project would finance 66
man-months of technical assistance to assist the Director in reorganizing the
Department and in supervising the primary school rehabilitation program, 30
man-years of local specialist services for administration, bookkeeping, pro-
curement and clerical support, and 18 man-months of fellowships to upgrade the
DECBS' senior staff in professional management.
Primary School Rehabilitation
2.12     The Government's effort to improve the quality of primary education
and to increase access to primary education in rural areas (para. 1.26) is
being severely hampered by the rapid deterioration of the existing primary
schools. To help the Government overcome this growing problem, the project
would finance construction, furniture and equipment to replace and/or
rehabilitate, furnish and equip existing dilapidated or otherwise inadequate
primary school buildings.
2.13     The project would replace or rehabilitate about 300 existing class-
rooms in about 120 existing primary schools, representing 30% of the schools
outside Bangui. A survey carried out by the DCEBS, found that 60% of these
schools would need to have three classrooms replaced, and a storeroom and a
house for the school principal built. At the remaining sites, where some of
the existing structures are in better condition, the project would finance
either the construction of fewer than three classrooms or delivery of con-
struction materials for repair and rehabilitation.  The improved facilities
would accommodate about 25,000 students, since most of the project schools
would operate with multigrade teaching. The new primary school curricula
which have been used on an experimental basis (para. 1.27) would be used in
the project schools.
2.14     Sites.  All the project schools would be located in three regions --
Basse-Kotto, Ouham and Ouham-Pende -- selected by the Government on the fol-
lowing criteria:
(a) good accessibility from Bangui;
(b) low primary school enrollment ratios; and
(c) the high percentage of dilapidated facilities (65%, compared with 47%
for the other regions, and only 12% in Bangui).
Within each region, priority would be given to those existing schools where
(a) multigrade teaching and/or the double-shift system is(are) already in use;
(b) access to wells is possible; (c) there are active parents' associations;
(d) student enrollment is growing; (e) staff housing for teachers will be made
available by the villagers; and (f) gravel and sand are locally available.
2.15     Sites for approximately 100 classrooms for the first phase of con-
struction in the Basse-Kotto region have already been selected. In 1984 (the
first, one-year phase), about 100 replacement classrooms and 33 houses would
be built. In 1985, the second one-year phase would be implemented in Ouham-
Pende and about 100 more classrooms and 33 houses would be built. In 1986,



- 15 -
the remaining classrooms and houses would be built or repaired in the Ouham
region. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that the remaining
sites for the second and third phases of the primary school rehabilitation
program would be selected and that a list would be submitted for IDA's review
and approval prior to December 31, 1983.
2.16     School buildings and staff housing.  Preliminary plans for the class-
rooms and houses are included in the working papers. All facilities would be
built to the standards defined in para. 3.03, in accordance with the strategy
described in paragraph 4.12. To attract qualified staff to serve as princi-
pals in remote rural areas, the project includes provision for about 100 staff
houses. The places where these houses would be provided will be selected on
the basis of the following criteria: (a) schools should have at 'Least three
classrooms; and (b) no suitable alternative housing is available. The houses
would be of modest quality and would be provided free of charge.
2.17     Furniture.  Simple furniture would be provided for students (on the
basis of 54 students per classroom) and for teachers. The furniture would be
designed for easy repair or replacement, using simple tools and materials and
locally available skills. The furniture would be designed by the DCEBS and
built by local craftsmen, in accordance with prototypes and with materials
financed and supplied by the DCEBS.
2.18     Educational materials.  Basic educational materials and textbooks for
students and teachers would be financed initially by the project. To avoid
disparities in working conditions between students and teachers in rehabili-
tated and non-rehabilitated classrooms, sometimes located in the same school
or in the same village, all 54,000 students and 800 teachers -- about 20% of
those in the country -- in the Basse-Kotto, Ouham and Ouham-Pende regions
would receive the same materials. UNICEF, which provided similar equipment
for schools in Bangui two years ago, has agreed in principle to finance school
materials in all the regions not included in the project and, if the Govern-
ment should make a formal request, would also agree to finance the periodic
replacement of school materials.
Planning, Evaluation and Future Project Preparation
2.19     Educational Planning.  To address the weaknesses in MINEDUC's capa-
city for education planning, cost analysis and project preparation, and to
strengthen the DEPS (paras. 1.22-1.23), the project would assist the Govern-
ment in regrouping activities presently carried out by several other depart-
ments (INEF, Minister's Cabinet, Human Resources Department of the High
Commission for Planning) in the DEPS, strengthening its capacity to prepare
education development plans, undertaking special studies on the cost and
financing of education, and identifying and preparing projects.
2.20     To support the above efforts, the project would include financing for
an educational planning advisor for 36 months, as well as 9 man-months of
consultants' services in the fields of education, statistics, school mapping
and education financing and two fellowships (12 man-months each) in educa-
tional statistics, school mapping and education financing. The project would
also provide two vehicles, office equipment and operating funds for the



- 16 -
Planning Unit. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
would (a) formally reorganize the management structure of the DEPS in a manner
acceptable to IDA and appoint key staff acceptable to IDA no later than
December 31, 1983; (b) prepare and submit for IDA's review by December 31,
1984, a detailed plan for the implementation of its education development
strategy including a school location plan and a comprehensive financing plan,
which would focus on the reallocation of resources to primary education (para.
1.33); and (c) implement this plan in accordance with a timetable acceptable
to IDA.
2.21     Evaluation.  The proposed project evaluation component would inves-
tigate the assumption that providing a better learning environment and supply-
ing basic educational materials and equipment can significantly improve the
quality of education as measured by such outcomes as student achievement
levels, attendance, and promotion and dropout rates. Results would be com-
pared with those obtained through better teacher training or introduction of
new curricula. Further, IDA is considering complementing this first step with
a research project intended to enable the collection of general information on
several broader issues such as: (a) the relationship between better houses
and the ability to attract and retain better qualified teachers in rural
areas; (b) the relationship (if any) between better school environments and
improved school-community communications; and (c) the relationship (if any)
between improved school environments and changes in community behavior. These
investigations would enable the Government of the CAR, and other countries to
understand better through which type of investments the contribution of
education to development can be optimized.
2.22     The project would finance 9 man-months of technical assistance, 18
man-months of fellowships, the services of local specialists, one vehicle, and
operating costs to:
(a) develop achievement tests, with pilot tests at the beginning and end
of the first project year;
(b) revise the tests on the basis of experience with the pilot test;
(c) administer the revised versions of the tests to appropriate "before"
and "after" samples;
(d) administer the tests to appropriate school samples not included in
the project;
(e) develop forms and procedures for collecting enrollment, attendance,
promotion and dropout data; and
(f) study all the information collected and present conclusions six
months after the end of the third phase of construction (June 1987).
2.23     The evaluation component would be coordinated by the INEF, whose
Department for School Guidance staff would be directly responsible for its
implementation. During the the project, these staff members would receive on-
the-job training from internationally recruited specialists and through



- 17 -
visiting other projects or institutions with identical responsibilities. An
important by-product of this component would be the strengthening of the
INEF's evaluation department so that it could perform other evaluations. INEF
would send evaluation reports six months after the end of each phase of con-
struction to the DCEBS.  A consultant evaluation specialist would help for
short periods of time during key phases. During negotiations, t .e Government
gave assurances that (a) the evaluations would be an INEF priority; (b) staff
acceptable to IDA would be assigned to this task; and (c) annual evaluation
reports would be submitted to IDA.
2.24     Future project preparation.  In addition to the consultant special-
ists in school mapping, educational statistics and education financing, who
are expected to provide final reports including proposals for future assis-
tance, the project would also finance six staff-months of education and other
specialist services to assist the Government in planning and preparing future
education projects. Possible studies already identified with the Government
include: reorganization of education administration, extension of rural vo-
cational training centers, textbook production and distribution, teacher
training and primary classroom rehabilitation.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01     The cost of the project is estimated at US$12.2 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$7.4 million. The breakdown of costs by
project component and by category is detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below.
Estimated Costs by Project Component
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SEC0W) EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJEZT COST SUMARY
(CFAF Killion)       (US$ '000)      X of
-    ------- ------------------------ --  Foreign    Z of  Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs,
A. STREMGEN DEPT SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION   399.3  761.0 1,160.3 1Y124.? 2Y143.7 3s268.4   65.6    37.5
B. PRIATRY EDUCATION              685.1  991.1 19676.2 1,929.9 20791.9 4,721.8   59.1    54,1
Ct PLANNING AND EYALUATION        41,4  219,6  26lQ  116.6  v18.6  735.2   84,1    8.4
-    - - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- - -- - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - -- - -
Total BASELINE COSTS              1;125.8 1,971.7 3,097.5 3171.3 5554.2 8,725.4   63.7    1000
Physical Contirgencies           141,4  251.8  393.2  398,3  70?.4 1Y107#7   64.0  12.7
Price Contingencies              464.8  390.4  &55,2 1,309.4 1 099.7 2M4M9.1   45,6    27,6
-      -- ---   -   - --- ---- -------------  -
Total PROJECT COSTS               1R732.0 2i614.0 4,346.0 4YS79?0 7Y363#3 12,242.3   60.1    140,3
-_:_  ===  ==_==_=  ==_=  =_===_=____=



- 18 -
3.02     During appraisal, the Government confirmed that the project would be
exempt from all taxes and duties except for taxes on fuel which are estimated
to be negligible, and that the DCEBS would assist small contractors in the
preparation of the required documentation. During negotiations, the pro-
cedures that would allow small contractors to obtain these exemptions were
reviewed. The estimated costs by category of expenditure are given in greater
detail in Annex 8.
3.03     The base cost estimates for civil works are for March 1983.  These
estimates are based on evaluations of prices of construction materials, trans-
portation costs and labor costs made during the appraisal mission, and on unit
costs derived from construction contracts awarded in the CAR from 1979 to mid-
1982 for comparable buildings. Classrooms would be designed for 54 student
places, with a net area of 1.2 square meters per place. Gross classroom area
would be approximately 70 square meters. The school principal's houses would
be the same size. By using simple, replicable structures and a construction
strategy focusing on maximum use of local resources, construction costs would
be kept low and the average net-of-tax base cost would be US$140 per square
meter, which is about US$180 per student place. The base cost of one class-
room and that of a teacher's house is estimated at US$9,600. These base costs
are low compared to those for similar buildings in the rest of the region.
For similar reasons -- furniture manufactured by local carpenters, and pur-
chase of simple and basic teaching materials -- the average base cost of furn-
iture is only US$20 per student place, while the base cost of educational
equipment is US$13 per student. The average net-of-tax base cost of technical
assistance is estimated at about US$9,000 per staff-month, including salary,
travel allowances, allowances and overhead, and is based on recent recruitment
experience of the Government and international organizations. The average
cost of local specialists is estimated at the equivalent of US$310 per staff
month (US$400 including the expected performance bonus).
3.04     The project includes physical contingency allowances of 15% for ve-
hicles, equipment and civil works, because of the difficulty of estimating
rehabilitation work in rural areas, and 10% for furniture, specialist services
and incremental operating costs. The overall allowance for price escalation
is about 24% of base cost plus the cost of physical contingencies. According
to estimates of the May 1982 economic mission, prices on locally purchased
goods are projected to increase by 14% per year in 1983 and 1984, then only by
12% in 1985 and 1986, and 10% in 1987 and 1988. The annual price increase for
foreign goods and services is expected to be 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in
1985, and 6% from 1986 to 1988.
3.05     The estimated foreign exchange component of US$7.4 million represents
about 60% of the total project cost of US$12.2 million. The foreign exchange
percentage for each category of expenditure is as follows: 60% for civil
works, 90% for vehicles and equipment, 15% for furniture, 100% for expatriate
technical assistance and 80% for operating and other costs.
Financing Plan
3.06     Although the Central African Republic has considerable development
potential, its economic performance has been disappointing in the past (paras.



- 19 -
1.04-1.07). The Government is currently making efforts to curtail its expen-
ditures and improve its financial management. If these efforts are success-
ful, its economic prospects are expected to show gradual improvement in the
next few years. Nevertheless, given the Government's critical budgetary
situation over the next few years, especially insofar as foreign exchange is
concerned, it 9 proposed that IDA finance 90% of the total, net-of-tax,
project cost (93% of the foreign cost, and 86% of the local cost). The
Government would finance the balance. Specifically, the credit would finance
all capital cost of the project, the operating cost of the central services of
the DCEBS and an initial stock of materials for the repair and maintenance
program executed by the SEBS (para. 3.03). The Government would finance staff
salaries and operation of the regional SEBS units including consumable
material for the repair and maintenance program. These expenditures would be
about US$1.2 million equivalent.
3.07     The financing plan is summarized below.
Financing Plan
(uS$ million)
Component                   Total Cost    IDA    Government
Strengthen Dept. of
School Construction            3.3       2.5         0.8
Primary Education                 4.7      4.7         0.0
Planning and
Evaluation                     0.7       0.7         0.0
TOTAL BASE COST                  8.7       7.9         0.8
Physical Contingencies            1.1      1.0         0.1
Price Contingencies               2.4      2.1         0.3
TOTAL                      12.2      11.0        1.2
Project Recurrent Costs
3.08     At full operation in 1988, the project-assisted programs would gener-
ate incremental recurrent costs of about CFAF 90 million (1982 prices) per
year (1% of the 1982 education budget), equivalent to the estimated annual
cost for three SEBS Units (para. 2.08) to operate the repair and maintenance
services for school buildings. Proper maintenance of the country's school
buildings in the three regions would prevent deterioration which otherwise
would eventually result in the necessity of complete replacement. Given the
importance of maintaining these schools in good condition, the Government gave



- 20 -
assurances during negotiations that it would make adequate funds available for
the repair and maintenance of school buildings, and would make the annual
adjustments necessary to implement the DCEBS' maintenance program.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      Educational and architectural specifications for all project com-
ponents were prepared by the Government prior to project appraisal. The
Unesco/World Bank Cooperative Program and an architect/engineer specialist in
primary school construction recruited by the Government gave assistance. The
standard designs and specifications were reviewed and found acceptable during
appraisal and a complete, well-documented set of working papers is now avail-
able. A chronological list of project preparation activities with established
priorities is also available.
4.02     To allow the Government to start project preparation, a first Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$300,000 was approved by IDA on
February 2, 1982, to finance equipment, operating costs, and 18 architect/en-
gineer man-months. This first financing was used to (a) work out a construc-
tion strategy adapted to local resources; (b) conduct a preliminary survey of
construction sites; and (c) prepare initial architectural studies of primary
schools, houses for principals and construction material warehouses. To allow
the Government to continue project preparation until Credit effectiveness, a
second advance of US$500,000 from the PPF was approved on October 14, 1982.
Further preparation includes (a) completion of the survey and preparation of a
final list of all sites in the three regions included in the project; (b) pre-
qualification of construction and transportation firms; (c) training of future
site supervisors; (d) briefing of local entrepreneurs in bid preparation tech-
niques; (e) construction of a warehouse in Bangui and one school in the Basse-
Kotto region to be used as a storage facility (para. 4.12 (c)); (f) prepara-
tion of bidding documents for equipment and materials for construction and
repair; (g) drafting of model contracts for construction and transportation
firms and for repair and maintenance specialists; (h) drafting of the DECBS
statute; and (i) recruitment of a maintenance expert and an auditor. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that bidding documents for
construction and repair equipment and materials, and transportation would be
prepared for IDA's review prior to December 31, 1983.
4.03     Bid documents for construction materials, and for construction and
equipment lists, now in preparation, are expected to be finalized by June
1983. Tendering would start about October 1983. The construction of class-
rooms and houses for principals is expected to be completed by June 1987.
Repair and maintenance work would start in June 1983 and is expected to con-
tinue after project completion with Government financing. Key specialists
have already been recruited with PPF financing. The provision of specialist
services and local staff training is expected to continue until the end of
June, 1988, when the entire project is expected to be completed. The Closing
Date would be December 31, 1988, to allow for all of the project accounts to
be closed.



- 21 -
Project Management
4.04     Project management would be the responsibility of the DCEBS (para.
2.11). The Project Director would report to the Minister of Education and
prepare quarterly reports on project progress to be sent to IDA.  The DEPS and
INEF Directors would be responsible for the implementation of he planning,
evaluation and project preparation components. For the component under his
control, each component director would be responsible for (a) determining the
design of work programs and implications for equipment specifications;
(b) selecting and supervising specialists and planning their work; (c) deter-
mining which training programs for Central African staff would be used and
selecting candidates for training; and (d) preparing reports on implementation
progress.
4.05     The project would centralize the responsibility for accounting and
for procuring civil works and equipment in the DCEBS. The DCEBS would also
(a) coordinate project implementation at the national level; (b) serve as the
liaison between component directors and IDA; (c) monitor project implementa-
tion on the basis of the Working Papers to ascertain compliance with the Cre-
dit Agreement; (d) prepare comprehensive quarterly progress reports; and
(e) be responsible for financial management and maintenance of project acc-
ounts, including preparation of withdrawal requests, projection of project
expenditures and checking account administration.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.06     In line with recommendations in the Project Completion Report
(June 23, 1982) for the First Education Project, measures have been taken to
avoid excessive delays in implementation. The Government has appointed a
Committee for the Coordination and Supervision of the DCEBS activities (CCC)
to supervise project implementation on a permanent basis. The appointed CCC
members are the Deputy Minister of Education, as Chairman, the Director Gen-
eral of INEF, the Directors of Primary Education and the Planning Unit, and a
representative of the High Commission for Planning. Their responsibilities
are defined in a decree issued by the Minister of Education. The decree was
submitted to IDA for review prior to signing by the Government. This decree
makes the CCC responsible for: (a) making final decisions on site selec-
tion; (b) monitoring all project activities to ensure that (i) project
implementation is on schedule, (ii) on the basis of the Working Papers, funds,
equipment, operating costs and specialist services provided by the Credit are
used in conformity with the agreements reached with IDA, (iii) the Govern-
ment's contributions are paid regularly; and (c) preparing a quarterly report
for the Minister of Education on the progress made in project implementa-
tion. In addition, the CCC will also monitor the project's progress using the
quarterly work programs provided by the Director and the Deputy Director of
the DCEBS, and decide if project staff members were entitled to receive
performance incentive payments paid under the project (para. 4.09).
4.07     In addition to the Committee's quarterly report, the DCEBS Director
would also submit quarterly progress reports to IDA. The Government gave
assurances during negotiations that it would submit a final report on imple-
mentation experience and project achievements to IDA within six months of
c o mpiletion.



- 22 -
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.08     The project would finance 117 man-years of specialist services, of
which 14 man-years are expected to be provided by expatriate specialists
(Annexes 11 and 13).  The Government has recruited one specialist and has
advertised the remaining long-term positions. Recruitment of internationally
recruited specialists would be in accordance with IDA guidelines. The Govern-
ment gave assurances during negotiations that all specsalists and consultants
would have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of service
acceptable to IDA, and that qualified Central African counterparts would be
assigned to each expatriate specialist.
4.09     The successful, timely launching of the school repair and maintenance
program by the SEBS (para. 2.09), and of the completion of the primary school
rehabilitation program by the SCBS (para. 2.15) would depend directly on the
qualifications and motivation of the national staff. Therefore, the Govern-
ment has agreed that these specialists would be recruited under contract with
the DCEBS, rather than from the ranks of civil servants, in order to insure
high performance standards through contractual agreements. The tasks and
required qualifications for each specialist's position are detailed in the
Working Papers. In order to minimize the risks of costly delays, a level of
performance above routine standards would be encouraged by performance
incentive payments. Final recommendations concerning the payment of such
incentives would be made on a quarterly basis by the Ministry of Education's
CCC (para. 4.06). During negotiations, the Government gave assurances (a)
that construction and repair and maintenance staff would be recruited under
contractual arrangements; and (b) that performance incentives would be paid
only on the recommendation of the CCC approved by IDA.
4.10     The project would provide 7.5 man-years of fellowships for the train-
ing of local staff (Annex 12). During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that (a) the fellowships would be awarded to suitably qualified
persons for training programs acceptable to IDA; and (b) the fellowship
holders would be required to serve at least five years in the positions for
which they were trained.
Sites
4.11     Primary schools to be rehabilitated would be located in the villages
selected by the Government according to the mutually agreed criteria confirmed
during appraisal (paras. 2.16-2.17). All primary schools selected for rehabi-
litation are now being used by MINEDUC, and construction would take place on
existing sites. The warehouse for storage of materials for the SCBS and SEBS
in Bangui is expected to be built on a site belonging to the Ministry of Ed-
ucation; the sites for the two other SEBS warehouses have not yet been sele-
cted. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that
prior to December 31, 1983 it will obtain legal titles to the sites for the
warehouses to be used for the storage of repair and maintenance materials,
prior to inviting tenders.



- 23 -
Construction Strategy
4.12     Only local entrepreneurs are expected to contract for the rehabilita-
tion of the 300 classrooms and the construction of 100 houses for school prin-
cipals (paras. 2.12-2.18). The DCEBS would assist them in the procurement and
transportatiri of materials such as cement, roofing sheets, roof trusses, and
doors. The major steps in the implementation of the construction program,
detailed in the Working Papers, would be:
(a)  pre-qualification of contractors, who would be briefed in the
preparation of reliable bidding documents and in the management of
net-of-tax contracts;
(b)  recruitment of site supervisors who would assist in the briefing of
the contractors and monitor the delivery of the materials and the
construction work;
(c) construction of one school in each of the three regions, before the
start of the construction program in that region, strategically
located so as to serve as a storage facility for construction
materials during the construction period. Construction of this
school before the start of the construction program would also serve
as a training exercise for the DCEBS staff and help redefine regional
building standards.
(d) preparation of bidding documents for construction materials;
(e) contracting with transportation firms to deliver the construction
materials; and
(f) contracting for the construction of the schools, or building by
direct labor, where necessary.
4.13     This implementation strategy remains flexible so as to allow alter-
native approaches when necessary or desirable, such as allowing contractors to
bid on a complete construction contract, including the furnishing of construc-
tion materials, should such a method of procurement appear more economical.
Procurement
4.14     Works.  Civil works, estimated at a net-of-tax base cost of US$0.9
million -- not including the cost of building materials acquired directly by
the Government (para. 4.15) -- would be for small, widely dispersed buildings
and would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA. Where local competitive bidding is not feasible, buildings would be
constructed by direct labor.
4.15     Goods.  Building materials estimated at a net-of-tax base cost of
US$2.5 million and equipment valued at a net-of-tax base cost of US$0.9 mil-
lion would be grouped, whenever possible, in lots of not less than US$150,000,
and would be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines for international
competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of



- 24 -
15%, or the import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous building materials
and equipment in packages of less than US$150,000 -- but not exceeding a total
of US$500,000 in aggregate -- would be awarded on the basis of local bidding
procedures, or on the basis of quotations in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Transportation of building materials, estimated at a net-
of-tax base cost of US$0.6 million, would be procured according to local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Furniture, estimated to
cost $USO.4 million, would be procured under local procedures acceptable to
IDA.
4.16     Contract Review.  For the review of bidding documents, the following
procedures would be applied:
(a) prior to June 30, 1984, of the bidding packages for civil works,
those estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent would be
subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation;
(b) after June 30, 1984, when the DCEBS will have gained adequate
experience in the preparation of bidding documents, the threshold for
prior review would be increased to US$250,000 equivalent;
(c) contracts for goods valued at more than US$100,000 would be subject
to prior review.
This would result in coverage of about 40% of the total estimated value of the
civil works contracts, and about 80% of the contracts for goods. The balance
of the contracts would be subject to random review by IDA after being awarded.
Disbursements
4.17     The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against the project
items as described in para. 3.06:
(a) 100% of total civil works expenditures, including
building materials and transportation        US$4.3 million
(b)  100% of total expenditures for furniture   US$0.5 million
(c)  100% of total expenditures for equipment   US$0.9 million
(d)  100% of total expenditures for national
specialist services                  US$0.6 million
(e)  100% of total expenditures for expatriate
specialist services                  US$1.3 million
(f)  100% of total expenditures for operating costs    US$0.7 million
(g)  1T00% of withdrawn PPF funds                 US$0.8 million
(h)  Initial disbursement for the Special Account
(para. 4.21)                         US$0.5 million
(i)  US$1.4 million would be unallocated.



- 25 -
4.18     The disbursement schedule has been estimated on the basis of the
country profile for the Central African Republic. This profile has been
shortened by about one year to take account of the advanced stage of project
preparation (para. 4.01).
4.19     All disbursements from the IDA credit account would be fully docu-
mented except for operating costs at the DCEBS, which would be disbursed
against certified statements of expenditure, with documentation not submitted
to IDA but held by the Project Director for review by IDA supervision missions
or for auditing project accounts.
Special Account and Project Account
4.20     Because the Government may find it .difficult in its present financial
situation to pre-finance expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit, a
Special Account of US$0.5 million, corresponding to about four to five months
of expenditures financed by the IDA credit, would be established for the local
procurement of civil works, building materials, spare parts, equipment, and
operating costs of the project eligible for financing from the IDA credit.
The Government has opened an account, exclusively for this purpose, in a local
financial institution acceptable to IDA, to be operated under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA, and IDA would replenish the account upon receipt of
evidence of disbursements from the Special Account for allowable expendi-
tures. Should any payments be made from the Special Account that are not
acceptable to IDA, the Government would be responsible for replenishing the
fund in the corresponding amount. As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit, the Government should submit evidence to IDA that CFAF 10 million has
been deposited in a separate Project Account for financing the local con-
tributions to the project. During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that this account would be credited annually on the first of March with funds
from the Government budget, in accordance with the following schedule: CFAF 30
million on March 1, 1984; CFAF 70 million on March 1, 1985; CFAF 100 million
on March 1, 1986; CFAF 110 million on March 1, 1987; and CFAF 130 million on
March1, 1988. The Project Director would be responsible for the management
of the Special Account and the Project Account.
Accounts and Audits
4.21     The DCEBS would establish an accounting system which would show, in
accordance with sound practices, the use of funds for the different project
components. The DCEBS would be assisted by an independent auditor, financed
under the project and acceptable to IDA. Separate accounts would be kept for
the IDA Credit and for the Government's counterpart financing. During nego-
tiations, the Government gave assurances that (a) all accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the Government
would submit the accounts and the auditors' reports to IDA within three months
of the close of the Government's fiscal year; and (c) the report of the audi-
tors would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA might reasonably
request. The audit would also include a review of Special Account operations
and a separate opinion on whether the expenditures withdrawn from the IDA
credit on the basis of certificates of expenditures had been used for the
purposes for which they had been provided. Audit fees would be financed by
the IDA credit.



- 26 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Economic Justification
5.01     The project would focus on strengthening the DCEBS and would yield
important economic benefits.  First, better organization and management of the
DCEBS would lead to a more efficient use of the Government's recurrent budget
allocation for construction, equipment, repair, and maintenance. Second, pro-
tection against the rapid deterioration of the Government's capital invest-
ments in education provided by a better repair and maintenance program would
result in important savings that could be used to finance new school construc-
tion and equipment programs in the future.
5.02     As stated in para. 1.32, improving the quality of primary education
in rural areas would also lead to substantial, though indirect, economic bene-
fits.  Furthermore, investments in quality should considerably improve the
education system's cost effectiveness over the long term through gradually
helping to reduce dropout and repetition rates, and lowering the cost per
graduate.
5.03     The streng-thening of educational and human resources planning would
also yield substantial benefits.  In effect, the restructuring of the educa-
tion system, the definition of realistic educational development targets, and
the control and guidance of student flows would permit a better and more effi-
cient allocation of resources.  The evaluation component would also provide
the Government with the possibility of better investment options.
5.04     A side-effect of the project would be the strengthening the local
economy by providirng new employment and by generating income for entrepre-
neurial builders, manufacturers of school furniture, and local transportation
firrns.  In addition the launching of a school repair and maintenance program
(paras. 2.08-2.09) and a school construction program (paras. 2.12-2.18) would
not only help strengthen the DCEBS, buit also provide a sound basis for similar
future activities and create Government momentum for further DCEBS activities
after this project is completed.
Educational Benefits
5.05     The project would have both short- and long-term educational effects
on the developement of the primary school system.  The short-term effects
would be important in terms of: (a) improved access to primary school faci-
lities in rural areas, where about 300 classrooms would be rehabilitated,
furnished and equipped; and (b) improved learning environments for about 800
teachers and 54,000 primary students through the supply of teaching and educa-
tional materials.  The long-term effects could be even more important.  This
is because the project aims at providing a new start with the development of
an institutional framework for quality improvements and expansion of the
education system. It wi1ll do this by (a) strengthening MINEDUC's educational
planning, school mapping and cost analysis capacities; (b) developing the
INEF's evaluation capacity; (c) developing appropriate school building and



- 27 -
furniture designs for use by local entrepreneurs in rural areas; (d) organiz-
ing a permanent program of school repair and maintainance; and (e) training,
on a permanent basis, all the users of school buildings -- teachers, prin-
cipals, administrators, inspectors -- who will have repair and maintenance
responsibili+ies.
Risks
5.06     The project might face some important risks.  First, despite some
earlier, albeit limited, experience in supervising construction programs fi-
nanced by the AfDB and UNCDF (paras. 2.04 and 2.05), the DCEBS has never been
involved in coordinating and monitoring the rehabilitation of a large number
of primary schools in remote rural areas, or, simultaneously, repairing about
200 classrooms per year. Furthermore, the number of local entrepreneurs with
experienced, competent personnel and appropriate equipment appears to be
limited. This issue has been addressed in several ways: (a) the DCEBS staff
would be upgraded (paras. 2.06-2.11); (b) two experienced technical assistants
would be assigned to the DCEBS for rather long periods of time (paras. 2.07-
2.11); (c) special training for construction supervisors would be organized
before project implementation begins (para. 4.12); and (d) construction of
regional warehouses would provide an opportunity to judge the capabilities of
entrepreneurs and to introduce them to the construction techniques developed
by the project architect (para. 4.12).
5.07     Second, transportation of construction materials and equipment from
Bangui to the school sites could be a problem in a country where travel is
difficult to begin with and becomes worse during the rainy season. To deal
with this risk: (a) transportation work would be awarded to carefully
selected local transportation firms, under a contract clearly indicating the
firm's responsibilities; and (b) dates of deliveries of construction materials
were worked out during the appraisal mission, taking into consideration all
potential causes of delays, including avoiding the rainy season.
5.08     Third, there is a risk that difficulty in recruiting and training
staff for the DEPS may delay the implementation of the educational planning
component. To address this risk and enhance the Government's educational
planning capacity, the project would finance fellowships for staff training
abroad and would arrange in addition for the fellows to receive on-the-job
training by the internationally recruited specialists before their depar-
ture. Furthermore, upon their return to the CAR, they would be required to
continue their employment in the Planning Unit for at least five years in the
positions for which they were trained (para. 4.10).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) it would appoint, before December 31, 1983, two technicians
acceptable to IDA who will be responsible for SCBS and SEBS
administration (para. 2.06);



- 28 -
(b) the remaining sites for the second and third phases of the primary
school rehabilitation program would be selected and a list submitted
for IDA's review and approval prior to December 31, 1983 (para.
2.15);
(c)  it would:  (i) formally reorganize the management structure of the
DEPS in a manner acceptable to IDA and appoint key staff acceptable
to IDA no later than December 31, 1983; (ii) prepare and submit for
IDA's review by December3,1, 1984, a detailed plan for the implemen-
tation of' its education development strategy including a school
location plan and a comprehensive financing plan, which would focus
on the reallocation of resources to primary education; and (iii)
implement this plan in accordance with a timetable acceptable to IDA
(para. 2.20);
(d) (i) the evaluations would be an INEF priority; (ii) staff acceptable
to IDA would be assigned to this task; and (iii) evaluation reports
would be sent annually to the IDA (para. 2.23);
(e) it would make adequate funds available for the repair and maintenance
of school buildings, and would make the annual adjustments necessary
to implement the DCEBS' maintenance program (para. 3.08);
(f) bidding documents for construction and repair equipment and
materials, and transportation would be prepared for IDA's review
prior to December 31, 1983 (para. 4.02);
(g) it would submit a final report on implementation experience and
project achievements to IDA within six months of completion (para.
4.07);
(h) all specialists and consultants would have qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of service acceptable to IDA,
and that qualified Central African counterparts would be assigned to
each expatriate specialist (para. 4.08);
(i) (i) construction and repair and maintenance staff would be recruited
under contractual arrangements; and (ii) performance incentives would
be paid only on the recommendation of the CCC, approved by IDA
(para. 4.09);
(j)  (i) the fellowships would be awarded to suitably qualified persons
for training programs acceptable to IDA; and (ii) the fellowship
holders would be required to serve at least five years in the
positions for which they were trained (para. 4.10);
(k)  prior to December 31, 1983, it would obtain legal titles to the sites
for the warehouses to be used for the storage of repair and
maintenance materials, prior to inviting tenders (para 4.11);
(1)  it would replenish Project Fund annually, on the first of March, from
its budget (para. 4.20);



- 29 -
(m) (i) all accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; (ii) the Government would submit the accounts and
the auditors' reports to IDA within three months of the close of the
Government's fiscal year; and (iii) the report of the auditors would
be of such scope and in such detail as IDA might reasrnably request.
The audit would also include a review of Special Account operations
and a separate opinion on whether the expenditures withdrawn from the
IDA credit on the basis of certificates of expenditures had been used
for the purposes for which they had been provided (para. 4.21).
6.02     As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
should submit evidence to IDA that CFAF 10 million has been deposited in a
separate Project Account for financing local contributions to the project
(para. 4.20).
6.03     Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA Credit of SDR 10.1 million
(US$11.0 million) to the Government of the Central African Republic.



Oo0oooo 0 1-.000.boooooo o 0< 0.00(0000<0000000000 Ooooo20000(o 000<0000(00(0000
000000 00>00000<000   >00 0 0o0400o00  0.00. 000  >00000000.> 0' 0 1 000> 0  0>00
000000000(000> 0(00000   0   - g000000000 . 00 >000 00                   0000   - 000
0 0-IrHo (00.00 OoO ('toO 00000         . 0<0
o oo 8 oo  o o  Oooo 88   88 oozo                 00(0000,00 0
(0           >88 84>8                    (0     0  >0000              >0
0000    0  0                     0
O           0    0        0  0   0  0.    0                                0    0<.
0           0            n > >                                            0  <>  '0
0             0           0                       0                        0        0
(0                        >                       0                        0
0                                                         0
0000000 0(00(00(0-(00 0 00000000(000<0000000   OOoOOo'0ooo0000000000  0ooo'0oo                0>
(0(000<00000000oOOOOOo'000<00 00000000.0 0000(0000<  (00000(000000000<000(00  .000<00         00
0                                                                00
0                                                              -'(0
0   0            0(00          (0       0            000 0 0       (00        000(0   0' 000
0000000000000000(0000000 000 00000000(0Ooo 000000000<0 00000<000o<(00000  000000   0' 000
0<.'OoOOo'-.000 (0000000<Ooooo 0 0000-o.o(oOoO 0000000<00<00000 '0(000000000 0000<0'
00   0   0  00       10        00 0          0  00 0  0 0000    0 o 0   0  oo
000(0000(0   (0 00 (00o0 000o                0                    0             0000<0
>0(000000000000001 (0o(0OoOoO  0 000<oOOoOOOOOO(0OoO  OOOoOOOoOOooOoO(0OoOo   00000(0       oo-0<
>o,.'00-oO 00000(00.-.0(0 0<00(000  0 oOo(0O0000 '0000000.00  0000000(0(00 Oooo<o 0000  0(0000<  < >0
0000000000000000' 00000000  0000000000000 000000  oOooooOOOoOoOooOOooo   000000                 0
0            00                 00 00        0  0000  000000 0 0   0   0  0
0' 0<00000000<00000  '0<0000       <8<
0>0000<0(0000<000000000   00000000 000000000<'0  (0001 'DoOC 000000.000000  oo<000    o 888
0 0 000  050000      0 00    0<0 00 0  000000000    00  0           0<0< 0r-<       00
0  00  Oo'.100     0 00    00   0    0 0oC0                             0                0<0
0                  0                                                                   (00(0
00000000
(0  0000000 0000(0(000(0 00(00  0000 000.(0> I   000<0  ooOO(0oIOOOOoOOoo('Ooo  0000        00000008
0000000000000000(0000000<0   '0000<000<0 I <0000000  <OOO0O((000(00>oO(0000'0  00<00>      0 0(00(0
'0000000000<OOoOOOoOOOOoo.0000000<00 OooO<0 000  0.-'OoOo 0000000000000  Oo-o<n.o   0   000<
000  000 00000       0 00    0.00  0 0   0000000          0           00           00    0' 080(0000
0  0   0<0 0                0    0          0 0                                   0
(0  8<
I (>000' 00001 I 0 00100101 000  OoIOloOOOoOlO I I I (00  OOOOOoOoOOOoOoooOOOo   00010 I
I ((0000(0000(100<100(01000   0 3(0(t.(00000(OI 111000(0<00000>0<000<00000   (0<0(01
II   01   0 (I    I  I '0 0               01 11110        0    0                   101
I 10(0(00(00(0 (I 0010011 (000  00(0l000000l0 III (00  0000000(0000000000000   (000101   (0 0000            0
1(0<00 '<00<' '00(0(00 (('(000  0010100000(0(01 I I I 00  000000 <0000000000000   0(0<1>1   0' 00<00        10
II   01   0  I   I  *I 0 0   01 I 0 0  01011110          0    11         0        101         0            0
(0       00<0
11000(0(00(0 Il0(0OIOOIOI(000  00101 00000 I 11110    0000(0. 0(00 00000.00.0  000101       000
I I0'000l<0<0( 10001001>IOoO  0(0 01000000IOI 11100  00000(0. (00(000<000.000  000101       <Co
II    I   0  II   I    I  I 0   0  0    I 0   0    010(1110  0    -   0  0-        101
0'0          (0
(0<<000<<<00I I 000<<(0l00<<<   I (0(00l00000l(0ll(0ll(0                              I   0' o(0.10      0 0
0>000000000 I (00(000<100<00   I OoO ((00000010 I 101 I 000(000000100000000l00   '0<<<< I   0 <0(000      0 0
00   0(1   0  01  000  I 0 I 0  0 I OIl I I 0  0000<00010 0000000l00  <<'00<1   0' 00' (00             0 o
00  00 01 0 0      I 0  00000        0             (0 0 0
0         0  8          00
- 0
00<(0(0'0(0<<00<000 (00(00(0000< OOOOOIoOOOOOOO I 10100  <'0(00<0<010(00<0<00<0<    0  (00  0'  Nflj
<0<00 0   0  o08         0 0
Ool(00000 (00<0< '000000(0<0>0< '0  0000 (000000( 01 10100  00>0(00(00100000000<00  '000<00   o-  Co        (0
00   00  0 000  0-  0000       0 1101   0   >011010      000000114  0    00    0  0011         00           0
Oo   00  0 000  0  00         0  0   0   00                 000     0                          .0
0 000  0  0             0   0   0                                                          -      0
11<00100<0011010<0011 (<'<0  00111001000 (<(11100  00000001100000<1 boo   00<000                            8
I I000l00(000I Iolo(0o01 11<00  0011 (00I000I0I 11100  00000<01 10000001 bOO'               (0000 0         (0
II    I   0 II I    1110         1110 I   10(111>           0           *l     000300   0' 0' 000(0
0000
8888
(000<000000000<0< (000000000  0000(00.000(000(000000  <(000(0000 IOOoO'00'0(0000  (00(01(00  0'  (00
0   00  0 00   0  0000       00 01 0 0   0000 00        0  0 01 0 0            0  I          (00
8
0   0 00   0  00         00 0   0   0000 0            0
0(00(00
110  <I  00111(0 I  I loll   0001100100010111(00   0(01(0  01(0(0   0(01(0 00  o(0(0(o I   0'  0080
.(-'--il.   ,???ti  (,0  0011(00(0010                                                           0
I (0<ool<Oo<( I iOOIoOlOl<l I  0(0011001                         . >?¶f-frr?>'
0(0(00 0000   00 00 0 3    000  00 000 0    (00  0<  0000 0(000000 000  '000 <
I (0(0001 (0<0010(0(0<<0 I 101 <'0(000(00 (0000 0(0(0,01 (00  (0o0o 00> 01 000001 OoOo  00.000<
I (<'0001 00001 <o0000 1101<00  <00010000001(0101100   <<(00<00010<000(010000   00<
I I   01  001       11010          I  0   I I 110          00 01        I   *      3         008
0                00(0(0
04000
00000000(000000000000(0000    0(0(0(0  0(0(00(01 I (0(0  0 0(00(0  I 0 0(0(0  00   000.0<0   (0  0'000
00   o'o  00000  0  000<    0011 0  0 0 001(0(0          0  0 0(0         00   3          0
00   00  0 000  0  00         00  0    0 00  0              0 0
000  0  0         00        0 00                                                    0
01 OOOOOOOOO(OOoOOOOOOIOo   0000000l000000001000000000(0loOOOOOOOOooO(0olo 0   0'  00
010000000<0 (<00000000(0<00(00(0000100<00<00(000000              0
00    I 0-0   0-0(0      0   0 I       0- I         30011.1 (000(00(0.0000  000(00    o   0(0
0       0  I      0    0    (00
00     00                 -   00                                 0         0'0  00           08
00           0  11
0           0
001(00(0.       00000(00(01 (0                               . I                00(0(000   0'
00(0001 0<000<0< 0'0OOoOO I I 0 0(00000000(00 I I 00000(0 000000. 0100000(00000(0 000000 0
(00 000 oooooo<ooOoO<oo  0  0000(000<0<01 ((0(00000  o.oo 000 0 oooo'0OooOoo  yo(00o.0       0'000
00 000 0000000000000 Oo9< 0 00000000000 000000 0000(00 0 00000000000
0  0      0 040             00000  0 00  000000       0 0        -Z          30000                      0



- 31 -
Anne, I
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
Page 2 of 2
APRIL 14, 1983
1                ~~~~~CENTRAL   -_ _  _ _  _ _-_   _  _                                                                                  _  _
GOVERNMENT                        _
EXPENDITURE                                      COMPLETION            RECURRENT                                              i
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION       ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY               HIGHER
GNP ;z               AS PERCENT    RECURRENT        LITERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE           RATIO   SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  RATIO         STUDENTS  RATIO 
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (t)           (5)    CYCLE        PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY        (x)    PER           (I)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  RI   (1976)                    (7)     TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA        (5)                TEAC8ER
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)        (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA              81   996.0b    300b    3.6            8.3        34   39   27    66b          93        63         23         7.0          72          43        17        3.10
INDONESIA          81   146.6b    370       2.5          9.3        66   39   ---    32b         9R        61         34         1.4          68          27        16        3.50
KOREA              82    39.3b  1,636b    7,7W           20.8        34   34   31      96        99        98         43        19.0          98          84        38       21.80
MALAYSIA           80    14.2b  1.460b    5.2            22.0       39   32   13       60b       96x       94         28       ---            84          65        27        3.7D
PAPUA N.G.         79      2.9      760     5.4"        16.4w        ---  ---  ---    ---        58x       73        3?          1.1          ---         64bx      23       ---
PHILIPPINES        79    48.3b    690b    2.8W          14.0        64   36***---    75b         84        65         31         7.1          89          55        36      21.00
SINGAPORE          80      2.4   4,420      2.7          6.7        39   40   16       83        92        82        31         8.8           96          55        22       9.00
SOLOMON ISL.       80      0.2      460     4.2P"       10.0*       41   34   20       ---       60        80         26       ---            35          18        ---     ___
THAILAND           80    47.3b    723b    3.4            20.9       59   15   13       86b       96        ---        17         9.3          59          58        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
SANGLADESH         79    92.3b       90     1.IP         0.10'y     51   17   20       22b       63Y       --         53         5.6          ---         14        23       1.43
INDIA              77   659.6       210     2.9Y         9.9WY       ---  ---  ---    36         79X      ---        41        ---           ---          28X      --        8.30y
NEPAL              80    14.3b    140b    2.4            9.9        27   18   36       19        88*       30         38a       ---           64          14a*     203      2308aY
PAKISTAN           79    79.7       270     2.0WY        5.1Y       39   26   27       24        56x       80*        48         6.5          51          20'       17       6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
APGHANISTAN        77    13.5    ---        1.7           3.7       47   19   15       12        31by      69         37b 6      --           62           8        22bY      1.00Y
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770       3.8"        12.3        34a  26a  21a    35          83Y       45a        37         7.0?         55'         29Y       26        3.70Y
EGYPT              81    43.0b    580b    3.1a"          4.5        31a  35a  26a    44          84'       80a        34        9.8a          83a         43        19       15.00a
GREECE             76      9.3   4,140      2.6W        10.6b       37   26   21       ---       97by 67     -        29b        6.2?         ---         79b6      27by    17.80by
IRAN               79    36.9       ---     5.7*Y       14.1*y       ---  ---  ---    50        101i       --         32*       ---          ---          44a       24a      4.90ay
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710       4.3aY        6,9ay *7 ---  ---    ---    o1Y                  ---        28       ---            ---         45sy      29a      9.30ay
IRELAND            81      3,4b  4,480      6.3*Y       11.8*Y      ---  ---  ---    98          93       94         29        ---           98           81        14      11.00
JORDAN             81      3,36  1,4206    4.9"         10.2        19   44   18       70b      108X       85         32         7.2          91          82'       25      19.00
LEBANON            79      2.3      ---     ---         18.68'y   ---  ---  ---    ---           96'       --         19       ---            --          46x       ---     27.80ay
MOROCCO            80    19.5       740      6.3aW      17.5a        36   44   20      28        56*y      35         39        19.7          40         235        21       4.50
OMAN               79      0.9   3,530      3.7a*y       4.9*Y       ---  ---  ---    ---        45'y      ---        23a       ---           ___          7x        9       ---
PORTUGAL           79      9.8b  2,060      3.6         22.2        50   28   11       78        97        20         19'       12.8          88a         45'       17a      8.30'
ROMANIA            78    22.1   2,100       3,9by        6.2Y        ---  ---  ---    98        106bx      --         23b      --             98          84bx      22b     10.60by
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y        16.8Y        --9 ---  ---    ---         96by      ---        29b       ---           ---         67by     ---      24.10by
SYRIA              78      8.6   1,170      4.4P        10.3        39   25   26       58        87by      80        35b        ---           68          41by      2lb     12.60
TUNISIA            79      6.4   1,130       7.OP        19.0       42   39   18       62b      100'       80         39b       12.8          30          30X       30        6.00
TURKEY             79      4.3   1,380      3.6"WY      18.6        ---  ---  ---    60         1058       ---        30a      ---            ---         41X       27        7.07aY
YEMEN A.R.         80      6.8      420      5.OP"      12.0        94    7    7       2ib       37        12*        38Y       67.0          85           3        20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.       80      1.9      424     6.0         10.5        63   14    8       40b       65        53         24        22.4          81          22        16       2.50
SYMBOLS:                                                           FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                               A -DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
... MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                      B - DATUM MORE RECENT THAN bASE YEAR
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                              N - CURRENT PRICES
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                     P - GDP
**  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY                                           Q - INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
"'  COMBINED WITH HIGHEE                                             R . CENTRAL GOVERN71ENT ONLY
S - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T - MOE AND STATE GDVERNMENT ONLY
W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENT S
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCE S:
Columns 1 And 2: World Bank Atlas or IBRD nissions.
Col=ns, 3 to 14:  IBRD missions, Government sources and/or Unesco Statistical Yearbook.
Comparative Education Data are useful in thb  evaluation of various education syste=s and analysis of relative stages of educational developmnet between various
coontrieo.  However, no  the basis of the present data, cross-natlonal comparison should be approached with great caution.  Data presented in the above table have
been collected largely by Bank missions frn government sources; the remainder are staff estimates or data from Unesco.  Efforts have been mode to standardize
definitions and, within linits, to check the accuracy of the data. Nevertheless, such data are still imperfect in several respects and the Bank is workiep to
improve them progressively on the occasion of its operational work. In the use of these data, the following qualifications should be kept in mind:
(I) "Education" as defined in the table includes all education and trainlng, both formal and non-formal.
(2) "Primary' education refers to education at the first level sod "secondary" education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., general, technical, agricultural).
(3) "Literacy rates' (col. 6) are often obtained from country censuses. In many countries they are only approximations and it is doubtful that any uniforr
definition of "literate" has been followed consistently.
(4) "Public expenditure in education (cola. 4 and 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and quasi-public
agencies.
(5)  "EnrolLc.t ratio" (cola. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-time in the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error in the developing countries owing to variations in the accurecy of basic
data (i.e., age-specific population and enrollments). Enrollment figures frequently are higher than the nu=ber of students actually in nchool. Over-aged
students whose inclusion is indicated by footnotes al.. can inflate the ratios.



STRUCTURE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT
(1978)
4-         --_PRIMAIRE             _   - Ier CYCLE SECONDAI RE-_ -.- 2eme CYCLE SSOCONDAIRERE U SUPERIfERUER
ECOLE DES MWTIERS D'ART
ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE                                                              COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE
COLLEGE TECHNIUE FEMININ                ILTDES MNESMDE GFOLOGIEET DECONSRUCTION
iUNIVERSlTE NATIONALE)
ECoLes PROSESSIONNELLES   A         LN                 A C           A
I                      E!ME  DEFNDTD, RMI
LYCEE TECHNIQUE
COUFtS
A. SCOL DSLECADEGD ONORMAL                                   ECOLE NORMALE
FDIELLEUNtS   f H        - +
CEG               D'INSTITUTEURS
ENSEIGNEt9hEN  GENERAL ET   ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ---------.-_-                                          COLE NOHiMALE SUP8RtEURE (ENS)
FORMATION DES ECNSEIGNANtS 1                                                       . 3    4  8
------ -----                          - - -------..    .  UNIVERISITE  NATIONALE  1
-1-            ---i--s-----s-                I     I               I~~~~~~---------------- --
|                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~LYCEES              LYCGES             C-OLE NAl tONALE D'ADMNtNSTRATtON ET DE MAGIS7 RATURE
o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTITUJT D'ADMINISTRATION PUBLIQUE
JARDINS D F.NANTS                                                                                               (2?em CYCt Ei
_~ ___   _______   _______  _ _,_ ________   ____  _______  _______  - ttUTNIAVFRSIITE NATIONALEEJ
.             t~~~~ EXAMEN D'ENTRiEE                                                                                    }
AGRIOE  4CO6L8LE1GE 2    2                                                       14 15         1 T ?       1            9     2
S~~~wc ~     r   EXAME  DEs SORTIE'
B ACCALAUREAT                                                  COLLEGE TFCHINIOUE D FLEVAGE tBOUARI
C1  DEVANT ETRE CONSTRUII OU AGRANUt                           {--           -0     a      -
'JDANS LE CA[)RE DU PRIOJET
ANNtE SCOLAIRE~
CLASSE       1      2    3    4      5    6               7     8         9    10       I    12   13            14    15
AGE  4      5    6       7    s    9    IO   11                12   13        14   15        16   '7   18            19    20J
Sciu,cea b,tl, tMr la mission
11 Vo,, Anne.e tI!4a po,.r I. dutee des LhurJes
I



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICATNE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ENROLLMENT AND STAFFING DETAILS/EFFECTIFS ELEVES ET ENSEIGNANTS (ACADEMIC YEAR/ANNEE SCOLAIRE 1980/81)
Teaching         Qualified                             Population        Enrollment as %
Age group/                 Staff/           Teachers/         Student:Teacher    Age Group/         of Age Group/
Gradee/    Classe      Enrollment/   Personnel          Personnel        Ratio/Taux          Population par   Effectif en %       % Girls/
Level/Niyeau                            Classes    d'age        Effectifs      Enseignant       Qualifie (,t)     Elves:Enseignant  Groupe dage         rouGronpe d'age     Filles
Primary Education/
Enseignement Primaire                      1-6         6-11      246,174         4,130               54.7               59.6:1           384,0001              64            36.7
Lower Secondary General Education/
Premier Cycle Enseignement Secondaire    7-10         12-15       33,774             62 3             -                    -             400,0001              10.
Upper Secondary General Education/
Deuxieme Cycle Enseignement Secondaire  11-13         16-t8        8,057                                                                                                     13.2
Secondary Vocational Education/
Enseignment Technique Secondaire         11-13        16-18        t,Ol84           573                -                 17.8:1
Teacher Training/Enseignement
Normal (Ecoles Normales Instituteurs)   11-13         16-IB          620            643                _                 9.6:1                -                  -           31.1
Higher Education/Enseignement
Superieur                                14-19        18-23        1,505           4163                -                  3.6:1               -                  -            9.1
1 Source:  EEC Report. "Study on Manpower and Training" April 1982 (Annex          )/
Source:  Rapport FED. "Etude Formation-Emploi" avril 1982 (Annexe_)
2 Temporary staff not included;  therefore student:teacher ratio evaluation is not possible/
Personnel temporatire non inclus, ce qui rend impossible le calcul du taux 614ves:enseignement.
3 Includes expatriate teachers/Professeurs expatries compris.
4 Bangui Lycee Technique only/Lycee Technique de Bangui seulement.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COMPARISON OF RECURRENT COSTS PER STUDENT IN SELECED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES
COMPARAISON DES DEPENSES RECURRENTES PAR ELEVE DANS QUELQUES PAYS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
Annual Recurrent Cost per Student/
Depenses Recurrentes Annuelles par Eleves
en US dollars/en dollars E.U.         as % of GNP per Capita/
GNP per     Primary Educ./   Secondary Genera  Primary Educ./    Secondary Gener-
COUNTRY/PAYS               YEAR!  ICapita/PNB| Enseignement       Educ./Enseigne-   Enseignement         al Educ./Enseig
ANNEh   ! per Capita  Primaire          meat Genaral Sec  Primaire             nement Gener.Sec
Central African Republic           1981       298             55                  117               18.4               39
I/ ,
Sierra Leone                      1980        270             68                  216               25                 801- 
Mauritania                        1978        270            142                  797                52               295
Ivory Coast                       1976        610            120                 1040               20                170
Senegal                           1976        /420           117                  260               28                 62
Eenin                             1977        200             41                   92               20                 46
Upper Volta                       1977        118              62                 440                52               373
Niger                             1976        190             60                  310               32                163
Togo                              1980        421             31                  184                 7                44
Source:  World Bank Missions
1/  Estimates /EstimatiQns



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
Second Education Project/Deuxi&me Projet Education
General Education Enrollment Pyramid/
Scolarization: Pyramide Scolaire
1,954 F     249
2eme Cycle
2,034        287                                             Secondaire
2,987 ;          526
4,396     1,180l
5,437       1,686                                         ler Cycle 
Secondaire
6,191          2,421
8,416        .        4,047,
21,368          9,329
17,367           9,048
19,868           11,204                                         Primaire
. L.               ~~~~26,721          16,139                     
30,680             18,728
39,701             26,020
Source: Ministere de l'Education Naturale: Statistiques Scolaires



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Primary Education - Students and Teachers by Region/
Enseignement du Premier Degre - Elaves et Enseignants par Circonscription
Students/Eleves                Teachers/Enseignants
REGIONS/                Boys/        Girls/                Boys/        Girls/
CIRCONSCRIPTIONS        Garqons      Filles      Total     Gargons      Filles      Total
NAMGJI   I   .I.447                   IO.708    22,I55    I46            I61         307
BANGUI  II        ~       ' - 8-tN96 -- -  ~--6-.52-3  -1I4.529.  I26  . I59 -  285
DANGUI    IIx           IO.80I         8,602    I9.403    I34            2I6         350
MNGUI-APPLICATION        51I9  j       7482    I.60I    II5             I48         263
'OtIkLILA-MI POO  t       7966         4.500    It.474    254             45          299
L t B A Y E             II.799         6.838 8    8.687    23I            25         254
11kUTE-SANGHA          xI-54           5.69       I6.752    TI-         23         204
-E C 0 N OkIll QUE                      ~~~~767  
PSAGHA-ECA NO IQUE       3.247         1.599    4 .846                     2          78
N A N A-MAMBEE ,          8457        35599    I2.056    202              I2         214
0 45 H A -N - PENJYE    1D.866         5.507    I6.573    227             I6         243
0O U  IJ   A    . ...   1_5722         6.920    22,642    224             88         312
'Kau-utLL1IU(4JI          6d S           5I. 11  1     I 61                26         187
GDBINGTJI-ECi;NOMI QUE   6.504         2.503      9.007   I2I             8          129
0?;~ U  A  K  A,        13.070         6.06I    19.131    270             28         298
VVA K A G A                               2I288  _ 328  1.6I6  3 5                    3 5
HA ;h UlT E-K0 T T0    3.09I           I.6I6       4.707      05          II          96
B:A S S E-KO T T 0   IO'.826           5.454    14.200    228             I9         247
*.11' I   0 U1 0 U        5,926        3,765       I690    I92            22          214
1AU'i' - Npo0u-u 1195 _*                  30      2.725      50           4          54
RBITNC-U1-BAI;G0RA1       838       '    551      2       '56              5          61
E N S E NI B L E        55.706       9go463   246.174  31144           1.06       4.130



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE:CENTRAFRICAINE
Second Education Project/Deuxiame Projet Education
Primary Education/Enseignement2ximaire
Local School, Classroom, and Course Data by Region/
Ecoles, sailes de classe, cours, etat des locaux par circonscription
(1975/76)
.    Circonscription    Ecoles    Ecoles    Ecoles  Total    Nombre    Classes   Classes   Classes    Total
Circonscriptio      gargons   filles    mixtes      Tde cours   en dur   semi-dur provisoires classes
Bangui                  .7          8         47         62        225        420        10         52        482
Ombella-M' POkO          3         2          28        33         214         69        20         62        151
L-ObaYe                  4         4          37         45        284        130         9         47        186
llaute-Sangha            3         3          41         51        314        106        28         36        170
Sangha-Economique        1          1         17         19         99          7        -          44         51
N8na-Mambere`            1          1         33         35        216         69        16         40        125
0uham-Pende              3         3          63         69        279         88        21         67        176
C0hhm                    -         1          71         72        410         82        30         73        185
Kemo-Gribingui           2          2         35         39        205         87        13        192        292
Gribingui-Economique    -           -         32         32        175         12        10         83        105
B&mingui-Bangoran        1          1         18         20         96         31         2          20        55
Ouaka                    9          7         58         74        383        150        30          52       232
Vek8ge                   -          -         10         10          42         6         1          15        22
Hpute-Kotto              1          1         19         21        102         27        19          27        73
Besse-Kotto              6         3          69         78        381         73        20          98       191
M'Bomou                  3          3         49         55        292         84        46          84       214
THput-M'Bornou           -          _         17         17         72          8         1          37        46
Tota1                   44         40        648        732      4.367      1.449       276      1. 029     2.754
Source   Statistiques du MTEN.



CENTRAI AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXlEME PROJET EDIICATION
COST SUMMARY TABLE/TABLEAIJ RECAPITULATIF DES COUTS
(uss '000)
Equipment         National Specialists    Services Expatriate                                    National
and Vehicles/  Services/Services             Specialists/Services         Operating Costs/   Staff/             Othez Costs/
Project Components/                         Civil Works/        Furnituire/    Equipement et  des specialistes                 des specialistes             CoOt de                Personnel   Coats cupplO-
Composantes d.u Projst                      Genie Civil         Mobilier         vehicules         natiooaux                   expatries                    fonctionnement         national      mentaires            TOTAL
Strengthen Dept. of School
Construction, Maintenance and
Repairs/Renforcement de la DCEBS
Base Cost/Cout de base                            62.0               18.4           263.3                 501.4                         913.5                      709.9           318.2            481.7         3,268.4
Physical Contingencies/
Imprevus quantites                                 6.2                1.8            39.5                  50.1                           91.4                      71.0            31.8             48.2            340.0
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix                  8.5                3.2            30.4                 186.5                         163.2                      144.5           180.9            160.2            877.4
Total                                             76.6               2-3           333-t                  738.1                       1 168.0                      925.3           531.0            690.2         4.485-.
Primary Education/Enseignement Primaire
Base Cost/Cont de base                        3,845.1               405.6          471.1                    -                                                        -               -                -           4,721.8
Physical Contingencies/
Imprevus quantites                              576.8                40.6           70.7                                                                             ---                                             688.0
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix             1,156.1               135.3          101.1                                                   ---                                                                     1,392.5
Total                                         5,577.9               581.5          642.9                   __-                                                                                                    6,802.3   A
Planning and Evaluation/
Planification et evaluation
Base Cost/Coat de base                             -                  -            123.9                  104.2                          507.0                       _                                               735.2
Physical Contingencies/
Imprevus quantites                                 -                  -             18.6                   10.4                           50.7                       _               _                _               79.7
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix                  -                  -              5.8                   37.1                           96.3                                        -                              139.2
Total                                                -                -            148.3                  151.8                          654.0                       -               -                -              954.1
Total Base Cost/Cout total de base               3,907.0               424.1         858.3                  605.6                        1,420.6                      709.9           318.2           481.7          8,725.4
Physical Contingencies/
lmprevus quantites                                  583.0               42.4         128.7                   60.6                           142.1                      71.0            31.8            48.2          1,107.7
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix                1,164.5               138.5         137.3                  223.7                           259.4                     144.5           180.9           160.2          2,409.1
Total Project Cost/CoOt total
du projet                                        5,654.5               605.0       1,124.4                  889.9                        1,822.0                      925.3           531.0           690,2        12.242.3



- 39 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                            Annex  9
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Suesaru Account be Project Cogponent
US$   '000)
Physical
STRENGTHEN DEPT                                      Contingencies
SCHOOL        PRIMARY  PLANNING AND             -------------
CONSTRUCTION   EDUCATION  EVALUATION   Total          X   Amount
1. CAPITA COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                        62.0   3.845.1              -  3,907.0  14.9   583.0
Physical Continsencies                             6.2      576.8              -    S83.0   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                8.5   1.156.1               -  1,164.5  13.0   151.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     76.6   5,577.9              -  5,654.5  13.0   734,5
Taxes                                             23.8   1,729.2               -  1,752.9  10.3   180.7
Foreign Exchange                                  44.7   3,158.9               -  3,203.6  10.9   349.8
B, FURNITURE                                          18.4      405.6             -    424,1  10.0    42.4
Physical Contingencies                             1.8       40.6              -      42.4   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                                3.2      135.3              -    138.5   9.1    12.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     23.5      581.5             -    605.0   9.1    55.0
Taxes                                              2.1       52.3              -      54.4   7.0      3.8
Foreign Exchange                                   3.3       78.4              -      81.7   7.8       6.4
C. VEHICLES AND EQUJIPMENT                          263.3       471.1         123.9    858.3  15.0   128.7
Physical Contirnencies                            39.5       70.7           18.6    128.7   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                               30.4      101.1            5.8    137.3  13.0    17.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   333.2       642.9         148.3  1.124.4  13.0   146.7
Taxes                                            189.9      366.5           84.6    640.9  11.5    73.4
Foreiln Exchange                                 297,7      571.0          133.1  1.0018.  11.6   115.9
D. SERVICES NAT SPECIALISTS                         501.4           -         104.2    605.6  10.0    60.6
Physical Contingencies                            50.1           -          10.4      60.6   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                              186.5           -          37.1    223.7   9.1    20.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   738.1           -         151.8    889.9   9.1    80.9
E. SERVICES EXPAT SPECIALISTS                       713.5           -         507.0  1,420.6  10.0   142.1
Physical Contingencies                            91.4           -          50.7    142.1   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                              163.2           -          96.3    259.4   9.1    23.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                 1,168.0           -         654.0  1,822.0   9.1   165.6
Foreign Exchanse                               1,168.0           -         654.0  1P822.0   7.8   142.1
F. COSTS OPERATIONS                                 709.9           -             -    709.9  10.0    71.0
Physical Continsencies                            71.0           -             -      71.0   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                              144.5           -             -    144.5   9.1    13.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    925.3          -             -    925.3   9.1    84.1
Taxes                                            462.7           -             -    462.7   7.7    35.5
Foreign Exchange                                 722.6           -             -    722.6   7.9    56.8
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                  2,468.5   4,721.8           735.2  7,925.5  13.0 1,027.7
Physical Contingencies                              260.0       688.0          79.7  1,027.7   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                                 536.2   1.392.5           139.2  2,067.9  11.6   239.1
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        3,264.7   6,802.3           954.1 11.021.1  11.5 1,266.8
Taxes                                                678.4   2,147.9           84.6  2,910.9  10.1   293.4
Foreign Exchange                                  2,236.4   3.808.3           787.1  6.831.8   9.8   670.9
II. OPERATING COSTS
A, NATIONAL STAFF                                  318.2           -             -    318.2  10.0    31.S
Physical Contingencies                           31.8           -             -      31.8   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                             180,9           -             -    180.9   9.1    16.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  531.0           -             -    531.0   9.1    48.3
8. OTHER COSTS                                     481.7           -             -    481.7  10.0    48.2
Physical Contingencies                           48.2           -             -      48.2   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                             160.2           -             -    160.2   9.1    14.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  690.2           -             -    690.2   9.1    62.7
Taxes                                           345.1          -              -    345.1   7.0    24.1
Foreign Exchanse                                531.5          -              -    531.5   7,3    38.5
Total OPERATING COSTS                                   800.0          -              -    800.0  100    80.0
Physical Contingencies                                80.0          -             -      80.0   0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                                 341.2           -             -    341.2   9.1    31.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         1,221.1          -              -  1,221.1   9.1   111.0
Taxes                                               345.1           -             -    345.1   7.0    24.1
Foreign Exchange                                     531.5          -             -    531.5   7.3    38.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   3,268.4   4,721.8          735.2  8,725.4  12.7 1,107.7
Physical Contingencies                                340.0      688.0          79.7  1,107.7   0.0        0.0
Price Continsencies                                  877.4   1,392.5           139.2  2.409.1  11.2   270.1
-- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- -- -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    4,485.8   6,802,3          954.1 12,242.3  11.3 1,377.8
Taxes                                              1,023.5   2,147.9            84.6  3,256.0   9.8   317.5
Foreian Exchange                                   2,767.8   3,80S.3           787.1  7,363.3   9.6   709.4
April 6, 1983  16:09



- 40 -
ANNEX IO
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
FINANCING PLAN/PLAN DE FINANCEMENT
('000)
Project Components/                               Total Cost/                         Government/
Composantes du projet                             Coat total           IDA            Gouvernement
US$             US-$                 US$
Strengthen Dept. of School Construction,
Maintenance and Repairs/Renforcement de
la DCEBS
Civil Works/Genie Civil                             62.0            62.0
Furniture/Mobilier                                  18.4            18.4                    -
Equipment and Vehicles/Equipement
et vehicules                                       263.3           263.3                    -
Services National Specialists/Services
des specialistes nationaux                         501.4           501.4                    -
Services Expatriate Specialists/Services
des specialistes expatries                        913.5            913.5                   -
Operating Costs/Couts de fonctionnement            709.9           709.9                   _
National Staff/Personnel national                  318.2             -                   318.2
Other costs/Coats supplementaires                 481.7              -                   481.7
Base Cost/Coat de base                            3,268.4          2,468.5                 799.9
Physical Contingencies/Imprevus quanites             340.0           260 .0                 80.0
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix                    877.4           536.2                 341.2
Total Cost/Coat total                             4,485.8          3,264.7               1,221.1
Primary Education/Enseignement Primaire
Civil works/Genie civil                         3,845.1         3,845.1
Furniture/Mobilier                                405.6            405.6
Equipment and Vehicles/Equipement
et vehicules                                      471.1            471.1
Base Cost/Coat de base                            4,721.8          4,721.8                   _
Physical Contingencies/Imprevus quantits            688.0            688.0
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix                 1,392.5          1,392.5
Total Cost/Coat total                             6,802.3         6,802.3
Planning and Evaluation/Planification
it Evaluation
Equipment and vehicles/Equipement et
vehicules                                         123.9           123.9
Services National Specialists/Services
des specialistes nationaux                        104.2           104.2                     -
Services Expatriate Specialists/
Services specialistes expatries                   507.0           507.0                    -
Base Cost/Coat de base                              735.2           735.2
Physical Contingencies/Imprevus quanitites           79.7            79 7
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix                   139.2           139.2
Total Cost/Coat total                               954.1           954.1                     _
Total Project Cost/Coat Total du Projet
Base Cost/Coat de Base                         8,725.4          7,925.5                  799.9
Physical Contingencies/Imprevus
quantites                                      1,107.7          1,027.7                   80.0
Price Contingencies/Imprevus prix              2,409.1          2,067.9                  341.2
Total Project Cost/Coat total du projet         12,242.3         11,021.1               1,221.1



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES SPECIALISTES DR L'ASSIANCE TECHNIQUE
PROJECT COMPONENTS/          REFERENCE IN  TITLE/                          NUMBER OF                       TOTAL    COST           STARTING   SUMMARY JOB DESCRIPTION/
ELEMENTS DU PROJET           APPRAISAL      TITRE                          SPECIALISTS/                    MAN-      ESTIMATES    DATE/        DESCRIPTION SOMMAIRE DES TACHES
REPORT/                                       NOMBRE DE                       MONTHS!  US$/           DATE DE
REFERENCE                                     SPECIALISTES                    TOTAL    ESTIMATIONS  DEMARRAGE
DANS LE                                                                       MOIS-    DES COLJTS
RAPPORT                                                                       HOMMES   $EU
D 'EVALUATION
10  DCEBS & PROJECT                         Assistant Director/                 1                            66      511,000       Juin '82   Assistance to the Director of the DCEBS/
MANAGEMENT/DCEBS                        Directeur Adjoint                                                                                  Assistanice au Directeur de la DCEBS.
& GESTION DU
PROJET                                  Specialist in Maintenance/          1                            36      345,000       Juin '83   Assistance to the Chief of the Repair and Maintenance
SpEcialiste en Entretien                                                                           Unit of the DCEBS/Assistance au Chef du Service de
Reparation et d'Entretien de la DCEBS.
Auditor/                            1                             6       57,000       Jan '83    Assistance in setting-up an accounting system,
VPrificateur des Comptes                                                                           verification of disbursements against certified state-
ments of expenditures & annual audits/Assistance A la
mise en place a'un plan comptable, verification des
remboursements contre etat de depenses sans presenta-
tion de pieces justificatives, & verifications annuelles.
30  PLANNING AND                            Specialist in Evaluation/           1                             9       86,000       Jan '84    Measurement of the impact of the improvement of-ma-
EVALUATION/                             Specialiste en Evaluation                                                                          terial conditions of study on drop-out & repetition
PLANIFICATION                                                                                                                              rates & on learning/Mesure de l'impact de l'ameliora-
ET EVALUATION                                                                                                                              tion des conditions materielles de travail sur les                  -
taux d'abandons en cours de scolarite, lea redoublements,
& l'acquisition des connaissances.
Specialist in Planning/            1                            36      276,000        Juin '83   Reorganization of the Planning Unit of the Ministry of
Specialiste en Planifica-                                                                          Education, definition of its objectives, coordination
tion                                                                                               of its activities, & determination of the needs of each
of the services/Reorganisation des services de la plani-
fication, definition de ses objectifs, coordination de
ses actions, & determination des besoins de chacun des
services.
Specialist in School Map-          1                              3       29,000       Jan '85    Preparation of a school location plan/Preparation de
ping/SpEcialiste en Carte                                                                          la carte scolaire.
Scolaire
Specialist in Statistics/          1                              3       29,000       Jan '85    Establishment & implementation of a system for a conti-
Specialiste en Statisti-                                                                           nuous collection of educational statistics/Mise en
ques                                                                                               place et application d'un systeme pour recueillir les
statistiques pour l'education.
Specialist in Finance/             1                              3       29,000       Jan '85    Studies on issues concerning t   financing of edu-
Specialiste en Finances                                                                            cation & preparation of a long-term financing plan/
Etude sur les questions concernant le financement de
1'education et prEparation d'un plan de financement
a  long terme.
Consultants to prepare a           2                             6        57,000       Jan '87    Assistance to the Government in planning & preparing
3rd Project/Consultants                                                                            future projects/Assistance as  Gouvernement pour la
pour la Preparation d'un                                                                           planification et preparation de nouveaux projets.
3eme Projet
TOTAI,                                                                   10                            168       1.4 Million



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SUMMARY OF FELLOWSHIPS/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES BOURSES
PROJECT COMPONEyr/   REFERENCE IN  FIELD OF STUDY/                          NUMBER OF       LOCAL       TOTAL MAN-   COST             STARTING    BASIC QUALIFICATIONS OF                 SUMMARY OF STUDIES/
ELEMENT DU PROJET       APPRAISAL       DOMAINE D'ETUDES                    FELLOWSHIPS/  ABROAD/   MONTHS/            ESTIMATES    DATE/         TRAINEES/QUALIFICATIONS DE              DESCRIPTION DES ETUDES
REPORT/                                             NOMBRE DE       LOCAL       TOTAL M0IS-  US$/             DATE DF    BASES DES BOURSIERS
REFERENCE                                           BOURSES         ETRANCER  HOMMES           ESTIMATTONS  DEMARRAGE
DANS LE                                                                                        DES COUTS
RAPPORT                                                                                        $EU
D 'EVALUATION
10  DCEBS & PROJECT    2.07            Administration & Management/                3            A       4 x 3 = 12          7,000     Sept. '83  Director of DCEBS, SC  SRE &             Visits of similar projects in
MANAGEMENT/                        Administration & Gestion                                                                                   Project AdministratoriDirec-           neighboring countries/Visites de
DCEBS & GESTION                                                                                                                               teurs DCEBS, SC, SRE et                projets setblables dans des pays
DU PROJET                                                                                                                                     Administrateur du Projet               limitrophes.
2.07         ACcounting practices!                       2           A        3 x 2 = 6          3,000    Jan '88    Project Accountants/Compta-
ComptabilitCP                                                                                             hOes du Projet''
2.09 &       Project Implementation                      4         A & L    4 a 4 = 16           7,000      Jan '83 &  Project coordinators/Coordi-             Short seminars in the country &
2.19(a)      management!Gestion do la mise                                                                  June '87   nateuro R6gionaus                        visits of similar projects!Sfti-
en oouvre de projets                                                                                                                              naires de courte durge & visites
de projets similaires.
2.10         Maintenance practices/Mdthodes  Total staff/            L        14 months          4,000    Oct '83       Inspectors, school principals,    Local seminars on simple mainte-
d'entretien                         Ensemble do                 equivalent/                                teachers/Inspecteurs, chefs            nance practices B how to detect
personnel                  Equivalent                                 d'etablissements, enseignants          damage before it becomes too cost-
de 14 mois                                                                        ly/Stminaires dans le pays sur les
methodes simples d'entretien et
sur la mani2re de deceler les dom-
mages avant qu'ils ne deviennent
trop co'iteux. 0
30  PLANNING &            2.23          Education financing/                        I           A       12 months/         12,000    Oct '84    Master Degree/Licence                     Course in an institution special-
EVALUATION/                        Financement de l'Edu-                                            12 mois                                                                          ized in education financing &
PLANIFICATION                      cation                                                                                                                                            visit of one country/Cours dans un
& EVALUATION                                                                                                                                                                         etablissement specialis6 dans la
formation sur le financement de
l'education et visite d'un pays.
2.23.        School mapping & edu-                       I           A        12 months/        12,000    Oct '84    Master Degree/Licence                      IIEP Paris/ITPE Paris.
cation statistics/                                              12 mois
Carte & statistiques
scolaires
2.24         Evaluation/Evaluation                       3           A        6 x 3 = 18        25,000    Jan '87       Master Degree or Baccalaureate!    Course in BREDA (Dakar) plus visit
Licence ou Baccalaureat                of similar projects in neighboring
countries/Cours au BREDA (Dakar)
et visites de projets semblables
dans des pays limitrophes.
TOTAL                                                                         14                    90 months/        70,000
90 mois



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SUMMARY OF LOCAL SPECIALIST SERVICES/SOMMAIRE DES SPECIALISTES LOCAUX
PROJECT COMPONENTS/         REFERENCE IN  TITLE/                             NUMBER OF        TOTAL    COST          STARTING   SUMMARY JOB DESCRIPTION
ELEMENTS DU PROJET         APPRAISAL       TITRE.                            SPECIALISTS/   MAN-       ESTIMATES    DATE/        DESCRIPTION SOMMAIRE DES TACHES
REPORT/                                          NOMBRE DE        MONTHS/  US$/          DATE DE
REFERENCE                                        SPECIALISTES   TOTAL    ESTIMATIONS  DEMARRAGE
DANS LE                                                          MOIS-    DES COUTS
RAPPORT                                                           NOMMES   $EU
D 'EVALUATION
10 DCEBS & PROJECT
MANAGEMENT/DCEBS
& GESTION DU
PROJET
Administration            2.07      Administrator/                           1            72     57,500        April 82   Administration of official procedures, procurement & project
Administrateur                                                                         accounts/Administration des d4marches officielles, de la
passation des marches, et de la comptabilite.
2.07      Procurement Specialist/                  1            72     23,600        Jan '83    Assistance to the Administrator in procurement/Assistance
Acheteur                                                                              a l'Administrateur pour la passation des march6s.
2.07      Secretary/                              1             72     21,000        April 82   Secretarial services for the DCEBS & the project/
Secretaire                                                                            Secretariat pour la DCEBS et le projet.
2.07      Assistant Accountant/                   1             72     15,800        April 82   Accounting for the DCEBS and the project/Comptabilite pour
Aide-Comptable                                                                        la DCEBS et le projet.
2.06(b)   Driver-Mechanic/                         1            72     25,400        April 82   Driving and vehicle and equipment maintenance/
Chauffeur-Mecanicien                                                                  Conduite et entretien de vehicules et equipement.
SUBTOTAL/SOUS TOTAL                                                           5            360    143,300
Construction             4.12(b)   Coordinators!                            4           240    213,000         Jan '83    Supervision of activities in the field!
Coordonnateurs                                                                        Supervision du travail sur le terrain.
2.06(b)   Storekeeper/                            1            60      22,000        Jan '83    Warehouse management/
Magasinier                                                                             Gestion d'entrep8t.
SUBTOTAL/SOUS TOTAL                                                            5           300    235,000
Maintenance/              2.06(b)   Team Leader/                             1            60     36,400        Jan '84    Coordinate, lead and participate in the activities of the
Service d'Entretien                 Chef d'Equipe                            1           48      29,200        Jan '85    maintenance unitfCoordonner. conduire et
1           36      21,900        Jan '86    participer aux activites de l1'quipe d'entretien.
2.06(b)   Repair Specialist/                       1            60     32,100        Jan '84    Complements skills required by the maintenance unit of a
Ouvrier Specialise                      1            48     25,700        Jan '85    sector/Complete la competence technique demandee a 1'Equipe
1            36     19,300        Jan '86    d'entretien d'un secteur.
2.06(b)   Storekeeper/                             1            60     22,000        Jan '84    Warehouse management/
Magasinier                              1            48      17,600       Jan '85    Gestion d'entrep8t.
1            36     13,200        Jan '86
2.06(b)   Driver-Mechanic/                         1            60     21,200        Jan '84    Driving and vehicle and equipment maintenance/
Chauffeur-Mecanicien                    1            48     16,900        Jan '85    Conduite et entretien de vEhicules et equipement.
I            36     12,600        Jan '86
SUBTOTAL/SOUS TOTAL                                                           12           576    268,100
TOTAI                                                                22         1,236    646,400                                                                                              w



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLTC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION                                             P = PREPARATION
C = CONSULTATION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION                                            X = EXECUTION
CALENDAR YE-AR/Annee Civile                                               1982            1983           1984           1985           1986           1987           1988
=         0                           ~~~~~~~~~~QUARTER/!_
COMPONET/Timetr 1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4
Elemens
10 DCEBS AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT/
11    Civil Works/Genie Civil                                                    P    P  C  X X    P  C X X    P  C  X  X
13    Equipment/Equipement
(a) Direction                                                      P  C X
(b) Construction Service/Service Construction                             P    C  C  X  X
(c) Maintenance Service/Service Entretien                                 P    C  C  X  X   C  C  X  X   C  C  X  X
(d) Maintenance Manual/Manuel d'Entretien                                      p  P  C  C   X  X  X
14    Nationial Specialists/Specialistes Nationaux
(a) Direction                                                  P  C X  X       X  X X   X   X X X   X   X  X  X  X    X X   X X    X  X X   X   X  X
(b) Construction Service/Service Construction                      P  C  C    X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  XIX   X
15    Expatriate Specialists/Specialistes Expatries
(a) Assistant Director/Directeur-Adjoint                       P  C  X  X    X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X
(b) Maintenance Specialist/Specialiste Entretien                      P  C    C  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X
(c) Auditor/Verificateur des Comptes                                  P  C    X               X              X              X              X              X
16    Operating Costs/Couts de Fonctionnement
(a) Direction                                                  X X X X   XX X X  X X X X  X X X X  X X X X  X X X X  
(b) Corstruction Service/Service Constructioni                                        X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X
(c) Maintenance Service/Service Entretien                                      P  P  P  C   C  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X
17    National Staff/Personnel National                                               P P   C C    X  X X  X   X  X  X  X   X             X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X   X
18    Other Costs/Autres Coats
(a) Direction                                                         X X   X XX  X  X X X  X  X X X  X  X X X  X  X X X  X  X X
(b) Maintenance Service/Service Entretien                                                     p  P  C  C   X  X XX    X  X  X X    X  X  X   X   X  X X   X
20 PRIMARY EDUCATTON/ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
21    Civil Works/Genie Civil
(C) Basse-Kotto                                                    P P   P    C X   P  C   C  X X X     XX
(b) Ouham                                                                                         P P   C   C  X  X  X    X X
(c) Ouaham-Pende                                                                                                 P  P  C   C  X  X X    X X
22    Filrniture/Mobilier
(a) Basse-Kotto                                                                P  P  P  C   C X  X  X    X
(b) Ouham                                                                                         P  P C    C X  XX    X
(c) Ouham-Pcnde                                                                                                  P P   C   C  X  X   X    X
23    Equipment/Equipement
(a) Basse-Kotto                                                                P  P  P  P   C  C  C  X   X  X
(b) Ouham                                                                                            P P    C  C  C  X    X X
(c) Ouham-Pende                                                                                                     P  P   C  C  C  X   X  X
30  PLANNING & EVALUATION/PLANIFICATION  & EVALUATION
33    Equipment/Equipement
(a) Planning/Planification                                            P  C    C  C  X  X   X
(b) Evaluation                                                            P    C  C  C X    X X
34    National Specialists/Specialistes Nationaux                                                        X     X       X      X              X       X      X
35    Expatriate Specialists/Specialistes Expatries
(a) Planning/Planification                                                P    C  C  C  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X
(b) Evaluation                                                                                xX                X              X              X
(c) Preparation                                                                                                                            X      X



- 45 -
ANNEX 15
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT!
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE - DEUXIENE PROJET EDUCATION
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(US$ '000/'000 de dollars EU)
Fiscal                                          Accumulated         Undisbursed
year/                                           Disbursements/      balance/
Annie           Quarter!     Disbursements/   Decaissements         Solde non
budg6taire      Trimestre    Decaissements    accumules             decaisse
1984            1
2                                                 11,000.0
3           875.4               875.4             10,124.6
4           371.6             1,247.0              9,753.0
1985            1           450.0             1,697.0              9,303.0
2           550.0             2,247.0              8,753.0
3           650.0             2,897.0              8,103.0
4           750.0             3,647.0              7,353.0
1986            1           752.0             4,399.0              6,601.0
2           770.0             5,169.0              5,831.0
3           780.0             5,949.0              5,051.0
4           790.0             6,739.0              4,261.0
1987            1           780.0             7,519.0              3,481.0
2           770.0             8,289.0              2,711.0
3           760.0             9,049.0              1,951.0
4           755.0             9,804.0              1,196.0
1988            1            650.0           10,454.0                546.0
2           300.0            10,754.0                246.0
3            50.0            10,804.0                196.0
4            20.0            10,824.0                176.0
1989            1             10.0           10,834.0                166.0
2           166.0            11,000.0                  0



- 46 -
ANNEX 16
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS AGAINST STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURES
1.        IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditures
submitted by the Government. These statements would cover IDA-financed
operating expenditures of the Ministry of Education's School Construction
and Repair and Maintenance Unit (DCEBS), the National Institute for Edu-
cation and Training (INEF), and the Ministry's Planning Unit (DEPS),
(para. 4.21 of the Staff Appraisal Report). A review of the conformance
of these expenditures with the Credit Agreement would be made by the Government
and IDA during the disbursement process, as indicated below.
(a)  The Ministry of Education would prepare annual budgetary estimates
of the operating costs for the DCEBS, INEF and DEPS for inclusion
in the Government's recurrent budget.
(b) The Director of the DCEBS, responsible for the management of the
education project, would submit to IDA a budget for project ex-
penditures each year. The budget would include the estimates
referred to under (a) above. This budget would present expected
project expenditures financed by IDA for a 12-month period, using
the expenditure categories in the cost tables included in the Staff
Appraisal Report. The statements of expenditures would refer to the
items included in the annual budget. The Director of the DCEBS would
attach to the budget a statement showing the total expenditures
incurred previously for each category.
(c) All expenditures reimbursable against statements of expenditures
would be pre-financed by the project's special account (para. 4.20
of the Staff Appraisal Report).
(d) Justification for expenditures (vouchers, invoices, receipts) would
be kept in the DCEBS Directorate's files and would be available for
inspection by IDA supervision missions.
(e) Documentation for the statements of expenditures would be reviewed
by the Ministry of Finance's Director of the Budget, who would sign
the statements of expenditures for conformity.



ANNEX 17
- 47 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
List of Related Documents and Data Available in Project File/
Liste des Documents et des Dossiers Classes dans le Dossier du Projet
1.  CAR.  Education and Development.  Unesco.  Paris.  February 1979.
RCA.  Education et Developpement.  Unesco.  Paris.  Fevrier 1979.
2. RCA Plan de Redressement Economique et Social 1980-1981. Gouvernement
(Ministere du Plan). Octobre 1979.
3. Sauvegarde de l'Enseignement Primaire Centrafricain. Ministere de
l'Education Nationale (IPN). Fevrier 1980.
4. Renovation de l'Unite de Production de 1'IPN. IPN. Juin 1980.
5. Plan a Long Terme de Developpement de l'Education. Gouvernement. Octobre
1980.
6. Considerations sur 1'Enseignement Technique au R.C.A: Deheyn. Unesco.
Fevrier 1981
7. Formation-Emploi en RCA. J. Viot. FAC. Fevrier 1981.
8. Etude Formation-Emploi en RCA. IDET/CEGOS under EEC financing. Avril
1982.
9. Donnees statistiques: Generales    Octobre 1979
Education    Ann6e Scolaire 1980-81.
10. Analyse Critique du Systeme Educatif Centrafricain,   Ministere de
l'Education Nationale (IPN). Mai 1982.
11. Seminaire National sur l'Education et la Formation en RCA (26 Mars-10
Avril). Rapport Final - Synthese - Recommandations. Ministere de
l'Education Nationale. Mai 1982.
12. Requete du Gouvernement de la RCA pour un projet de Rehabilitation
d'Ecoles Primaires. Ministere de l'Education Nationale. 8 Mai 1982.
13. Detailed Working Papers on each project component/Documents de travail
detailles pour chaque elment du projet.



I                                                                                                        I



,  g  ffi  : -; : g . rv .r . ; b ! . .~~~~~~~Z-
, '  ,-,-  C2-       U    i'i^
,;: d S *''; , ;D, <^ X }X , t ,C
AEM   I.   ;   ,F
7 1+tSX    
a' 'X2  iS3Mkq i                                                                   'W:'  
I .W""'     -' i'-'" -'S,-, ""."''. 't ""'



